HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 26, 2011
Chie Arimura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE SCANLAN: We would like to welcome Chie to the press room. You have a one-shot lead now, 11-under par. Just tell us how you played today. 
 CHIE ARIMURA: I enjoyed my round today playing with Karrie and Sun Young. Obviously I was in the last group so it was a very good atmosphere but still I had fun. It was a good round. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: You've played in ten prior LPGA events. Will you draw on that experience at all tomorrow? 
 CHIE ARIMURA: Obviously my past experience playing the LPGA has helped me a lot. When I first played the LPGA I was so nervous and didn't know what to do. I didn't know what to expect. But in my past experience I've got to know a lot of players on Tour and I can speak to them during the round and can get more relaxed and play at my own pace, which definitely helps. 

 Q. How does playing in an LPGA event differ from one in Japan or are they very similar? 
 CHIE ARIMURA: At one point, the level of competition is I think very competitive. Another point is pace of play. In Japan, we tend to play pretty fast, all of the players. But here, I think that a lot of players play at their own pace. 
 So in that terms, I am able to concentrate shot by shot myself, as well. So that helps. 

 Q. How long does a round in Japan normally take? 
 CHIE ARIMURA: Probably 4.5 hours to play. But in Japan, it's the top starting group doesn't play -- in two hours and 15 minutes, we get timed immediately, so the pace of play is pretty fast I think. 

 Q. You know how to win --
 CHIE ARIMURA: I think I'm not used to it. After each time, I feel nervous, and a first time it might be beginner's luck, but as you get to know experience, at the same time, you know -- you learn kind of nervousness and the pressure that you have to go through. So it's not easy. And every win is different, so I say I'm not used to it. 

 Q. A couple of times you missed short putts for birdies; do you feel that -- inaudible -- being so close to Karrie? 
 CHIE ARIMURA: Well, that's part of golf. You can't win easily. I learned that again today, so I just need to play my game tomorrow again and focus on each shot and not try to give up at the end of the game and see what happens. 

 Q. Karrie is a legend; are you aware of how successful she's been?
 CHIE ARIMURA: Obviously she's a great player and I'm honoured to compete with her, like this week now, and I kind of become a spectator when I'm playing with her. She has a terrific shot. She has a terrific game plan and it's just great to watch her play and at times I just become a spectator today. But at the same time I can learn a lot from her, and I'm just looking forward to playing another round with her going into tomorrow. 

 Q. You mentioned the intensity -- how will you prepare for the opportunity tomorrow? 
 CHIE ARIMURA: Well, I think I'm also surprised to be in that group, competing against one of the great players, Yani, and Karrie. And I might be nervous but at the same time, I think I'm not expecting a lot from myself. So I think I could focus on my game that way. I'm not expecting anything, just competing against those great players is even hard for me to believe, even now, it's like a dream. 
 I'm not expecting too much from myself. I'm calm, so I think I'm ready to play tomorrow. 

 Q. How can you achieve your goal?
 CHIE ARIMURA: Well, the course is playing tough in the wind. You just have to do -- I'm pretty consistent on up-and-downs, getting pars this week, and whenever the chances come, I'm able to make the putts that I need to. So I think my game plan is working. It's just a lot of traps out there, just to be -- you just need to be patient and be careful. 
 And even if you make a mistake, you need to be patient and focus each shot. I think I'm sticking to that plan and it's working well so far. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT