NL DIVISION SERIES: NATIONALS VS DODGERS
October 4, 2019
Hyun-Jin Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Seems like you've really recovered from a rough month in August. Now that you're a solid month removed from those struggles can you sort of put your finger on what was going on that month?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: Yeah, like I always say, whenever I have an off game, it's usually the balance when I make the delivery and that led to mistake pitches and my command was kind of off and they were able to put a good swing on a lot of the pitches that I made that were middle, middle. And I was able to recover from that, and the month of September was much nicer. I was able to recover and finish the last game strong.   
 Q.  When you pitched in the postseason last year it felt like you had finally overcome all the injuries and stuff to get yourself back to that position. This year now that you're going into the playoffs after having put together the regular season that you have, how do you feel different, emotionally, mentally heading into the playoffs this time?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: To be completely honest, I don't think there's much difference. But I guess the mindset has to change when it comes to postseason games. I feel healthier this season compared to the past seasons. But I guess my job is to go out there and make sure to put up zeros and try to give up the least amount of runs as a starting pitcher and just go hard from the get-go. I think there's a little change in that respect, but in general, I don't think there's much change from last season.   
 Q.  A lot of the people, a lot of people expected you to start at home because of the numbers. And what was your reaction or what was the conversation like when you were told that you were going to be the third starter on this team. And when you put up a season like that during the regular season, did it like hurt your ego or confidence level when they told you that you'll be starting as a third pitcher on this roster?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: No, there was no issue at all. I actually knew when I was starting right after the regular season game, so I had enough time to prepare. And getting that extra days of rest is always helpful. And the conversation was very fruitful. They told me how we have four guys that could literally be a first guy up and we have a very competent and capable guys on this roster so I had no problem having other guys start before me or after me.   
 Q.  You'll be eligible for free agency, obviously, after this season ends and it's expected to be a pretty robust market for you. Have you given any thought to how this postseason could be your last with the Dodgers?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: No, I don't think about it. All I'm thinking about right now is October and winning baseball games. And we have offseason to think about all that, so right now I'm more focused on the postseason.   
 Q.  How would you describe the influence that Russell Martin has had on your good season? And can you think of a game or even a moment within a game where his fingerprints were on something positive that happened?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: He's a veteran player. If you look at his career, he had an amazing career. So from the get-go you have to respect that. And he's been an incredible help in terms of communicating and being on the same page. Even from day one, as a veteran he made sure that we were on the same page and from the get-go we had a great start to the season, hence the good results throughout the season.   
 Q.  The Nationals announced their rotation after the Dodgers did and they announced Max Scherzer as their No. 3 starter. What was your response to that or reaction to that?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: To be honest, I don't think it really affects me because I'm facing the Nationals hitters instead of their pitcher. So when Max Scherzer was announced as their starter it didn't really influence me because I was really more focused on facing the hitters.   
 Q.  Obviously, I think it's been, what, six years now since you came to L.A. and as a rookie you pitched in the postseason and stuff. Wondering how different of a pitcher are you at this point in life, how different of a person are you? I know you, obviously, got married a few years ago. Just kind of can you reflect a little bit on the changes, I guess, over the last six years?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: Of course there were a lot of changes throughout the years. You can say it was long, you can say it was short, but it's not just me, it was also the team. Like, everything around me changed as well, and I just can't deny the fact that there were a lot of changes, not just in the game of baseball, but also personally as well.   
 Q.  You're going to have seven days in between starts. What have you done to keep sharp this week?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: It wasn't too difficult. I was able to maintain my routine, a lot of the things that I've been doing this year to keep me successful. I guess the only little difference is a bullpen session in between and I was able to, I believe that would make me stay sharp. Going on forward in the postseason I'm pretty sure I'm going to have less rest days between, so I'll be able to really just take what I did in the regular season and bring it to the postseason to keep me maintained.   
 Q.  When was that bullpen? What day?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: It was yesterday.   
 Q.  One thing you're known for is not throwing a bullpen session in between your starts. But ever since you started struggling in August, you started incorporating more bullpen sessions to your routine. Do you think it will be something you will do more in the future?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: If I need to start every fifth day, I'm pretty sure I won't incorporate it. I like to keep things the way I did in the past. But if there are more rest days in between I'm all for it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT