WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL A: TOKYO
March 6, 2009
In-Sik Kim
Hyun-Jin Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Throughout the exhibition games, you didn't score a lot of runs, but in today's contest you had a very big inning in the first inning. Do you know any reason why?
 IN-SIK KIM: Yes, generally, baseball, this is what it is. Sometimes we score a lot. Sometimes you can't score. When Chinese Taipei are standing on the mound, our pitchers did a great job, as well. This is also what baseball is. 
 And of course, our hitters are very hot; but at the same time, the Chinese Taipei pitcher gave us an opportunity. That will lead to a big inning. That's how I felt. 
 I'm not saying that the Korean Team instantly scored a lot of runs, but they gave us an opportunity. 

 Q. Can you tell me the reasons for the victories, and how do you feel about that?
 IN-SIK KIM: Of course, it is the first match, game, so our team is a little bit nervous, because, first of all, I sent a young pitcher, and he pitches at the Tokyo Dome for the first time. 
 And as I said earlier, the reason for the victory is because the Chinese Taipei pitchers gave a lot of great opportunity, and our hitters were able to capitalize on the opportunities and made a lot of runs. 

 Q. Tell us about the big inning, the first inning. You scored a lot of runs in the first inning, but when you face against another pitcher, jersey No. 47 threw a lot of breaking balls, and you had a tough time; it looked like you had a tough time. How did you adjust for the next contest?
 IN-SIK KIM: Would you please repeat the question, because I cannot hear. 

 Q. You had a tough time against the No. 47 pitcher, you had a tough time facing against him who pitched a lot of breaking balls. Is this sort of your team's weakness, and if so, what is your team's plan for the next contest?
 IN-SIK KIM: Yes, it is such a good question. We had a tough time against the breaking ball pitchers; not only me, but the bench coach and the hitting coach agreed with my opinion. A lot of the hitters came back to the dugout saying: Hey, it was such a dancing ball, those pitches, it's tough to hit. That's what my players are saying. That is why we had a tough time. 

 Q. Now today, I think your batting order succeeded and that's why you made a lot of runs. Do you think you will change the order of hitters next time playing against Japan? Mr. Shin-Soo played for the entire innings, how is he doing? So the question is to Mr. Shin-Soo, and also your hitters' order for the next game for Japan.
 IN-SIK KIM: In terms of the hitters' order, I think the order will be quite similar to this one. 
 About Mr. Shin-Soo, he was not able to practice a lot. Now, the doctors are giving us the orders and instructions for what he should do and he is following that instruction by the doctor. 
 Tomorrow, I don't know how much practice he can do tomorrow. We have to be in compliance with the guidance and instruction by the ballclub. So I can't do anything about that in terms of his practice. 
 However, in terms of the batting order, I think the next time we play against Japan, the batting order will be something similar to today. 

 Q. Do you have any special emotion or feeling, and if you can name it, can you tell us your probable starting pitcher?
 IN-SIK KIM: Yes, I have no special emotion. We play as we are. That is our game plan and try to do our best. That's our strategy and that's how we worked out all the time. We have no special plan. Once again, do our best is our plan. 
 Tomorrow's probable starter is Mr. Kwang-Hyun. 

 Q. Tomorrow we expect Mr. Matsuzaka to start. Would you please talk about the impression about Mr. Matsuzaka from WBC last time and this time; has that impression changed?
 IN-SIK KIM: I saw him for the first time in the Sydney Olympics in the year 2000. After that, after he moved to the Boston Red Sox, Mr. Matsuzaka's play can be viewed in South Korea, because we do have a broadcast of Major Leagues.
 The difference between Mr. Matsuzaka between last year and now, in the year 2000, he was pitching a lot of fastballs, as much as I know, but right now, I think he uses more breaking balls. So that's the difference. In the year 2000, he used a lot of fastballs, but recently, he used more and more breaking balls. 

 Q. Tomorrow you play against Japan. What is Japan's strong point, and what is your game plan against Daisuke Matsuzaka?
 IN-SIK KIM: The Japanese team, they have a good balance of batting and pitching general. Generally speaking they have great pitchers. They have many great pitchers, and also, they have a strong offense. Maybe the Team Korea is a little bit behind Japan baseball, but once again, we do our best. 
 Facing against Daisuke Matsuzaka, like I said before, my first impression back in 2000, I was a national team coach in the Sydney Olympics and Daisuke tended to throw a lot of fastballs. But the combination of Daisuke's pitching has been changed. He used to throw a lot of gas, but recently, he threw a lot of breaking balls. That's how I evaluate him. 

 Q. Representing the Beijing Olympics and as the starter in the opening game, did you feel a lot of pressure? As a matter of fact, you had a lead-off walk. And also, when did Mr. Kim tell you you were starting?
 HYUN JIN RYU: Three days ago, our coaches told me I was going to start the opening game. 
 So since then, I have a lot of pressure that I have to make the ballgame. But recently, my condition has been very good, so all I have to do is keep my ballgame going, and if I didn't let a run score, we are not going to lose. That's how the baseball is. 
 And also, thanks to my offense, they gave me a big present for the first inning. 

 Q. Before the game started, did you plan to have your pitching limit within 50 pitches, or did your coaching staff tell you about that, or were you instructed the number of pitches or did you decide to control about yourself the pitching limit, the number of pitches given to you?
 HYUN JIN RYU: At the beginning, I was trying to pitch 70 pitches until the end to go the distance. 
 However, because we are able to make six runs, so the manager I think decided to pay attention to the number of pitches and I didn't throw too many pitches so I could pitch again, and I think that was how our manager decided to control my number of pitches. 

 Q. Tell us about the Chinese hitters' left-handed hitter. That was something very important for the game. Now, you told us before the game starts that you have to make a special adjustment, especially facing against left-handed hitters; how did you do?
 HYUN JIN RYU: Well, the first time facing against a lefty, I couldn't balance myself. My catcher was asking me to throw a lot of sliders instead of a change up. 
 That change up worked very well. And once again, thanks to the first inning, the big inning, I felt very comfortable pitching. 

 Q. So tomorrow you play against Japan. Now you will take your tomorrow, so how is the outlook of your team, and by taking a look at the teammates who play tomorrow, how do you feel they are thinking or feeling right now?
 HYUN JIN RYU: We won with a 9-0 and we are happy, and we do not want to lose against Japan, and I'm sure that tomorrow we will win for sure. 
 Team Korea is doing very well against Japan in the present years, so I really would like to win tomorrow so that things will go very well into the second round. 

 Q. You have one day of rest and you have an opportunity to pitch day after tomorrow. It can be team Japan and it can be team Chinese Taipei. So if your team is asking to pitch the day after tomorrow, are you able to pitch well? And also, in the contest, you had a big game opener, so do you feel that you want to pitch against Japan?
 HYUN JIN RYU: Yes, I have an opportunity to pitch again against a different opponent. All I am doing is following my catcher's signal. I trust my catcher. 

 Q. And your impression of Japan?
 HYUN JIN RYU: Well, back in 2006 at the Asian Series, I couldn't give my best. So first of all, I am thinking that I want to pitch against Japan, but I am following my team's demand. 

 Q. The manager said that Team Korea will start with Mr. Kwang-Hyun Kim. What kind of pitching do you expect from him? He is very good at handling Team Japan always. Why do you think it is?
 HYUN JIN RYU: I didn't see, tomorrow Mr. Kim will pitch. He is in very good condition and as long as he watches his number of pitches. He has a good velocity and also he has a slider that drops with a lot of distance, so I think he can maybe out-smart the Japanese players. 

 Q. Tell us about the Tokyo Dome, was this your first experience pitching in the Tokyo Dome? How was the impression of Tokyo Dome? And also, the umpire called strikes, especially inside pitches. Do you feel any special feeling of the umpire's judgment?
 HYUN JIN RYU: Yes, it was my first appearance pitching in the Tokyo Dome. The atmosphere of the Tokyo Dome is great, so I felt very good. Talking about umpires, I don't know what to say, but I as a player have to make adjustments of umpires. 
 Well, thanks to the umpires, they called the strikes and balls quickly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT