MLB WORLD SERIES: DODGERS VS RED SOX
October 23, 2018
Hyun-Jin Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Now that Game 1 is about to start, we want to know how you feel about it?  And last year you were more of a spectator because you couldn't make the roster, but this year you're starting.  So what is the biggest difference?
HYUN-JIN RYU (Through translator):  So compared to yesterday there seems to be more tension in the clubhouse, and we're excited to be a part of the World Series.
Last year because I couldn't make the roster, I was more cheering for my teammates and making sure that they're in their best moods.  But this year I actually have to go out there and perform.  So that's probably the biggest difference, and I'm getting ready for it.
Q. It seemed like in your last start against the Brewers they really jumped early in the count on off-speed pitches, is there a concerted effort to try to alter your pitch mix, to try to make yourself less predictable in early counts?
HYUN-JIN RYU: Looking back at it, if I actually commanded all of my off-speed pitches to get ahead in the count, I think there would have been a different result.  Obviously tomorrow I'm going to use all of the pitches that I can throw and may try to command the pitches better.
Q. Why do you pitch so much better in Dodger Stadium than you have on the road this year?
HYUN-JIN RYU: Obviously it's a stadium that I've pitched in the most, therefore, I feel pretty comfortable pitching at Dodger Stadium.  And having that run of success definitely builds more confidence, I guess that's one of the reasons why.
Q. When did you find out that you were starting Game 2 and I'd like to know what your reaction was to that news?
HYUN-JIN RYU: I heard it right after the media session yesterday.  And when I initially heard the news, I just thought about being prepared for tomorrow.  And I feel like I am at this point.  And if the last outing was more of a mistake, I'm going to try to make sure that tomorrow's outing is going to be good.
Q. I'm curious to get your read on the competition among starting rotation that is very, very talented, and how everybody in that rotation supports each other, especially at this level at the World Series?
HYUN-JIN RYU: I believe that the Dodgers have one of the best starting rotations, if not the best.  And having these guys around me definitely helps because we can learn from each other, how they prepare for games, and their in-game pitch mixes.  So having that under the belt definitely helps me preparing for games.
Q. Seeing as you didn't pitch in the World Series last year, the last time you pitched in kind of a championship round was the 2008 Olympics when you won the gold medal for Korea.  How much can you draw from that experience to this experience, if at all?
HYUN-JIN RYU: Obviously there are some differences.  The most drastic difference between the two is the Olympics; it all came down to that last game to win it all.  But obviously the World Series you have to win the first four out of the seven.  So with that difference in mind, I think it's different.  It's really hard to say that such experience would help me, because we're talking about two different competitions and events.
Q. Tomorrow's outing might be your last outing as part of the Dodgers team.  Do you consider that or do you think about it at all?
HYUN-JIN RYU: No, I don't think about it at all.  My current focus right now is making sure that my team wins tomorrow's game.  So I don't really have time to think about such things.
Q. How much did you know about Fenway Park before you came here yesterday, and what impressions did you have going out and looking at that Green Monster as a left-handed pitcher?
HYUN-JIN RYU: When I was in Korea I only saw Fenway Park through TV, and same like here in the States.  It took me this long to actually get here at the Fenway Park.  And my initial reaction to the Green Monster is it's very tall.
And I don't think there is going to be much difference between a left-handed pitcher and a right-handed pitcher because the dimension is still going to stay the same regardless.  So my focus will be more on making sure that I make my pitches and have a good outing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT