NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 18, 2018
Hyun-Jin Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I just want to know if you were ever concerned after either of your two surgeries that you wouldn't be able to make it back at this level you have?  And is there anything different with the way you pitch now after all that?
HYUN-JIN RYU: I never doubted myself, whether I could come back the same way that I pitched from the past to now after the surgery.  Throughout the rehab process, it was pretty much the same.  Beginning of the rehab, middle of the rehab, and end of the rehab, I had no doubt in my mind that I could come back and pitch as well as I had in the past.
For your other question, I feel like I pitch the same way as I did prior to the injury.
Q. In the Division Series, the first game helped and motivated you.  Kershaw had a great game yesterday.  Does that motivate you going into Game 6?
HYUN-JIN RYU: Yesterday Kershaw did an amazing job.  And as a starter going after Kershaw, my job is to make sure we win tomorrow.  We'll definitely focus now.
And to recap on what I saw last night, Kershaw did a great job out there.
Q. People in management have said that one of the reasons for your success this year is that you came to Spring Training probably in the best shape that they've seen you.  I just wondered if there was any point in the last year or two where someone said to you or you realized that you hadn't been in as good a shape as you needed to be to maximize your potential?
HYUN-JIN RYU: That's an interesting point.  To be honest, I feel like whenever I go into a season when I work in the offseason, I try to make sure that I'm in the right shape to perform.  But obviously the year prior to this year, well, prior to this year, I had to deal with injuries, and the focus of the offseason were different than coming into this season.  So I guess that might be the reason why he say that.
But honestly, I prepare the same way I do, offseason is always the same.
Q. With the way that the Dodgers used their bullpen for the most part, getting them in quicker in the postseason, does that change the way you mentally approach your starts or approach innings individually, maybe giving more effort batter to batter than you ordinarily would if you were expected to go six or seven innings?
HYUN-JIN RYU: I'm not sure if it's because of the recent trend of us using more bullpen.  But I feel like all the starters have the same mentality of going as hard as they can, and taking it inning by inning.  I don't think that's necessarily only the starters; the relief pitchers come in harder than they do in the regular season.  And I take it inning by inning, to make sure I put up a zero when I pitch.
Q. I have two questions for you.  One is, what's your impression or what's your take on the Milwaukee Brewers hitters?  And second of all, last night's game Milwaukee pulled out Miley after facing one-hitter and put Woodruff in there.  What's your opinion about that move?
HYUN-JIN RYU: First of all, to answer your first question, Brewers obviously, they're very competitive and they have very good hitters.  And the fact that they're here in the NLCS is a testament to their ability.  But our pitchers, just like other pitchers, I have to do my job and prepare for them.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow's outing.
Obviously it's not something that we see a lot of the time, but as far as the strategy and part of baseball, it's to be prepared.  Fortunately we were able to win, and our hitters did a great job attacking their pitchers, and all I care about is that we won yesterday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT