NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 12, 2018
Hyun-Jin Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Are you familiar with Bob Uecker, and if you were, did you know anything about him before you came over to the Dodgers?
HYUN-JIN RYU: Maybe saw him on TV, but not really sure.
Q. It's been five years since you came to Milwaukee and also five years since you pitched in a National League Championship Series.  What's your thoughts going into this series?
HYUN-JIN RYU: I think the past is past, and also Brewers have changed over the period of time.  So I don't think there's really a need to compare them with the team that I pitched five years ago.  They're a good team (no microphone).
So obviously I would have to prepare accordingly and I think I'm ready to go now.
Q. We spent a lot of time speculating whether you'd start Game 2 or 3.  How early and soon did you know it was going to be Game 2 and are you glad you don't have to sit around for another extra two days?
HYUN-JIN RYU: Obviously we have a great pitcher, Clayton Kershaw, so I was also wondering whether I was going to go second or third.  I found out a couple of days ago, so I was able to prepare accordingly.  Got a little bullpen session in there as well, so I think I'm ready to go tomorrow.
Q. After the Division Series, in one of the interviews you said how you were preparing to throw the first pitch, or a particular pitch.  Like for this coming-up outing, is there any particular players that you are looking forward to or in terms of preparing, how are you doing those things?
HYUN-JIN RYU: I'm trying to prepare each game the same way.  Obviously, right now I'm working with Honey and also myself trying to figure out how I'm going to attack these hitters.  The result will show tomorrow.  Not sure how it's going to go.  All I can say right now is I'm ready to go.  Can't really discuss particular players or pitches that I'm going to use.
Q. Two days ago I think you threw a bullpen session.  You're not necessarily known for throwing bullpen sessions between your starts.  What was the reasoning behind that one?
HYUN-JIN RYU: I don't think there's a real need to clarify the reason why, because obviously there were more rest days than my regular start days.  So obviously there was a need for me to go up on the mound, and that was the reason why I had a little bullpen session in there, just to make sure that there isn't too much rest days between my starts.
Q. Before like two days ago, when was your last bullpen?
HYUN-JIN RYU: When I was in my rehab sessions, when I hurt my groin, that was when I threw my bullpen session last.
Q. Coming back from the injury and also not really being a part of what was going on last year, how much of that was motivation as you were working to get back into shape and to get back?
HYUN-JIN RYU: Obviously all the players will tell you the same thing.  Every player in this league wants to play in the biggest stage.  So obviously not making the roster last year was a bummer for me, but when I came back from the injury, I was playing really well.  So I wasn't necessarily thinking about making the roster or not, just focusing on each day.
Q. Four years ago against the Cardinals you threw well but couldn't pick up that W.  This year might be your first chance to pick up a win on the road in a post-season series.  What's your thought on that?
HYUN-JIN RYU: Whether I get the first win on the road or at home is not really my concern.  I'm really focused on making sure that the team wins, and in order to do that, like I always say, I have to put the team in a position where we can win.  So my personal record, whether I get that win or not is not necessarily a priority or a thought right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT