NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 4, 2018
Hyun-Jin Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 6, Atlanta - 0   
 Q.  With the way that you've been pitching this year, limiting batters all season long, how big was the Muncy home run?  Did it relieve some pressure and give you more confidence?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: I think Muncy's three-run homer there was definitely the reason why I was able to pitch solid innings, and that three-run home run was big for all of us, including me.   
 Q.  You've pitched really well this season, but especially at Dodger Stadium.  Is there anything about this ballpark or pitching at home that really sort of helps your stuff and helps you play up?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: I can't think of a really good reason why I'm so good at the home stadium, but having the fans behind my back definitely helps.  And leading the season strong a couple of games at home definitely made me build more confidence going into the future outings, too.   
 Q.  Hyun-Jin, your last post-season game was in 2014.  Obviously, the year after you had that pretty significant shoulder surgery.  My understanding was the estimates of you being able to get back to your previous level was 40 to 50 percent maybe.  At that time, how confident were you that you would be back pitching in a game like this?  And how difficult have the three years since then been to try to get back to this point?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: When I decided to do the surgery back then, it was under the premise that I would get back to the mound almost as good as I was before.  Definitely the three years of the process was tough, but tonight seemed to be the fruition of all that hard work that I put in.   
 Q.  Hyun-Jin, Justin Turner was talking about how he felt like if you didn't get hurt this year you might be in the race for the Cy Young award.  Do you feel that way?  Do you feel you've been pitching all year as one of the best in baseball?  Is that the kind of confidence you're carrying these days?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: I'm just happy that Justin said that, but unfortunately I wasn't able to stay healthy all year.  But being part of that conversation is definitely fun.  But for me, I just try to focus on each and every game, and I think it led to this point where I was able to put up a couple good outings.   
 Q.  You had talked about the nerves coming in.  What were the nerves like for you entering this start and to get the seventh inning for your team to have faith, to go out for the seventh, to go over the 100-pitch mark, what did that mean to you?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: I'm happy that I was able to keep my promise that I would go full throttle from the get-go.  As a starting pitcher, I always prepared the game as if I'm going to throw over 100 pitches.  So that wasn't necessarily a problem.  I'm just happy that I was able to do what I did today.   
 Q.  In the Dodger history, a pitcher to put up more than two post-season performances going seven innings, giving up no runs, there's Sandy Koufax and Jerry Royce and you're the third one.  How do you feel about that?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: It's always nice to be compared to the Dodger legends like that.  I don't necessarily prepare the game to beat those kind of records, but I always try my best, and I just happen to be part of the group, very prestigious group, so I'm very happy as a player.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT