NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 3, 2018
Hyun-Jin Ryu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just your thought on being named Game 1 starter against the Braves.  And the second part of that question, just how good is it for you to be on this post-season roster knowing the effort that you've put in this year?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: (Through interpreter)  I was very happy to find out that I made the roster and also got the start.  I had regular days of rest coming into tomorrow's game, so I'm ready right now.  And finding out that I made the post-season roster, especially not making it last year, was definitely huge for me.   
 Q.  Any additional meaning for you making the start, given that they named you the Game 1 starter?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: From this point on every single game will be important and will have more meaning, not just for me but for my entire team, and it's going to definitely start from tomorrow.  And I'd like to emphasize again how every game from this point on will be very important for us, not just for me, but for my team.   
 Q.  Have you talked to Clayton Kershaw about the fact that you're starting Game 1 and he isn't?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: We didn't necessarily have a deep conversation but yesterday when I came in to work out, I asked Kersh if he was going to start Game 1, and he told me I was going to start Game 1 and he was going to start game two.  From that point on, I was more focused on making sure I could do well tomorrow.  So there wasn't really like a huge conversation between me and Kersh.   
 Q.  How would you compare yourself as a pitcher now to, say, your first two years with the Dodgers prior to your surgery?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: I feel like I'm a similar pitcher from my first couple of years than now.  I guess the only difference is I know more about the league and the players, and having that information and experience under my belt definitely helps me.   
 Q.  Is that the first time a player has informed you of your starting assignment?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: I'm not really sure I actually had prior knowledge before that.  But just Kershaw told me that he's not going to start Game 1.   
 Q.  Even when you were pitching in the Korean system, you were never a No. 1 starter going into a postseason World Series.  Does that make you anxious or more nervous at all?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: Actually I did make a start when I was 20 years old for the Korean series which would be the equivalent of the ^ World Series in Korea as the No. 1 starter, but not here in the States.  This is definitely my first time, and I'm obviously kind of nervous, but I think it's a good thing.  I would like to channel that nervousness into something good tomorrow and hopefully I'll pitch well.   
 Q.  The Game 1 starter is about to set the tone for naturally a very important series.  What do you feel about the confidence this team has in you to get the job done Game 1?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: I'm very happy that the team trusted me and I would like to say that I'm going to go full throttle from the very first pitch in the very first inning tomorrow, make sure that I get my job done as the starting pitcher and put the team in the position where it can win.   
 Q.  I don't remember exactly when, but I remember you saying that you prepared the game as if you were only going to pitch five innings and pitch as hard as you can for every single pitch.  I feel like that's the type of attitude that you need tomorrow.  Do you agree?  
HYUN-JIN RYU: Obviously I think that's the case in tomorrow's outing.  I'm going to make sure that from the very first pitch I'm very focused and concentrated and give something that the team can win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT