INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 3, 2018
Juwan Morgan
Freddie McSwain Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Michigan State - 63, Indiana - 60
Q. Down the stretch seemed like you were, like a couple other games, couldn't get over the hump.  What was the difference down the stretch not being able to get the lead?
JUWAN MORGAN: Down the stretch, they just made a couple more winning basketball plays than us.  I know the ones that stand out are going to be baseline for the drift 3, that was a huge make on their part.  And then a couple easy layups they got down in the last two wars.  And those are just things we can't give up if we want to get over the hump.
Q. I know it's kind of a cliché thing, but this team has been so close.  Maybe you could point to maybe one or two plays.  But how do you maybe turn those two plays in your favor?
JUWAN MORGAN: That's just an everyday approach.  Just going at it in practice, making sure everyone is being held accountable for things in practice that will translate over to the game.  And just when it comes time for those plays, you just have to buckle down and do it.
Q. Freddie, you had 16 rebounds tonight.  You were really active on the offensive glass.  What was your mindset coming into this game?  What were you trying to accomplish?
FREDDIE MCSWAIN, JR.: It wasn't really no accomplishment.  I just wanted to really, just going out every day and just playing my hardest.  Every time opportunity is called, start or coming off the bench, I say just come in help the team do whatever to help the team win, really.
Q. Freddie, you played 25 minutes against Ohio State and (inaudible).  What's been working for you back to back (inaudible), more energy or (inaudible)?
FREDDIE MCSWAIN, JR.: Just being ready every day, every day at practice, before the game, just want to just go out there and help the team.
Q. How as a team do you rebound mentally and try not to lose focus to get back on track?
JUWAN MORGAN: We just have to get up off the mat and keep going at it.  We can't keep saying we lost another one.  We have to be ready to attack another day, another game and that's the mindset we're going into New Jersey with.  We're ready to go.
FREDDIE MCSWAIN JR.: We're ready to go.
Q. Juwan, you had four points in the first and 19 in the second half.  What happened?
JUWAN MORGAN: I kept attack mindset.  In the first half I was getting blocked a couple times.  I was just missing some easy bunnies.  I didn't let it derail me from going into the post, doing what's been working for me all year.
Q. Juwan, your thoughts on Freddie, -- 16 rebounds in 29 minutes is an insane rate.  What did you think of his performance?  Why do you think he was so effective on the boards?
JUWAN MORGAN: That's what he does every day.  He attacks the glass relentlessly.  The way we see it, nobody can keep him off the glass.  As a result that's what the 16 boards looks like.
Q. Looked to me, after halftime, Devonte helped get you guys going.  Talk about his play.
FREDDIE MCSWAIN JR.: He's a key player on our team.  When he gets going, playing well, we all play well.  And he works just like that every game.  If he keeps going like that, we'll be a good team.
JUWAN MORGAN: And just going off that, making the simple plays.  He wasn't trying to hit any home runs or anything like that.  Locking down the defense and hitting open man on offense.
Q. You were battling, blocks 13 overall.  You guys owned the rebounds.  You two combined for just two or three less than they did as a team.  How (inaudible) rebounds, although they weren't as happy as --
JUWAN MORGAN: In East Lansing they punked us.  In a few words, that's what happened.  We came to this mindset, I know me, Freddie, Collin and Justin, we talked amongst each other and we were, like, this can't happen.  Like, the guards are going to have to do what they have to do, get their 12 boards amongst them, but we need at least one or two of us to go get 10.  And that's what we did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT