U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2001
Kemp Richardson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Well, I mean, you know he meant everything to me.  He introduced me to the game, and taught me the game.  Hey, I don't know.  I can't put it in words, really.  It can't get any better.  The only thing I could say to get better:  Too bad it wasn't a Mid-Amateur or an Amateur or something like that, okay, instead of an old farts tournament.  
 
Q.  You don't play like a typical 55-year-old. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I got what he had.  My dad died a year later, and he could hit it.  I mean, he was 66 years old, I guess.  If he won in '87, he won it when he was 67 years old.  He was 66.  He would have been 67 in a couple months, okay.  So he would have hit it as far as I would have.  I've got his strength or whatever  -- I'm not strong, but I can still move the ball. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   It seems like you kind of  -- I look at them, I know I'm their age, but I just feel, like, am I that old, you know what I mean?  Bill was a very good player.  I just could hit it by too far.  They have got this course up only 6,500 yards.  If they had it 6,800, it would be even more to my advantage. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I shot about even par.  That was probably the worst round I played all week, except for the second round, that nine holes where I whacked it around and shot 41, but I shot 76.  Otherwise, I don't think I was over par, that I can remember.  And that's not taking from the front of the green.  The guys had ten and they would give me  -- it was a real walk around the park, so I did play well.  
 
Q.  Were you playing well coming in? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Yeah, playing pretty well  -- I won the British Senior and I finished, I told you second in the Southern Cal Mid-Am at Lakeside.  I shot 210 there. 
 
Q.  You don't seem to have the ups and downs in your game? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Well, I do during a round a little bit sometimes.  (Laughs). I worked on my game a little bit this year from a friend in Australia that helped me.  Yeah, I think it's finally  -- it's pretty good, I think.  My game is pretty good right now.  
 
Q.  If your dad was alive today, what do you think he would have told you today? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   He would have given me a hug.  As I say, I don't think he was  -- he wasn't a big talker like I am, so he just said, you know, "Great."  
 
Q.  How did he pass on? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   He just stopped making blood.  He had acute anemia or something.  
 
Q.  He had a pretty a accomplished career before? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Oh, yeah.  He won the California  State Amateur.  He's won the Southern Cal Amateur.  He probably didn't play as much golf as I play.  I mean, you know, at my age, you know, he never went over to like the British Amateur or anything like that.  I don't even know if he tried to play, and I know the U.S. Mid-Amateur wasn't even around.  So I think you just see people playing more golf now than they used to play, I think. 
 
Q.  How many Ams and Mid-Ams have you played?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I've played in about two Ams and I've played in about eight Mid-Ams and I played in one Senior Am and I played in three Senior Opens.  Those are probably as much fun as any, because you call those a production.  They are not like any amateur tournaments you ever see.  You wander around here and you see 200 or 300 people.  You see two or three trillion at those.  It's quite something.  Des Moines, I wasn't even leading the last day on the 18th fairway and it's wall to wall people. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   That's great.  I played in the last two  -- I missed the cut by one this year and I had great pairings this last year.  
 
Q.  Did you ever give any thought to try the Senior Tour?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   No.  I didn't give any thought to the regular tour and I didn't give any thought the Senior Tour.  Personally, I don't like to travel that much.  I traveled more lately because of what I've done, but I think the only way I would do it is if I had my own personal jet.  It's too much trouble traveling, I think. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I just fool around the garden.  I like to keep things going.  And I try to keep in shape.  I do aerobics about three days a week.  That's about it.  If I don't play in a tournament, I play probably twice a week.  
 
Q.  Now, you didn't use a cart except for on one hole today?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Yeah, that just drove me nuts.  Some of the guys hear say, you know, because we can use the cart, we are going to use them.  
 
Q.  You took a different approach?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I don't like them.  I mean, I don't use them at home.  I carry my bag at home, because we don't have caddies.  As long as I can stay out of them, I'll stay out of them.  That's my feeling.  
 
Q.  How were you physically this week?  You played a lot of golf. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I haven't played  -- the last time I played and I kind of wilted was the Western Amateur, 1968 and got beat in the finals.  You just play and play and play, and I kind of succumbed.  
 
Q.  Who beat you?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Rick Massengale (ph). 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   No, I don't.  Hopefully it's not in front of me, but you've got to face the facts of life.  They have got a dilemma, you know what I mean?  The British Senior, they play 54 holes with no carts  -- they would not have enough carts, anyway, so you just walk.  That's one solution.  But, I mean, I know the USGA  likes to play match play, so it's more of an endurance thing.  But, I mean, if you want to eliminate the carts, I know they have them  -- the only thing, I don't care about the carts; that didn't bother me because I don't like to play that way.  The only thing I can't understand is why only the player can drive a cart.  If I had to say one thing, that doesn't make sense to me at all. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Yeah, I've got the normal little things you get as you get older, your elbow and those things, take a little Bioxin and that will cure it a little bit. 
 
Q.  Were you a long hitter when you first started playing golf as a kid? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   In college, I think I was fairly long, but I mean it's so hard to  -- when you think about long, you think of these kids now.  I mean, they bomb the thing. 
 
Q.  By the standards of the day?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   The standards of the day, I guess in college I would be considered fairly long, but not  -- I think I'm probably a little longer now compared to the seniors, via what I was in college, okay.  
 
Q.  Where did you play college?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   USC, University of Southern California.  
 
Q.  Who were your teammates there?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Anybody that did anything?  A couple good players, but I was after Geiberger and Stockton, before Stadler and Simpson.  So I was right in there.  None of them  -- no, none of them did  -- you know what I mean.  I made the All-American team twice, but that's so long ago.  (Laughs). 
 
Q.  Was Roger Cleveland there?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Roger was there.  I know Roger very well.  But Roger didn't  -- he just didn't play much.  I've known Roger since I've been ten years old. 
 
Q.  Have you had an inclination to even try the Tour back then? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   No, I played a lot of golf, like Hale Irwin and all these guys, but I guess I tried my senior year of school, I played all the Western, the Eastern and all those things and said, nah.    I went into business and that's been good.  Been a broker for 32 years and, if anything, that affords you to play a little golf. 
 
Q.  Have the last two years been a little bumpy, being a broker? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   No, it doesn't bother me, okay.  I mean, it's been good for me.  You're going to have your ups and downs.  
 
Q.  Talk about the putts you made to the on 15 and 16.    Those were just huge.  You make the birdie on 15  --
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I hit a really good drive on 15.  I thought I hit a better second shot than I did.  It just hit; backed up two feet. 
 
Q.  What did you hit that with, the second one? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   5-wood.  I hit a mediocre chip.  I knew it was uphill so I goosed it a little bit and it got there.  I thought I could make the putt.  I thought I had it read right.  I hit a good putt and it went in.  On 16, I hit a pretty good drive.  I didn't try to hit it hard because I knew I could hit it through the fairway.  
 
Q.  Was that driver?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Yeah, that was a driver.  I hit a very mediocre second shot.  Kind of an atrocious third.  Hit a bad chip.  The lie, I don't know if it was that bad or he kind of  -- you know  -- I thought I could make the putt.  The only thing I wasn't sure was if I hit it hard enough.  After I hit it I raised up, because I tell you, it's hard, going uphill here, you have to think about hitting.  It wasn't like doing your normal stroke.  Hit it.  They didn't go uphill as easy as they went down, but it went right in.  
 
Q.  What club did you hit on 8? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Oh, I hit a 4-iron.  I killed it.  I hit a four-plus off the tee, and I  -- since I carry four wedges, I try to either carry a 3- or 4-iron, depending on what I thought I was going to hit on 7.  That 4-iron seemed to be the club.  I just changed today.  I was hitting a 3-iron and that came up.  The guy told me it was 200 yards to the front.  
 
Q.  Do you carry 3-woods? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Well, it all depends where I'm playing.  I went to four wedges about  -- just after the Senior Open, and so that kind of confuses me sometimes.  Sometimes two 4-irons, sometimes just a 5-iron, or I throw the 5-wood out.  
 
Q.  You are still very long.  You use a normal putter.  You walk the golf course.  Have you surrendered at all to age in the game of golf? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   (Laughs) Surrendered to age  -- well, I work at it.  I mean, as I told you, I do aerobics three days a week.  If I had a choice, I would play basketball, but every time I go to do a lay-up now, I have to think about jumping so I know that's not very good. That's not a good sign.  (Laughs). I try to keep in shape.  I carry my clubs at home.  You my feet are not the best.  I've got a couple frozen toes.  Do you want to hear all that?  Basically, I'm in pretty good shape.  I don't have any complaints. 
 
Q.  How long ago did you add the 5-wood to your bag?  That is a club that people would say is a senior club?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Probably five or six years ago.  I used to care a 1-iron, but a 1-iron is  -- I don't think there's probably many 1-irons even on the regular tour much.  I have a 2-iron that I can hit it  -- I really like, and if it's a windy course, I take the 2-iron and throw the 5-wood away.  This place, 5-wood, because I have one like off the third tee with a 5-wood and I can go into the second hole with a 5-wood and I can go in  -- sometimes the eighth hole with a 5-wood.  I can go into the 15th hole with a 5-wood.  
 
Q.  How tall are you? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Well, I used to be 6'2.  6'2, 195.  
 
Q.  How far do you hit it? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I don't know.  I mean it's hard to say.  When they  -- I've only been, at the first Senior Open, I was fourth.  At the second one, I wasn't fourth because I hit it terrible.  I guess I can hit my 4-Plus I know roughly 260.  So I assume I can hit my driver, 275, 280, 290, somewhere in there, if I want.  
 
Q.  4-Plus, that's a Four-Strong-Wood? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I don't know, they just call it 4-Plus.  It's a Callaway.  But it's  -- I hit it farther than I used to when I hit my 3-wood. 
 
Q.  It actually has less loft than the Callaway 3-wood.  The 4-Plus has less loft than the Callaway three, not the 3-Plus. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Cleveland  -- Roger, told me to get the 4-Plus, so I got the 4-Plus.  So I have a 4-Plus and I have a Callaway shaft and a Titleist driver, and I make my own irons, or I try to.  
 
Q.  Do you have a son who could do the same thing again to make it three?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I have a son that's a good player.  He's 27.  He's a pro, though, right now, struggling to do that, but he's a very good player.  
 
Q.  What is his name?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Scott.  
 
Q.  Where is he a pro? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Oh, he's just fledging in the Tours and teaches a little bit, okay.  But he's a good player.  
 
Q.  State Tour?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   He's played the Canadian Tour.  He's a strong player.  
 
Q.  USC? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   He played there and Minnesota. 
 
Q.  Now we have to wait 28 years to see if it's three in the family?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:  (Laughs).  He can blow it by me a long way.  
 
Q.  You've got the 18th green flag from your pop.  Which one are you taking home?  You may not need the 18th because you never got there. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I've got the 17th.  I've got my dad's from Saucon Valley.  I gave it to my son and we have it in the house.  
 
Q.  Do you still have the gold medal somewhere?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   My mom is still alive.  So she still has it.  
 
Q.  When do you think this will set in, to know what you did and what your father did? 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   He was a great man, and in my opinion  -- it's great that I can do the same thing that he did. 
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   It's sort of an office/den.  
 
Q.  You said a friend of Australia helped you with some part of your game.  What did you talk about?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I've known him for a long time because I go done there and play in a tournament down there.  He put me on video and they have really gone pretty  -- the reason they got so many good players down there is because they have all of these institutes and they are  -- I mean, for a small nation of 20 million people, they have got a boatload of players, I'm telling you.  I have never seen my swing too much on video.  I was taught the old method, you know, get your hips through there.  You guys remember Johnny Miller, I know John I, the big "C" move, and the modern method is not really that way.  So I've tried to go a little more modern in my old age.  I just think I'm probably more consistent.  I would never have hit that 8-iron I hit on 17 the old way.  
 
Q.  Have you been in many match-play events?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Not many.  I don't see many match-play events.  I played in the Cal Senior.  
 
Q.  Stroke-play event?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Yeah.  
 
Q.  Is that played up at Poppy?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   Poppy Hills.  It's playing like 7,200 yards.  I was kind of trying to work on my new method, and I drove it fine, but I hit a few little funny short irons.  
 
Q.  Are you the club champ at your club?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I haven't played it in four or five years.  It's going on right now.  It's always going on, the Mid-Am or something like that.  I haven't played in four or five years.  Last time, I won it.  I was going to play.  They had senior champ, but they had the white tees, so I didn't want somebody to beat me from the white tees. 
 
Q.  Are you going to play the Mid-Am in Fresno?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   I'm supposed to try to qualify Monday. 
 
Q.  So this doesn't get you in for that?
 
KEMP RICHARDSON:   No, he wouldn't let me in.  I don't know.  Depends if I even get back, and it's a 3 1/2 hour drive from where I live and I have to come back  -- I don't know.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT