RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2017
Andres Gonzales
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You throw a little moving day 66 out; what were conditions like out on the golf course?
ANDRES GONZALES: For me I thought they were pretty scorable.  I hit a fair amount of fairways and greens are receptive, as opposed to last year when it was just firm and hard.  You were able to attack a few more pins.
Q. Good start.  Let's take a look at this finish.  You blitzed it coming in.  This is at 15.
ANDRES GONZALES: Yeah, I pulled my tee shot a little bit.  I got lucky it stayed up there on that ridge.  I had a pretty good read on it.  I've been hitting my irons really well this week.
Q. Let's take a look at 16.  This is a pretty good chip.  What's the rough like?  Looks like it's grown over the course of the week.
ANDRES GONZALES: Yeah, you can get into some tough spots but it's definitely playable.  Got very lucky over here where I was hitting -- I hit a lady right in the back and it kind of kicked it back out.  She helped me out a little bit.
Q. And then on 18, the aggressive play.  What was the yardage?
ANDRES GONZALES: I had 197 to the pin.  Traditionally I probably hit a 6-iron there.  I thought the putt backed up.  I hit 5-iron and missed it a little bit.
Q. Missed it stiff.
ANDRES GONZALES: That was the play, though.  Man, I thought I made this putt, though.
Q. We were joking when you were walking up, not where you want to be in the FedExCup.  You've only got a couple of tournaments left.  How important and how much is it playing on your mind that this is a big week for you?
ANDRES GONZALES: You know, every week is a big week out here.  I really feel like I've played a lot better than what my results have been this year.  Kind of cleaned up putting a little bit.  I haven't putted very well the second half of the year.  Traditionally that's kind of what I rely on.
Noticed my eyes were a fair inside the ball so I got my eyes back over the ball and started to see my lines.
Q. Another solid day, 6-under, you shoot 66 and get it to 14-under par.  Started on the second hole today for you.  Stiff it to about a foot and a half and made eagle there.  Your thoughts on how you played?
ANDRES GONZALES: I thought I played really well.  I've been happy with the way I've been hitting it all year.  Putting has kind of left a little to be desired the second half of the year.  Usually it's one of the stats that I'm pretty traditionally good at.
I was telling Claude earlier that I just noticed that my eyes were a couple inches inside the ball, and just moved a little closer to the ball and get my eyes over and I'm really seeing lines well again and hitting this em.
Q. Great chance for eagle on the last.  I thought you made that putt.
ANDRES GONZALES: I thought I made it, too.  Would have been a fun way to end out.  Crowds have been really big, especially with Dustin playing a couple groups behind.  It's fun to have these fans out here, and they are all very knowledgeable about golf and educated about it, and they are definitely vocal, so it's fun to play in front of them.
Q. Your second shot hit the marshal, you got a good break, and you hugged her and then you make your birdie and then you go back and toast her with a drink going to the next tee?
ANDRES GONZALES: Yeah, good vibes.  Somebody gave her a shot there.  I wish I could have had one right there.  I don't know what the TOUR would have thought about it but I had my water and we had a good little cheers.  (Laughing).
Q. You're outside the Playoff line at 129 looking in.  Your thoughts as you put yourself in position to win a golf tournament tomorrow?
ANDRES GONZALES: I think that number doesn't really reflect very well, at least to me, on how I've played this year.  I feel like I've played a lot better.  It's just a matter of trying to stay positive.  Out here it's very easy to get down on yourself, and you know, I have at times.  But just knowing that each week, one week can change the way the year has gone.
I'm happy with how I've played.  I'm in good position.  If I can go out and kind of keep my head down and keep doing the same things I've been doing, I should have a pretty good chance tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT