NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2006
Quentin Richardson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  Just trying to figure out, you know, what's really going on.  I don't even really know what's going on why we can't win.  We just need to get better.  We need to find something to build on to get better. 
 Q.  Is it almost like you really haven't made a lot of progress in the last three months? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  It's weird.  It's like, you know, you feel like you make some progress, but at the same time, we don't get the results that we really look for.  That's a tough thing.  But at the same time, just got to know we're getting better. 
 Q.  What's it like playing in New York? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  New York is a great city to play in.  They love their sport, they love the Knicks.  The only difference is we're not doing that well right now.  If we were doing well, it would be crazy. 
 Q.  Does the environment make it tougher to stay focused? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  To me, I think I can see that with the surroundings, with some of the people that's there and stuff like that because there's so much pressure.  A lot of times people push the blame here or there. 
 For me, I think everybody just owning up to it and being accountable.  I don't think there's one person, no one individual; all of us lose and all of us win. 
 Q.  How do you see yourself in the equation and making the team better?  Do you feel that you have to step up your game in the second half? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  Yeah, I do.  I haven't played up to the best of my ability.  I know that.  Like I said, it's just about being accountable.  I'm the first one to say I'll definitely be ready the second half. 
 Q.  But it's a huge adjustment for you? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  At the same time, it's not, but it's something that we're supposed to do.  We are professional athletes.  That's something that's our job to do. 
 Q.  One of your former teammates, Elton Brand, have you had a chance to follow how he's been playing? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  Yeah, I was just talking to him about how good he's playing this year.  He's unbelievable.  Elton has always been that kind of a player. 
 Q.  He's got a reputation for being one of the really good guys. 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  Yeah, he's a good guy.  I played three years with him, and he was always good to have in the locker room. 
 Q.  Do you feel like one of the big differences between last year and this year for you is the change of system? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  The change of system is definitely extreme.  But at the same time, we've got a lot of young players and guys that are coming and going, guys that haven't really played together.  We have a number of different things going on.  It's just like kind of crazy and haywire, but at the same time we have to work through them and just try to get better. 
 Q.  Are you feeling okay health-wise? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  Yeah.  Like I said, I don't really make excuses about that.  If I do well, nothing is going to be said about my health. 
 Q.  Have you been practicing at all as far as the 3-point competition?  Last year you won it and now you know what it entails; have you practiced going through the racks? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  The funny thing about it, even last year I didn't practice on the racks.  I just warmed up and practiced shooting overall.  And like once we got here, when they take us over to the arena like 30 or 40 minutes before, we get a chance to use the racks.  That's the only time I really shoot by using the racks and things like that. 
 Q.  How important is it for you to have your family here? 
 QUENTIN RICHARDSON:  It's always great for me to have my family around.  They have been there all my life, so it would feel really weird if they were not here. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT