NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 27, 1999
Jim O'Brien
Scoonie Penn
Michael Redd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   Well, the first thing is congratulations to UCONN. They played a terrific game. This is, I think, a fitting ending for them anyway, with all the success that they've enjoyed throughout this past decade for them to get an opportunity to play for the National Championship, I think, is fitting.  From our standpoint, I think that tonight's game came down to their ability to guard us, particularly in the second half. We really had a hard time scoring points in the second half, and the thing that I talked to our guys about was their explosiveness on offense. It seemed like every time we would take a poor shot or turnover, they would turn it into easy baskets by them. And I was very happy with, once again, the character of our guys because we had to overcome eight or nine with a ten-point lead, there were many different occasions where we could have gone away but we stayed in there, kept coming back and coming back.  It was a little bit too much for us to overcome. 
 

Q.  Scoonie, you had experience playing against Ricky Moore before. What did he do tonight, anything different than he's done before, or is it just the way he plays defense?
 
SCOONIE PENN:   I think it was just the way he plays defense. I give him a lot of credit. He's a great defender. He did a great job covering me. He just didn't let me breathe the whole time. He did a great job on defense. 
 

Q.  Scoonie, I'm sure you expected to be asked this, but you're a pretty superstitious team. We noticed you didn't have your number 12 jersey on. What happened with that?  Did it effect your game?
 
SCOONIE PENN:   When I went to put my shirt back on, I couldn't find it. But I don't think that had to do with the game, that I didn't have my jersey. 
 

Q.  I guess this question goes to Scoonie. You guys seem to have a more difficult time than all season in getting back in transition against Connecticut. What happened tonight?
 
SCOONIE PENN:   This team is great. I think they're the best team probably in the country, they turned the stakes and got shots into easy layups. They did that, always had guys leaking out. It was always a  situation where they were on offense, three on one, three on two.  After a while, during the game, that starts to take a toll on you. 
 

Q.  Scoonie and Michael, can you talk about being a young team and the experience this gives you for a couple years.
 
SCOONIE PENN:   I think it was a great opportunity for, you know, the ride we had. I feel we have nothing to hang our heads about. I feel it's a great experience. We played some very tough games. I think this just gives all the guys on our team that are coming back a tremendous amount of confidence. 
 
MICHAEL REDD:  I think it helps us a lot. We're basically the same team next year. We have that confidence that we can do the same thing next year. 
 

Q.  Scoonie, you were playing defense when Voskuhl got a little shaky with the ball and lost it for their bench. Or it was you, Mike?
 
SCOONIE PENN:   It was me. 
 

Q.  Whichever one of you guys it was. Connecticut said that El-Amin called a time-out and Voskuhl was still in the circle. The play continued as the ball went to the side lines. Can you give us your perspective on how the play developed.
 
SCOONIE PENN:   I was denying Khalid El-Amin  the ball. Voskuhl was looking for someone to pass to. He threw it to Khalid and Khalid wasn't there. He grabbed it, which I think would be a travel. He called time-out once Voskuhl got the ball. 
 

Q.  Scoonie, did you ever at one point think that, you know, Ricky Moore would not be around?  You played every minute, and I think Ricky Moore played 37. Were you looking in wait, hoping for someone else to guard you?
 
SCOONIE PENN:   I had a feeling he was going to guard me the whole time. I was waiting for him to turn his head the wrong way. But he did a pretty good job. He played his assignment well and covered me the whole game. 
 

Q.  Scoonie, at the end of the game it looked like you were holding your left hip. Did you get banged at some point?
 
SCOONIE PENN:   No, I was just, you know, I didn't get banged. 
 

Q.  Jim, how crucial was that possession where Voskuhl looked, appeared to travel with the ball?
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   I think that was a critical possession. There were a couple possessions at the end of the game that I thought were real, real big. On two consecutive possessions, we guarded them very  well. They shot and missed and rebounded, then they ran the clock on the game. We guarded them pretty well, Hamilton makes a jumper in the link. Not only was the basket big, but time was a factor. I think we really needed time even more than the points.  They got two full possessions that really hurt us. So that play was significant. I thought it was a travel, but obviously they didn't. 
 

Q.  Jim, knowing how hard it is to get here, can you just talk about how hard this loss is?
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   Well, the thing that you really wouldn't understand, Mike, is that when you get to this point, you never know when you're going to get an opportunity to get back into this Final Four setting. And when you think in terms of two games or even one game away from playing for the National Championship, it's almost a surreal expression to me, so that's the disappointing thing. But you get this far and you're not able to get the whole thing. But I said this about our kids before, absolutely nothing is going to happen to take away the feeling that I have of accomplishment and the feeling of just appreciation for what our kids did this year. So this really hurts, but, you know, I mean I think back on how this whole thing has gone and it's not going to be that bad after we get  out of here, we start thinking about when we first started practice back in September with all the learning. This is not that big of a deal to me right now. The big picture is so much more important. 
 

Q.  Jim Calhoun thinks that Ricky Moore was a definite key to the game, cut off the head and so forth. Do you agree that Ricky Moore's job with Scoonie was a key thing?
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   I think Ricky Moore did a terrific job. It was interesting the way things get played up. They decided to guard Michael Redd with Freeman and guard Singleton with Hamilton. And there's a trade off in matchups. Because one of the things they do exceptionally well is leak Hamilton out. So Hamilton's guarding our inside guys and he's leaking out. I think that's one of the reasons why we had as many offensive rebounds as we did. But they get an opportunity to get out, we get offensive rebounds, we needed to finish some of those plays off and I thought we did not do a good enough job doing that. But Ricky Moore deserves a lot of credit because he made Scoonie work for the entire 40 minutes. 
 

Q.  Jim, two questions. The first is a lot was made of this guard matchup. Now that the outcome of the game has been decided, does UCONN get the nod as the  better backboard?
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   That's for you to decide, not for me. 
 

Q.  Secondly, what did you tell the guys in the locker room afterwards?
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   I told them not to lose sight of the big picture. I told them I was proud of them, once again, obviously it was a disappointing loss. But, you know, when you think about the big picture, I think that's the thing we need to focus in on. I'm very happy about the big picture. 
 

Q.  Jim, I think this might be one or two off. But I think you were 7 and 14 at the line in the last 37. (Inaudible)  You talked about how you made it at the end. Is that what you take away from this?
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   Yeah, that's the thing that has been a little disappointing for us over the year. I think we were 7 for 14 from the free-throw line in the second half. Then in the end, make a couple more free throws, maybe it's one possession, but we never could get over that hump. That was the point I was making earlier. We had some opportunities to score some points, but the free-throw shooting has really let us down the whole season. 
 

Q.  Coach O'Brien, when Hamilton was in the first  half, did you think once you were going to put Singleton on him?  It seemed in the second half when Jason was on him he was a little more effective.
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   No, I thought there was much more of a problem for us with anybody else guarding Freeman and their bigger people. That was not going to help us too much I don't think. 
 

Q.  Coach, can you talk about going forward, how this is going to help get this team, you know, maybe more excited to look toward next year and also how you, as the coaching staff, can capitalize on the higher profile of Ohio State basketball today?
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   Well, that's part of the point about the big picture. I'm hoping that in some small way we've been able to restore some of the respectability to Ohio State's basketball program, and if that's the case, then maybe some of the younger players in the State of Ohio would maybe take a little closer look at our program at this point. Because obviously that's going to continue to be the life of the program. So hopefully we've been able to restore some of the dignity that I think the university deserves, and I would just go from there. 
 

Q.  Jim, Jim Calhoun mentioned that there was a point where they got up to ten and you called your  second 20. You seemed to stabilize the team and that led to some defensive play that led to the turnovers and then cut it down. What was it you told your team at that point?
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   Well, you know, we really needed to just get a little bit stable. And there was so much game left, we just really needed to calm everybody down. We had a couple of out-of-bounds situations where we scored on some in-bounds plays, and I really thought that during the home stretch after we called the second time-out we turned it up defensively. We had a couple of great things ourselves. But they're very, very difficult to guard when they get going in transition. And that was the point I made. I thought that our kids were terrific to always make a run at coming back and to always give ourselves a chance to stay in touch with it, which is not easy to do. 
 

Q.  Coach, how fast a team is Connecticut?  What makes it so effective in transition?  How is that important to that game?
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   I think they do a good job rebounding on defense with Freeman and Voskuhl. It gives them the luxury of leaking Hamilton out, and El-Amin does a good job of pushing the ball forward. And they are exceptional at turning your mistakes into  baskets for them. That's why it's critical that you don't turn the ball over, you take good shots and you become efficient on offense. They are every bit as tough and athletic a team as we've played all year and they are terrific at getting the ball down the court. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible) .
 
COACH JIM O'BRIEN:   I think one thing Connecticut does a great job with is they're very physical defensively. I thought that they were real good, kind of forcing us away from the basket a little bit. And they are a tough team. They're very aggressive. But they didn't really give us as many opportunities as they had in the past. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT