U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2002
Jerry Courville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.    Jerry, talking out on 16th green about that you knew as soon as you hit the first shot that it was going to be a struggle.  Would you go over that again.
 JERRY COURVILLE: Well, I knew when the weather, the way it was that it just wasn't going to loosen up and it's tough playing this game when you don't know where the ball is going.  I never really could feel where the club was all day, and I was just hitting it hoping I could go find it. 

Q.    Back much worse today than it has been throughout the week?
 JERRY COURVILLE: Yeah.

Q.    How frustrating is it to get in the final with that?
 JERRY COURVILLE: It's frustrating because you don't get to the finals very often and you get there and then have this happen, that's part of life, though, and I am just going back to work tomorrow.

Q.    When you holed the bunker shot at 8 this afternoon did you think that you were getting the momentum and you were right back?
 JERRY COURVILLE: It got me back to even, but obviously I am just trying to hit it where I could find it, and I knew that wasn't going to make it; with the back, it wasn't going to be better.  There was always hope then.   

Q.    (Inaudible) Can you describe the pain and is it  lower back, middle of the back?
 JERRY COURVILLE: Lower back.  It's the muscles in there and felt like I was playing with a straight jacket on is what I felt like out there. 

Q.    Was that the reason for the shot on the 1st tee on the afternoon 18?
 JERRY COURVILLE: That had something to do with it.  I never could get comfortable over the ball, so was just hitting it and hoping.

Q.    Can you talk about George's play?  He seemed very steady out there.
 JERRY COURVILLE: George played well and he did what he had to do.

Q.    How many times have you played him in Match Play or do you know your record against him?
 JERRY COURVILLE: Honestly I don't know my record against him.  He could probably tell you better than I could. 

Q.    Are we making too much of this being his home course or do you think that really did help throughout the week?
 JERRY COURVILLE: It always helps when you play your home course.  It's more of a comfort factor than anything.  You hit your tee shots, you basically know what you are going to do with your next shot.  I am sure that's not the main reason he won.  He's a great player.

Q.    (Talking about playing the Masters) (inaudible)
 JERRY COURVILLE: I am sure he's very excited about it and for most people it's a once in a lifetime thing and hopefully he will go down and enjoy it.

Q.    (Inaudible)
 JERRY COURVILLE: That's a good question.  I wish I had an answer for you.  I really don't know why.  There's a couple of good players, J. J. Henry is out there right now and Jonathan Wagner is a great player and I think you are going to be seeing him out there couple of years if not next year.  That may change in the next couple of years.

Q.    Where do you think the match turned?
 JERRY COURVILLE: Probably on 9, the 27th hole.  When I 3-putted that one. 

Q.    How much was your back bothering you?
 JERRY COURVILLE: It was like playing with a straight jacket on is what it felt like out there.

Q.    You are on 2 and he hit out a divot couldn't hold the green.  Are you thinking maybe this is a break here  -- (inaudible)  --
 JERRY COURVILLE: I was really hurting at the time, and you know, once you get down, it's hard when you are not really confident with what you are doing, it is tough to get back into it. 

Q.    Is this a tired back or is it something chronic in there that something that needs to be attended to?
 JERRY COURVILLE: It's all muscular.  I went to a physical therapist all last winter and didn't bother me all year 'til about two weeks ago, and you know, doing exercises and it is getting better and last few years it was bothering me three or four times during the year.  Now I am down to only one time so hopefully next year it will be taken care of. 

Q.    How bad was it to have that long break then  --
 JERRY COURVILLE: The break didn't help, that's for sure.  The worst part of it was the weather because the other few days when it was bothering me it was warmer out and you know, it was manageable.  When it gets cold and damp it makes it almost impossible. 

Q.    Does the back affect you in any other part of your everyday life or is it the golf swing and motion that really starts the discomfort and pain?
 JERRY COURVILLE: It is just the golf swing.  It will bother me for a while.  I will go home tonight, ice it down, and tomorrow it won't be so bad.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT