BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2005
Stuart Little
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Lovely play, a round of 7 under par, joint leader at the moment with Cabrera, and a little chance for next week even at this early stage of the proceedings.
STUART LITTLE:  Indeed, yeah, it's nice to be there, 64 first day, but I think as you're all aware, it's a long road ahead the next three days.  So we're just looking to try and maintain composure, form and see what happens over the next three days.
GORDON SIMPSON:  You made a very good start in Wales, wasn't it?
STUART LITTLE:  That's correct, yeah, I was 5 under there.  The form as been very steady, very consistent this year, so that's very pleasing.  As I said, you know, we're just really looking to take that into the next three days.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Can you pinpoint what's helped you get to this level?
STUART LITTLE:  Oh, I think there's a number of things, really.  You know, working with a couple of guys both on the swing and the psychological side.  And I'm a few years older, a little bit wiser and a little bit maturer, so I think, you know, everything put together is a good package.
GORDON SIMPSON:  What was the key today?
STUART LITTLE:  Well, I think like every day really, hit the right shots.  I hit a poor tee shot at the 10th hole, my first hole, so I didn't get off there, trying to make up and down par which I didn't.  But I think really driving in the right position, hit it on the green in the right position and just try to convert.  I think really the key things for me was just the composure.
Q.  You mentioned
STUART LITTLE:  Oh, I mean, I think even for the very, very best, it's difficult.  I think the images that some of the top players portray over the screen are very, very good ones.  I'm sure coming down the stretch, whether it's to win the tournament or to make the cut by one shot or whatever it is, I think there's pressure there.  I think the key thing is really as long as you know you're doing your utmost to achieve, then that's all you can do.
Q.  Are you working with anyone at the moment?
STUART LITTLE:  I am, yes, it's Carl Morris.  We've been together since March this year, and I think he's been able to putt into place quite a few issues that I had in the past, and, you know, so far, so good.

I think all of the issues that you're going to experience playing tournament golf, simple as that I think.
Q.  Inaudible?
STUART LITTLE:  Yeah, there's no question.  I think that everyone here has a tremendous amount of ability, otherwise they wouldn't be here.  Just to get through six rounds of Tour School is a major, major achievement.  I think quite clearly all of the players that are out here have a tremendous amount of ability.  It's just been a matter of utilizing and believing that you can do that.  That doesn't come overnight.  I think that people like Poulter, who are blessed with a tremendous amount of confidence, are in the minority, definitely.
Q.  Inaudible?
STUART LITTLE:  To be perfectly honest, no.  I think one day if it comes, it's a tall order, one spot, but just carry on the form today, then it's highly possible.
GORDON SIMPSON:  You said you had an interesting experience coming back from the qualifier, as well.
STUART LITTLE:  I think the qualifying as Sunningdale is always a tough deal, especially after playing four round at Paris National which is a tough course.  With the delays we had, I had only two and a half hours, three hours sleep before pegging it up on Monday morning.  So, it was always going to be a tall order.
Q.  Where were you playing?
STUART LITTLE:  Paris National.  The French Open, they had a three hour delay.  I was due to fly back into Bristol at a very social time and finally got to my bed at quarter past two on Monday morning up and at half five.
GORDON SIMPSON:  How do you feel?
STUART LITTLE:  Very tired.  There's no question, I played 18 holes, it was very, very difficult, no question about that.
Q.  Inaudible?
STUART LITTLE:  Well, I wouldn't say a soft touch.  We've had a very, very calm day as well, which I think makes a big, big difference.  I think that if the weather were to change and suddenly the wind were to pick up, I think you'd see a totally different golf course, even though the fairways are a lot more generous than we're used to.  But we've got it on an absolute perfect day today, and I think that's the reason why the scoring is very, very good.
Q.  Inaudible?
STUART LITTLE:  A few.  It will be nice to be playing with one of them on Sunday down the stretch.
Q.  Inaudible?
STUART LITTLE:  Not really.  A lot of the players are different, too.  I think that I've been around long enough to know that some of the guys, you just let them get on with their own thing.  Other guys, you know that you can have a joke, you can have a laugh.  I'm pretty sure that coming down the stretch, they are going to be concentrating on what they are doing, simple as that, yeah.
Q.  Is this your lowest tournament round?
STUART LITTLE:  I think it's 7 under, actually, 63 in Monte Carlo back in '92.  It's such a long time ago.  I think it is.  I think 7 under is probably my lowest tournament round, yeah.
Q.  Inaudible?
STUART LITTLE:  Well, I think you come to a point sometimes where you just see the light bulb go on and you feel as though you are able to take on board really what people can offer.  I think up to then, I was always, certainly not antsy, but maybe just thought I could do it.  I think the light bulb just went on.  I capable back from South Africa and I felt, now is the time.  Really nothing more than that.  I came back, and for whatever reason, just felt as though it was time to work.

I had spoken to a couple of people and they recommended Carl and the rest is history.
Q.  Did you see him recently?
STUART LITTLE:  I saw him funny enough on Tuesday afternoon, yeah.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT