UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2019
Dicaprio Bootle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you see out of the bye week? How did that help you guys do you think?  
DICAPRIO BOOTLE: It was good for us. You know, we got back to the basics in the bye week, just harping on the little things, harping on the things that lead to success. It just overall in a game, not even so much just game but just the basics of football, just getting back to what we do, the team that we set ourselves out to be. We went back to emphasizing things that we did in camp, and I saw our team start to take that shift, start to become better over the couple of days that we practiced.   
Along with getting well-needed rest, it was like the perfect balance, getting the well-needed rest that we needed just so guys could come back out this week and fly around, too.   
 Q.  Not to make you dwell on the Minnesota game, but was it easy for defenders to see on tape where the run fits or something missed on certain plays and how that changed what could be two-yard gains into bigger plays and how you can learn from that?  
DICAPRIO BOOTLE: Yeah, we definitely watched it. We definitely saw where we went wrong, what we could do better, and that's all we could do is harp on those things and just pay attention to the details, and if you're supposed to be in a gap, be in it, and ultimately just holding ourselves accountable, each person holding theirselves accountable and holding the man next to them accountable, too. You're part of that defense, you've got a hand in it, too. We're just trying to get back to doing what we do really.   
 Q.  What was the demeanor and the mood just getting back to work today?  
DICAPRIO BOOTLE: Very, very -- it was very high in energy. Guys were out there flying around. It was probably one of the best practices of the year, to be honest with you. You know, I just see everybody just happy to be back out, happy to have a game this Saturday again, just ready, just eager to get back at it.   
 Q.  Did you guys have a need or actually go about like consciously resetting some things? When you came back out, were you refreshed, or do you actually talk about if there's five games left, then let's target these things over the next five games?  
DICAPRIO BOOTLE: I mean, yeah, it's no secret there's five games left, but we've still got to take things week by week. We just need to target what we need to target this week, the biggest points of emphasis, based on what Indiana is giving to us, and we're just going from there. Guys are just all the way dialed in this week and ready to -- on Saturday to go out there and put something different on tape this time than we did last time we were out on the field.   
 Q.  I know their quarterback is a game-time decision, but what have you seen from him? He's been sacked once all season. What kind of challenge will he bring to you guys on the back end?  
DICAPRIO BOOTLE: Yeah, he's a guy that really just creates plays with the ball. He always has his eyes downfield, just -- and he understands and reads defenses, as well. With him, just like any other quarterback, you have to know who you're playing against, and we'll take the steps. Obviously we know some right now, but we'll take the steps throughout the week continuing to decipher what he has put on tape over the past couple of games and just basically play off of his strengths and try to make it hard for him to throw the ball.   
 Q.  What do you think of their receivers?  
DICAPRIO BOOTLE: Great guys. You know, they have a very deep receiving corps. All of those guys can play good football. You know, and they're generally bigger guys, too. We'll definitely have a challenge on our hands this week, and we've just got to go out there and do what we do.   
 Q.  A lot of guys are talking about the bye week being mentally refreshing. What does that do for what you see in practice and how guys are performing when they're maybe more mentally fresh after some time off?  
DICAPRIO BOOTLE: I think it was all good for us to just sit around on Saturday and just be able to watch college football if you wanted to, not be able to do it if you didn't want to. Me personally, I stayed glued to the TV all day just watching football, just eager to come back out and just be able to have somebody watch me on their bye week, know what I'm saying? So I think it was good, just for everybody mentally just to reset and just to be able to come back out today and be ready. The bye week, like I said, we got a lot of work in during the bye week as well as we got a lot of rest, so the good thing about it is if you're a guy like me, I'm sitting there and getting refreshed but I'm itching to get back to it, and I'm pretty sure that's how the rest of the team feels about it, too.   
 Q.  People always wondered how close the young receivers on your team are so contributing. You go against them all the time. Are there some guys or young players at receiver --  
DICAPRIO BOOTLE: Yeah, we have some pretty good young players at receiver that haven't really gotten a big shot yet. Chase is one of them, going out there, working hard every day, trying to be seen, trying to earn extra reps. A guy we go against on scout team, Jamie Nance, he's always running 100 percent full speed. You know, and that's not just those two guys. I just say those two guys because those are the two that popped in my head right away. But there's a whole list of young guys that are just right on the cusp of turning the corner and being able to really contribute for us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT