FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2019
Odell Haggins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Florida State, 38 - Boston College, 31
ODELL HAGGINS: Well, I tell be this: I'm so proud of these young men. They were very resilient. Very resilient. They didn't flinch. Came out when everything happened this past weekend, went to practice on Sunday, and ran the hardest they possibly could on Sunday.
They wanted to show, We are Florida State. We are unconquered. Coach, we got your back, man. That's what they showed me. A lot of them came up to me and said, Coach, we got your back, and they showed me by going out, running hard, and practicing hard on Sunday.
Also, I just want to thank David Colvin and the president believing in me. Again. They asked me. I didn't blink an eye. This is my school. I love it. School has done a lot for me. Has done a lot for Odell Haggins. Thank you very much Mr. Colvin and John Thrasher for believing in me again.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Coach, what was the mood like after the game in the locker room? What did you say to the guys?
ODELL HAGGINS: The mood in the locker room was great. It was great. The kids had a feeling. They showed me. They didn't just say, Coach, we got your back. They showed me. The mood, it's hard to explain when you're a Seminole and you see kids fight for you that went through adversity, something like that happened last Sunday. It's so hard to explain.
But the mood was great. Each and every player in there, they showed Florida State, Hey, I love this school. We're going to fight for Florida State and fight for you, coach.
It was outstanding.
Q. Not just the adversity with the coaching situation, but you had a lot of players out. What do you see from this team in terms of the way they battled through the adversity?
ODELL HAGGINS: Like I said, Sunday they showed me when they came out to practice. These kids really care about their school. They love Florida State. Florida State is different. Different. Reason why I say that, look at me. I've had a lot of the opportunities, but you know what, though? I've stayed at my school and do the best for my school.
Prime example. Once you're a Seminole you're always a Seminole. You love this school and this school going to love you.
Q. At what point in the week did you know you were going to use Jordan Travis and what was the plan going in?
ODELL HAGGINS: Well, Kendall, he said something to me about it. I said, Kendall, run your offense. You make that decision. Let's go with it. I support you. Fist bump. Hey, you're a Seminole brother.
Our standards here are very high. You get in there, you make the plays, you do what you're supposed to do, and left it at that.
Q. Coach, we saw the team get in a situation where they had some early adversity and bounced back, and the other team punched pack. Sort of back and forth. That's something we haven't really seen from the team being able to come out on top this season. What does it say about the guys that this time they were able to rally and come out on top?
ODELL HAGGINS: Yeah. The young men -- I'll say this right here: We got some great kids on this football team. We have great kids. A lot of people want to count them out, but they want to show the nation, We are Florida State.
Like I told you, once you sign with Florida State University, it's different. People can say what they want to say about Florida State. You sign here, you're fighting for something.
Q. Odell, (indiscernible) finishes with I guess upwards of 20 tackles. His physicality against the running attack, what did he do so well for you guys today?
ODELL HAGGINS: You know what it he did? Made a commitment Sunday. He said, Coach, we're not going anywhere. Coach, this week of practice I'm going to have a great week of practice. I'm coming downhill. Don't worry, Coach. He said that. The guy said to me, It's only one way, the Nole way, N-o-l-e. They believe that. Only one way, the Nole way.
Made a commitment Sunday. He's one of the guys that came up to me and said that. So I appreciate him. Great guy. Hung in there with us. One of the leaders on this team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT