OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2011
Dan Herron
John Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players. 

 Q. John, a lot of this, trying to get the crowd into it, did you feel this could be a special night if you could get them in here and get the crowd on your side and get the momentum?
 JOHN SIMON: We thought it was big tonight. We wanted to have the crowd on our side, things like that, which we knew they were going to be. And just making sure in crucial situations that we had them maybe distracting offense a little bit with communication, things like that. And I think we benefited from it.

 Q. Boom, then John, just that feeling at the end of the game, you pulled this out and the players are still on the field and the fans are storming the field, what did it feel like?
 DAN HERRON: It was a great feeling. We definitely wanted this win really bad. The team kept on fighting. Guys never gave up; we went out there and got it done.
 JOHN SIMON: I'd say the same. We knew it was going to be a fight. And this is a big win for us, things like that. We're going to enjoy tonight and get back to work tomorrow. There's a lot of football left.

 Q. Boom, what was Braxton like in the huddle there the last series, did he say anything to you guys? What was his demeanor like?
 DAN HERRON: He was very focused. The whole thing with the offense was just stay focused, make the plays and just keep moving the ball.

 Q. John, last week against Michigan State, they fell behind, had those two late touchdowns and got back into it, almost pulled off the same thing here tonight. Just talk about maybe the feeling on defense down the stretch, like just get one stop and you win the game and that's what happened there at the end. 
 JOHN SIMON: Right. Absolutely. We knew it was going to be a fight. We knew they had play-makers and they were going to make things happen. We just had to handle that adversity and they were able to get two quick scores on us and things like that. The offense made a big play for us. We knew we had a chance to redeem ourselves and we were going to play again.

 Q. Talk about what you were talking about before the play, what were the instructions to everybody, what was the focus? 
 JOHN SIMON: We really wanted to get pressure on them, make them throw it early. I think Andrew Sweat got great pressure on them, maybe got a hit on them, just bat the ball down before anyone could catch it, and luckily we executed well. 

 Q. In the first half they seemed to contain you in the run game, and you came out in the second half with that long run in the first play. What kind of adjustments made to allow that to happen?
 DAN HERRON: We definitely made a couple of adjustments. The "O" line was doing a great job. They opened a great hole for me the second half at the beginning of the game. And the other big thing was just to come out and make a big play and just get the offense going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT