STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 26, 2016
Christian McCaffrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Rice - 17, Stanford - 41
Q. What was going through your head when you were singing the alma mater and all that stuff at the end of the game?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: I, just emotional moment for all of us just being able to get up there, get a win for the seniors and it's always emotional after a win.  You enjoy it, but we got another game left.  So sticking to what we know and that's getting back to the drawing board and doing whatever we can to be the best we can for whatever bowl game we get.
Q. Was it going through your head at all that this might have been your last home game here?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: I'm just focused on this next game.  I haven't made a decision.  And I think it's a disservice to my teammates to make an announcement or anything right now.  So I'm going to think about it and really work on it.  But as of now, it's get back Monday, get back to practice, and get back to working on my craft.
Q. What did you think of Keller Chryst's balancing act on the sideline with the long touchdown run?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: It was awesome.  That's just the grit that he has.  Going down the sideline, didn't go out of bounds, stiff armed a guy being there, won't be denied.  It's fun to watch that.  It's one when you got a quarterback -- honestly, you got two quarterbacks, him and Ryan Burns, that aren't afraid to hit anybody.  So it's always nice watching him play.
Q. Did you run hurdles in high school?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: I didn't, no.  I did not run hurdles.  I might need a little bit of work.
Q. You had a nice moment there on a run in this game.  Talk about the development of the run game behind the offensive line that really all season maybe only had a couple games in a row at the same spot.
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: It's been tough.  We have had injuries left and right, but our guys have done a great job staying resilient and doing an awesome job sticking to the P's and Q's of what we know.  And when they come together as a group and push guys and move guys, it makes our job easy as backs.
But not to discredit the fullbacks and the receivers as well, those guys do unbelievable job and are a critical point of the offense as well.
Q. If this is your last home game, and I'm just saying if, how do you feel about how you went out?  I think you had over 200 yards.  You reached a couple milestones.  How do you feel about the way you finished up?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: It was a good way, a good game.  I thought I played well here.  But still some things that I got to clean up.  A couple times in the open field, I lost my footing a little bit, kind of some slick grass here and there.
But any time you get a come out and get a W with your boys, it's a successful day.  And football's a team game, so any milestone I reach isn't an individual milestone at all.  I know I have said it a hundred times, but it can't be more true.  Individual success is a product of teamwork and a product of 11 guys coming together and doing everything they can to strain for each other.  And I think that's why football's the greatest game in the world.
Q. Making your decision, will you rely mostly on your dad or your coach or what goes through your mind?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: It's a process that I haven't really thought a whole lot about, I've just been focusing on the season now.  I have people and mentors in my life that I trust that I'll go to.  But at the end of the day it is my decision and I'll make whatever's best for me.
Q. When you consider where this team was, the offense, after the Colorado game, what went into kind of making sure the team came together, had fun on offense, and was able to get back to be the team that you wanted to be able to put together.
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: I think that's the grit in our team.  Everybody's hyping us up in the beginning of the year.  We lose three in the middle of the season, and then it's like we're the laughing stock of everyone.  And it's been a kind of a consistent message that we tell our guys, is that it really is us against the world at the end of the day and it's our backs against the wall.  And it's a special thing when you can look your brothers in the eye, win or lose, and know that they have your back just as you have theirs.
So, for us, we just knew we had to stay the course.  We knew we were a good football team and we can win football games.  We had a tough 11, 12 game stretch there at the end, there with no bye and we had a lot of things going against us.  But our guys coming together as a unit and grinding with each other, not taking a day off in practice, not holding our heads down or feeling sorry for ourselves, but rather getting back to work and know that any time you get to step on the field and play ball, it's a blessing.  So I'm just really proud of the way we responded and really proud of the way our guys came together.  And I think it's a huge testament to our senior leadership and our coaches as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT