STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2015
Christian McCaffrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








California - 22  Stanford - 35
Q. What does it mean to you to win the Axe, Christian?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Oh, it's a great feeling.  Especially for these seniors, we haven't given the Axe up.  We knew they did a lot of different stuff with their kick off team.
(No sound.)   Those guys got us a great win.
Q. Were you surprised that they kicked it off to you in the final minute of the half?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: I wasn't expecting -- I always expect the ball.  I wasn't expecting it that they were going to do anything.  We had kind of scouted them out when they line up deep he was going to kick it to a certain side and we had messed with him a little bit going different directions.  But got the ball kind of easy, my job was easy I kind of ran straight.  The guys did such a great job blocking.
Q. What did you see on the screen pass town, talk us through that.
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Yes, it was kind of a bad look, the D line men didn't rush and Hoge got me the ball and our guard stayed on his block and did an incredible job, allowed me to get some low pad leverage and see open field from there.
Q. How did it feel to break the record here in the big game?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: That's a huge honor.  Especially a guy like glen million burn who was such an incredible player and an unbelievable person as well.  It's a huge honor.
Q. You talked about having Barry Sanders' poster on your wall growing up.  And potentially breaking his record, does that mean anything to you?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: I'm not really focused on all the individual statistics right now or anything like that.  If that does happen, great.  If not, I'm not focused on that right now.  We're just focused on winning this next game.  We got a big game against a great opponent next week.
Q. Are you surprised with all the speed you have on this team?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Definitely.  Definitely.  I think that we're kind of a cliché power football team is what people like to call us and we have so much speed and athleticism on this team, it's fun to see and I think it does surprise a lot of defenses.
Q. On the screen pass that you scored on, when you got free, you made some really interesting moves where it looked like you could see out of the corner of your eye where your blocks were coming from an where the tacklers potentially were.  I don't often see a guy make those kinds of moves.  Is that instinctual or do you have good peripheral vision or is it just reflexes?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Yeah it's very instinctful.
Q. You made some really nice moves around those guys.
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Thank you.  Football is a lot of instincts and when you get out there, if you think too much, that's when you end up kind of messing up.  And making a wrong cut.  But when you just allow your football instincts to take control, it makes football a lot of fun.
Q. How much does it mean to you and the team to win the North and starting to think about future goals beyond that?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: It's a huge honor.  To establish ourselves as the PAC-12 North champions.  But we're not satisfied at all.  We have a huge game this week, and that's what our tunnel vision is focused on is Notre Dame.
Q. Is there any one play that you thought was the most important play of the game?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: There's so many and like I said, football games when you're playing happen so fast and I'll have to check the tape and play it, but I think there's, yeah, there's so many.
Q. The kick off return came after they got the score?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: That was a huge play.  Because they had just gained some momentum with a field goal and they made it a tight, two score game and I think that took some wind out of them, which was a good play.
Q. The next game is the Notre Dame game and the conference championship game lurking in the back of your mind, are you trying to tamp it down, doing it week by week, but now these moments are now here.
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Yeah, I think we're just taking it game by game.  We haven't been thinking of a whole lot other than one week.  I know we can only control what we can control and that's going back looking at the film, looking at the tape, seeing what we can improve on and going from there.  But we really do take each week, week by week.
Q. Given the history of Notre Dame and the aura around that program.  How exciting is it to be playing against them?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: It's very exciting.  It's exciting because it's the next game and it's a big game because it's the next game.  And that's something that we always focus on as I said before and it will be an exciting football game.
Q. Did you talk to your dad at all about that game 25 years ago?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Briefly I spoke to him about it.  But I've seen so many clips of it and everybody talks about it, so it's something that's pretty cool, but it's just to know the history behind it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT