STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2015
Christian McCaffrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Washington - 14  Stanford - 31
   
 Q.  Describe the 50-yard play from the pass to Kevin? 
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Yeah, so we had a crossing route from the wideout, the right wideout, and had a wheel come in, safety rolled up, had a great play fake, and Hogan made a great throw and made my job easy.
Q. Christian, obviously carrying the ball so much, you take a beating out there.  Talk about the pounding you take?  Coach Shaw was saying you just keep coming back for more.  Just talk about that mentality?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Yeah, football's a physical game.  It's a very physical defense that likes to hit a lot, but I don't go into football games expecting not to get hit.  It's a physical game.  That's what our strength staff prepares us for is the physicality, and that's kind of what we're built on.  So I love that stuff.  I love contact.  So that's why we all play.  I kind of accept it.
Q. Are you a little bit surprised at the season you are having right now?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: No.  I mean, not when you've got guys up front doing what they've been doing.  It's so fun watching what the O-line does and the tight ends and fullbacks and receivers do.  Like I said, I'll say it a thousand times, it's so cliché to give those guys props.  But when they go, I go.
Q. People are saying maybe Christian McCaffrey for the Heisman Trophy.  Are you hearing those same types of things?  Are you thinking about that at all?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I'm hearing it.  Not thinking about it though.  Right now we're just worrying about getting in the film room, seeing what we can do better, and becoming 1-0 with this next game.
Q. What things can you do better?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I can do a lot better.  There are definitely some times when I could lower my shoulder and get a few more yards.  No one's perfect.  But I haven't looked at the film yet.  A lot of times games are such a blur.  So we'll get back and really try to edit all the stuff that we can edit on Monday and get back in the film room and see what we can learn from this game and move on to next week.
Q. Did it seem like that Northwestern game was a long, long time ago now?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Yeah, that seems a long time ago, you're exactly right.  But we haven't forgotten about that.  That was a game that's really driven us.  One of our strength coaches always tells us never forget where you came from.  And that's something that we still have that Chip on our shoulder from that game.
Q. (No microphone)?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: No, we definitely kind of looked in the front windshield.  We're not focused on that the all, but we do remember that feeling.  It's a bad feeling.  So we don't want to have that one again.
Q. Six straight games for 30 points by Stanford.  Talk about how well the offense is playing right now?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Yeah, I think like I said before, it all starts with the guys up front.  When they're doing their job, it makes our job a lot easier.  You've got a quarterback in Kevin Hogan who can demand the field.  His physical play is definitely noticed.  When he's throwing the ball, he's getting yards with his feet, but he's always getting us to the right play.
He's one of the smartest guys I've ever met on the field.  Just some of the stuff he gets us to, that's really what gels us and keeps us going.
Q. Give us a little bit of let's taste what they're going to give us game as opposed to (No microphone)?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Was it?
Q. Yeah, just the whole offense.
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I think our approach every week is to do our jobs.  We watch film on them and see what plays they're going to work, and we do our best to execute them on the field.
Q. (No microphone)?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Oh, I just got hit.  It's nothing bad at all.
Q. Hand or the wrist?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Hand.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT