STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2015
Christian McCaffrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Christian, what's been going right offensively since what happened at the UCF game?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I think, like you said, simple question, and I think it's a simple answer.  It's just a matter of execution.  Our guys are making plays and that's all it comes down to.  Football is a game where if you try to dissect it too much and try to do too much, it doesn't always work for you.  You've got to find what works and keep doing it and keep doing it well.  And that's something Coach Shaw and all of us always harp on.  Do your job and do your job well, and that was the Bill Belichick Patriots thing, and we took that to heart for sure.
Every single play, we've got to strain to do our very, very best.  Doesn't matter what the score is or who we're playing.  At the end of the day it's about us and if we can execute or not.
Q. The last two games Stanford has rolled up 639 yards on the ground.  What's that say about you guys as a running back corps and what's that say about the guys up front getting it done?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: First off, hat's off to those guys up front on the offensive line.  It all starts with them.  Without them, none of that would be happening.  So they've been playing so well, and it's so exciting to see from a running back's perspective.
But that's an exciting number for us.  I think it's exciting because there is still a lot more we can do.  We'll look at the film and really dissect everything and see what we need to do when we play UCLA.  But like I said before, that's an exciting number.  But we still have more in the tank.
Q. If this was a statement-type game, I'm not sure if I'm overstating the point a little bit.  But if this was a statement type game, what statement do you hope this result sends to the rest of the nation?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I'm not sure.  We really don't focus on that.  What we're focused on right now is kind of us and only us.  It's something that they talk about all the time.  We can only control us.  It doesn't matter who we're lining up against week by week.  It doesn't matter what the score is, where the game is, when it is.  All that matters is all of our guys are going to show up on whatever day we're playing and give it our best shot, and we're going to work our butt off every single day during practice and do our best to execute to the best of our abilities when it comes game time.
Q. I'm not going to lie, every time I see you and Bryce Love out there on the field my eyebrows perk up and get excited.  What's it like when both of you are on the field together?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: It's exciting.  Bryce is such an electric player and so fun to watch.  I think it's kind of nerve-racking for defenses too when you have two guys in the back field that can make plays.  It's something that we definitely want to keep doing more of.  Whether it's me, Remound, Barry or Bryce in the back field, there is so much we can do with our guys and it's exciting for us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT