STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 17, 2016
Christian McCaffrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 27, USC - 10
Q. Wide open, ball's coming to you, do you have my gosh, I can't drop this or are you just excited you don't see anybody around you?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Yeah, just catch and run.  Burns made a good throw, so made my job easy just catching the end of it.
Q. Burns on third down has been really efficient through the first two games.  Almost better in efficiency.  Have you sensed that in the huddle that he's in complete command there?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Definitely.  We're very confident, first, second or third down knowing he'll get to the right checks, make the right reads and finishing with a completion.  Guys doing a great job getting open on third down as well.
Q. Some of those designed runs, I think you had one early on a third down.  You came out of the game and kind of plowed through a few guys.  Did the running backs have a little banter with him when he has the run like that?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: We get excited.  Anytime you see the quarterbacks shelling out for you and going into the trenches, you definitely get excited as a runner.
Q. From your perspective, how did the offensive line progress from Game 1 to today?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: They did a great job.  Those nine, ten boxes up there, they're grinding them and getting their face across and doing everything they can to open up holes.  So they did an unbelievable job, a huge progression from week one to week two.
Q. You were channelling Remound Wright I guess on the 1-yard plunge.  What was going through your head there?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Just get in the end zone, find a way.  Those guys, they submarine on the D-line.  The only option there was to jump and find the hole.  Lucky to learn from Remound back in the day and kind of show off what he taught me today.
Q. Coach said you suggested don't let the first guy bring you down.  How much pride do you take in being a power runner in your position?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: A lot of pride.  There's times, you know, Coach Shaw always harps on being the most complete back you can possibly be.  Part of that comes from being able to make guys miss an open field and lowering your shoulder and getting two or three yards and falling forward.  So being a complete back, there is a lot to it.
That's something us in the running back room, we work every single day.  All of us pride ourselves on being efficient and making guys miss and falling forward and doing everything we can to get as many yards as possible.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: You tell me.  I don't know who is giving me credit or not.  I know who I am.  I'm 6-foot 205, that's my height and weight, so as far as big goes, there it is.  But I like to get physical when I have to.
Q. The fact that Michael Rector and having Bryce love back, you have all these weapons that kind of help you out and open up space for you?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Oh, it's huge.  We've always had those guys.  So just showing that we had so many weapons on the field, it gives your offense a lot of confidence.  Also just up front, you can't harp how much those guys get us going enough, because nothing happens without them.  Our O-line and our fullbacks do an unbelievable job setting everything up.  Giving the quarterback time and opening up holes for us to run in.
Q. Christian, do you get any special satisfaction having a game where you grind out the yards as opposed to maybe breaking a few big runs.  Obviously you're going to be satisfied either way, but is it a different satisfaction having a game like that?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Definitely.  There's definitely games you need to be grinding in the hole and you need to push in the trenches.  And sometimes when the game's on the line, we're okay with getting five, five, five, 12, five, four yards a pop if that's what it takes to win.  I mean, that's what they're giving us.  But once again, I'm trying to do everything I can every single time I touch the ball.
Q. There is so much attention placed by UFC on stopping you and kind of controlling you after what happened in that title game.  Does that give you a little bit of satisfaction now knowing that it didn't hold you back?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: It definitely gives me satisfaction, but again, I'm satisfied with the win and how our guys played and kept progressing.  Even though we won though, there is still a lot of stuff we've got to fix.  Lot of stuff we'll have to get back to the drawing board and correct.  So it will be a big week of practice, facing a great UCLA team this week.  So we'll celebrate this victory and get back to the drawing board tomorrow.
Q. With that said, when you came out of the back field for that touchdown, was there any surprise that they didn't cover you, or they just seemed like a blown coverage in there?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I mean, yeah.  I don't know when they were going to give me.  I saw the safety roll down.  It was my job to run by him.  Burns threw a great ball and from there it's history.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT