STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2016
Christian McCaffrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 26, Kansas State - 13
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: The only thing we can do now is look in the windshield and focus on the mistakes and learn from our mistakes and getting better from there.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I think just the time clocked kick in our offense and we owed it to ours.  We owed it to the team to really get a drive going.  The O-line did an excellent job on that play from the get-go.  I did a power play and big hole and the rest was green grass.
Q. (Indiscernible) you guys looked very crisp in the first half.  Was that something that you wanted to see that kind of efficiency and feel good about yourselves?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Oh, definitely.  I think in order to beat USC you've got to start fast.  There's no other choice.  You've got to maintain that throughout the game because you've got an unbelievable team that plays very hard.  And K-State, they're another team, too, that they're very well-coached, and they will not give up.  So it's one of those things where we started fast, but we've got to find a way to stay focused throughout the second, third quarter and find a way to finish at the end.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I think he did awesome.  I think he handled himself great.  He made some awesome reads and made some awesome checks, but we expect that out of him.  He's an unbelievable football player, and he did a great job today and great things moving forward.
Q. Did you get a look at Keller?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Keller has put out more pancake blocks for me than I think anyone.  No offense to Marx (laughing).  No, that's not true.  But anytime you've got a quarterback running down the field trying to pancake people, you know you've got a special team and a special bond.  So he's an unbelievable guy that comes to work every day with his hard hat on ready to get after it.
Q. K-State do anything to upset you?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: No, they didn't throw a whole lot of different looks at us.  It was pretty basic stuff.  They played well with their safeties in the box when we would go in some big-people formations and they flow really well too.  Their linebackers flow really hard and they're very well coached and disciplined.
So, you know, there were just a couple things that we've really got to fix, but we'll get back to the drawing board and do just that.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Oh, I mean, you hit it on the nail.  They did just that.  They opened up the hole.  When you've got guys like that who are straining for you, it's your job to put it in the end zone.  They did an excellent job on that play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT