ROSE BOWL GAME: IOWA VS STANFORD
December 28, 2015
Kyle Murphy
Christian McCaffrey
Austin Hooper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
KYLE MURPHY
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY
AUSTIN HOOPER
Q. Austin, love to know, when you guys get inside the red zone, what goes into your mind?  What are you thinking?
AUSTIN HOOPER: To be quite honest with you, not a whole lot.  If we march on the field and things have been working, we just try to stay cool, calm, and collected.  Just listen to whatever Kevin says and just execute.  Sometimes in situations we look at each other like all right, who is going to make the play?  And we're fortunate enough to have enough of those guys answer the questions throughout the season, and hopefully we can keep it going.
Q. How about regarding the fade ball to you in the red zone?  When you line up and you're isolated up against a corner, what is your process?
AUSTIN HOOPER: I get a little bit excited.  Get a little bit excited, look at Kevin and see if it's the right match-up he wants and just run my route.  If it comes to me, great.  If not, we've got guys like Devon Cajuste, Rollins Stallworth, Greg Taboada, we've got plenty of guys that can make the plays as well.
I just trust Kevin to take a look at the match-up.  If he likes it, go up and get it.
Q. Coach talked about how the Iowa offense is kind of vanilla in a sense.  How does that impact you guys in your pre-snap reads and what you're looking at in that?  How does that change things for you guys?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: You mean the Iowa defense?  Yeah.  So they don't do a whole lot, but they're extremely good at what they do.  And it works for them, obviously.  For us, we just listen to the play call and do our best to execute and trust in our teammates that we can get the job done.  We understand the challenges that we face playing an Iowa team.
But at the end of the day you ask any team and you've got to focus on you and the things that you can control, and that's doing your job and doing it to the best of your ability.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT