STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2015
Christian McCaffrey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 38, Notre Dame - 36
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: They're stacking the box, making it hard for us to run the ball.  And our receivers did an unbelievable job at doing what they do best, catching the ball and getting up field.  Guys like Kevin Hogan, who don't blink when stuff like that happens and says, you know what, let's ball, let's go get this win and that's exactly what he did.
Q. Not necessarily a flashy game for you guys, offensively, but you dominate the time of possession and you really grind it out there with the running game.
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Yeah, that's a great defense.  That's a really great defense.  To score 38 on them, I think, we're pretty happy with that.  I know there's still so many different things that we need to improve and that we'll get back in the film room.  Like every single week, no one can ever play a perfect game and we'll just get back to the drawing board and see what we can do to do that.
But, overall, just so proud of the team and how we fought.  That's one of those games that as a kid you dream about playing in.  To come with the win is super special.
Q. Did you feel like you had a target on your back tonight?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Definitely.  They have an unbelievable defense and some unbelievable players and when they're stacking the box it makes it's tough to run.
But you look at the day Hogan had and that's the windows that it opens and that's why, when our offense gets in a rhythm, and they're doing a great job stopping the run and we're getting four, five yards a pop, those runs end up turning into they're worried about the run and then Hogan makes great plays down the field in the pass game.  So when you can do both things well it makes playing football a lot of fun.
Q. Next week it will be USC for the PAC-12 championship.  Talk about that game.
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Yeah, we're excited.  We're extremely excited.  We know USC's a great team and we're ready for the challenge.  I think you're guys are extremely excited.  We're going to enjoy this one, but definitely have one foot in right now looking forward to this next week.
Q. You guys play like you did tonight, you'll be the PAC-12 champs.
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Thank you, I appreciate that.
Q. No question.  How does playing them a second time affect your preparation?
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: No different.  We prepare each week the exact same.  We're not going to do anything different just because it's playing the second time.  We'll look at some things, look what they have done towards the end of the season and prepare the exact same way.
Q. Great game.
CHRISTIAN MCCAFFREY: Thank you, I appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT