NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 15, 2012
Mikkel Boedker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mikkel Boedker. 

Q.   What kind of adjustments do you have to make tonight?
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   Just work harder.   Make sure that we play to the caliber we know we can play.   Just work harder than they do. 

Q.   Puck possession, that was something that L.A. dominated.   How do you change that around? 
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   Just when we have it, we got to keep it.   We got to keep it, just don't give it up like we did. 
I thought we gave it away too easy.   When we have the puck, we have to play with it and make them chase the game a little bit. 

Q.   It was a pretty even game on the scoreboard.   Do you take any solace in that knowing you can compete with them?
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   Yeah, it was obviously a closer game than it obviously looked on the shots and all that.   But we were in the game.   I guess we were closer than everybody thought we were. 
But, I mean, it will be a tight one again tonight.   It will be a hard game.   Hopefully we can play harder than we did. 

Q.   If you look at shot totals, you have been dominated a lot in that area, yet finding the way to stick around.   Does that help heading into a situation like tonight?
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   Yeah, I guess we just like Smitty to feel the puck (laughter). 
No, obviously we don't want to just give them shots from everywhere.   That's an obvious.   But some of the shots, there were a lot of quantity shots and not a whole lot of quality shots.   On the quality shots, they got a lot of second chances.   We have to eliminate that. 
If we can get a lot of shots on their goalie, if he can't see it, he can't stop it, so it goes to our favor.

Q.   How do you look at Game2 as far as the urgency?
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   We want to win this game bad.   We have that mindset.   We want to win every game.   But this one especially in front of our home crowd that's been great all playoffs. 
It's going to come down to the wire again.   But we're going to come out harder and we're going to play a good game tonight. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   No, he's a good goaltender.   If he can't see the puck, he can't stop it.   That's the same with every goalie. 
He's a good goaltender.   It's another challenge, but we're up for it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Antoine Vermette. 

Q.   Antoine, when you're the home team and you lose the first game of the series, Game2 obviously becomes extremely important.   Talk about that and not panicking. 
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   You're right.   It's not ideal situation, but something you have to deal with.   I mean, we rather be in different position.   At the end of the day, it's one game what's behind us.   It's done.   You really have to focus for the next one. 
We've looked at some stuff, practiced a few things.   I'm sure tonight we'll have a better team game. 

Q.   You have experience in not panicking in these playoffs.   Can you draw from that? 
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   That's the key.   That's the key.   You face adversity during post‑season.   This team been through this process, even though not in the exact situation this year in the post‑season, but including the season, we certainly faced adversity. 
The team is going to be in that position right now at this point.   They all have to do through that.   Personally, you know, I've been in this situation before.   I think that's the key:   if the team is going to have success, they have to manage those situations not panicking.   Just play ready and focused in that zone.   But you got to control those emotions. 

Q.   (Question about giving up goals.) 
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   It would be great to have a great start tonight, use the crowd, use our energy, be more effective I think putting pressure on them.   They had something they did really well on their side first game. 
I think we can be a little more effective supporting one another once we try to establish that forecheck as a five‑guy unit.   Something to be able to get early on and get the momentum. 

Q.   When you look at the first game, was that the most sustained pressure you'd seen from opening whistle till the end? 
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   I think you're right.   That was a strong start on their side.   We've done it I think last series against Nashville.   We came up on the second game strong effort from the get‑go.   We put ourself in good position, scoring early. 
So hopefully tonight we can do that. 

Q.   How would you describe this Coyotes team, the style?
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   I think we're a tough team to play.   We work hard.   We pay a lot of attention to details.   We can make plays.   We certainly have great goaltenders. 
It's our team identity.   We play as a team and we're willing to do the small, little details.   It makes a big difference at the end. 

Q.   You seem very opportunistic.   You may not get a ton of shots, but you're there to pounce. 
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   Yeah, usually when you play a tight structure like that, one of those days you're going to get those bounce and they going to create some opening.   Usually that comes not too many times because the team going to face a pretty solid game, not create too many mistake.   If you consistent with your structure, play well without the puck, eventually you're going to find a breach in their system and get a good chance. 

Q.   Every possession was so crucial.   Was it frustrating that the centers were getting tossed?
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   Yeah, I didn't go over too much about it.   It was one of those nights, it seems.   I have some wingers on my team that were upset about that.   As a center, you have to stay focused and keep the linesmen on your side. 

Q.   It's only Game2, but given the logistics of the series, how well they've been playing, do you consider this a must‑win game?
MIKKEL BOEDKER:   Every game in the playoffs is a must‑win.   You want to win every game.   There's so much at stake in those games. 
Yeah, it's a must‑win.   I consider all the games that they are. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT