TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2003
Vincent Spadea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  


Q.  It was an odd match in many ways  - 11 breaks in 19 games is pretty unusual?

VINCENT SPADEA:  Yeah, very unusual.  I'm looking at the statistics now.  The court was probably the heaviest it's been all week.  And any serve, no matter the pace or the placement, was returnable.  We both have pretty good returns, so I saw I only won  -- we both won a very low percentage of our first serve points, which is another surprising statistic  - including him, who is, you know, who won the match.  But it was not a serving match.  It wasn't a serving court either, so that might have had something to do with it.  This is clay court tennis.  It was what it was, I guess.  You saw it. 

Q.  You must be happy overall to have got this far this year.  Will you take home good memories of this tournament?

VINCENT SPADEA:  Yeah, I'm working hard, you know.  I'm trying to do my best in every tournament, trying to plot my ways through this year.  You never know when your run is going to end, so you just keep having faith and working towards your goals and working hard.  So, unfortunately, I got stopped today.  Hopefully, some weeks I'll go further, and there will be weeks most likely that I won't get as far.  So I'm just looking for the positives and try to work on what I need to improve for the next time. 

Q.  You look frustrated, like someone who thought they could do better than this.  I have that impression. 

VINCENT SPADEA:  Oh, well... No, I mean, you know, it's probably going to be one of the better tournaments I have this year no matter what I do from now on, even if I play better than this.  It's still a favorable result.  But, yeah, I don't know.  I just lost a match and, you know, I'm looking to be confident against anyone and everyone that I play.  Obviously, he was a better player today.  But I had a couple matches under my belt that were some positive things, too.  I'm not extremely disappointed, but, you know, I did lose a match so it's relative. 

Q.  Are you staying over here now in Europe? 

VINCENT SPADEA:  No, I'm going tomorrow.  I'm going to Houston.  I'm playing  -- scheduled to play an event there, the U.S. Clay Court Championships.  I'll be back for Rome, the Italian Open. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT