U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1995
Vincent Spadea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What is the difference between the other night and today? Was it the quality, the
way he played or you played?
 
 VINCE SPADEA: Yeah, it was a combination. Yesterday I was -- or the other day I was, I
saw the ball really well and I was really moving and I was really going after my shots,
and today I was a little bit tentative and a little flat-footed and he played a good
match. He didn't make many errors, and it was tough for me to get, you know, control of
the point and he hit a lot of good shots and I don't think I went for my shots as much as
I could have. But it was an experience anyway. 
 
Q. Because you were in a position to go for your shots or because he was fooling you a
little bit or --
 
 VINCE SPADEA: Well, he hits the ball very flat and he drives through the court with his
shots and, you know, that was a little bit different than the other match. Obviously, they
were hitting -- two different places, or whatever, the other guys I played in the first
few rounds as well, and, you know, so didn't have as much time to prepare. And since I
wasn't moving particularly well, I found, you know, hitting the ball a little bit short
and then he took advantage of the point. He seemed to not miss many serves, first serves
at all. I don't know what the deal was there. I mean, he must have had a high percentage
because he was serving, you know, pretty smart and keeping me off balance and I wasn't
able to step in too much; which is what I like to do usually, and he had the lefty serve
as well, kind of gave a different spin, different whatever, but I just -- I just couldn't
gain control of the points because I didn't really go after my shots the way I should
have. Or, you know, I had some chances, but to get back in the match; didn't convert too
many times, so... 
 
Q. You think that stretch at the end of the second set, was your best stretch?
 
 VINCE SPADEA: Yeah. Still, I mean, I was -- it seemed that -- I mean, I was just
getting down an early break in every set and it just seemed that my serving rhythm was not
there at all. I was disappointed in that. I expected a little bit of a higher percentage
on my first serves and it was just not a fun time out there on my serve, especially,
because I did expect to win a lot more games and points that way. I don't know what it
really was to tell you the truth. I don't know if I was rushing or if it was mechanical or
in my toss or whatever. But, you know, that stretch, yeah, it was at the end of the second
set, then I got broken at 5-All, which was not a positive thing. 
 
Q. Does that give you some respect for guys who are able to win a huge, huge match and
then come back the next time around and play that same level again and keep that level up?
Is that just experience you any?
 
 VINCE SPADEA: For sure, it is experience. That is one factor, and it is just a matter
of focusing on the right things when you are out there and trying to execute the way you
can. And that didn't happen too much today and, you know, just two different matches, two
different environments, you know, it was just a little bit different for me. It was not -- 
 
Q. You feel emotionally or psychologically let-down after that spectacular final point
in the second set that --
 
 VINCE SPADEA: No. Not particularly. I was more disappointed on what I was doing wrong
and I was trying to figure out how to get back in winning more points without having to
work really hard. I mean, the times I did win the points, is I was hitting some really
good shots which is basically, you know, tough to do consistently. I mean, obviously to
get further in this tournament that is what it is going to take and he didn't -- he didn't
give me a lot of errors to really -- to really help me out in my own pursuit out there,
but again, I was making errors myself, so I didn't give him many chances as well and I was
hitting short, so then it is easy not to make errors on the short balls. 
 
Q. Could you assess your whole experience here at the Open this past week?
 
 VINCE SPADEA: It is the best experience I have had at the U.S. Open. U.S. Open is
always a tournament where I have had trouble really focusing on a particular match at hand
and because there is so much going on and I did a fine job of that this year. And it was
more positive than I have ever experienced and it was a tough match today, so, that is
what I am thinking about right now. I will assess the rest of the whole tournament -- 
 
Q. This tournament gives you a lot of confidence for the rest of this year?
 
 VINCE SPADEA: Of course. Any time you are winning matches, especially in a big
tournament like this, it gives you confidence to keep moving forward. I think I made a
step forward in this tournament. I felt that I was going to play well here whether I won
my first round or lost whatever, I knew that I was going to try to move myself forward and
I did. Today was a different kind of experience. I needed to improve in some parts of my
game as well as some parts of my mentality when you encounter this type of situation
which. 
 
Q. How long do you think it will take now to get that wrist about 100%?
 
 VINCE SPADEA: Hopefully it should not take longer than a week or so or two. I
definitely need to rest it to the point where I don't feel at all anything where it is
like my left wrist because, you know, it is kind of annoying when you got to go out and
tape it and play that way, you know, not knowing that there is something possible where
you can injure yourself worse and -- but things worked out better than I thought they
would coming into the tournament. I was in bad shape a few days before the tournament and
I recovered pretty well and got going a little bit and now it is time to move on. 
 
Q. Do you think you will get the racket out of your hands for about a week?
 
 VINCE SPADEA: Something like that. I don't know the exact numbers. But I will consult
someone down in Florida. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT