U.S. OPEN
September 2, 1995
Vincent Spadea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How are you feeling right now?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: Terrible. I'm pretty pleased with what's happening at this point. I
feel I went out and played -- you know, I handled the whole situation, you know, very
well. And I was able to hit my shots and to go after the match the way I wanted to. I
controlled the situation which was, you know, A very nice feeling and, you know, very
confident and controlling feeling. So right now I'm very happy, to say the least and, you
know, a little bit, you know, surprised with the -- with the outcome in terms of how I was
able to go out and perform and how I did and handle everything. 
 
Q. When you say "I'm a little bit surprised about the outcome," did it almost
seem almost routine; I mean, straight sets, 7th guy in the world?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: It looks like that now, but going out there, I certainly was trying to
just, you know, stick with my game plan and trying to execute my shots as best as
possible, stay within myself, and then, you know -- I had played him before this year and
so I knew what to expect and, you know, I was able to really control a lot the whole
match. And I served well; I served smart, and I played, you know, every point, you know,
to the best of my ability and everything worked out. 
 
Q. What was the game plan?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: Well, basically, I was focusing on my own execution. You know, I was
going, you know, making sure that I controlled the baseline rallies because he moves well,
and he hits the ball heavy. And obviously, you know, he's got a good serve and, you know,
so I needed to go out and sort of dictate what was happening out there and sort of make
sure that I was attacking him, and getting my opportunities and, you know, really
competing out there. And, you know, in terms of tactics, you know, I just, you know, when
you're playing a player of this caliber, there aren't a lot of things that you want to go
out and do that are obvious weaknesses. So I think I just needed to go out and hit my
shots the way I wanted to hit them, and I knew that if I did that, that would be able to
put anybody in a tough situation. But I think everything is coming together at the right
time, and I felt the last few weeks I've been playing better and better. I'm really
confident in what I'm doing, on my game and I think that's helped me a lot, especially
going into a situation like this. If you lack any kind of sureness about one pick
particular area or yourself or whatever, it's easy to break down. And I'm becoming
stronger in that sense too, not to get into -- go off on a tangent. But that's basically
it. 
 
Q. Was this your first -- this was your first time on Stadium Court for you?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: Yes. 
 
Q. What was your feeling when you first came out and saw that, you know, to be playing
on stadium court No. 1; and what was the feeling you had when hit a crosscourt winner and
you won the match?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: Well, the feeling when I first walked on the court? Well, to tell you
the truth, I didn't really look at anything above, you know, just the -- you know, the
fence or whatever, the back. I didn't -- you know, I hardly, you know, made contact with
anybody in the crowd, and I never, on the changeovers or at any time, looked up and, you
know, got a good view of everything which I've done in the past when I haven't been on the
court. And that was one of my goals, was to keep myself focused that way and concentrated
on what I needed to accomplish. When I hit that winner, it was, you know, very satisfying.
It, you know -- it's, you know, it was great. You know, sometimes the crowd and you can't
hear them, it's just everything is like numb almost. But I knew that it was over, and I
was extremely happy that I had, you know, won my first big match over a top player, and I
knew it could happen and I was so, -- you know, I was very happy that it did -- especially
tonight. 
 
Q. You've played Agassi tough, you've played Courier tough, you've played Sampras
tough, but you haven't been able to get there with any one of those people. Have you
though about whether or not there's something you were doing wrong in those matches, has
that helped you tonight?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: Yes, absolutely. There were a lot of factors why I lost those
particular matches. But I think in particular going against those types of players is
definitely an experience that, you know, you can't match in terms of playing any other
players. So you need to go out and have that experience. It's tough to go out and just
think you're going to go out and beat those guys, I don't care how good and how confident
you are about yourself. And, you know, coming close it was encouraging and, you know, it
gave me, you know, a -- I don't know, I mean, it's like tonight I think it helped me in
those matches because I went out and I wasn't really intimidated by the actual player
whereas when you go out against the other top players you are, because, I mean, we're kind
of the same age and, you know, we played a little bit in the juniors or whatever. So I
think that helped me going in. But on the other hand, playing these top players and coming
close, you know, it gave you that dissatisfaction that coming close was, you know, not
even close really in a sense. I mean, it was not good enough. So the more those types of
experiences happen, the more that you want to be out and going after and trying to win
these matches, actually going over. And, I mean, it's just a complete different reaction
for yourself and for everybody else. 
 
Q. Kafelnikov has had a dangerous backhand which he's able to disguise a lot, hold it
to the last second. Did you talk a little bit with the coaches about how to try to
neutralize that?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: No, I didn't get that specific in his backhand. I knew that if I hit my
backhand the way I could into his backhand, he wasn't going to be able to manipulate me
around the court like -- you know, like he usually does. But he did -- you know, he mixed
up the top spin and flat balls and down line and I had to make sure that I wasn't just
hitting a ball cross court with not a lot of purpose or not a lot of, you know, stuff on
the ball. So, you know, the backhand, you know, I just needed to go out. And I didn't
worry too much about that, I just worried about my tactical goals. 
 
Q. Near the end of the second set you had that fairly easy forehand volley, you jumped
it a little too early and hit the net.
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: Right. 
 
Q. Just a little anxious there?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: I'm going to blame the lights on that one. You know, there's big lights
right there and, you know, I just sort of felt that at the last minute I was going to go
cross court, you know, I had the easy -- I think it's the same one we're talking about,
and I decided to run with it at the last minute and I was indecisive. I mean, it wasn't
that big of a point, I don't think, to where it was like I was getting tight. It wasn't
that. It was just I lost my thought for a second and the lights and all that.  
 
Q. We had the feeling upstairs that maybe you were so close you were getting anxious
and you had to tell yourself hey, slow down a little bit.
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: Right. Yeah, I mean, you want to hurry up and get it over with and done
and you want to be happy and, you know, these guys make you work and you have to go out
and prove yourself and hit the right shots and big shots at the right time. And I was able
to do that and, you know, I didn't get too anxious which was nice, I stayed calm and I
stayed focused and I stayed aggressive for the most part. So that's what really won the
match. 
 
Q. At any point were you aware that the crowd was really rooting for you? There's only
so much you can block out.
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: I'm not totally deaf at this point. Yes, I was aware of that and it was
-- you know, it was great. I mean, it was so encouraging and it was a great feeling and,
you know, these New Yorkers, they are very outgoing and not afraid to speak up. So, you
know, it was definitely a different experience. I mean, even playing in other parts of the
U.S. I didn't totally have that playing top players or whatever, so that was definitely an
experience and at times -- you know, it was a little bit hard sometimes when they got
almost too into it when I was trying to serve, but it was great, you know. I mean, I'd
rather have it that way than struggling with them or whatever. But that was a new
experience and a positive one. 
 
Q. What's the first thing mom and dad said to you?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: I haven't seen them. My mom had her video camera out, so I'm sure she's
got that going. 
 
Q. Your sisters are up in North Carolina?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: Yeah. 
 
Q. You're going to call them tonight or tomorrow morning?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: I'm probably going to call them tonight. 
 
Q. What are they going to say?
 
 VINCENT SPADEA: What are they going to say? They're going to say congratulations
probably, good match, keep it going. Who knows. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT