TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 7, 2004
Vincent Spadea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Vince, I'm sure you're very disappointed with those three points for 4-love lead.  What came apart there for you? 

VINCENT SPADEA:  I don't know.  I just didn't have it today, didn't move well.  It wasn't feeling, you know  -- I was just  -- I just lost those points, and that was a crucial time of the match.  It was a good chance to go to the third set if I could win one of those points, and here I went and lost six straight games, which is really the most disappointing part about the match.  But I just, you know, I didn't combine, you know, enough offense with the right amount of grinding.  I don't think I had my legs with me today.  My left hamstring has really been bothering me the last two days.  I felt like I had to be too offensive today to win, when normally I would have waited for more chances.  I think I kind of pressed too much.  That's what happened in those games  - in those points, actually.  He had a good serve on one of them, and the other ones...  One, I over-hit a ball.  But, you know, it's just...

Q.  What time did you get to sleep this morning?  I mean, you played a late match last night. 

VINCENT SPADEA:  I went to bed around one o'clock in the morning.  I thought I was  -- I didn't even realize what time I was playing.  I thought I was playing earlier, so I got up earlier.  Kind of just become a little disoriented at that point.  But he went to bed probably later than me, because I saw him getting a massage when I left. 

Q.  So he said, yeah. 

VINCENT SPADEA:  But it was just a bad, bad day at the office. 

Q.  But you'd never been this far in this tournament before.  Does that have any consolation to it?

VINCENT SPADEA:  It's just  -- it just marks up as a week with three good wins and one bad, you know  -- you know, not rising to the occasion, and that's it.  Those things are gonna happen when you're playing a Top 10 player.  You know, I'm playing No. 5 in the first round, and playing a guy who hadn't lost a match in, you know, twelve days yesterday until 10:30 at night.  It's a good challenge, especially on this surface, as an American.  So, you know, unless it's a final or a win, you don't look at it as glorious as the outcome's been.  But it's just another solid, hopefully progressive week. 

Q.  What's your program now?

VINCENT SPADEA:  I'm going to the German Open, then I'm playing in the World Team Cup, I suppose  - I haven't heard the final word on that.  But, obviously, everything is culminating to Roland Garros, and that's where I'd want to play my best. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT