HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 29, 2017
Pablo Larrazábal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Describe it from your point of view.  
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, a little bit of everything.  It looked like a tough day when we were hitting balls on the range, and I just said to myself to play safe and try to be patient.  I just start with a chip-in on No. 2, and birdie 3.   
 Q.  You made eagle at 9.  Describe the eagle at 9?  
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, I hit a perfect drive and 3-wood just over the green, and chip-in.  Again, two chip-ins, two 3-putts, six birdies, one eagle, three bogeys, one double-bogey.  A little bit of everything.  But that's this place.  When you're playing good, you can have -- if you don't make mistakes, you make one or two bogeys; if you make a couple mistakes, you make a double-bogey as I did, and three bogeys.  So if I take out the mistakes, it will be good.   
 Q.  Four Top 15 finishes in your last six starts.  What's clicked in the game?  
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: It's about keep believing, keep practicing hard and keep believing that you're good enough to be up there.  You know, I've been playing good and I've been having patience and been working very hard back home.  You know, believing in your team and keep it going.   
 Q.  It's an interesting round today, just seven pars for you in the 18 holes.  It was a bit of everything.  
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, a little bit of everything as you said.  I played great and I missed a few shots here and there, and it cost me a double-bogey and three bogeys.  But on the other hand, I'm playing great.  This golf course, if you don't play aggressive, it's going to take you, as well.  So I keep playing aggressive.  Smart-aggressive, as I want to call and keep making putts, and two chip-ins, keep making putts, and keep believing that I can do it and keep playing the way I'm doing.   
 Q.  Fantastic eagle on 9.  That was the highlight of the round?  
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: Yeah, I mean, I would say that yeah, you're right, on the putting, on the last was huge.  On 9 I hit a great drive, a beautiful 3-wood just run-off into the valley behind the green and I chipped it in.  I chipped in on No. 2, as well.   
That 3-putt on 16, it was painful, but as I said, two 3-putts, two chip-ins, it's the same as you made two two-putts and a chip-and-putt twice.  So yeah, I'm very happy with the way it went.   
 Q.  Ever since you won this event in 2008, it's not been great since.  You must feel you're due a good result around here.  
PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: I love this place.  I love great golf courses and this is probably the best, one of the top three, top four golf courses in the world.  So you have to love this place.  This place is a winning All-Star for me.  My career started here.  My winning career started here.  So the only way I can see this place is that I have to love it because this place gave me everything I have now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT