SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2017
Matt Insell
Taylor Manuel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LSU - 65, Ole Miss - 49   
THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Ole Miss.   
Coach, if you would start us off with an opening statement, please.   
COACH INSELL: You know, it's been an up-and-down season for us.  Hated that it ended tonight in the first round of the SEC tournament or second round of the SEC tournament, tonight against an LSU team.  LSU played extremely well in the second half and won the basketball game there against us.   
I'm real proud of our team.  The steps we've taken this year off of a season last year, that was not very good, to bounce back and to be 17-13 right now, be eligible for post-season play.  Obviously we'll be in the WNIT.  Proud of our team players, proud of Taylor Manuel here.  It was a good night tonight.  Challenged her to be good from the first day she's been here to be special.  She's done that more times than not.  I'm real proud of her, the way she's played.   
We'll be better.  We'll take a couple days off, go home, be a better basketball team.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Taylor, what worked tonight?  You were really on.  What was fueling your fire?  
TAYLOR MANUEL: I'd say, honestly, I'm a senior.  I don't have much time left.  I know that I have three other seniors on my team.   
I feel like we want to go out the best way we can.  I was just giving it everything I could.  My teammates found me when I was open.  Just going out with a lot of power.   
My coach made an emphasis getting the ball up high on the backboard, going up with power.  I focused on that tonight, was pretty successful.   
 Q.  So the momentum kind of shifted a little bit.  What happened in that second half?  
TAYLOR MANUEL: Well, they ended the first half with a run.  That gave them a little bit of momentum going into the second half.  I think they just came out, and they're a great team.  They came out, pushed the ball.   
I feel like their chemistry was perfect tonight.  We didn't rotate at certain times when we were supposed to.  So our defense is what fuels us.  At times when our defense isn't exactly how it needs to be, our momentum is slowed down at times.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT