HONDA CLASSIC
March 20, 2021
Aaron Wise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Anytime you shoot two 64s in a row it's going to be really hard to put up a round like the following day.  How do you feel after today?
 AARON WISE:   Yeah, it was a rough day.  It started off solid.  I think I was 2-under through a few holes and it was just playing really, really hard.  The forecast was for 10 to 15 and it was a lot more than that.  So I honestly felt like I played well.  The only thing I didn't do well was manage the wind.  Sometimes, like, certain putts I felt like all day I had putts that were breaking one way, but the wind was completely the other way and I couldn't quite figure out how much the wind was affecting them.
 And then I felt like I hit it great with my irons and just not so good off the tee.  I was playing from out of position a lot, so it added up to a big number, but luckily with how I played those first two days I'm still in it and still have a chance tomorrow.
 Q. What does it say about you as a player and where you're at with, you still seem to have a really positive mentality and being able to come out here and answer these questions after a round like today.
 AARON WISE:   Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, you have to have that kind of mentality if you're going to be a golfer.  So you're going to have tough days, you're going to have hard times, but at the end of the day you just got to look at the bright side and I still have one more round to go out there and get done what I came here to do.
 Q. Based on what you saw in your game today, I know you said that you felt like you played well, is there anything in particular that you're going to be focusing on as you go into the final round tomorrow?
 AARON WISE:   No, I mean, I don't know exactly what the forecast is for tomorrow, but if it's anything like today, at least I have all the experience that I gained on some of those putts and some of those shots to lean back on tomorrow.  So overall, I didn't feel like I did anything that bad.  It's more just coming out, being maybe a little bit more focused and then using what I got from experience to my advantage tomorrow.
 Q. You're down three shots, just how do you handle that type of situation?
 AARON WISE:   Yeah, haven't even thought about it, to be honest.  I went out there and wanted to just be comfortable, calm, and kind of go do my thing and I did that.  I just ran into a really hard golf course and I might have been a little bit off my game.  So overall, no shock, nothing like that.  It's just a matter of going back home, resting tonight, and coming out focused for tomorrow's round.
 Q. Did being put on the clock affect you at all?
 AARON WISE:   No.  I mean, I didn't think it was necessarily a fair thing that happened, but it happened and it is what it is.  So we'll move on from there.
 Q. As a Jupiter resident, when did you move down here and where do you live down here?
 AARON WISE:   I moved down here maybe last August or so.  And I live up in Jupiter and practice at Medalist, and it's been a really good move for me and I love it down here.
 Q. What was the most difficult part of the challenge today?
 AARON WISE:   The wind.  It was a completely different direction, so I guess making all those adjustments on the fly and stuff like that was a little bit tough, but I think this wind just makes this golf course play a lot harder, like the par-3s, 15 and 17, are both into the wind, 18's straight into the wind, and some of the necessarily the easier holes are downwind, but that really doesn't help you so much.  So I think this wind was just a lot tougher and I need to come out prepared for it tomorrow.
 Q. Given the way the wind is in the last four holes here, what do you see as the potential for a wild finish tomorrow?
 AARON WISE:   A hundred percent.  Anything can happen coming down the stretch here in general and especially with the holes playing all back into the wind it makes it that much tougher.  So, again, like I said, it's just coming out focused and if you're in the mix you're going to have a chance coming down the stretch because anything can happen.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT