WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2019
Aaron Wise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Inaudible) were there any kind of nerves when you teed off?  
AARON WISE: A little bit.  The first couple of holes.  The first hole is always where I'm most nervous.  I'm never kind of nervous coming down the stretch.  I'm always nervous starting the round, because there's a lot of uncertainties.  And I got off to a really bad start but luckily in match play you're still 2-down through 2, and I knew I could come back from that.  It wasn't like the world was over.   
 Q.  Were you a little more nervous because it was Tiger or same level?  
AARON WISE: You know, honestly it was about the same.  It was fine.  It gets a little hectic more because we got so behind because of the rulings we had on 1.  That kind of stressed me out more than anything.  But we caught up.  We waited a lot of the day.   
 Q.  What was it like playing with him for the first time?  
AARON WISE: Fun.  We're both pretty quiet, reserved and do our own thing but he's really relatable, easy to get along with.  I really respect what he's done in the game, and it was pretty cool to be able to watch him compete today and be alongside of him.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) has he ever spoken to you about him?  
AARON WISE: You know, off and on.  I mean, little bits here and there.  I know they keep up, but they haven't hung out for a long time.  He filled me in.  It's Tiger, he's awesome and he's a good dude.  And I knew it was going to be a tough match today.  I don't think either of us played as good as we wanted to, but he played a little bit better than me and got the win.   
 Q.  Have you met Tiger before?  
AARON WISE: I've met him.  We've hung out in the trailer and the fitness trailers and stuff like that.  I never got to play with him.  I played before him, after him.  And pretty cool to get in his group today, be able to play him, especially in match play, where it's me against him.  And it was a fun experience.   
 Q.  What was your reaction?  
AARON WISE: I was excited.  I love match play.  It's one of my favorite types of golf.  I did really well in NCAA's and stuff like that.  I always grew up -- I love like money games at home.  I love just competing when it's just me and someone in my group and you're eye to eye playing him.  It was a lot of fun to be able to compete against him today.   
 Q.  Were there any more challenges with the crowd moving when you're trying to do something?  
AARON WISE: Yes, but playing with Phil it's kind of same-ish level.  I played with him quite a few times in Southern California, where he draws a huge crowd.  Like I said, I've played before him and after him.  I knew kind of what it was going to be, and it was pretty much what I expected.   
You have to back off a few times but it's not the end of the world.   
 Q.  Is there one hole you wish you could have had back or one key moment that you wish you could replay?  
AARON WISE: Overall I wish I could have gotten off to a better start.  I got off to a pretty sour start, put myself in a hole early.  I fought back.  I got to 1-up at one point in the match, had it going.  And it was just off and on.  I hit a great -- I thought it was a great wedge shot there on 13.  And the wind was supposed to be about 2:00 and it switched about 12:30 and just stood up and spun back in the water.  That was a big momentum change for the match, if I had to put it on one point.   
 Q.  Was there something about this course that really fits your game, especially after this first round?  
AARON WISE: Yeah, you know, it's firm and fast.  And I tend to play really well on courses that are firm and fast.  I love fast greens, and these are up there with some of the quickest we play on Tour.  I do think it's a good fit.  It's windy, it's playing pretty tough.  I like my chances, I'm going to go grind it out, hopefully play two good matches, and if I win both of them see where I stand.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT