HONDA CLASSIC
March 19, 2021
Aaron Wise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 138 feet of putts, 230 total for two days.  That is crazy numbers, and you said it's a new putter.  Is it the equipment or is it the operator?
 AARON WISE:   It's both.  We have been working on things for awhile and the stroke felt really good.  Obviously the putter change might have just clicked it into the next gear.  But overall my technique's felt good for awhile.  It was just finding a putter that suited my eye and I felt comfortable with and so far it's been working great.
 Q. And that helps the whole game, that permeates throughout the whole game.  Two eagles, five birdies.  The two eagles, pretty special.
 AARON WISE:   Yeah, they were really special.  18, with it down wind, I've been able to take advantage over the last couple days.  I hit 7-iron into there today.  When the wind switches tomorrow it will be a 2-iron or 3-wood.  So, happy to get that one.  And then made a bomb on 3.  So that's a little bit of luck, so you take it and roll with it.
 Q. A long way to go, as you know, and on this golf course you have to remain patient, don't you?
 AARON WISE:   A hundred percent.  It's two great rounds of golf and I love that and I love that I'm playing good, but like you said, this place can get to you pretty quick and there's a lot of golf left ahead and a lot of trouble out there.  So you're just still going to have to play smart golf, and like I said, the weather, the wind completely switches, it gets a lot colder, so it's going to play really different this weekend.
 Q. What are you doing over the past two days that seems to really be clicking in your game?
 AARON WISE:   Just playing really well.  I've been playing well coming in, but hadn't quite seen the really good scores.  It's all kind of just clicked into place and I had two amazing days where I really didn't do anything bad, so I can't complain.
 Q. You had that early frustration on 16, then you bounce back with the birdie, eagle on 17, 18.  How important is that for your momentum?
 AARON WISE:   Yeah, really important.  16 is just a bad tee ball.  I hit it in the bunker and just was kind of out of position the whole hole.
 But to go on and birdie 17, eagle 18, kind of makes it easy to forget about it and move on with your round and I thought that was huge to me going and having a great front nine.
 Q. The approach on 4, you end up getting close enough to have a really easy putt for birdie.  Can you walk us through the approach shot there?
 AARON WISE:   Yeah, I had about 100 yards and it was into the wind out of the right.  And luckily I was on a little bit of a down slope, so it made it real easy to kind of flight it, keep it under the wind.  Hit a great shot in there to about 10 feet right and then it just spun down there with the slope to tap-in range, so that was a good shot.
 Q. What are you taking from these last two rounds to hopefully help you through the weekend?
 AARON WISE:   Just a lot of confidence.  There's a lot of golf ahead and the conditions are going to totally change, the wind's going to switch.  And so the most important thing I can take from the first two rounds is just a bunch of confidence, knowing I'm playing well and just go ahead and stay patient and let whatever's going to happen, happen this weekend.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT