HONDA CLASSIC
March 18, 2021
Aaron Wise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. You shoot 64 and yet you're three back.  What kind of feeling is that?
 AARON WISE:   You know, I felt like I played amazing today.  The first few holes were pretty easy because there was no wind, but once we made the turn and got to the back nine, it was playing incredibly hard.  For Matt to shoot 9-under, that's an amazing round, but I felt like I played one, too, and there's still some more golf left, so hopefully I can keep going in this tournament.
 Q. What worked for you so well today?
 AARON WISE:   Kind of everything.  I hit it pretty well.  When I missed greens I think I got them all up-and-down, and then I made a bunch of putts from like 10, 15 feet which you just have to do on a windy day because you're not going to be able to hit them in there closer than that.  If you're going to make some birdies and whatnot, you're going to have to make some putts.
 Q. What were the two or three toughest shots of the day for you?
 AARON WISE:   Well, 15 and 17 are obvious ones just because those are really hard par-3s, both of which you have to start your ball over the water and then the wind brings it back in.  10 is playing really hard into the wind, and 11 is a really brutal hole into the wind, as well.  There's a lot of good ones on the back side that have your attention for sure.
 Q. Was there one moment that really kind of got your round kick-started?
 AARON WISE:   Yeah, probably the chip-in on 2.  Hit a couple great shots, made a great birdie on 1, went to 2, missed it in the bunker, missed it right, which really isn't a good miss, was able to make the chip, and I think that got everything going today and I was able to take it from there.
 Q. We always talk about the wind, the wind, the wind here.  How tough is that to not completely psych yourself out and not get so swallowed up by thinking about what's going to happen from one minute to the next?
 AARON WISE:   A hundred percent, and especially around a golf course like this, I think it's just something you have to embrace.  If you don't, I think you're in for a long day.  I knew I would get a little bit of a break in the morning but knew it was going to play really hard from there on in, and you've got to sort of embrace that and pick your targets and know par is a good score on a lot of these holes.
 Q. Is there anything that you can say that you saw this coming?  Can you say that you knew good play was coming today?
 AARON WISE:   You know, my game felt good for a while.  It's felt good the last few weeks that I've been playing, and sometimes you just get in those rhythms where you're just kind of waiting for that one round to spark something or waiting for a shot that even clicks you into gear.  I knew that my game was in a good spot, it's just a matter of when are the really good scores going to come, and hopefully this is a start to that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT