MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Aaron Wise
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What was working for you so well out there?  
AARON WISE: You know, just hit it really well. My swing has been kind of off the last two days and I put in some great work with my coach and it kind of showed today.   
I felt good, I flushed a, what did I have 9‑iron into the first hole there and from then on I just felt like I was good. So when I worked my way into the middle of the round I could actually start playing more aggressive now, I've been able to the last couple days.  
   
 Q. Is that kind of the key of getting off to that good start the swing when you start feeling that way that aggression can come out a little bit?  
AARON WISE: That was a big key for today. Because like I said to my caddie, this is the one course a year we play where you can actually play too conservative and it bites you. You can get into some spots on these greens where there's no chance you can 2‑putt. So it kind of forces you to play aggressive when you have to and to feel like I was on my game with my irons and my swing is where it needed to be was a great feeling to attack some of those pins.  
   
 Q. Some lower scores early here, is there a reason you saw out there why there might be some lower scores?  
AARON WISE: It's still soft. I don't know if they got any rain overnight or not, but it was soft. The greens actually were sped up pretty good and they were rolling probably 12, 13, pretty quick, but overall it was soft so, we were still able to attack and get at some of those pins that were tucked.   
   
 Q. Do you see some lower scores here in the afternoon, if the conditions stay right?  
AARON WISE: Yeah, you know the cloud cover is kind of burning off, so it might firm up just a little bit. But obviously all those guys are playing amazing so I'm sure they will go out there and have the same opportunity to attack that I did and shoot a low number.   
   
 Q. And how was your first Masters been so far?  
AARON WISE: Yeah, it's been amazing. It's been everything everyone talked about and even though I'm trying to really focus and play good golf, I'm also trying to soak in that and all the memories.  
And just having the crowd so close to you, no one's on their phones, everyone's paying attention, the roars are loud, and it's been pretty amazing.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT