CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2016
Trey Marshall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TREY MARSHALL: I never really thought about the bowl game or what bowl game we'd be going to.
Q. Do you feel like you have a little bit of an advantage playing in the stadium beforehand?
TREY MARSHALL: An advantage?  A little bit, I guess, because we know what the stadium looks like and how the grass is.
Q. What kind of impact do you think Ermon Lane being out will have for your guys in the secondary?
TREY MARSHALL: I mean, it's a big impact losing a veteran like him because he's a junior, but like how it's been all year, when one is down, it's the next man up.
Q. Are you just kind of used to having to step up and replace somebody at this point?
TREY MARSHALL: Yeah, it seems like every year a DB gets hurt.
Q. Does it help that you've been through the drill a few times?  Does that make it easier to replace him?
TREY MARSHALL: Not really.  Not necessarily making it any easier, but like I said, we all prepare the same way, so it ain't such a big deal.
Q. How difficult was it to see Derwin go down and go down that early?  You're all teammates and support each other.  How difficult was that moment?
TREY MARSHALL: I hated it for him because we've been with each other since about -- he saw me in high school my junior year, so for him to get hurt, it hurt me.  I didn't want to see that happen.
Q. Was there a guy like a senior or an upperclassman that helped rally from a leadership standpoint, talking to you guys about moving on?
TREY MARSHALL: Yeah, it all started with Coach Kelly, but me, Quez, we talked to the guys and we just brought everybody along.  Whatever something wasn't looking good or wasn't looking great.
Q. What was that like in the meeting room?  Did you guys just have an open meeting with the rest of the secondary and talk about it?
TREY MARSHALL: No, I talked to the safeties, knowing that we still had Nate at that time and AJ, so we just started -- me and Nate just started with AJ and bringing him along and just improving on his game.
Q. How have you seen AJ progress?  Obviously the Louisville game was very difficult, of course, but then from there, how did he kind of improve and learn to get a grasp of the defense?
TREY MARSHALL: Louisville was his first start, so he can always go up from there, and he's just gotten better all year, every game.  He had a great game against NC State.  His actions speak for itself.
Q. I've watched your Showtime the entire year and I've absolutely loved it.  What was it like as a player to be around that environment where there's cameras everywhere you turn?
TREY MARSHALL: Man, it's different, but we're just doing what we always do.  We just be ourselves.
Q. Is it distracting at all?
TREY MARSHALL: Distracting, no, not really, not to me.
Q. What was it like just to watch it back?
TREY MARSHALL: I actually ain't watched all the episodes yet, but when I watch it, I'm pretty sure it's going to be crazy.  I watched like the first two, three episodes, and just seeing myself on there and all my teammates, it's so weird.
Q. You must be ripping each other afterwards, like man, you said that?
TREY MARSHALL: Yeah.  One of the funniest scenes, Derwin and Bobo got into it at practice.  That was the funniest scene.
Q. Why was that?
TREY MARSHALL: Just how they made it look on like Showtime, made it look like it was this big fight, but it really wasn't.
Q. Threw some drama into things?
TREY MARSHALL: Yeah.
Q. I want to ask you about DeMarcus Walker a little bit.  From your perspective, what does he do that makes him as hard to stop as he is?
TREY MARSHALL: DeMarcus is probably the hardest working guy on our team, going all the way back from winter workouts.  He probably finished in first every rep.
Q. Sounds like that was something that he maybe after last year decided he was going to get a little more serious about that type of stuff.  Do you see a change in him, not that he was not working hard in the past, but kicked it up a notch on two?
TREY MARSHALL: Yeah, that's exactly what he did.  He took it to another level to take his game to another level.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT