U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Shuai Ming (Ben) Wong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was kind of like a championship-type of match; two guys who've been around the block a few times.
BEN WONG: Yeah.
Q. Kind of a heavyweight title match.
BEN WONG: Yeah.  I mean, to us, I felt like to me it was just like a friendly match because Cole and I are such good buddies.
We have competed a lot against each other.  Obviously he won the four ball this year and I won it last year, so that was pretty cool, both having a USGA title under our belt.
So going into this, I mean, I knew that Cole was going to bring his game and I needed to bring mine to win.
So, yeah, I mean, I expected just a good fight all the way until the end, which it kind of was.  It was just a grind out there.
Q. Got to 15 and hit it in there about five feet.  What club did you hit off the tee?
BEN WONG: 15?
Q. The par-3.
BEN WONG: Oh, 15 I hit like an 8-iron off the tee.  Hit it really good and Cole just made a really clutch putt on 14 to tie the hole and to remain 2-up.
You know, he hit not that great of an iron shot into the green at the bunker, so I just kind of took advantage of that and hit it up close; gave him a little bit of pressure.
Q. Actually did pretty well on the par-3s on the inward nine to keep yourself in there.
BEN WONG: Yeah.
Q. You were hitting your irons well today?
BEN WONG: Yeah, I mean, I've been hitting my irons well so just a lot of confidence in them, but didn't really keep it on the fairway today.
On the par-3s when I had a chance I was just looking at the pin and trying to attack as much as possible.
Q. Was that the difference today, you weren't keeping the ball in the fairway off the tee?
BEN WONG: Yeah, I think that was the difference.
Q. And then you get to 16 and he makes a pretty long putt on you.  What was your mindset when you saw that putt going in?
BEN WONG: I was prepared for that to go in, and I told myself, No matter what, I'm just going to make the putt.  Doesn't matter if he runs it six feet by or makes it, I'm still going to make the putt.
Hit a really good putt.  I have to give credit to myself.  Unfortunately didn't go in.
Q. Then the whole experience this week, obviously you've played in this championship five times, but this is the first time you got to the quarterfinals.  What are you going to take from all this?
BEN WONG: You know, it's pretty special this week being at Baltusrol and being my fifth time and having my family here and all that.
So, I mean, I've enjoyed every moment of it, even though my journey stopped short at the quarterfinals.  It's the furthest I've been.  I've had a couple really good matches, and I feel like after this tournament I've gained a lot of confidence in my ability.
You know, just all around really special.  Obviously I really wanted to win, but another learning experience for me.
Q. Obviously to have college next month.
BEN WONG: Yeah.
Q. Do you think this sets you up for having a good freshman season at SMU?
BEN WONG: Definitely.  I mean, it's a championship -- it's a USGA Championship, so it's really probably the biggest test of junior golf.  Going into college I'm pretty excited.  I really wanted to join my buddy Noah Goodwin as a U.S. Junior Champion, but it stopped short of that.  Still, been a great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT