U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Shuai Ming (Ben) Wong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you feel about this match, especially after having two close ones and going out there and dominating this whole one?  
BEN WONG: Before this match like I knew who I was up against, Jacob, and we played a lot of junior golf together.  I knew I had to bring my game to be able to compete against him.   
He's playing well.  He's a good buddy of mine so I know his game pretty well.  So going in like I kind of fixed my putting a little bit because I didn't really putt well the past two rounds.   
Right before I went off I had kind of like a mental picture for putting, a little better feel, a lot of confidence in it.  So I went out there and I was aggressive, as I said, early on.  With both matches I was being aggressive, but this one in particular.  I was just eyeing the flag.   
I played in the morning so I knew like all the slopes and where everything was breaking.  Obviously had a good idea on what I had to do, so I think that was the big difference.   
 Q.  And then coming into today, like you said, it's a long day.  When you get to the end is it a lot more mental side?  
BEN WONG: Yep, yep.   
 Q.  And then you had a run of six holes in a row you won?  
BEN WONG: Yeah.  I think I won two holes and then like a gap and then won six holes in a row.   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
BEN WONG: So you want me to talk about mental side of things?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
BEN WONG: So basically like after I won the two holes I just told myself just to keep the pedal to the metal.  Just keep pounding them down, keep flag hunting, doing what I'm doing, because I'm obviously doing it good.   
After I went 2- to, 3-up I made a couple putts and I was confident in my putter, so I knew anything inside of 15 feet I had a good run at.   
Basically I just looked at flags and I hit good shots.  Once I was like 4- or 5-up I was like, Wow, I'm really this far up.  I respect Jacob as an opponent and I know in match play anything can happen, so my mindset was just to keep winning holes and keep doing what I'm doing.  This match isn't over yet until it's really over.   
So that was my mindset all the way until the last putt.   
 Q.  Then on 8, eagle?  Was it conceded?  
BEN WONG: No.  I made the putt.  Jacob was like in the left side.  He chipped it up to about ten or twelve feet, and I had a slider down left to right.   
I had like a six-footer kind of on the same line in the morning so knew what it was going to do.  Just hit a great putt.   
 Q.  Going into tomorrow, round of 8, what's your mindset?  
BEN WONG: Same thing:  stay aggressive, be myself.   
 Q.  How far was your eagle putt?  
BEN WONG: Like 20 feet down the hill.   
 Q.  How far did you have in?  
BEN WONG: 175.  Yeah, really good drive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT