NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 7, 2011
Manny Malhotra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Manny. 
 MANNY MALHOTRA: It's the danger of playoff hockey. Rivalries and animosity grows. That's the effect of being in the playoffs. You see a lot more hostility towards one another. But we've cleaned that up and we realize where our focus needs to be now. 

 Q. You're in a unique position watching this team this year. Losing Rome, losing that game, how mentally prepared do you think these guys are to right the ship? 
 MANNY MALHOTRA: I've seen it from the outside. I've been in the room. But I know the ability we have to respond to certain situations. Losing Rome compounded with losing last night's game, we're, again, moving forward, focused on making sure we do the right things to give ourselves the best possible chance to win tomorrow.

 Q. Anything you learned from the Chicago series, losing Game 4 badly? 
 MANNY MALHOTRA: Our mentality is going to be the same whether we win or lose a game. I think we've done a great job throughout the entire playoffs. We've never been too high, we've never been too low on ourselves. 
 Today doesn't change the mood in the room. It's good. It's where it needs to be. I like where our focus level's at. 

 Q. (Question about ability to play in a Stanley Cup final.) 
 MANNY MALHOTRA: It's devastating to be so close, to be playing in your dream, now to have it taken away. It obviously hurts a lot. 
 But that being said, he was a huge part of our team. His attitude, his mentality, his focus, just being around the guys is going to help us a lot. Even though he won't be able to play, he's definitely going to be a big part, have a big impact on this team. 

 Q. Do you think it was too stiff? 
 MANNY MALHOTRA: I think as a group we don't agree with the suspension. I'll leave it at that. 

 Q. Burrows' bite, Rome's hit, people are making you out to be the bad guys. How comfortable is this team with being the villains in this series? 
 MANNY MALHOTRA: I don't think we put too much stock into what people have thought of us in terms of good or bad guys. I think all year we've done a great job of keeping things internal. The greatest pressures that we've had all year and the greatest pressures we've seen have come from within our room, the challenges we put on ourselves, the peer pressure we put on ourselves. 
 We understand there's going to be a lot of hoopla around the team, whatever people want to call us. The biggest thing that matters is what we're saying in the room. 

 Q. Can that be a rallying point if the hockey world is against you? 
 MANNY MALHOTRA: I think our biggest rallying cry, again, comes from inside our room. It's setting out a goal at the beginning of the year, continuing to stay on that plan is our focus. It's not about winning in spite of somebody or in spite of certain people. Right now it's about playing for ourselves and playing for each other. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT