U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Scott Dunlap
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Scott Dunlap had a round of 70.   Q.  Problem on 5.  SCOTT DUNLAP: Yeah.   Q.  What happened?  SCOTT DUNLAP: Missed a [indiscernible] and then let the air out and then actually started feeling tired pretty much from the heat yesterday and not sleeping so good last night, you know.  It would have been interesting.  If I hadn't missed that one, maybe there would have been more energy from there to the house. Then I started driving in the right rough.  Could tell the legs weren't underneath me.  So from the right rough, bogeys are going to happen.  Luckily made a late birdie.  So even par, I guess it's never bad.  But yeah, the taste of something better was certainly there.   Q.  You said you missed a [indiscernible].  Was that the par 5?  SCOTT DUNLAP: Yeah, putted it straight uphill, three-footer, kind of weeded it a little bit, lost the pace.   Q.  Got under your skin a little?  Maybe that was part of being tired right there?  SCOTT DUNLAP: Yeah, the miss led to feeling the tired, yeah.  The tired was waiting to rear its ugly head.  That just expedited the process, I'm afraid.   Q.  Hi, Scott.  Hard to hang on to a score here too.  I mean, if you start hitting it, it's positive.  SCOTT DUNLAP: That's what you tell yourself.  Obviously, I've done a lot of good and wish I hadn't played the last few holes at 3 over par because I'd given myself some room, still in good shape.  I'm sure I'll sleep better tonight.  Hopefully feel better tomorrow.   Q.  Can you talk about the four birdies in a row which will maybe help you sleep better.  SCOTT DUNLAP: For sure.  I just missed carrying the bunker at 13 by like a foot.  That ended up leading to a bogey.  If that gets down there, I'm hitting a 7 or 8 iron to the green and certainly not make bogey probably.  I was 1 over at the time, playing the par 5, rolled in a nice one.   Q.  How far?  SCOTT DUNLAP: Probably 12, 14 feet.  The tee's up on 16 today, so I hit 3 wood, got it down to the fairway, beautiful 8 iron to about 6, 8 feet, knocked that one in.  Now you got 17, just hoping to make a 3.  Throttle a 4 iron, runs up there to about 8 foot, make that one.  Driving the right rough on 18, beautiful 7 iron that jumps out perfect, about 30 feet left of the hole, just trying to putt it up there.  Hit a putt that I thought for sure was going to break off, but it held its line and went in.  I thought okay, jeez, okay, for sure.  And really not birdieing on 1 was kind of the first thing that might have let the air out.  Okay.  Then made a good shot at 2, great shot at 3, and playing 4.  So that was a distant memory when I missed that one at 5.   Q.  [No microsphone].  SCOTT DUNLAP: Absolutely, no doubt.   Q.  Scott, this 18th hole here, does it just fit sort of the classic finishing tough 4 par mode?  Can you describe that hole?  SCOTT DUNLAP: First of all, it's long enough.  It's not brutal in its length, but it's a really awkward angle.  They narrowed the fairway up so you've got to go over, like, the middle bunker and that just doesn't seem right.  You feel like you should be aiming out there inside the tree.  That's way too far right. The wind's a little bit off to the left.  If that's the way it's going to be, I'm going to go with a 3 wood off that tee just so it can shape.  That means one club more.  It's a hot 3 wood luckily.  Had a nice drive.  I've been in that first cut both days, luckily had lies I could deal with. Yeah, I mean, then it depends on the lie.  Interestingly, I don't know if it was by design, it's not the worst rough on the course over there on the right.  Probably because it's shaded from the tree.  But also, the USGA, like at Pebble, they never grow the rough bad over on the right so you want to chance a flyer and try to hit it over the ravine.  I wonder if they're thinking that too.  If you lie, I think I can make it, right into the hazard.  Luckily I haven't done that. But it's a great finishing hole.  Put it in the fairway, 7 iron in your hand, 3 is maybe an offer.  From the right rough in the hazard, and you make 6.  It's fantastic.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT