U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2014
Scott Dunlap
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tough finish.SCOTT DUNLAP: Yeah.Q. What happened out there today?SCOTT DUNLAP: Last day of a major, early on, you know, if I was missing, I was missing by fractions and I missed the third fairway by a yard.  I hit it in there to eight foot in the hole before, and I didn't get that one to go.  I bogeyed that one. That doggone fourth hole, that wind's been off the left all week.  You can't feel it.  Set it out middle of the green, blows off the green.  There is another bogey in the day where I need to make some five-, six-footers to save pars and didn't.  Got on the bogey train. You know, with birdies at 10 and 11, I'm kind of happy with things, and then got right in between the two wedges on a par-5, got greedy, tried the lob wedge, spun it down, didn't get it up.  There is a double. Kind of wasted all my good work.  If I made 5 there probably would have shot 3-over -- what I did shoot?  6-over?  So 4-over, back to level instead of 2-over. Yeah, I mean, the tournament was gone by the sixth hole, but I could have salvaged a little better than I did.Q. Quick look back.  Pleased with the week?SCOTT DUNLAP: Yeah, absolutely.  You know, you always know it's going to be tough that last day.  Shortcomings and what have you will come out.  But that was what was -- well, when I look back at it, I just wasn't off that much.  I didn't miss play shots.  It's just that hard. You have got to be better than pretty good, and that's what you want.  That's exactly what you want.  You know it going in.  That's where the putter needs to save you and it didn't.  Every chance I had to make a bogey, I did. I knew, you know, you're going to hit good shots, maybe you'll make a birdie or two.  I wasn't on top of the conditions early on as I needed to be.Q. What about the setup for today?  What do you think about that?SCOTT DUNLAP: It's awesome, perfect.  Tougher, only because, you know, if this was Wednesday and a practice round, no one would say anything. But it's always, you know, maybe a little bit less water or whatever.  You know, they moved one of the par-3s back, moved the other one up.  You got the little par-4 today.  It's not like, oh, God, you can't break 75. But it is what you want, which is really a test, and all these majors, it's the same thing.  There's two guys basically that play, that don't capitulate.  They just are there, and that's what you've got.  Everybody else just kind of limps in, trying to salvage the week.  I was one of the limpers today.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT