U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2014
Scott Dunlap
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What worked well for you today?  Why were you able to play so well?SCOTT DUNLAP: Seemed to pick up where I left off yesterday, yesterday being my first practice round and real round around the golf course.  So, felt a little more comfortable.  But, once again stayed out of the rough which is mandatory.  It's not even optional and no dropped shot.  Only made one bogey yesterday.  Couldn't be happier.Q. How well does this set you up for the weekend?SCOTT DUNLAP: Very well.  I mean, you know, if my golf somewhat resembles the next two days what it looked like the past two days, we'll have a shot.  That will be the hard part.  Be fun to be there in the mix and see how we do.Q. How tough have the conditions been?SCOTT DUNLAP: "Toughish".  It's really blowing.  It's blowing a bit, just enough where you started riding the ball into the wind into the rough you'll have a hard time scoring.  If you keep the ball in the fairway you've got a good chance.  As hot as it is you can't get the greens super, super hard and fast so they'll receive shots.  You got a chance if you play from the fairway.Q. This has to give you a lot of confidence heading into the weekend, doesn't it?SCOTT DUNLAP: Yeah.  My golf has been some and some this year.  Week to week I never know which guy is going to show up.  So, for two days the right one is here this week so far so hopefully he'll stick around for the weekend.Q. The formula going in was everyone perceived was if you hit the fairway you got a chance here.  You're hitting the fairways but you're also hitting the greens. Is that why you have the score you have right now?SCOTT DUNLAP: That's always been the strength of my game.  If I'm not going to hit iron shots that are seeking pins and hit a few shots in there close, then I'm going to struggle.  That's the strength of my game. I've done that -- I've also putted very well.  I haven't hit it super, super close to the hole.  Yeah, from the fairway, you can spin the ball, got an iron in your hand, there's chances to make some birdies. I still gotten the ball up and down a couple times this week where usually that's maybe not my strong suit.  So, that's been kind of fun, too, to hold the rounds together, hence the only one bogey.Q. With the wind expected to blow this afternoon, you think you're going to be right near the lead when this is all over?SCOTT DUNLAP: You know, as solid as this golf course is, that's what so neat about it.  It's not like if it laid down everybody start shooting 65s. It's hard.  It's always been hard.  The wind makes it harder.  So, I can rest comfortably knowing I done good work for two days.  However that shakes out before the tee times tomorrow, one would imagine it will still be okay at the end of the day if not really good


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT