DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 4, 1999
Scott Dunlap
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT DUNLAP:   Obviously the best of it this afternoon with the wind dying down.  I guess the guys had pretty windy conditions.  I could tell since only 4-under was leading when we got started.  Kind of eased in my round nothing exciting early, but made a couple birdies late in the front 9 and then settled down, felt good about what I was doing and then same sort of thing, didn't really get off to a great start on the back 9 just kind of a bit of a lull then a couple good putts coming in.  So, all and all, can't complain.

SCOTT DUNLAP:   7 was about a 35-footer from the front of the green.  Hit 7-iron.  8, drive, 3-iron, two putts from probably 20 feet.  No. 9, 8-iron, probably about 25 feet.  14, 6-iron, probably another 40-footer.  No. 15, 8-iron to about eight feet.

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Sandwedge about ten feet.

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Yeah, I drove it through the left bunker into the rough.  I thought I hit a really good second shot that might just carry the bunker and get up there, but it went up in the front bunker just miles from the pin, hit good bunker shot out to about ten feet, missed it so, I was looking five in the face after the tee shot.


Q.  Somebody said they thought you were qualified for the Third World Tournament this year?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Yeah, that is the case.  I went to South Africa -- since Pebble Beach was the only tournament I was going to get in on the West Coast, I go down there to play quite a bit over the last few years, and I knew I had got to the British Open as well, which I knew was one of the good things that good play got you, I didn't know about the World Championship event.  Two events down there, co-sanctioned events, pretty worthwhile place to play if I was only going to play one tournament out west, it is a long way -- yeah, kind of made my decision easy.


Q.  You were second on that?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Yeah, David Frost won the order of merit.


Q.  Had you played over there before?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Bunch of times, like eight the last ten years, only years I missed were the last two times I was on the PGA TOUR in '96 and '97.


Q.  What months were you down there?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Just six weeks right from the first of  the year got back like the 15th of February.


Q.  So how many tournaments would that have been?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   I played five.  There were six.  I didn't play the last one.  I was luckily safe from being caught for a second, so, came on home.


Q.  What was your best finish?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Down there?


Q.  Yeah.

SCOTT DUNLAP:   I won one and finished second in another.


Q.  Which one did you win?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Called the Dimension Data and it is Sun City where they play the Million Dollars.  They use both courses there.


Q.  Which one did you come in second?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   That's was the S.A. in Capetown.


Q.  Pretty lucrative event to be in at the end of the year, a lot of dough?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   That will work, yeah, not to mention official money -- I am a member of both Tours, here and the European Tour, so, the money counts everywhere, so, hopefully that week won't mean anything in terms of playing privileges anywhere, but if it does, it is nice to have it there.


Q.  Why did you move to Alpharetta, last year?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Most of my friends, college and high school live up in the Atlanta area, just seems like the thing to do if you are young professional, you move to Atlanta, if you live in the southeast.


Q.  Where do you live up there?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   About a mile north of the Atlanta Club.


Q.  Do you play any one course?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Sugarloaf, the TPC facility.


Q.  All things being equal, would you just prefer to play all your golf in the U.S.?  Is it out of necessity to play in South Africa?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   No, I enjoy going overseas, yeah.  I would and the most fun I have had playing golf has been overseas. I have made a lot of good friends and at no time do I ever want to get rid of that part of my schedule.  It would be nice to only be doing that by choice, I mean, I have gone overseas because that is the only thing I have had.  I mean, you could always stay back and try and money qualified for the Nike Tour if you weren't an exempt player, but I have gotten overseas and got ten exemptions; maintained exempt status in these places and always look forward to going back.


Q.  Qualifying for the British last year?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Played in the last two.


Q.  I thought it was interesting, there are guys that are in there that don't want to go over and play; you were going over there not even knowing if you were going to make it?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   It is my favorite tournament in the world.  I am there any time I can board a plane and get across the pond.


Q.  Surprised at all that you were able to get in Doral --  given you could only get Pebble Beach in the west coast, this usually is a pretty deep field?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Exactly.  1996 I think my first year out here four guys from the school got in.  I mean, I knew that last year I think it was 39.  I had a better chance if I had played reasonably well last week and shoveled up which I didn't.  I am now dead last in the Qualifying School category, so, yeah, I was pretty fortunate to find myself with a tee time today.


Q.  When did you find out you were in?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Tuesday morning.  I was 6th alternate on Monday.  They must have been ringing off the hook at the TOUR pulling out because I couldn't believe it.  I called Tuesday morning to see if I moved up a spot or two and she said I was in.


Q.  You had to get down here very quick?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   I was already in West Palm Beach.  Honda next week, you know, figured I would at least get in the neighborhood.


Q.  Do you have friends in West Palm?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Yeah, Jay Townsend guy I play the European Tour and David Abell who manages Nick Price both live up there.  I stayed with David for a couple of nights.


Q.  You were down here for the week?

SCOTT DUNLAP:   Yeah, that is a little bit too far of a back and forth.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT