THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2019
Scott Dunlap
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you think of your performance out there today?  
SCOTT DUNLAP: Oh, I couldn't be happier.  I mean, it's been a funny year.  I haven't really played much golf.  Kind of taken what call a medical, just playing these few.  Coming here with no expectations.   
The few I've played, I've made the cuts, but I haven't been that good.  I always get so excited when I'm over here.  Obviously that must have been worth a couple three shots just through attitude.   
 Q.  How important is attitude on a links course, especially in a major like this?  
SCOTT DUNLAP: I love it.  It's my favourite golf.  I can't get over here fast enough last week to play some golf up in Scotland and have a great time with the guys.  I mean, I'm always just stoked to be here.  So that probably helps, when maybe a ball ends up in a bunker and you're not that happy about it.   
But luckily, today, it didn't happen, and that's how you shoot 3-under is not hit it in any bunkers today, much less any at all.   
 Q.  Your medical in the States, what has kept you on the sidelines this year?  
SCOTT DUNLAP: I've got this forearm thing.  It's a rare neurological thing to hit me after wrist surgery in the off-season, went well.  And my neurologist sees about six weird ones a year and attacked that muscle.  I didn't play golf from December 1 to about tax day.  It's starting to get stronger, but you can see it's atrophied and not quite fully back.  It's good enough for government work I guess, but it's starting to feel okay.  I just missed too much of the season.   
If I wasn't back by March, it didn't make much sense to carry on.  Play these, come back on and start next year.   
 Q.  Do you have a percentage of where your injury is?  
SCOTT DUNLAP: Golf-wise, it's 90, 95, but it's the muscle that enables you to do this and I can't turn my hand out.  There's a disability there.  Golf-wise, it's almost an afterthought.  I can feel a little bit, the arm is a little bit sluggish, but yeah, I mean, as long as I'm not trying to turn my hand to face you, among the other things I'm doing in life, it's doing okay.   
 Q.  Good round of 67 today.  Assessment of your play today?  
SCOTT DUNLAP: I couldn't be happier.  I didn't come with any expectations, but the ones I've been playing in, some of it's good and some of it's not so good.  You know if you can get rid of the nonsense and tidy it up a bit -- today was tidy.   
Kept the ball out of the bunkers and gave myself all sorts of good chances.  You know, I could have made a couple more but 67 around here, that's the stuff of dreams.   
 Q.  Was the key today to avoid bunkers?  
SCOTT DUNLAP: I think like on any links golf, like here, I got on Google Maps and counted 165.  I heard 180 but it's at least 165.   
Like any links golf, they are just one-shot penalties if you hit it in them, but if you keep it on the straight and narrow, you're going to do fine.  Today, I put the ball pretty much where I needed to and no dropped shots.   
 Q.  You like links golf.  I noticed you've had a few good rounds on a links course before.  
SCOTT DUNLAP: Yeah, like I said, ever since I came over in '93 and I had my head handed to me and I didn't know what I was doing.  And came back in '95, I was like, okay, I almost made that one, and then started making some of the British Opens and started playing a lot of extra golf up in Scotland on some of the fun golf courses -- sorry, The Open Championship, not the British Open.   
But I just think it's the funnest, fairest kind of golf in the world.  Of course, you don't get it much until you get to the periphery of Ireland, Scotland and England.  It's really the only place you find it in the world.  It's unique, but when you do get here and play it, it's my favourite.   
 Q.  Not many players under par.  Being 3-under, joint leader, it's very satisfying, is it?  
SCOTT DUNLAP: Absolutely.  Like I said I came with no expectations, and there's three more days, so I'll just take it a day at a time, but at this stage of my life and golfing career, you just enjoy those few days that you have the game under your thumb and not the other way around.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT