U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2015
Scott Dunlap
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Up next, Scott Dunlap, 2 under, 68.  4 under overall.SCOTT DUNLAP: Hello.  Good to be back.Q. Moving day, a good enough move?  Are you sitting okay, in your mind?SCOTT DUNLAP: It's just a logjam.  I mean, I don't know how many people are between 3 and 6.  I mean, I don't know if it's everyone that's actually on that board or if there's a whole 'nother board they're hiding.  Luckily, no one's made a big move, so yeah. The only trouble I seem to have gotten in is a couple drives in the right in the rough, and those are the only times I made a bogey.  Hopefully tidy that up tomorrow and go from there.Q. A little bit more of a deeper assessment of the game today?SCOTT DUNLAP: It was solid all day until 13, hung that -- such a tough tee shot.  Don't want to go in the left rough, but you also don't want to go in the right bunker.  So keep cheating the right bunker.  Drove it right on the par 5, 15.  Hack it out, leave yourself 180 yards, and that's all of a sudden a hard par. But other than shorted up and didn't do it on 16, another tough tee shot.  Actually got it over to the left and played that hole nicely.  Other than those two tee shots, I mean -- and right out of the box early, an easy 14, 15-footer up the hill for eagle on 4, didn't take it.  Then hit it to about five feet on the next hole, didn't make it.  So I was 2 under early, and that could have been a couple shots better. So yeah, other than that, I've got no complaints.Q. With the packed nature of the leaderboard, are you a scoreboard watcher?  Because that could impact whether you go or whether you don't when it's crunch time.SCOTT DUNLAP: Yeah.  I mean, I look when I know it's good news.  You're over par early, it's like, the scoreboard?  The heck with the scoreboard.  Playoffs?  Playoffs?  But, hey, yeah, if you're going good and certainly near the end, if something's on the line.  But they're out there.  I don't think it changes, oh, I'm a shot off or whatever.  You know the shots you've got to play and what you've got to do. But certainly, at the end of the day tomorrow, if things are going well, yeah, I think you want to know, not be oblivious.Q. Nice respite from the heat today, right?SCOTT DUNLAP: Goodness gracious.  I mean, I slept so badly Thursday night, and then it hit me yesterday during the round.  Last night, you know, I think I was comatose for about nine hours.  So that was great. I'm sure everyone, after their afternoon rounds, were just beat up.  There's just no way.  You can drink as much as you want, but it's going to take its toll.Q. What's the one thing you learned from last year's final round that you can apply to tomorrow?SCOTT DUNLAP: I think my third round was my miserable one where, playing with Colin, I kind of shot myself out.  If you get caught up in the process, I mean, I know what I need to do.  Last year, I just got on that bogey train. In golf like this, you've got to have some break.  You've got to be able to apply.  Because the way the golf course is set up, once it goes the wrong way, if you don't do something to stop it, it's just going to be bogeys to the end. So I didn't -- for about seven holes last year, I was off in the wilderness.  I guess this year, so far, when I've had a bad stretch, it's been minimal damage, come back with a birdie.  I play pretty quickly, so if I just slow down a little bit -- of course, our group was kind of on the clock today.  But just experience maybe.  Maybe when I'm 60, I'll have enough experience to be out of my own way.Q. Do you have to win a Senior Major to be where you want to be in your mind?SCOTT DUNLAP: Well, I finally won one of these Tour events last year.  I guess I'm never going to win a PGA Tour event.  That will be the one thing.  So the next thing on any sort of agenda or box to tick would be a Major, sure. Always, I've just wanted to compete and play like I think I can play.  Last year, I played winning golf three times and won once.  So I understand you can play winning golf, someone can beat you.  But you also got to be honest.  Did you actually play well enough to win? In a Major, I've never done that.  You finish ninth, you do whatever, but you know you didn't play well enough to win.  Tomorrow, at the end of the day, it would be nice to say I played well enough to win, and either hoist the trophy or congratulate someone that did something really good to beat you.Q. Have you made any substantial changes in your golf swing or your mental approach to golf?SCOTT DUNLAP: Nothing in the swing.  For me, I mentioned the procedure.  If I feel I can get my lines where I can get aimed, that's -- I just get out of whack, look up, and the target is not where I think it is, and my lines get screwy.  If I have that under control, then it seems like it's a green light, but that's my issue, you know. So it's always felt like if I could get aimed -- my problems are static, not dynamic, is how I would describe it.  If I have all those ducks in a row, good things happen.  When I'm struggling with that, there's nothing I can think about in my swing to compensate for, geez, all over the place.Q. Do you have an instructor?SCOTT DUNLAP: No.  I've just been at it a long time.  I've got ears and a memory, you know.  So, I mean, to me, the best aid's a mirror, you know.  That's my instructor.  I can get in a mirror and see and feel and hold a position, and that's it. You call on stuff.  Luckily, my swing is pretty simple.  Like I said, I've worked long and hard to do that.  I would think, at this stage, all of us pretty much have what we have.  I think a lot of guys go hit balls and they're working on this and that, and they think they either like it or they think they need to do it.  I would guess they don't need to be doing it, you know. You could show up three months after not hitting a ball, and if you're Bernhard Langer, I bet it's pretty good.  I don't think it requires constant maintenance. For me, going out there and beating balls, left wrist starts to hurt, you get tired.  Then you actually develop bad habits.  I'm actually on the less is more program, and I think a lot more guys could do that.  I think everyone can do that, but I think most people just have it in their head, if they're not out there working and beating balls and doing it, then they're not preparing.Q. Early in your professional career, did you know you would travel internationally as much as you have and compete?SCOTT DUNLAP: Absolutely not.  I mean, I can remember how Jay Townsend finally talked me into going to South Africa after five years in the Mini Tour, getting into the finals of Tour School, but not making it ever. The prospect of just two-day rounds in carts in Orlando again, it's like, you know, we've got to change this up.  Jay said, You got to come to South Africa.  You get down there.  You have caddies, it's TV.  You're playing against Tony Johnston, David Feherty, Hugh Baiocchi, John Bland -- guys who are doing well in Europe.  Then Ernie turns pro.  That was finally a benchmark.  I know these guys can play, and I can see where I stacked up against them. Then there's the Asian Tour and South America.  I had to go places and piece together a year, so I went to those places.  They're great.  They're fun and neat.  I'll go anywhere once.  But first out of necessity, and then out of joy did I continue to do it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT