PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2015
Ricardo Gouveia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts looking ahead to playing on The European Tour this week?
RICARDO GOUVEIA: Same as playing on The Challenge Tour, just stick to my goals, and just do the same things.  I'm not going to change anything and I'm not going to expect too much of me.  Just going to play, enjoy, and hopefully I can get some good scores out of this week.
Q. Are you expecting a different environment, a tougher course setup with other well-known players around?
RICARDO GOUVEIA: Yeah, the course is a lot harder this year, just because the rough is a bit higher, especially around the fairways, and around the greens, as well.  But the course is playing soft, so it could help a little bit, the players to shoot some low numbers.  But if you're not on the fairways, you're going to struggle to shoot a low one.
Q. Sounds like it's a course you know pretty well.
RICARDO GOUVEIA: Yeah, yeah, I've been playing here since I'm a little kid.  I used to play for Vilamoura, so I know the course really well.
Q. And imagine that means you've got lots of support this week?
RICARDO GOUVEIA: Yeah, it's always a good week in terms of support.  A lot of family, friends, come out and support.
Q. Is there huge excitement, knowing you'll be on The European Tour next season?
RICARDO GOUVEIA: Yeah, I'm really looking forward to start the season off, and just play at the highest level of golf in Europe, which was my goal for this year to secure that card for next year.  It was awesome that I could do secure it in the middle of the season with some good results.
Q. Does that mean that you're already making your plans?
RICARDO GOUVEIA: Yeah, I already did a few planning for the beginning of the season until March because that's the schedule that has come out yet.
Yeah, I'm excited to start off in South Africa.
Q. And in the meantime, there's The Road to Oman to think of and the season-ender?
RICARDO GOUVEIA: Yeah, there's two more big events on The Challenge Tour, China and Oman, and hopefully I can finish it off and finish on top of the rankings.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT