U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 1994
Donna Andrews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 LES UNGER:  Donna, I know it was more fun being here yesterday,
but let us get rid of the 9th hole right now.

 DONNA ANDREWS:  I just hit a bad tee ball.  I hit a 5-wood off
the tee and actually almost toe shanked it and it hit on the hill
and rolled down to OB.  Hit another 5-wood up there fine. Then
left my ball short in the bunker. Actually got it in, right beside
each other on the bunker.  I just hit a poor bunker shot and 2-putted
and made a quick seven.  It was just basically my tee ball that
really hurt me, and I have been having some problems with my back
and I felt when I got turned behind the ball I sort of got stuck
and I didn't have anywhere to go and I normally had one of those
around and I hope that they don't hurt me yesterday.  I hit one
on 10; sort of the same way, same feeling and was able to get
it up-and-down for par but when you hit it an OB you don't have
that option.

 LES UNGER:  How would you assess position and the way things
have gone?  What did Helen finish at?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  I think she finished at 9.

 Q.  10.

 DONNA ANDREWS:  10, that is right.  She birdied 18.  Actually,
Helen is playing good solid golf.  She has hit the ball really
well.  I played with her the last two days.  She hit the ball
well.  Of course she has been putting great.  She has made a lot
of great saves when she has missed the greens and the fairways,
so I don't think she is really going to back up.  I think we are
going to have to go out and catch her.  But I think the course
will start to play tougher the next two days.  I think we have
seen it the easiest it will be these first two days and I think
it will get a little bit tougher the next two.

 LES UNGER:  In what way?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  I think the greens were starting to firm up a
little bit today.  Now that the rain has come, that may not be
the case.  I think they will find tougher pin positions the next
two days.  They have been pretty generous with us, with the pin
positions these last two days, I think a lot of that is to help
speed up play.  I think they will get a lot tougher as the days
go on.

 Q.  Donna, when you got to 7 under, did you see yourself getting
to 10 under until you had the problem at 9?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  Actually, I never really thought about it.  I
was really hurting this morning on the range when I went to hit
balls I had had my back worked on before I went there and I went
to the trailer, again, on my way to the first tee because it was
really bothering me and got stretched again.  Then when I birdied
the first three holes, that was like -- well, that takes away
a lot of your pain, you don't feel it but it was still there.
I was sort of trying to play around it and play through it.  Unfortunately,
it caught up with me a little bit on 9 and I did some stretching
on the course and stuff and the last six, seven holes it felt
a lot better.

 Q.  How long have you had back trouble and what kind of trouble?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  I had back trouble two years ago.  That is when
it started when it started.  It bothered me for about a year.
 Then I did a lot of rehab that winter, didn't bother me last
year and then it started up again in Michigan.  I played six in
a row.  I think it was more fatigue then but I just haven't been
able to get it well.  They found a stress fracture on a vertebrae
that they think is old, but it is still is irritating all my muscles
and they get tight and it makes it hard to walk and hard to swing.


 Q.  When you go from being within two shots and all of a sudden
in a span of about five minutes you are five shots back, without
sounding silly, what goes through your mind?  How do you relax?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  Actually, my reaction was -- yesterday I shot
even par on the front and then I shot 4 under on the back, so
I was like, okay, well, there was my even par on the front, now
I got to go out and shoot 4 under on the back.  I looked at it
as well, you know you can make the birdies; you know you can shoot
4 under on the backside; you shot the same thing on the front
side you did yesterday, so I just went out there and tried to
make some birdies on the back.  Unfortunately -- I didn't hit
it that bad on the back, I just missed some putts.

 Q.  The first three holes, were you tentative at all because
of your back and not wanting to aggravate it?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  It actually bothers me more standing around,
you know, chipping and putting than it does actually swinging
at the ball.  I found that when I was out at the range today;
it tended to take a little bit of the stress off my back, so it
didn't really bother me hitting fairway woods or hitting my driver
as much as it did -- I think the hardest thing for me was the
long irons today, and I hit some of those fat on the back side
just because I think I get a little tentative trying to swing
at those and help them up.

 Q.  How far were your birdie putts on the first 3?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  Knocked it six feet on the first hole, made birdie.
 20 feet on the second hole, and five feet on the third hole.


 Q.  Do you prefer to play with the leader or do you prefer
to not know who is leading?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  I always know who is leading.  I think I play
better knowing what I need to do and I knew Helen was out front.
 I think that probably inspired me, you know, and that was what
got me going, I think, early in the round, which is not normal
for me.  I normally don't play the first six holes that well.
 It normally takes me about six to get comfortable with what I
feel like I can-- when I start to feel like I can start going
at the pins and stuff.

 Q.  The situation that happened to you at 9, how do you think
that is going to affect you going into tomorrow's round?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  It won't.  You know, I was over it by the time
I got to ten.  It was just one bad swing and, you know, every
round I have played for the past, probably month, I have had one
bad swing a round, and I think it just -- I get in a position
where my back is just not strong enough to support what I am doing.
 I normally just say well, you know, I have to chalk that up to
my back and go on. So far, I mean, even the backside today, my
back didn't really bother me that much, as much as it has the
last two days.  I felt good about the fact that it felt better,
in fact my husband said it was because the storm was coming, so
I don't know.

 Q.  That is a strong mental frame, I mean, that would devastate
a lot of players.  I am wondering about your history here being
close, close and again today you were real close, and fallen back,
is that playing on you at all?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  I don't think so.  I really haven't thought about
the previous two years while I have been out here playing and
I think, you know, I learned that in Atlantic City.  My back was
really bothering me there.  I just had come off two weeks off
and had come back thinking my back would be better and it really
wasn't and I was still able to win with my back hurting, so I
know I can play.  It is just a matter of, you know, putting the
aches aside and just going ahead and swinging at it.  I end up
taking lots of deep breaths because of the muscle spasm every
now and then; I will just have to sort of walk it off. But I have
learned that I can play with the aches and pains.  And as long
as I am not doing any more damage, I am going to try to keep playing.


 Q.  Is this something that goes away in the off season?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  It did.  It went away all last year; didn't have
any problems with it all last year.  I did a lot of rehab in the
winter and, of course, thought it was better and hadn't had any
problems in the beginning of the year until I played six in a
row.  So they think I fatigued it and that has caused all the
inflammation.

 Q.  It is not affecting your distance at all or your power?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  No.

 Q.  Just it catches --

 DONNA ANDREWS:  Every now and then-- what they have told me is
my right hip gets rotated out, and every now and then I think
I get turned behind it and I sort of get stuck.  I get where I
can't get back through it.

 Q.  Is there anything that you can do in the future to correct
the problem?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  Right now we are trying to do some rehab to teach
-- they think the reason I am having pain now is because my hip
has gotten out of alignment.  So, of course, what they are trying
to do is strengthen my muscles to hold my hip in line.  What happens
is my right hip gets rotated forward and causes my right leg to
be a half inch larger than my left, so that puts the strain on
the back muscles.  And putting a lift in would help it temporarily,
but it's not going to help strengthen the muscles to hold the
hip where it belongs, so it is a matter of strengthening my back
muscles enough to keep my body in line where it belongs.

 Q.  I know that your goal is to make the Solheim Cup and play
well the rest of this year.  Would this mean that you might not
be able to play as many tournaments as you'd like?

 DONNA ANDREWS:  It is looking that way.  I have taken two weeks
off and then I came back and only was able to play two weeks,
and then took another two weeks off.  So I am sort of -- right
now I am having to play by feel, and of course, some of our sponsors
don't like when you have to pull out at the last minute.  But,
you know, I wanted to play JAL last week, and that was one that
I didn't feel like my back was ready. I felt like if I played
last week, I might not be able to play this week.  So it has limited
my schedule as far as what I feel like I am able to play.  I am
a wimp.  I can only take so much pain.

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT