MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2013
Brandi Henton
Lauren Lenhardt
Gordy Presnell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  Fresno State  – 72
Boise State  – 55

THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Boise State.   Coach, just some general remarks on tonight's game. 
COACH PRESNELL:   Obviously we struggled with the press.   Probably good coaching on their part.   We knew with the matchup they would press us and obviously we're struggling without a point guard.   Had a hard time with that.   We turned it over. 
The room shrunk on us, after we turned it over, probably a little insecure, in the first 10 minutes.   After the 10‑minute mark, I thought we played a little bit better.   But we struggled certainly. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for the student‑athletes. 

Q.   Lauren, last game, your thoughts, what you're feeling right now. 
LAUREN LENHARDT:   It's tough.   You know, I knew we had talked after Senior Night just about how it's an emotional time.   I'm going to miss these coaches, these players.   It's been a good four years.   I've loved every minute of it.   It definitely stung a little bit walking off that court.

Q.   You had seven blocks in the second half.   Seemed like you were fired up to end it on a good noted. 
LAUREN LENHARDT:   Yeah, I was trying, doing my best.   That was part of our game plan, that I could sit back and help a little bit more.   Their guards are fast.   They're penetrating.   That was kind of my job, to sit back there and no layups, is what coach said, so no layups they got. 

Q.   Brandi, dug yourselves a little bit too much of a hole.   You were more competitive later in the game.   Got yourselves way behind too much. 
BRANDI HENTON:   Definitely.   I don't believe you can win any big games starting off in a big hole like that.   Overall we did a good job of fighting and try to come back.   I applaud our effort.

Q.   Looking forward, losing Lauren, but returning quite a few people. 
BRANDI HENTON:   Huge loss. 
We're excited about next year.   Like Coach said, we have a lot of injuries coming back.   I think we are going to be solid.   I know we're going to be solid.   Exciting. 
Just work on off‑season and get back to where we are now, but come out with a win. 
COACH PRESNELL:   We may be the only team in the country that has eight starters coming back. 

Q.   Brandi, you struggled with the press early on.   Took time to figure it out. 
BRANDI HENTON:   Yeah, we know we can play with them definitely.   We can't start off like that.   From the jump we knew they were going to be pressing.   We just didn't take it too well. 
Yeah, don't know really what happened.   But we prepared all week.   It's just about executing. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll continue with questions for Coach. 

Q.   Lauren's last game.   Your emotions, but how she played tonight. 
COACH PRESNELL:   Lauren tweaked her knee yesterday.   She said if it blows out, I'm still playing. 
I'm really proud of her.   I'm proud to be part of her life, what she represents, her value system, what she's done for Boise State and what Boise State has done for her. 
It's a great match.   A great four years.   My only regret probably is what could have been a little bit getting to play with her sidekick Kinzi, our post, and the others that could have helped as well. 
She's just a great kid.   She's got a bright future.   She will do Boise State proud in the future just like she has here. 

Q.   Your thoughts going forward?   Returning a lot of girls, only really losing one. 
COACH PRESNELL:   We feel good about the future.   But it's hard right now to figure out.   We worked so hard on that dang press.   How we could not get through that, it's disappointing. 
My hat goes off to Fresno State.   They did a good job.   They attacked us at our weak point.   We turned it over 29 times.   You're not going to win any game turning over 29 times. 
We tried real hard defending perimeter shooters.   They had 14 threes against us at our place, and beat us.   Tonight they were 6 for 26.   That was a focus. 
It's disappointing.   I'm really proud of our kids.   I like 'em.   I'm excited about the future, that's for sure. 

Q.   You dug yourselves quite a hole.   Second half you did out‑score them. 
COACH PRESNELL:   One of the huddles we talked about the cheerleaders.   Our cheerleaders were great.   If they're going to cheer for us down 31, we're going to play with smiles on our faces and get after it.   They motivated us on one of the timeouts. 
I'm proud of our kids.   They're a very seasoned team.   They've got one of the premier players in the whole west on their team.   It's just one of those things. 
But it will be a little while to get over the first 10 minutes.   We worked so hard to prepare for this. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT