CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: FLORIDA VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2018
Shea Patterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Shea, when you saw your bowl matchup was Florida, did you and Van text one another?  
SHEA PATTERSON: We've been communicating all year.  We're pretty tight.  We follow each other.  I think more than anything, we were just excited to link back up with each other.   
 Q.  Did you see it as kind of ironic of all the teams you could have played, the next year, you end up playing each other in a bowl?  
SHEA PATTERSON: Yeah.  Dan Mullen and Van, it's fun.  I'm looking forward to it.  I've had a great time all week.  It's my first Bowl Week.  So that's obviously been exciting.   
 Q.  How long have you known Van?  How far do you go back?  
SHEA PATTERSON: Since my senior year in high school.  He was already at Ole Miss, and I was visiting, and just got to get close to him.  He's one of those guys where it's easy to talk to and he's a real, real funny guy.  So obviously, getting there, the chemistry that we've built and the friendship we've built is going to last a while.   
 Q.  Did you guys talk at all about where you might go?  Was there (no microphone) about going to the same place, dealing with all that?  
SHEA PATTERSON: Yeah, you know, our original plan was Deontay Anderson and Van Jefferson and myself to possibly all come to Michigan.  And I'm not sure what happened.  But at the end of the day, I'm just so happy that they're in the position that they're in right now, and they're in the position to themselves, you know, in order to be successful.   
 Q.  Your decision to come back for your senior year, when did you make that?  What went into it?  
SHEA PATTERSON: Just I was telling one of the reporters, it was my first full season of college football, freshman year, I pulled a redshirt, finished the last three games.  Got hurt the fifth game of the season last year.  I think a big reason is just the brotherhood and the players that -- the university I'm a part of right now.  Getting that opportunity to play the full season with the team like this.   
Like I said, it's just getting a taste of it, and I think we wanted to end in a better way this year.  We had higher expectations.  So obviously, leaving that, with that bad taste in my mouth in Columbus, I think that was a big reason why I came back.  And that might have been the biggest reason.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your first bowl experience?  How hard was that to watch Bowl Weeks for two years?  
SHEA PATTERSON: It was frustrating.  We were done with football in November every year.  Every year I was there, we were done in November.  So it was almost like that was what was supposed to happen.  It was what we got used to.  Doing November and watching the rest of the teams play.   
So I love football, so it's cool playing an extra month.   
 Q.  Did you even think about, like, late in the year, hey -- or did you just assume you were going to go to a bowl game when you went to Michigan?  
SHEA PATTERSON: Can you ask that one more time?   
 Q.  Did you just assume all year long you were going to a bowl game at the end of the year, or did you get excited about that?  
SHEA PATTERSON: Here at Michigan or at Ole Miss?   
 Q.  At Michigan.  
SHEA PATTERSON: No.  I think our assumption as a team was that we were -- after that Notre Dame game, we kind of got in a groove and we were -- we had the mindset that we would go to Indy and play for the big one and go to the playoff.   
But I'm happy with the spot we're in.  We're in a New Year's Six bowl and we got the opportunity to play one more game.  Getting an 11th win for our program.  So we're all just ready to compete.   
 Q.  When did you make your final decision?  When did you know that you were coming back?  
SHEA PATTERSON: Maybe a week after the game.  Just sat down and --   
 Q.  What challenges do you see in Florida?  
SHEA PATTERSON: Very fast and very athletic.  We know that they're going to be disciplined and make plays so we're going to have to put the ball in our playmakers' hands and open space and trust in the game plan.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT