BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2018
Chip McDaniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk about the round first off, finishing out the tournament here.  
CHIP McDANIEL: You know, I felt like I played well.  Unfortunately the weather was pretty terrible.   
I got off to a pretty good start despite the conditions.  I thought we were going to get lucky with the weather and I started getting going a little bit, and then the weather hit on some of the scoring holes on the back nine.   
I just grinded it out.  Got through the delay and birdied the last two, so it feels good.   
 Q.  I'm sure you've put up with that before, weather delays.  Different being in a PGA event like this?  
CHIP McDANIEL: Yeah, yeah, you get that a lot in college.  It's a little interesting playing a 36-hole day in a PGA TOUR event.   
I felt like I was prepared for it and I thought it only helped me.  Some guys just didn't take it as well as I did.   
 Q.  What's something you're going to take away from this week, just a memory that's like cool moment kind of thing?  
CHIP McDANIEL: Well, probably the shot on 17 the first day.  Holed out from the bunker.  I was kind playing terrible and that kind of saved me.  I shot 6-under the next day to make the cut on the number.   
You don't realize how much that helps.  That was a cool moment, too.  And making birdie at the Natty Shack was also pretty cool.  It was one the loudest roars I've ever heard in golf.   
As far as what I'll take away from the tournament, just felt like I gave away so many shots and still made the cut and still felt like if I just tighten things up a little bit I can compete out here.   
 Q.  What's next?  Where do you go from here?  
CHIP McDANIEL: I believe the State Open, and I guess it's about a week from now.  As far as I know, that's when I'll play next.   
 Q.  As far as pro career though what's next?  
CHIP McDANIEL: Yeah, the Kentucky...   
 Q.  I mean after...  
CHIP McDANIEL: Yeah, just gearing up for Q-school, you know.  This got me out of pre-qualifying so I don't have to worry about that for an extra month, month and a half, which is good.   
That's what's on the agenda.   
 Q.  Feel good to birdie that final hole?  
CHIP McDANIEL: Yeah, it felt really good.  Last three rounds they were all under par, so that's always good.   
You know, just icing on the cake really.  Few hundred more dollars.  It was a lot of the fun this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT