NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: SECOND ROUND - TEXAS TECH VS ARKANSAS
March 21, 2021
Justin Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Arkansas Razorbacks 68, Texas Tech Raiders 66
 Q. Great game.  A couple if I can get them in.  You were defending Shannon that last play, can you describe that play?  You're trying to defend and not foul and it worked.  What happened on that play from your mind?
 JUSTIN SMITH:   Let me think a little bit.  So I think either -- I think Edwards was dribbling up and Shan was going to set that screen and they set it up high.  Me and J.T., we communicated and I switched on to him because we really didn't want them to get a three, because that would put them up.  So I really forced them off the three-point line and switched on to Edwards and he drove it, and I was able to get a good contest and he missed it, and you know, JD got a great rebound and that was it.  Thank God.
 Q. This is your first year in Arkansas, but these fans have been waiting for 25 years to get into the Sweet 16.  What does it mean to break that drought?
 JUSTIN SMITH:   It feels good, but I came here to win and that's it.  To have it come through, to have it come to fruition, it's just a testament to all the hard work that we've put in over these nine months.  It's a lot of sacrifices and it's all worth it so far and we are just going to keep on going and see how far we can go.
 Q. I wanted to ask you about the youngsters on the team, three freshmen in the starting lineup today.  Can you just talk about Moses and Devo, what they brought in the back court, and then Jaylin, who had missed some time and didn't play a lot against Colgate, and comes out and gives you ten rebounds?
 JUSTIN SMITH:   They may be freshmen, but they don't play like freshmen.  They have a lot of swagger.  They have a lot of, you know, smarts about them.  Their IQ is very, very high.  Devo's defense and Moses scoring and just his rebounding, they just make good plays at the right time, and J-Will, we don't win this game without ten rebounds.  I think he only scored one point, but those ten rebounds is what won us the game.
 Coach emphasized at the beginning of the game that rebounding was going to win us the game.  Luckily the first four to eight minutes in the second half, he got like seven rebounds or something like that.  Having those three in there just pushed us over the top and made us a special team.
 Q. For those of us who watched you play down in Bloomington, in what games has your game come along and how have you improved and developed since you've been at Arkansas?
 JUSTIN SMITH:   I think the main thing honestly is confidence.  The way that we prepare and practice allows all of us as individuals to have confidence in our game and that makes us a good team.  Coach Muss emphasizes putting in work in the off-season and even all the way through the season, we are getting one, maybe two workouts in along with practice, with our GAs, having them rebound for us and work us out.
 I think my confidence is really what has -- has caused this great improvement and being able to work on it and having a culture of everybody being in the gym and a coach that allows to you have the freedom to just play basketball.
 Q. What's this journey been like for you, going through the transfer process, probably wasn't easy in terms of not being able to get out to visits and everything was shut down in the spring.  And then getting into a new program dealing with COVID protocols.  How do you reflect on everything you've had to go through to make this moment possible on your end with Arkansas tonight?
 JUSTIN SMITH:   I think it was a leap of faith.  You know, I mean, obviously I did my homework and you know, made the best decision that I thought I possibly could and it's worked out so far.
 But like you said, not being able to visit and you're having to do everything over Zoom through the pandemic, I just kind of had to take a leadership of faith and trust Coach Musselman, and it's definitely paid off for me and for our team.  I think it's probably the best decision I've ever made.
 Q. Wondering what you thought of the way Jaylin Williams passed the ball, especially in the second half?
 JUSTIN SMITH:   Yeah, we knew going in they were going to play up in the gaps, so that allowed cutters, they are all going to ball watch, whoever has the ball.  Bringing him up into the high post, he's a really good passer and just utilizing him and his unselfishness, we were able to cut off him and get easy layups, that helped us build a run.  And having a guy that's so unselfish and good at passing the ball and a big just allows another play maker on the floor.
 Q. You guys had to play two totally different kind of styles it seems like.  What does it say about your ability to play different styles, and how good does that maybe portend for you guys going forward?
 JUSTIN SMITH:   It shows that we can play with anybody.  It doesn't really matter what you want to throw at us.  We are going to be able to adjust and compete.  I'm really proud of our guys for kind of putting that game behind us, not trying to really play like we did against Colgate and really just hone in on the game plan for this game.
 Our coaches do a really good job of preparing us and getting us ready, and I think we do a good job of following the scouting report.  It just shows, you know, the kind of versatility and the kind of damage that we can do when we are clicking.
 Q. Could you detail your connection?  I know he found you several times.  You're such a net positive when you share the floor together.  Could you detail maybe why you guys are such a tough front court tandem?
 JUSTIN SMITH:   You talking about me and Jaylin Williams?
 Q. Yes.
 JUSTIN SMITH:   I think it's because we don't really need plays for us to make a difference.  I mean, for me, I'm just going to move and cut, if I get a post up or he gets a post up here or there, we are not going to force anything.  We are going to allow the talent we have on the perimeter to be showcased, and we are also going to do our part.
 He makes hustle plays.  And as we all see, good things happen when he's in the game.  And you know, just me being out there with him it, just makes my life easier and makes everybody else's life easier.  I think just keep him out of foul trouble and we are going to be very good.
 Q. You got a 13-point cushion and they cut it to two a few times, but what was the key to keeping your composure?
 JUSTIN SMITH:   Well, basketball is a game of runs, and we all know that.  We all have played basketball a long, long time and we have all been in situations like that, especially this season, whether we are up and a team is coming back or we're down and we're making the run.  So we know that the game is never over and we have to keep playing.  We are not going to allow them to make a run, but we understand it's a possibility that's going to happen and we have to be able to respond and not panic.
 That just shows the kind of savvy and just level-headedness that we have as a team to be able to deal with these runs that some teams may fold under.  But you know, it's just a testament.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT