INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 19, 2018
Jake Forrester
Devonte Green
Justin Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana - 86, Central Arkansas - 53
Devonte, six threes tonight, talk us through the process of kind of regaining your basketball rhythm after missing several weeks with the thigh injury and when did it come together for you maybe from the outside?
DEVONTE GREEN;  I'm just taking it day by day.  It was a long process coming back off recovery but I've been doing preventative stuff to make it easier so that when I come back, I don't get hurt again, so that's basically what I've been focusing on.
Q. I guess as you have tried to find your rhythm again, are there things you lean on in your game, your shot, passing, defense, whatever that gets that comfort back?
DEVONTE GREEN: I would say defense, if I had to choose something, because everything starts on defense and I think once the defense starts going, offense comes with it.
Q. For any of you guys, you had I think four or five turnovers in the first five minutes and I think the last 14 minutes of the first half you didn't commit a turnover, what changed after that point?
JUSTIN SMITH: I think we kind of got our bearings within the game and we really kind of started to settle down and play how we wanted to play.  The first six minutes were pretty frantic pace-wise so we were able to take a step back and really shore up the mistakes we were making and go on a run.
Q. To piggyback off that, it seems like that's been a habit for you so far this season, the first few minutes.  Can you diagnose why that is, why you need four or five minutes to kind of get your bearings?
JUSTIN SMITH: I mean, no, I really don't know.  I say we have to come out with a better mindset, being more aggressive and locked in defensively, focusing on the defensive side of the ball rather than the offensive side of the ball, and you know, just really being ready from the get-go.
Q. Jake, four baskets today, what led to that and how much more comfortable maybe are you now than when practice started?
JAKE FORRESTER: I'm just working really hard in practice every single day so I can translate into the game whenever I can get into the game with however many minutes I get, I just try to play the beverage I can be.
Q. Was it just a matter of being in the right spot tonight for those four baskets?
JAKE FORRESTER: Someone could say that but someone can say I can score the ball.
Q. What opened up for you offensively?
DEVONTE GREEN: I think I had a lot of open ones.  That definitely helped.  I think just running the offense, getting those open shots was the main thing, if it wasn't so open, I mean, probably wouldn't have went in as much.
Q. Rob obviously availed himself of a chance, when you were dealing with the injury, he came in and played well.  Tonight, he goes out and he's not going to be available for a while and you knew that you were going to play a lot.  Talk about that a little bit.
DEVONTE GREEN: I mean, this is go to being a long season.  There's going to be injuries all over the court.  It's always next man up and you've just got to be ready.  You've got to be prepared for things like that.
Q. With the young guys like Jake and cliff ton, maybe not playing as much as they would like to but as one of the veterans on the team, what kind of things do you talk to them about to maybe keep them upbeat and keep them involved?
DEVONTE GREEN: I always tell them mentally, just stay with it.  I all tell them, I say, it's a grind, it's a slow grind.  I think that's one of the hardest things coming in to college, dealing with it.  It's easier for me to pass it on to the younger guys.
Q. Just in, you called the first six minutes or so of the game, using your words, frantic.  Was there a point you looked back on that there was a shot or play that settled it down?
JUSTIN SMITH: I think it was just after the first TV time out, because I feel like we went like six straight minutes, no calls, or just kind of up and down, and then once we got back to the huddle, we got settled down.  We were able to kind of take a step back and really look at what we were trying to do defensively.  So yeah, probably just a TV time out, just you know, getting us back to where we wanted to be.
Q. You were one point away from a career-high in points and one rebound away from career-high in rebounds.  Just your thoughts about that.
DEVONTE GREEN: Couldn't get one, I guess.  (Laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT