INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2019
Devonte Green
Trayce Jackson-Davis
Justin Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Troy-62, Indiana-100
Q. Trayce, for you. You're 17 and 14 in a short number of minutes. What do you feel is giving you the opportunity to be this productive right away?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Really on offense it's just my teammates putting me in the right position to score and then really just anticipation for rebound. Just got to anticipate where the ball is coming from, and I thought I did that well tonight.
Q. Devonte, how did it feel to be back in action? I know you've been going through obviously some hamstring issues.
DEVONTE GREEN: I feel good.
Q. Any feelings on returning to the court? How did it feel out there for you?
DEVONTE GREEN: I mean, feels good to be back.
Q. Devonte, what do you do to stay in shape? I assume when you had the hamstring injury you couldn't run much. Did you swim? Bike?
ARCHIE MILLER: I did a lot of walking and jogging on the treadmill, and also on the bike.
Q. Justin, just wanted to get your thoughts on Damezi. He sort of keeps coming along, coming along, getting more shots. You've been around him now for a little more than a year; been a teammate. What did you see from him tonight that you thought led him to have the game he does?
JUSTIN SMITH: He's playing with a lot of confidence. He's shooting with confidence. He's really using his body well on rebounds and inside, so he's just confident. Way more confident than last year. Shooting the ball well, and that adds to it.
He's looking to build on it probably.
Q. Justin, tonight you were two from two from the three-point line. As a team you guys are just under 40%. Do you think three-point shooting is something that could really be a strength for you guys?
JUSTIN SMITH: I mean, yeah, it can. We work on it every single day. You know, we're just looking to continue to get better and just hit open shots, take good shots, and really just get the ball moving.
Q. Trayce, you had success on the offensive glass again today. Have you noticed a difference rebounding at the high school versus college level, and have you made any adjustments?
TRAYCE JACKSON-DAVIS: Most definitely. Going against bigger competition, so you really got to carve out. In high school you could really just jump up and get the ball, but you really got to make an emphasis on hitting your guy and anticipating the ball like I told him.
Q. Justin, you talked about the team's performance. Jackson mentioned you had two on your own. How have you felt confidence-wise with your shots from the perimeter?
JUSTIN SMITH: Confident. I mean, if they're going to continue to leave me open I'm going to shoot it. I'm not going to force anything to try to prove anything to anybody.
I'm going to take the shots when they come to me. I'm just preparing to make those shots we practice every day, getting up extra shots.
Q. Justin, Coach Miller talked after the last game about you guys need to get a lot better defensively and in a hurry. Do you feel like tonight was a step in the right direction? What kind of things have you been emphasizing in practice to get better at?
JUSTIN SMITH: I think definitely in the first half it was a building block we can take going into the next couple games.
Coach Miller has been preaching on-the-ball pressure. With on-the-ball pressure it allows us to really get in and help on the pack line, so that's really been our main focus and making sure our rotations are correct. Really just honing in on our defensive scheme.
Q. Justin, this team seems particularly better at playing up tempo, getting out in transition. How well does that play into your particular skillset?
JUSTIN SMITH: I like transition, so probably one of my strengths. Being able to use my athleticism and our guards are doing a really good job pushing the ball, getting it out, and whoever gets the rebound, whether it's the 4, the 5, they're really looking for our guards and our guards are really keeping their heads up.
That's really playing into all of our strengths.
Q. Justin, how much does it help to have Devonte back?
JUSTIN SMITH: Oh, it's a big, big help. It's another shooter, another spacer, another ball handler. Also defensively he makes things happen defensively and offensively.
We're glad to have him back. We're looking forward to him getting back into a rhythm.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT