US OPEN
August 23, 1997
Harry Marmion
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 HARRY MARMION: Good afternoon, I'm Harry Marmion. What I'd like to do is ask you to
please ask a question and let me have your affiliation and in case I need you to repeat
the question. 
 
Q. I wanted to ask you, there was an article in Business Week this month regarding the
stadium. There's been some criticism from some affluent fans about their seats. A lot of
corporations gobbled up some of the luxury seats, so many of the affluent fans essentially
have been relegated to some of the upper decks. I'm just wondering, you know, what you
have to say about that because some of the people have even filed some complaints with the
New York Attorney General's office.
 
 HARRY MARMION: You're absolutely correct. There has been a filing with the New York
State Attorney General's office. We're pursuing it; we're giving them the information that
they want. What happened is we decided we needed to build luxury suites in the new Arthur
Ashe Stadium. The reason for that is the cost of the facility was $254 million, and the
debt service is $1,200,000 a month. So we need to pay that off. This is privately financed
by us, by the United States Tennis Association. As a result of the two floors of luxury
suites, people that were behind the court-side boxes have now been moved above the luxury
suites. In fact, they are further away from the court than they would have been. We
believe that the excellence of this facility in every way is going to offset that
criticism. We think when people come and see their seats, the width of their seats, the
fact that the seats are very comfortable, the fact that there are more restaurants, more
restrooms, more courts outside. People think we just built a stadium. We built a 45-acre
complex with courts outside that will seat 10,000 people. So we're aware of it. We're
going to take a very careful look at it at the end of this two-week period. We have a new
stadium coming on line next year, which is the refurbished former big stadium. We think
that we'll be able to answer these questions in more detail in the later time. 
 
Q. Do you think you'll be cleared from the investigation by the Attorney General's
office?
 
 HARRY MARMION: It's not an investigation. A group of people wrote the Attorney
General's office in New York and asked them to look into our ticket policies. We are
providing the information, and we will continue to discuss it with them. We don't consider
it trivial; we don't consider it serious. 
 
Q. Mr. Marmion, WCBS Radio. This lease, which has been underway for a couple years
already, has been the subject of a political squabble between the current mayor and the
former mayor, David Dinkins. Mayor Giuliani is boycotting the whole event because he
objects to the fly-over rule. Can you comment on his boycott and would you ever consider
renegotiating that lease without that clause?
 
 HARRY MARMION: We're sincerely sorry that the Mayor has taken this approach. We
understand how busy he is. Our invitation is still open to the Mayor to come Monday night.
We believe that the actions of the Mayor have indicated to us the prudence of having the
contract and the lease provisions in the contract that prevents a mayor from acting
unilaterally. We're pleased with the contract as it is stated. It's a very important
provision to us. As a matter of fact, it's a deal-breaker, was a deal-breaker for us, when
we wrote the contract. We'll be willing to talk to the representatives of the Mayor. I
have people working on possible alternatives right now. But at the moment we see no way of
doing what the Mayor wants.  
 
Q. Have you ever levied any of those, collected any?
 
 HARRY MARMION: No. 
 
Q. Why then is it in the agreement if you're not going to take advantage of it?
 
 HARRY MARMION: See, that's the problem. A lot of people don't understand the lease
provisions. The lease provisions say that the City of New York will go with us to the FAA
in the event there are planes flying over for other than safety reasons. Planes fly-over
all the time when it's cloudy and the wind is the wrong way. That doesn't count in this
situation. We are a 501-C3 and 501-C6 organization. We have no standing to deal with the
Federal Government. The Municipality has to go in our behalf. All we ask is the borough
president of Queens to come us, to the FAA in the event that there's a fly-over, there are
significant fly-overs. I personally do not believe that the fines will ever be levied. But
we're not in a position to take the advance. Right now the FAA says that it is just as
safe to fly a few degrees one way or the other to avoid the stadium during that two-week
period. It's as simple as that. 
 
Q. With all the big money and corporate sponsors that the US Open is attracting, do you
think that it's losing any of its grass-roots appeal? That's been a criticism.
 
 HARRY MARMION: Next Thursday morning there will be a press conference in this very
room. We're going to announce a major grass-roots effort over the next five years, and I
assure you we'll respond to that question. 
 
Q. Let me just understand. Under the current lease agreement, a possibility of a fine
being levied is slim to none? The process, could you explain the process again?
 
 HARRY MARMION: The process is slim to none. But it's there, and it's real. Let me tell
you something. Let's say there are fines. These fines do not come to the US Tennis
Association. They go to the Recreation Department in New York City, and the City Council
of the City of New York determines who gets the money. We don't want the money. That's not
our objective. 
 
Q. So when the Mayor says on WCBS TV tomorrow morning that it's incredible, it's silly,
for the City to pay fines to a private organization, you're saying here that any fines
levied will not go to the USTA?
 
 HARRY MARMION: That's correct. What it leaves to me, whoever the advisors are, haven't
read the contract. 
 
Q. As far as you're concerned, this is still a deal-breaker?
 
 HARRY MARMION: Yes. 
 
Q. This is something you will not renegotiate?
 
 HARRY MARMION: No, I didn't say that. I said under the current circumstances, it's a
deal-breaker. But one can always talk. One can always seek modification. We're not going
to do it with a gun to our head during an Open. We'd like to sit down with the Mayor and
his advisors in a more temperate climate after the Open. 
 
Q. Have you reached out to him with that proposal, to sit down in a more temperate
climate?
 
 HARRY MARMION: We have been talking to the Mayor's office for a long time. 
 
Q. Do you think this tarnishes this marquis event when he says he won't be coming over
this contract --
 
 HARRY MARMION: I have no comment on that. 
 
Q. New York Post. You're worried about the fly-overs. Is that for the sponsorship, TV
coverage?
 
 HARRY MARMION: No, no. 
 
Q. No?
 
 HARRY MARMION: The worry about the fly-overs has to do with the quality of the play in
all our facilities. It's unfortunate that planes can fly over baseball games in Mets
stadium. That's not an issue. Tennis is a different game. The player must be able to pick
up the sound of the ball. The planes coming over are a distraction for the players and a
distraction for the fans. 
 
Q. When you say you would talk about it after the Open, does that mean you're not going
to make any overtures to the Mayor?
 
 HARRY MARMION: Whom am I speaking to? 
 
Q. WNBC.
 
 HARRY MARMION: We just are now so busy opening this new facility, with all of the grand
opening ceremonies to take place on Monday evening, with Whitney Houston and others, and
tennis play, it's not the right climate in which to discuss. But, yes, I would like to sit
down with people from the Mayor's office after this is over. 
 
Q. As far as you're concerned, your efforts to do that, that's over? You guys have
other things to worry about?
 
 HARRY MARMION: I didn't hear you. 
 
Q. As far as you're concerned, your efforts to make overtures to the Mayor's office,
that's over, a done deal, you have other things to worry about?
 
 HARRY MARMION: I wouldn't quite put it that way. That's fairly close.  
 
Q. What type of economic impact does this new stadium have on the tri-state area?
 
 HARRY MARMION: We have studies from Allen Hevesi from the borough of Queens, who is the
comptroller, treasurer of the City of New York, that say the impact is over almost $300
million on an annual basis to the tri-state area. Many, many thousands of people come from
all over the world to this facility, not just people from the tri-state areas. People use
hotels. We take 900 hotel rooms in one hotel in New York for the two-week period. People
come from all over, they spend money. There's an economic multiplier. The City of New York
gets more than a million dollars in fees for a two-week period. The facility reverts to
the City of New York for 11 months. It's a public park. This facility is turned over to
the City of New York. All we have is a lease for 60 days a year. This is a $250 million
investment. We'd like very much to have the planes not come over for this two-week period.
We don't think it's asking too much, especially when the FAA says it's legal -- not legal,
safe. 
 
Q. A question about the ribbon cutting ceremony. How important do you think it was to
name this facility after Arthur Ashe?
 
 HARRY MARMION: I think the general exuberance of the crowd is a fair reading of how we
feel. It's a very powerful symbol, very important in New York City, very important in
tennis, very important in the world to honor this man, not only for what he did in tennis,
but he was a great and distinguished humanitarian. 
 
 HARRY MARMION: Thank you, very much. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT