NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: TULSA
March 24, 2019
Chris Holtmann
Kaleb Wesson
CJ Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Houston - 74     Ohio State - 59
THE MODERATOR: We're going to ask Chris to start off with a statement on the game and go to questions for all three gentlemen from Ohio State.  Chris, please.
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Give Houston credit.  I thought they're a tough group and tough-minded group.  Give them credit first and foremost for the win.
I thought our guys really battled and we just couldn't get enough stops here tonight.  We couldn't get enough stops and couldn't get it quite to where we needed to in the second half.
THE MODERATOR: Any questions whatsoever?  Go ahead right here on the left.  Thank you.
Q. Just how disappointing is it to have this be the end and after working so hard all season?
CHRIS HOLTMANN: Yeah.  Well, are you asking me or turnover to the players?  Obviously, it's disappointing.  We've had three -- we have three unbelievable seniors.  That's the hard of the thing.  You have three tremendous people who have all been here in varying fashions.  CJ three years, Joey Lane four years and Keyshawn Woods a year, and they have left a major imprint on this program.
You hate it for those three.  It's extremely disappointing for those three, but also it's been a tremendous group to coach.
Q. For CJ, just talk about a bounce-back performance for you after just having two points in the last game.
C.J. JACKSON: Yeah.  Coach just harped on me be confident, take open shots, take good shots and that's what I did.  My teammates really uplifted me after the last game, just telling me be confident and be who I have been all year.  Credit to them and credit to the great coaching staff for instilling confidence in me when I needed it most.
Q. Kaleb, I know it's a difficult moment now, but how would you sum up the way this season went, and with the players who are returning, what does the future bode for the Buckeyes?
KALEB WESSON: I mean, we can talk about the future later when coach wants to.  I feel like just this year we really showed a lot of people how much heart we had and we really came back and really showed people who we really are and how much heart we really have.
CHRIS HOLTMANN: These guys have, you know, these guys have really -- I told them in the locker room, I don't know that I've ever been a part of a team where we faced as much -- as many challenges and had a group come through on the other end in such a positive way.  It just really speaks to the quality of our players and the quality of people they are.  And obviously as a coach you would love for them to experience what the second weekend is like, you'd love that for your seniors, but couldn't be more proud of this group.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for the Buckeyes?  All right.  Gentlemen, thank you very much.  Best of luck






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT