GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 29, 2001
Scott Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT SIMPSON:  About three shots from what I was hoping for.  But no, I mean, it's the first time I have been in contention since 1998 like that, with a chance to win and feeling I got a chance to win on Sunday.  No, it was a great week and playing without making a bogey  - obviously it was a good round.  Scott just played great golf too.  17-under here I mean, that is really low.  That is good playing.  Although the course was in perfect condition, the weather obviously was like Hawaii, so, you know  -- this would be the week you can go low. But it is a great golf course.

Q.  Based on what you have said all during this week, I have a feeling you stayed patient and you have to be pleased with the way you handled everything and the score you finally posted?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  Oh, yeah.  I am thrilled.  Obviously you are out here to win.  Everything goes with winning, but gosh they sure give a lot of money away for second too, so (laughs) you know, if you can't win, why not come in second.  I am thrilled to be up there and to have a real good week and especially thrilled with a lot of good shots coming down the stretch.  Obviously hit a lousy putt on 18 but other than that I hit a lot of good shots.  Yeah, I felt  -- it felt really good.  I am going to hopefully keep building on this and get up here more this year.  That is my goal.

Q.  How far on 18?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  Probably about 30 feet.  I hit it good, solid 26, so....  (Laughs)  -- trying to make a real smooth good stroke and I just didn't hit it.  I felt like if could I make it, I'd have a shot at it.

Q.  Where does this put you in terms of the money you have and the amount you need to have by the end of the year?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  I have still got to make more to be exempt next year.  I don't know what second was $300.000  and something.

SCOTT SIMPSON:  Yeah.

Q.  How good a position does this put you in?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  Real good, yeah.  That would put me 350 or 60 or something.  It takes about 450 probably to be top 125.  But obviously coming back from a year off my main goal was to come in the top 125 this year and I was just going to try to work hard and see if I can do that.  Obviously this puts me in good shape and I am going to try to build on this week and have a lot more weeks like this one.  Hopefully up in contention.  Maybe pull out of a win like Scott did one of these times.

Q.  You won here in 1987?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  Yeah.

Q.  Is there something about this course that suits your game or what is it about it?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  Well, I had a real good week probably the best part of my game was chipping this week.  The rough around the greens was tough.  In the fairways, you had a shot.  If you hit it in the rough off the fairway.  It wasn't back-breaking rough.  But around the greens it was tough.  I chipped really well out of the rough.  Actually couple of weeks ago went to 60-degree wedge and I used that all the time around here.   That is probably the key to my game.  But I had been playing pretty well, so..... It is just great to play good.

Q.  Obviously you shift your goals beyond 125 now.  What do you say to yourself in terms of what you want to do?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  I am mainly just going to try to keep working and you know, play better and you know, at least now I know that if I get a hot week I could still win out here.  Especially if Tiger is not playing.  (Laughs).  It's wide open. 

Q.  There was a question in your mind about whether you could still win?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  Oh, yeah.  Definitely. 

Q.  What changed mentally for you on the game?  What is different with you now than before?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  Mainly just that I am just enthused to play, really enjoying you know, the challenge of playing again and I don't know, I just got to the point before I broke my leg actually where I just wasn't having fun playing.  I was sick of the travel.  I hadn't played good for a year, two years.  So it was hard. It was just a struggle.  Then after the year off I guess you have a chance to get away from it and reflect and realize how lucky we are to be able to play golf for a living and just the challenge really seeing if I can come back.  It's a lot of fun to try to come back, I guess. 

Q.  Was there any part of the travel that you found you did miss when you weren't doing it for a year?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  No.  I didn't miss the travel at all.  It was one year without getting on airplanes.  That part of it was great.

Q.  Did you do any kind of travelling, vacation, anything like that during that year?

SCOTT SIMPSON:  Not really.  I was hobbling around on crutches.  I had a hard enough time hobbling down watching my son play baseball.  For three months or so we didn't go anywhere.  We really didn't go anywhere either.  Just kind of stayed home. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT