U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2010
Scott Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you talk about your round today?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Overall played pretty well. I just kind of messed up in the middle, had three bogeys in a row and missed some short putts. I could have putted a little better. But overall I played good. And I made some good putts at the end. So I'm encouraged.

 Q. Can you talk about how the course is playing, different in the morning versus the afternoon?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: In the afternoon you get a little more roll. Things firm up a little bit. So you get a little bit more roll, fairways and greens. But they're not a lot different. 
 It's played pretty much the same every day. Just really fair. It's a tough golf course. And the way a lot of the pins -- because the greens are firm, you just can't go at them. That makes it tough to make birdies, even if you do hit good shots in the fairways. So, a lot of holes par is a good score.

 Q. How do you see tomorrow shaking out for you?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Well, I'll do the best I can, you know. It's just nice to play well. I haven't been playing that good, so this is real encouraging to play well. And, yeah, I'll just play as good as I can. 
 Fred and Bernhard will be really tough -- those aren't the kind of guys you catch when you're 4, 5 or 6 back, unless I just went crazy. I'm not going to win, but I still want to play as well as I can and finish up there.

 Q. There's a little bit to the hometown advantage that Couples has, the way he's playing?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Absolutely. I think there's a little bit. Out here you've just got to hit the shots. But it's always fun to -- it's always fun to come back home and play well and the people root for you. It helps. It helps. If you miss a putt or something, it helps keep you positive, just gives you a lot of positive feelings.

 Q. The course is obviously a tight course. Is there any difference the way you attack it versus your normal situation?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: A little bit, because you just want to make sure you hit the fairway, so there's a lot of 4 and 3-woods off the tees. But it's long enough. Most of the guys hit irons off the tees. But there are some holes you hit a rescue, a lot of 3-woods off the tee, just to position it in the fairway. But it's really good. You've just really got to play well. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT