U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2009
Scott Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: At 8-under par for the Championship, Scott Simpson. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Hello. This is kinda weird. Any questions? 

 Q. What do you think of today? You got off to a fast start today. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Yeah, I played really well, drove in most of the fairways, and hit a lot of good irons. Rolled the ball well, and, you know, no bogeys, which is always good. It's always good to make no bogies especially on a course like this where disaster is lurking on four or five holes, at least. Just played real steady and, yeah, it was fun.

 Q. Anything else? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: I missed the early part of the year with a broken wrist and it's been good getting back into it, and that was probably the best round I've played since I've come back. This is my fourth tournament. 

 Q. Left wrist? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Yeah. So that's encouraging. 

 Q. Did the course play tougher today? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: No, I thought it was tougher yesterday because there was more wind. The hard part is in the afternoon it's getting really firm, so a lot of those greens, like the 17th hole, even 16, you know, they tuck 'em back in the corners and because you have to bounce the ball up, you got no chance to hit it close. Hit a good shot on 17 and you got a 40-footer left. So some of those pins are tough when the ball is bouncing in, but overall the course is in great shape, the greens are rolling well. 
 There are a lot of holes out here, four par 5s, so you have chances to make birdies out here and play good and smart on the tough holes like 16, 17, 18 and try to get through those. Yeah. 

 Q. Was your putter on today? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Yeah, no three-putts, made a lot of good short putts, didn't really make any long putts, but I was rolling the ball really well, so that's encouraging for me. Start getting that putter going and you never know, tomorrow. Russ Cochran shoots 8-under, I can get hot, get back in there. 

 Q. What kind of a score do you think you have to shoot tomorrow? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: I have no idea. I never worry about that anyway, I just play the best I can and that's all you can do. 

 Q. Do you watch the scoreboard at all? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: No, not really. Not until maybe the back nine on Sunday. Because up until then it doesn't matter. You're just going to play the best you can on the shots and it doesn't make sense to -- you can watch it out of curiosity, and I knew that even though I was playing well a lot of the other guys were, too. 
 But until you get to the last few holes you probably aren't going to change your strategy anyway, depending on what you have into the greens. But on the last few holes if you have a chance to win then you're going to want to know how you stand and whether to go for it or play it safe, but up until then to me it doesn't matter. 

 Q. What is your strategy going into tomorrow? 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Make a lot of birdies and pars. They say there is a chance of rain tonight, so the greens might be a little softer, and if they are then you will have more chances of birdies. It surprised me the course was this slow, but I guess because we have the five pars you do have chances for birdies and there are a lot of good players. 
 Yeah, it's been a lot of fun. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT