SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2008
Scott Simpson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You made it look easy. 
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Yeah, it looked easy, it just turned into a pitch and putt therefore a second. Believe me, I don't know what happened. I couldn't make any go in. But all of a sudden, yeah, hit some good shots and made some putts. You can do it. 

 Q. Any changes over the last couple days?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: No, no. Just start making a few putts. That's the only thing I changed. No, I didn't make any changes, just, yeah the weather, I think the weather helps, you know, when it's warm, I like playing when it's warm better. The ball goes a little farther. So it's not playing quite as long. And so I didn't change anything. But for some reason I made some birdies. 

 Q. Nobody else is. There's so very few good scores?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Me too. I didn't make any the first day. I made three yesterday and I didn't make any until, I don't what the heck I birdied? Hole 12. 

 Q. So probably so five of the last seven holes?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Yeah. And, yeah, all of a sudden. Hit a lot of good shots and made some putts. When you do that you can make some birdies. 

 Q. Does that change just the whole demeanor, does it give you kind of a little more of a smile, a little more adrenaline?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Absolutely. No doubt about it. Definitely. Yeah. It's a lot more fun. Any time you make birdies and you get, at least get higher up on the board, yeah, that's what it's all about. 

 Q. How do you approach tomorrow?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Out here you just need to hit the shot. You just need to hit good golf shots. So it starts with the tee ball every hole. You just got to hit good drives. And hit it in the fairways. And then from there the course is in such great shape, get a chance, hit some irons up there and make some putts. You pretty much just have to stay real patient on a course like this. This is a U.S. Open type course. So PGA, U.S. Open, you know. 
 Just a great, great golf course. And it's in great shape and really tough and yeah, you just have to be patient and just really commit to every shot, really. That's what you have to do. You have to make a good swing on every shot. 

 Q. Is the mindset different than perhaps how you went in it today, you know, knowing what tomorrow could bring, may bring, how you approach it?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Oh, yeah, it's a lot more fun. Hopefully if I'm within four or five shots of the lead, that's very exciting. 

 Q. Did you think you would be able to get your self there? Going into today did you think that you could?
 SCOTT SIMPSON: Not really, no. But there's always the outside chance that you would have a good round and get back in there. But -- and especially starting out I knew scores were going to be high. The wind was really blowing pretty hard early in the day. It's still blowing pretty good. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT