THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 18, 2004
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HAL SUTTON:  I told these guys our goal was five points today, we got 2 1/2, we almost had 3 1/2 there.

You know, I don't feel badly about that.  There's a lot of energy on the golf course.  The guys are playing great.  I like the pairings in the afternoon.  I'm going to take what we've got.
Q.  Chris DiMarco said the guys, to use his phrase, were "pissed off" last night.  Would you characterize it as that?
HAL SUTTON:  They should have been.  They should have been pissed off.  The truth is, is we just didn't play well yesterday.  We dug our hole deep, but we've got a powerful enough team that we can come out of this hole.
Q.  Do you like the vibe right now that you're feeling?
HAL SUTTON:  I love the energy that every guy gave they this morning.  If we can get the same edge energy this afternoon, we'll get it done.
Q.  Are they miscalculating 18, because Jay came up short, Chad came up short, it's uphill to, the wind is crispy.
HAL SUTTON:  Well, Chad was in the right spot.  He got a little aggressive with the third shot there.  He probably didn't want that putt he had there for the par.  And you don't want to put it back there where Casey and Sergio did because you have 20 feet of break there.
Q.  What do you take in the afternoon?
HAL SUTTON:  I hope we've got a lot of fairways and greens.  We'll go from there.
Q.  Just in a nutshell, recap the morning.
HAL SUTTON:  Recap the morning?
Q.  Just your feelings about the morning and the way things went.
HAL SUTTON:  I thought we had energy out there.  I thought the guys were, they played good, they were excited.  We were almost dynamite out there today.  Just a flicker away from being dynamite.

I am excited about this.  We've got half of our goal.  I'd love to see us get a little bit more than half our goal and not be so deeply into this thing going into Sunday, but I feel good about everything.
Q.  Obviously you feel a little different now than at lunchtime than you would at 7:00 last night.
HAL SUTTON:  Oh, yeah, the guys played great today.  I felt their energy.  And when I made the telephone call and I didn't get the answering machine; I got them.
Q.  Tiger/Riley match, you've got a good feeling about that pairing?
HAL SUTTON:  I had a really good feeling about that match.  You know, they are good friends, and Chris had to feel really relaxed because of being out there with Tiger.
Q.  DiMarco/Haas, they halved their match.  They battled that one.
HAL SUTTON:  Yeah, you know, we almost had that match but they played great.  You know, Sergio, how about that bogey putt he made there?  Didn't really matter, but it was still something to see.
Q.  Cink and Love are just dynamite.
HAL SUTTON:  They were.  I mean, Davis played tremendous.
Q.  Campbell and Furyk, the way they fought back, just to get it going again.
HAL SUTTON:  You know, Jim played -- he had a great stretch in the middle of the round there, and Chad made that long putt on 16.  Almost got that match.  We ended up losing, but we almost won it, too.
Q.  Do you feel it was like a 4-footer for him, roughly, coming back?
HAL SUTTON:  You mean for the par?
Q.  Yeah.
HAL SUTTON:  Probably was a little longer than four feet.  I think it was like six.
Q.  And just now looking at the afternoon pairings and the way things, how do you feel about those match-ups?
HAL SUTTON:  I feel good.  I think everything went good.
Q.  I know you kept Haas and day Marco together.
HAL SUTTON:  Yeah.  Put Mickelson and Toms out there.  You know, they had the morning off.  They rested.  Knowing them and the competitors that they are, they are probably a little angry that they weren't out there in the morning.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT