THE RYDER CUP MATCHES MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 23, 2004
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







HAL SUTTON:  I'm moved after that.  I hope everybody else is.  I'm excited about what's a little over from three weeks away, or the actual week itself starts less than three weeks.  The team is set.  All of the decisions are made.  And I'm excited. 


Q.  What did you think of watching Stewart Cink win this week after the way his week started with your announcement? 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I said earlier, yesterday -- well yesterday afternoon, I got a telephone call; we were in transit up here.  I got a telephone call and they said, "Well, what did you think about Stewart winning?"  I said, well, I'm not surprised by that.  I knew he was playing well.  I'm proud of him, but he's been playing great for the last three or four months, headed in the right direction.  He's a mature, talented young man.  He's got a will to win and it showed yesterday.  Since you're on that, I'll take it a step further.  I thought that Jay Haas and Stewart Cink added maturity, consistency, and a strong desire to win, and will play their role and play their part on the team and that's why they got picked. 

Q.  Is there a moment in your life that defines you as captain, or shed some light on how you'll handle the team. 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I've said continually that I was going to try to prepare the team so that we play to win.  I continually said in the media that I wanted everybody to be mature, responsible guys that make this team.  I want them to understand and accept whatever role they have to play in order for us to win The Matches.  You know, we are going to take 12 egos up there, and everybody thinks that they are going to play a part in winning the 2004 Ryder Cup Team.  The truth is some will play a bigger part than others.  That is just the reality of it and I hope everybody can accept that and understand their role. 

Q.  How were you when you were a player; what did you learn from being a player that will help you as a captain?

HAL SUTTON:  Well, my last two Ryder Cups, I went into it completely different.  In  '99 I went into it playing really well and I knew that I was going to be a part of the team.  And then in 2002, after it was delayed a year, I wasn't playing as well.  If the point system had continued on, I would have not made the team.  You know, I went to Curtis right off the bat.  I said, look, I know, I'm a big boy, I'm not playing as well as I need to play, and there's guys playing on this team playing better than me.  Don't feel like you have to have to come alone apologize to me because you didn't play me.  I think in order for us to get to where we need to go, everybody needs to assume the role, whatever it is.  There's one thing that you can't hide from a golfer; he knows the truth.  He knows whether he's playing well or he's not playing well.  We're just going to be looking for the guys that are playing well. 

Q.  Of the captains you had, are there any that you think you might have gleaned more from and will use in your style of captaincy? 

HAL SUTTON:  I've used the term several times, decisiveness.  I think Ben Crenshaw was probably the most decisive.  He had Bruce Lietske and Bill Rogers as his assistants.  I think they had a plan.  It looked like a plan that totally departed us and we were down by four points going into Sunday.  But they stuck to the plan.  They didn't ask guys questions about how they felt like we ought to be paired up or anything else.  They had their -- I felt very organized in that event.  I felt, I'm speaking from a player's standpoint, I think the players appreciate the organization of that. 

Q.  Will you try to bring that as much as you can? 

HAL SUTTON:  Where I can.  Where I can.  It may be hard.  We've got a bunch of new guys on the team.  We're not getting together before the event, so the practice rounds will be used kind of as our, let's find out who does well together, how they work.  I'll listen to a little bit about what they have to say about it, but I'll have more of my own idea.  Sometimes I've said repeatedly that friendship sometimes can get in the way, you lean on one another a little bit too much and you're always saying, "well, you take this."  You don't say it, really, but you're thinking it, you know.  The end of the day, you lean too much on one another, whereas if you are maybe not the closest of friends, you kind of go out and you know what your job is, you don't wait on things; you go out and get it yourself. 

Q.  Along those lines, how do you balance staying committed to a game plan with reacting to your gut instinct, say, to something you see the first couple of rounds? 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I think the only thing that's a game plan is the first match.  I mean, the first Friday morning.  It's probably a game plan, you probably play your cards out on your style and then after that, you've got to go with your gut feeling.  You've got something down on paper that you think will work, but based on what happened that morning, you either stick to it or you go to Plan B, whatever that may be, and Plan B is usually your gut. 

Q.  Are you kind of laying the groundwork for some decisions here that might shock us?  You talk about being decisive and you talk about pairing guys up a little differently and you talk about all of this other stuff.  Is there something, if you know who is playing well and who isn't, is there something in your mind that might shock us on some of these decisions you'll make?

HAL SUTTON:  The only thing I can say to that is expect the unexpected.  I mean, I don't know.  I've had players tell me who they thought they played well with.  I said, that's great.  Don't expect it.  (Laughter.) I'm trying to set you up not for any disappointment in your journalism, too, that you suspect one thing and it ends up being another.  I couldn't -- I thought I did a decent job of not letting the players know who I really was leaning towards.  You know, I've tried to put the onus on the players.  And I wanted them to perform, I wanted them to make the team, not lean on me as their salvation.  I've said all along that we'll play to win.  That's the one mistake the U.S. has done, has made.  They tried to be politically correct, and to my knowledge since I've been playing professional golf, Europe has yet to do that.  They play to win.

Q.  Go back and tell the story how you went in, and said listen I know I'm not playing that well, I'm a big boy, I can accept it.  Does that kind of give you then even more leeway to do that with other players because you can look them in the eye and say, "Listen, I've been where you've been, I made the sacrifice"? 

HAL SUTTON:  I'll feel better about it.  I just, I think -- I've been on three losers and one winner, and I don't have to tell you which one I left feeling better about myself with.  At the end of the day, if I would have only played the two matches at The Belfry and we would have won, how could I have not been happy with that. 

Q.  Were there common denominators to those three losers with regard to maybe some of this political correctness you're talking about? 

HAL SUTTON:  There were some common denominators, yeah.  One of them I talked about.  I think Curtis was a victim of history, basically.  I think Curtis was extremely organized and all of a sudden, what happens, happens, in September.  I've made the statement at Whistling Straits that if all of a sudden Julius called me and said we're going to put this off for another year, "I'd say, you're kidding me, find another captain."  (Laughing).  Not because I don't enjoy it, but because, I mean, I can't imagine Curtis having to go through another year, basically.   Because as a player, you never see what goes on behind the scenes.  You don't see this part.  None of the players knew I was coming up here to do this, see.  They will read about it.  And the next guy that they ask to be the captain, Julius will drop all of those things on.  (Laughing).

Q.  It just seemed when Curtis, during his time, aside from those issues, had to deal with the delay, that he was trying to keep too many guys happy and there was a little political correctness there; whereas you look at that same Euro team, there were some guys that barely saw green that week in competition. 

HAL SUTTON:  You go back to '99, there was three guys that didn't even play a match before singles.

Q.  But that was to their detriment. 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, listen, we're all second-guessing every decision that's made.  And September the 20th, there will be a lot of people second-guessing either me or Bernhard Langer.  That's just part of the territory.

Q.  Along those lines, you have been a player who has felt every time, I'm sure, in the Ryder Cup, even when you were not in best form in 2002 that you could help the team and be a part of helping it win.  As a captain, do you think that it's possible, and have you seen it in your experience, where one captain has maybe put its team over the edge and outcoached or whatever you want to call it, the other guy?  Have you seen that and do you feel like you can make a difference, as good has Bernhard is, obviously? 

HAL SUTTON:  I think Seve rose to a level as a captain.

Q.  That's kind of where I was going. 

HAL SUTTON:  I think Seve stepped up there and proved to his team that, hey, I'm with you 100%, I'm going to fight to the finish, I'm doing my fighting from pairing and all of that sort of stuff and you guys go fight with your clubs. 

Q.  I know you said at Whistling Straits that that you had been playing, you played the course a number of times over the summer.   Is there anything that you see there that the setup of the course will be to the American advantage?  Seve did some things at Valderrama, while The Country Club seemed to be more of a European comfort zone. 

HAL SUTTON:  Kerry Haigh is going to set the golf course up.  I spent that much time playing the golf course because I wanted to see what I felt like the golf course was required for good play and so that it would help me pick the two guys that I picked as captain's picks.  That's really why I spent the time there.  I'm going to ride around with Kerry Haigh.  He's probably just going to tell me what he thinks he ought to do, but it looks like it's perfect to me and perfect shape.  He does a great job setting up the major championships, so I don't see any reason why he can't set this up.

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Chris Riley?  He made a big jump to make the team.  You took a hard look at him before, but what do you see there?

HAL SUTTON:  Well, let me tell you what I see.  I called two people after Whistling Straits to congratulate them, and that was Chris DiMarco and Chris Riley because they went from out of the Top-10 into the Top-10.  I had to leave a message; they were both in transit.  Chris Riley calls me back and he could hardly speak to me on the phone.  He was ecstatic.  It wasn't pride.   I mean, he was just so overjoyed with his accomplishment that it actually was -- I was just really happy for him.  If God let me live long enough to hear up one of my kids be that excited about some accomplishment that they achieve in their life, then it will all be worthwhile, because Chris Riley was that excited.

Q.  You touched on this a little bit at Whistling Straits, and just wanted to see if you could expand on it a little bit what is it about this that makes everybody so excited?  For instance, we've been hearing a lot about the Dream Team in basketball and a lot of guys just didn't want to go, but this is completely different.  What makes this different? 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I think the biggest thing that makes it different is we are individual players.  We play an individual game.  We never have the for the camaraderie that a team sport has.  And, to be able to come together for the same cause, play for your country and go do something of this magnitude.  Every golfer that's ever grown up, every great player played on the Ryder Cup teams.  It's the only true barometer and gauge of success today that is similar to what it was.  Money is not the same.  Golf courses have been changed.  Guys just look forward to doing it. 

Q.  How much does having to earn your way on to the team play in it, as opposed to you just call in ten guys arbitrarily?  The fact that you have to play excellent golf for a two-year period to qualify for the team, how much is that from a players' pride point of view play into it? 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I think any time you earn something, you feel good about it.  Since you said that, I'm going to go ahead and tell you this:  All 12 members of this team earned their right on this team.  I picked two guys because they earned it, and that's exactly what I said to both Stewart and Jay whenever I called them.  Don't ever for one second feel like you were chosen; you earned it. 

Q.  You talked about what Curtis went through in 2001 when The Matches were delayed, what was that like for you as a player?  What was your emotions getting geared up for The Matches and not playing? 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I mean, the world was in shock, first of all.  We were all in shock, whether you were a golfer or on the Ryder Cup Team or just an American citizen.  We were all in shock.  Then to think that a few weeks later you were going to go over to another country and play a large sporting event where a high concentration of people would be, it was a little bit of an alarming thing.  There was a lot of talk back and forth between PGA of America and every player on the team.  There was a lot of feelings on them.  I think President Bush really wanted us to go if I remember correctly.  He wanted to show the world that, you know, we were going to overcome this and go do it.  I think it was just so close right after that it made it difficult.  That kind of took the decisiveness out of it because we were undecided.  But that's what I mean when I say Curtis was at a disadvantage in a way. 

Q.  Back to what you said about setting up, "expect the unexpected."  The common denominators on previous team, one common denominator might be two guys that have never played together, let's just say, speculating here it might be Tiger, it might be Phil; what is a possible pairing of those two players do for your team if that were to be the case? 

HAL SUTTON:  I don't have the World Rankings right here in front of me, but I think that's No. 1 and No. 3 in the world.  I can speculate on that.  I would say that would be one hell of a team.  What do you think?  (Laughter.)

Q.  You mentioned about not being the closest of friends, a little uncomfortable and just competing individually as a team focusing on the goal; is that kind of what you're speaking of just the two of them going after it? 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, what we've got to do is we've got -- we have to, for one week, we've got to put our own selfish endeavors aside and we've got to do something for a common cause.  Now, in order to be good at golf, you have to be very selfish.  And if you don't believe that, go ask any wife of any professional golfer.  They will tell you that their husband has been pretty selfish about doing the things he had to do in order to get to where he went to.   So it's hard for a golfer immediately putting selfish behind him.  So whatever I have to do, I've got to spend some time trying to figure out how I can get that to happen so that we can all work towards a common goal.  Part of the battle is won because I recognize that.  I know that.  Those are the kind of things that we don't talk about necessarily.  We don't want to think of ourselves as being selfish.  It's not proper, you know, it's just not a good thing.  But that actually happens. 

Q.  We're 3 1/2 or so weeks away.  Where are you with pairings in your mind?  Do you have any pairings for day one that you know you're going to lock and load with or do you still very much?

HAL SUTTON:  I'm still very much undecided about that. 

Q.  What between now and then?

HAL SUTTON:  I'm pencilling things in and then scratching it out, pencilling it and then scratching it out.

Q.  What makes you scratch it out and what's going to change between now and then? 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, you may have complementing games.  And what I mean by complementing is in fourball play, you might have one really long hitter that's aggressive, and you might have a guy that's a little bit more consistent so that you feel like, you know, par is always secure and many birdies can be made.  Then all of a sudden, in my case, they might like each other too much.  So I might move them over and do something else.  I think way too much has been made out of the Americans don't talk to one another and the Europeans are reading each other's putts and all that sort of stuff.  I mean, if you're a golfer, let's just be honest.  Would it be easy for me to go out and read your putt for you?  I'm just curious, would that be easy?  I mean, I don't know how hard you're going to hit it; if it's going to break six inches, if you're going to hit it firm, I'd better know that you're going to do it that, basically.  And everybody's feel is different from one day to the next, so that's pretty hard to do.  I've always thought there was too much emphasis put on that.

Q.  How much of an interest do you have in next week, the week before Langer has to make his two picks?  How does that come into play for you?

HAL SUTTON:  It doesn't.  That part of my job is done.   He's got to do his part.  I'm not paying a lot of attention.  I don't know what I would do if I were him.  That's probably the next question that somebody's going to ask, okay.  I don't know what I would do if I were him. 

Q.  Do you scout?

HAL SUTTON:  You mean what they drink and what they eat and what time they go to bed?  (Laughter.)

Q.  You how much do you scout the opponent? 

HAL SUTTON:  How much do I scout the opponent? 

Q.  Scout; break down their game; how much is that done?

HAL SUTTON:  There's a lot of guys that I don't know a whole lot about their game.  I mean, I don't know a lot about Ian Poulter or David Howell.  I know some about Paul Casey and  Thomas Levet.  And obviously I know about all of these guys on the left-hand side, Harrington, Garcia, Clark, Jimenez and Westwood, I know a lot about them.  But no, I'm just using what I know.  I'm not trying to find out anything that's hidden from me.  The science in this is not what they do; it's figuring out what to do with what we have, and that's the science of this.

Q.  What is that science then? 

HAL SUTTON:  I don't know.  I'm looking for it.  If you can figure it out before we leave -- (Laughter.) I think there is a science to it.  I think there is a chemistry to it.  I think figuring out the right mix is critical.  I think wives have something to do with that.  I think -- I've seen too much behind the scenes.  I think some women make a difference. 

Q.  Expand on that one, Hal.  In what way? 

HAL SUTTON:  No.  I think they say things that are important to their husbands.  We've got a different rule going this year.  I made a change.  In the past, the caddies have had their own sort of spot.  No place is off-limits to the caddies.  I want them in the team room.  I want them in there, and here's the reason why I do:  It's because they might single-handedly say one thing that makes a difference in the half-point that wins this thing.  And I'm not going to keep them out here like this; I'm going to bring them right on in.  They are part of the team.  I fully think the wives have that same thing.  They could say something that says, hey, you can make the difference; I believe in you.  You could be the deciding thing, the deciding one.

Q.  Are there any specific instances you remember that maybe --

HAL SUTTON:  I thought '99 was one of most moving Saturday nights I've ever been involved in. 

Q.  In what specific way?  Maybe you can bring us in there as best you can. 

HAL SUTTON:  I think certain wives had certain things to say that were meaningful.  I thought certain guys had things to say.  That week we laughed together, we cried together and we won together.  You know, it was kind of like we all, what was the Rascals or whatever, where they became blood brothers or whatever.  I felt like we all put the blood together out there. (Rubbing thumbs together). 

Q.  There was a video played that night?

HAL SUTTON:  There's a video played every night I think. 

Q.  There was a specific one, wasn't it? 

HAL SUTTON:  They are all specific now that I'm captain.  (Laughter.) They have a pointed message; it's just whether everybody is bright enough to get them or not. 

Q.  Well, do you think that camaraderie didn't necessarily carry over to The Belfry, or was it just there was less of a hunger you didn't have to go get the Cup back? 

HAL SUTTON:  I can't answer that.  I don't know.  I don't really know.  I think the world circumstances caused -- there was a lot of emphasis put on putting the respect and the gentlemanliness back into the game.  I felt for obvious reasons that we played golf in straightjackets, basically.   The Americans, it was our fault and we had to do something about it, so to speak.  We did.  I think everything is back where everybody wants to see it. 

Q.  How do you go about telling caddies, telling wives, don't be afraid to speak up?  The Ryder Cup is about the guys on the golf course, it's not so much about the wives, it is more the caddies.  How do you get people who not swinging the golf clubs to say, here is what I see?

HAL SUTTON:  Well, you know, there is that little -- a player or a wife, caddie, wonders is it going to be different this week because it's a Ryder Cup, should I say this or should I not say this.  I think that would be very hard.  I'll just have a meeting with each one of them privately and just say:  Look, be yourself.  Say what you feel.  You know your husband, you know your player, better than all of us do.  Don't be afraid to speak your mind.  I don't want one of them overtaking a team meeting (Laughter.)  But I'm talking about behind closed doors --

Q.  Is caddie or wife?  Some guys don't want their wife saying anything; they wouldn't take it too well. 

HAL SUTTON:  That wife is such supposed to know them better than anybody else is.  So I would think that they should be able to make an impact, I don't know.  That's my feelings.  Y'all will be second-guessing me about that, too, won't you.

Q.  Is it at all an advantage to have so many first-time guys, just alluding back to what you were saying before about being big boys, some of these guys are so thrilled just to be on the team that you don't feel the need to kind of appease their egos as much maybe? 

HAL SUTTON:  I think we'll have a little of that to overcome with everybody.  These guys played darned good golf over the last two years to be a part of this team.  They look forward to being part of it.  It's something that they look -- it's one of the highlights in their career.  And maybe to get there and feel as though you can't contribute as much as somebody else is bitterness in a way.  Some players handle that better than others.  If were to make it through life and if we could deal with reality better, I think we could all do a better job at whatever we were trying to do.  Sometimes we want to live in a little bit of a dream world, if you will.  That's a golfer.  We've got to envision ourselves being, the next day is going to be better all the time.  That's the way we live our life, you know. 

Q.  So much is always said and written about Tiger.  Just as a player, someone who knows him, just curious what you see, when you see him play, this year what you've seen and any insight on whether you think he might be pressing or whatever; and his role in general terms, his role on this team as you envision. 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, you know, Tiger is the one guy that I've singled out every time I've talked.  He sees -- let me step into his world for a minute for y'all.  He set expectations.  He set a standard that nobody has ever set before.  And boy, everybody liked that standard, and we wrote about it and we talked about it and we anticipated how far that would continue and go.  His career, if you will, has taken a period here where it looks like he's loafing to the world, and this man is not loafing.  He is still going.  It's not easy to do what he did.  It looked easy to do.  It's not easy to do. It's not even easy for Tiger Woods, who is maybe the most talented player that's ever touched a golf club.  I used term this morning.  If anything, he is going through a transition period in his life where he's doing more things on his own.  He's being more accountable to himself.  He's not looking to others as much.  He may be enjoying life just a little bit more.  I mean, in order to set the standard that he set, he can't think about anything but 14 golf clubs and green fairways and green grass and that sort of stuff.  I mean, he may be doing that a little bit, but that's okay.  Let me tell you where most people see two shots, he sees four and he can hit all four; that's the difference.  You know, I could see a few shots; I couldn't hit some of them.  He can.  You know, his worst is usually better than most people's best.  He's proven that this year.  I mean, he didn't drive the ball good this weekend and he still finished second in the tournament.  And he's had a number of those events where he didn't drive the ball well and still finished second.  If he drives it good, what's gonna happen? 

Q.  Having played Oakland Hills as much as you played it, how much does driving the ball matter? 

HAL SUTTON:  It will matter.  Any major championship venue, it will matter.  It's not as long as I remembered it being.  Guys like Tiger Woods, they know how to back off of clubs.  They are going to play the club that's going to put them where they need to be in order to move forward.  Tiger can hit it a mile, but he doesn't have to prove that to you on every hole that he comes to. 

Q.  Do you think that the Ryder Cup and the match-play format, the camaraderie of the team aspect of things, perhaps is a chance to rejuvenate him for lack of a better word.  I almost feel like he might break out that week, and, I don't know, it's a different kind of scrutiny on him than maybe it is at these stroke-play tournaments and the majors. 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, it's a different stage.  The Ryder Cup is a different stage.  It's a worldwide stage that there's a lot of anticipation.  It's one guy against another guy or two guys against two guys.  So, there's a good chance.  I wouldn't be surprised if Tiger elevated his game that week.  I mean, that would be doing something he had not done, according to everybody else, he's had less than a stellar Ryder Cup record to this point.

Q.  Just to follow-up on that, what's the dynamic like for you, you have 12 guys and every guy is an individual, everybody is equal, but this is Tiger Woods, how does that factor into the way you talk to people?

HAL SUTTON:  I'm not sure what you mean by that. 

Q.  Is this Tiger Woods any different from anybody else when you make your decisions? 

HAL SUTTON:  Absolutely he's different than everybody else.  (Laughter.) Yeah, he is different than everybody else.  You used the term everybody's equal.  Everybody is not equal.  We're men, that's the equal part of it.  We play the same game.  That's the second equal part of it.  But we have different talents, different abilities, and you know, here is what I'm going to do, I'm going to reach in and pull those talents out and put them together out there.  I mean, there's some great companies right here in New York City.  I'm affiliated with one of them, CitiGroup, and I can tell you right now, they don't treat everybody the same.  Some guys do things differently.  Jack Welch didn't treat everybody the same at GE.  We are going to exploit talents here.  We're going to use the ones that can help us get the goal accomplished.

Q.  I don't know how other captains did it, but how much nitty-gritty are you going to get into with these guys?  In other words, somebody plays a match, they make two or three decisions that you really think are the wrong decisions, are you going to sit them down at the end of that match and say:  I think you made the wrong move, this is why I think you made the wrong move, and if you're going to keep thinking this way, it ain't going to work for the team?

HAL SUTTON:  I'm going to tell them that before we start.  And if they forget it, I'm going to remind them of it.

Q.  I'm talking about circumstantial, specific decision-making things where a guy does something out on the course after you've spoken to him before he teed off and you watch, and you go, man, I don't like that choice at all.  Are you going to sit down with him after the match and say, "it ain't working for me"? 

HAL SUTTON:  First of all, it's easy to be decisive about whether it was a mistake or not after the fact.  Some things are glaringly wrong.  If something is glaringly wrong, I will have a conversation with a guy.  I don't foresee that happening very much.  I don't think there is that sort of, being Oakland Hills doesn't present that much. 

Q.  Just trying to get a sense of how much detail you're going to go into in terms of who is doing what out there. 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I'm going to be watching whatever they do.  I'm the only guy that can give the American team any advice.  I can tell them what I think.  The assistant captains can't.  I won't be afraid to tell them what I think.  I won't be afraid to encourage them if I think that's what they need.  Seve wasn't. 

Q.  Going back to something you said earlier about course setup, letting Kerry Haigh do it, if you were to look at Oakland Hills and say, how could I set this course up better for my team, what sorts of strengths does a U.S. Team have that you can set up a course to get the most out of those strengths? 

HAL SUTTON:  I think Oakland Hills is just set up that way period.  I don't think you can take anything away from it.  You can't bump it and run it.  The game is played in the air.  Oakland Hills is all about being below the hole and good iron play in order.  In order to be a good iron play, it's easier to be that from the fairway than it is from the rough.  It's go to be easier to make a 15-foot uphill putt than it is a six-foot downhill putt. 

Q.  So if you wanted, you could, if you were to look at your team and say, you know what let's make these fairways seven, eight yards wider, if you wanted to, those are the types of things you're talking about? 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I guess you could, but you'd have to be making that decision now, so that it would look normal and we're not making those decisions now.  We're not going to alter the golf course.  I mean, Kerry Haigh will set the golf course up -- I mean, he did -- let me tell you something.  If you doubted what Kerry Haigh was capable of, Whistling Straits could have made an idiot out of a genius, basically.  Kerry Haigh did a great job of setting that golf course up.  He'll do the same sort of job at Oakland Hills. 

Q.  So Tiger has not been lobbying for wider fairways? 

HAL SUTTON:  I tell you what, if he can't play out of the rough, you didn't play close attention this weekend.   He's got all of the shots.

Q.  You spoke about straightjackets, and I don't want to rehash the whole Country Club thing, but after that Ryder Cup, most of the criticism about the American conduct came from the European press.  It seemed everyone who was there, you didn't have to be a player to sense that there was kind of an enthusiasm that was contagious match-to-match and you could just feel it.  Do you have to bring back some of that emotion without going over the line?  And do you think that the criticism was just to begin with? 

HAL SUTTON:  I think if you pulled every player that was on that team, we would all like to take that moment back and wish that it never happened.  Do I think it was unfair to say that it should have not happened in the moment?  You know, we were excited.  History was being made at that particular point.  We were coming from further back than any other team had ever come from.  There was a lot of baggage on that team.  That was a team that a lot of people had talked about, they should be paid to play and that sort of stuff.  You know, that team had come a long ways.  I think all of the emotions came out at that particular moment from all of those things.  You know, we need in order to win, we need to recall all emotions, we need to bring -- there needs to be emotion.  It needs to all come out, in a constructed way. I think every leader of the team will not be afraid to say what's on his mind at the right time.  I mean, somebody will emerge on this team as a player that will say what he thinks.  And it will be at an opportune time.  I don't know who that person is.  We'll find out.  I'll be able to tell you after it's over with.

Q.  Is it an extra burden, I think you mentioned this at Whistling Straits, too, that you never had the advantage, the psychological advantage, you're going in with this nothing to lose.  It seems like Europe is the overachiever, they are the underdog.  Is that a little bit of a burden that you have? 

HAL SUTTON:  That's what one of the British writers said this last week, "we always play above our weight."  You know, we're back to expectations.  Everybody has these lofty expectations of the American players.  They add up the World Rankings and the World Rankings when you look at the U.S. versus Europe, it's pretty lopsided.  Problem is, is that it's going to boil down to who makes the most putts that week.  And sometimes the greatest player in the game doesn't make enough putts that week to win.  One thing that is great about the game of golf is that David actually beats Goliath sometimes. 

Q.  Were you surprised that Furyk has come back as far as he has in a relatively short amount of time?

HAL SUTTON:  I was surprised.  We're back to your question here a minute ago.  I personally thought it was the wrong move for him to come back at the U.S. Open at Shinnecock and challenge himself like that after having been off for six months, and it would have proved that I was wrong.  He played very well.  If I would have said anything, would have messed up, wouldn't I?  But I was very shocked at how well he's done.  It's just a credit to what kind of player he is.

Q.  Along those underdog, favorite lines, I think you'll carry at least five guys with at least one major championship under their belt, and I'm not sure if Europe will have anybody.  Obviously the World Rankings, you're top heavy on; what does that all mean when you step to the plate at Oakland Hills? 

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I'm not sure what that means, everybody player out there has a great deal of respect for people that win major championships.  But, you know, everybody that makes it there has the ability to play whether they have won a major championship or not, and that's what they will rely on is their own talents and certainly if I had not won a major championship and I was playing Tiger Woods, I would realize that he's performed well at a very high level many times.  But my best still is good enough to beat him on a given day.  That's what they are going to go to battle with, each and every one of those guys. I don't think there is a shoe-in, I really don't.  Nobody would have guess that had Phillip Price would have beat Phil Mickelson last time, but it happened. 

Q.  Have you at all started to think about the pairings for that Saturday singles matches? 

HAL SUTTON:  For Sunday, you mean.

Q.  Sunday, sorry.  There always seems to be a lot of controversy about, you know, top-heavy, bottom-heavy, put the horses out first, put them out late, have you started to think about any of that already? 

HAL SUTTON:  All I'm for sure of is no matter what I do, somebody will be opposed to what I do.  And I'm comfortable with that fact.  I am completely comfortable.  I've been very comfortable about picks that I made.  I knew that there was nobody that was controversial-free.  Somebody else thought somebody else should have been on the team, and that's good, everybody is entitled to their opinion.  I'm going to play the way I think we have to play in order to win.  Somebody is going to write a story the next day if we lose, that it should have been another way and we will never really know the answer if the outcome would have been any different.

Q.  Is everybody going to play a match before Sunday?

HAL SUTTON:  Absolutely.  That's not fair to the player to throw them into the mix on Sunday.  I mean, in retrospect looking back, and I'm going to be y'all for a minute and second-guess.  If you thought they couldn't have one thing to do with you winning, and you had not used them at all, they should have been, 10,11 and 12.  It was a given that you didn't think they could help you.  You didn't play them a single match.  Now I second-guessed just like everyone else is going to do. 

Q.  You've been very clear that you're going to be decisive and you've got a set idea about what you want to do, but if a guy said to you that he didn't want to play with somebody for whatever reason, games, personalities, flat-out, hey, I'd rather not play with this guy, would you overrule that if you thought it was best for the team, or would you say, okay,?

HAL SUTTON:  I don't think anybody's ever said that to anybody.  So first of all, if somebody said that to me, I'd need a bigger explanation.  And I don't know that I could actually give you a straight answer as to whether I would overrule it or not overrule it.  I'd have to listen to the circumstances.  I mean, I'm not going to be stupid, come hell or high water, you're going to do this, or else.  I'm not going to throw the chair out on the court or anything else, you know.  Here is one thing for sure and certain.  Hal Sutton won't win it, but Hal Sutton could lose it and that's what's going to be written. Now, if that's really the case, we're going to kind of do it my way.  I'm going to play Frank Sinatra's song quite a bit.  I'm going to make the decisions and we're going to live by them.  It's not going to be up for debate for 45 minutes on Saturday night's team.

Q.  You made a quick reference there to another coach.  Are there any other coaches in other sports that you follow that coaches that you think are exemplary and maybe have a style and an approach to being a manager or coach? 

HAL SUTTON:  I think anybody that's decisive and organized is easy to play for.  You know what to expect out of them.  Doesn't matter if they have got a fiery way or a quiet demeanor.  I think it's just easier to expect it.  A known product or knowing what somebody is going to do is easier to deal with.  I mean, you know who those people are.  I was kidding, since I made that reference, I asked Bobby Knight one time, what would I do as a player that would cause him to throw the chair out on the court and coach me.  I was 12 years on the Tour or something like that when I asked him this question.  He said, "Well, Hal, if I were your coach, and you and I had been playing this hole and three practice rounds and we had decided under all conditions, all circumstances, this was a 3-wood, wind against, downwind everything and you step up the first day and hit driver, I'm going to throw the chair out on the court."  (Laughter.)  So that's a good explanation about being decisive.  And I understand his point.  You just totally departed. I mean, there is one exception to that rule, and that is that person that rises above what we had all defined as greatness, that person that was capable of making that last-minute decision and had the ability to do it.  There are not that many people in the world; I would say Michael Jordan was that sort of person and I would say Tiger Woods has risen to that sort of level.  I mean, he's more equipped to make that decision than I would be at that point.  I think I'd have to turn him loose.  I'm not going to put a bit in his mouth.  I'm going to show up at the track and make sure he can run as far as he can.

Q.  You told us, you had to mull this over for five days when they approached you with this opportunity?

HAL SUTTON:  I did. 

Q.  Now that you've done it, now that you've had this job up till now, how would you describe it?  Is it exhilarating?  Is it difficult? 

HAL SUTTON:  It's challenging.  I'm pretty much a speak-my-mind sort of person and I have my own ideas and thoughts.  Sometimes having self-talk with myself is a big part of my day with deciding whether it is right or wrong for me to think that way, and if -- you know, if it's okay to say anything.  That's been somewhat of a challenge for me. 

Q.  You've been playing with these guys a long time, so they know you.  As the Ryder Cup Captain, is it Hal Sutton to the X power?  You seem to be setting us up as somebody said before for some surprises.  Are you going to surprise some of the guys that have known you for a long time as a player? 

HAL SUTTON:  No.  I don't think so.  I think -- I mean, the times that I have ever won a golf tournament, it was -- I had to make decisions on how to do things and I had to play certain ways in order to do it and I stuck to my game plan.  They know me as that sort of guy.  I think that's the captain and I will be it. 

Q.  You said you're not trying to guess what Bernhard is going to do, his two picks, but will you in a way be surprised if Montgomerie is not on his team? 

HAL SUTTON:  I would be surprised, but it's not my choice.  He's got several newcomers on this team.  On the one side he's got five guys that have played on the other side he's got five that haven't.  So I think he needs to  -- I mean, I don't know.  I would be looking at some experience based on that team. 

Q.  What sort of role do you expect for Jay Haas, there's a lot of rookies on this team and he's a 50-year-old been around the Tour for a while.  Is he almost a father figure sort of a guy to the players that you envision? 

HAL SUTTON:  A stable figure.  He'll represent stability.  You know, he's got a son that's playing great right now.  He did something right around a guy that's young.  I think Jay represents stability.  That's the word that I would use with Jay.  Consistency and stability. 

Q.  Given your career paths, do you see some similarities with Jay? 

HAL SUTTON:  Yeah.  Jay, what was it, three years ago said he was 165th on the Money List, or I don't remember the number, you can look at it and see.  I'm pretty sure Jay wasn't sure he could do what he's done the last two years and I'm sure it's been an exciting ride for him.  I feel sure that the Ryder Cup making it as 50-year-old is something he'll look back on his career as it was certainly one of the highlights.  Few people have done that.

Q.  It's tougher to make it at 50. 

HAL SUTTON:  It probably is tougher to make it at 50.  Fewer have done it.

Q.  Would you see captain sort of in his future, as that type of personality that he; is he the kind of guy that could evolve into a captain on the Ryder Cup Team? 

HAL SUTTON:  Jay has a lot of abilities.  Abilities of which I would not think that would not be something that he couldn't do.  I'm the PGA of America.  I don't know how to do that.  I would never ever jump out and insinuate something that they might not even be thinking about. 

Q.  What part of this job has been most difficult and surprising to you or difficult? 

HAL SUTTON:  Probably making sure that I want to say what most people would consider the most politically correct thing.  I hate second-guessing.  It's killer in golf.  It is the worst thing that a person can do as a golfer is to second-guess.  I mean, if you've got somebody around you that's second-guessing every decision that you make, I mean, we make a lot of them.  I told my dad one time, said to me, he said, why is it this and why is it that?  Said, "Well how many decisions do you actually make in a decision day?  I make 72 a day."  Hopefully less; if you make 72 in a day's work, you're going home.  And everybody is going to second-guess that decision.  Everybody is going to say is that a right one or a wrong one.  At the end of the day as golfers, we have to put all of that out of our mind and say it doesn't matter, I did what I thought was best at the time.  It's history, we're moving past it.  In this particular role, it's not history until everybody decides it's history, and we're going to talk about it till we get tired of talking about it.  That's a decision that is sometimes affects decisions that you make.

Q.  You said after the first day you're going to go with your gut.  Does decisive equal conservative in that respect? 

HAL SUTTON:  No.  Nothing to do with conservative.  Conservative. 

Q.  You referred in the video to the shirt in your closet being an important memory tool.  What can we expect of shirts that year? 

HAL SUTTON:  Traditionally powerful.  Traditionally powerful. 

Q.  Does that mean conservative? 

HAL SUTTON:  I don't know.  We'll find out after y'all see it. 

Q.  Where is your shirt from Brookline, do you have it hanging up? 

HAL SUTTON:  Oh, yeah.  It's in my closet.

Q.  Is it just in a closet or you have it hanging up in a frame?

HAL SUTTON:  No.  It's hanging -- do I need to take you in my closet here?  (Laughter.)

Q.  Is it up on a wall or on a frame?

HAL SUTTON:  It's hanging on the very end so that you see it whenever you go in.  It's not hanging in the midst of a bunch. 


End of FastScriptsÃ¢ï¿½ ¦.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT