U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2011
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You played the last -- I should say back-to-back 33s, closing yesterday's round and then opening today's. Apparently that's what you're getting, right? 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah, you know, I played really good except for two holes. I made a triple and a double. Other than that, I've liked my game this week. I've kept the ball pretty much where it needs to be and made some nice putts. When I say nice putts, I made a lot of eight-footers, which those are fun to make. 
 I'm hitting my irons really nice, so if I put it in the fairway tomorrow, I might shoot another low one.

 Q. In particular, what's been your secret on that front nine? What do you have figured out? 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, just hit a lot of good iron shots. That's the main thing. You know, you try to get as much as you can before you start into 13 because 13 to 17 are tough. I made two bogeys on them today and was fortunate to get a birdie on 17. 
 It's a good little golf course. This would be a fun golf course to play the Ryder Cup on. 

 Q. Match play kind of holes?
 HAL SUTTON: Well, and it's on top of everything. The crowd would be right on top of you. So hint, hint...

 Q. 17 you made the triple. How did you do that, and then you kind of got it back with birdies the last two times you played it. 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah, I don't want to relive it. It was just -- it was a debacle from start to finish.

 Q. That really was the whole round in the first round was that hole, even to there and --
 HAL SUTTON: I played pretty solid to that point, and then you can't even hardly play 18 after you do something like that. You feel like you've just thrown up all over yourself, you know. But fortunately I'm back in the golf tournament now. 

 Q. You had gotten to down to -6 after 11 today. What was your mindset?
 HAL SUTTON: I was just keep trying to do the same thing, and that was a mistake of mine on 13. I drove it really long right down the middle on 13 and I had it right between clubs, and it's got that false front on 13, and I could have easily taken a bigger club and knocked it in there 30 feet behind the hole, but things were going good, so I pulled a club out that's just the right amount of club, gotta hit it, though, and I just -- just a touch thin, and it hits on the front and spins back down the hill and then it's an impossible up-and-down from there. 
 You know, I had my foot on the accelerator there is the best thing I know how to say. I was trying to get to 7-under for the day right there.

 Q. Is it a fine line to stay aggressive or be patient?
 HAL SUTTON: Well, it's a fine line and I've been getting off the accelerator too much, so I was determined I was going to stay on the accelerator. 

 Q. Could you take us through the front nine today with these birdies? 
 HAL SUTTON: I hit a 6-iron about 12 feet to the right of the hole on 3 and made that. 
 The 4th hole, I hit a great drive and it kicked left in the rough and I hit it in the left bunker and got it up-and-down and made about an eight-footer for birdie there.
 Birdied 8, I went for the green in two, just left of the green, chipped it about six feet and made that. 
 9, I hit it a foot on 9. I hit pitching wedge a foot. 
 Then 10, I hit it two feet, pitching wedge.
 And then 11, I hit it six feet behind the hole with a pitching wedge there, too. 

 Q. How did you make the birdie at 17?
 HAL SUTTON: 17, I hit 5-iron in there about 15 feet above the hole and made it. 

 Q. Maybe just assess where you are; you're kind of just outside the top 10. More acceleration tomorrow, try and get yourself in there?
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah, just hit solid shots. They've got a lot of golf to play, and they're coming up on the holes that could give them some trouble. I'll bet at the end of the day I might sneak in the top 10, and we'll see if we can sneak in further than that tomorrow. 

 Q. What's the difference between the course today versus Thursday and Friday? 
 HAL SUTTON: I didn't think it was a whole lot different today. I'll tell you, the greens were a lot smoother. I was playing last night. I was one of the -- they were pretty rough yesterday evening. But I think similar distances, you know. They moved the tees around out there on some of the holes, and we're hitting shorter clubs or longer clubs because they moved the tee a long ways one way or the other. But I think it's playing similar in distance.

 Q. You said this would be a good course for the Ryder Cup, hint, hint; what is your rationale on that? 
 HAL SUTTON: I just think it would be fun for everybody because everybody is on top of everybody here. It seems small because fairways are side by side. It would be a fun place --

 Q. Intimacy?
 HAL SUTTON: Intimacy would be a great way to put it. Nice word.

 Q. As you made the turn yesterday, you were in danger of not making the cut. Did you imagine you'd be in contention at the end of the round today?
 HAL SUTTON: I've been hitting it good all week, I just knew if I could get some good breaks and make putt or two, I'd start getting it going. Stay patient in this game, you know, don't give up.

 Q. Not easy to do, but that's what you've got to do, right? 
 HAL SUTTON: It's not easy to do, but that's what you've got to do. We're playing a marathon, we're not playing a sprint. It feels like a sprint sometimes.

 Q. On moving day are you the best mover today do you think?
 HAL SUTTON: I don't know. No, there's other guys out there playing good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT