BUICK OPEN
August 12, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HAL SUTTON:  Today was quite a day.  The crowd was quite energetic about their golf out there today, I thought.  It was a beautiful day.  The golf course was in good condition.  I was trying to find my place to get around the golf course.  (laughs).

Q.  Noisy out there?

HAL SUTTON:  I think everybody was pretty excited about Tiger and Phil playing together.  We got paralleled to them there on that front nine.  It was a little -- they didn't -- nobody knew we were even playing golf.

Q.  (inaudible)

HAL SUTTON:  A little bit.  A little bit.

Q.  (inaudible)

HAL SUTTON:  Probably more amusing to me than annoying me.  I thought that was pretty amazing. Woody is playing well, leading the golf tournament  back there and there is probably 20 people following him.

Q.  At TPC --

HAL SUTTON:  I don't know.  You don't notice when you are in the group.  It is better to be in the group than beside it.

Q.  Do something crazy on the last hole there? Did you make that eight or ten --

HAL SUTTON:  Yeah, I made an 8- or 10-footer for par.

Q.  (inaudible)

HAL SUTTON:  That is good because I played the hole lousy, so that would have been one I would have been appreciative if nobody had seen.

Q.  You may have saved yourself a little bit for the end; did you?

HAL SUTTON:  Well, making that par on 18 gave me a nice feeling because I drove it bad, under the lip of the bunker; tried to clear the lip; hit the top of it and it went down there pretty good.  But I still had to get it up-and-down from 100 yards to get the 4 and when you do that, and you save that on the last hole, gives you a good feeling going into the next day.  It is almost like making a birdie on the hole really. 

Q.  A week before a major, what is your approach?

HAL SUTTON:  I am glad I am here because I haven't played much golf.  I am kind of feeling my way around out there.  If anything, I was a little uneasy today.  Starting out I didn't feel as good as I should have and I think it was because I haven't been playing; you don't know what to expect, you know, and so, I need to be here.  I need to be in the heat.

Q.  Back nine (inaudible) --

HAL SUTTON:  It is going to come down to who plays the full 18 holes the best.  Not going to be just the back nine.  I mean, it may be one on the back nine, but there will be something that is done on that front nine that will be an integral part of the end of the day.  That first shot off the first tee is going to be just as critical as the last putt.  You won't know it because you know it is not rolling marbles, but you have got to put the whole 18 holes together in order to win it.

Q.  You have won a tournaments like a TOUR Championship where par was good and now this is obviously a lot different.  I wondered which one you prefer?

HAL SUTTON:  Well, I like it when you don't have to birdie every hole in order to win.  But that  is all right.  That is what we are going to do here.

Q.  Playing hurt out -- (inaudible) --

HAL SUTTON:  It is bothering me a little bit, but not when I swing.  It is all right.  It is just bothering me getting around the golf course a little bit.  I need a cart.  (laughs).

Q.  Did you make a save some place?

HAL SUTTON:  Yeah, 15, made about 20-footer for par.  Drove it in the left rough; hit it right of the green, made 20-footer for par.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT