BUICK OPEN
August 11, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (inaudible)

HAL SUTTON: I played good for two days. I have really hit the ball well. I have made
some nice putts at times. Yesterday in the middle of the round I missed three putts in a
row from inside seven or eight feet and I wasn't too happy about that, but overall, I have
putted the ball well and I have hit it well.

Q. What have you done the last couple of weeks (inaudible) --

HAL SUTTON: I had two or three weeks off before the British; then two weeks after,
since it, so I have only played one time in the last five or six weeks, I think. Just took
some time off. I knew we were going to have to go hard this fall and I had a little
tendonitis in my left ankle. I was trying to give it a chance to feel better.

Q. Playing three weeks in a row (inaudible)--

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, then take a week off. I don't remember exactly how it goes, but --

Q. Three in a row now? 

HAL SUTTON: Right.

Q. How big was that birdie on 9 after the (inaudible) --

HAL SUTTON: Never hurts to get another birdie, you know. I have hit it in five bunkers
this week and I stood in the bunker one time to hit the bunker shot out. I have been right
under the lip over every time; not standing in the bunker on 8 was no different. I buried
it underneath the lip, I wasn't standing in it. It was pretty much -- I had resolved
myself to that bogey pretty much, so it was nice to get that birdie.

Q. Got most of them up-and-down despite the -- (inaudible) --

HAL SUTTON: I have done all right out of the bunkers, but I have not been happy with
what I have been left with in the bunkers, let me put it that way.

Q. How long was 14 playing?

HAL SUTTON: Well, that was as big as I could hit it, let me put that it way. It was --
the pin was all the way on the back left, so...

Q. (inaudible) --

HAL SUTTON: I don't know if -- the pin was all the way to the back left. It was a
pretty long drive. Couples hit it closer than I did. He was coming from the 5th tee.
(laughter) He hit it in there about like that, but it was the wrong hole.

Q. Hal, you actually went head-to-head with Tiger and beat him at THE PLAYERS
Championship. I mean, you did it very, very well. Now next week at the PGA, Tiger has had
incredible run since then. How do you see next week going at the PGA Championship?

HAL SUTTON: I went to Valhalla last week and played it on Thursday of last week and,
you know, one thing Valhalla does, it takes the driver out of the hands a lot of times.
There is not a lot of driver holes on it. That is going to play -- we are going to be
playing one from spot to the next spot; everybody is going to be playing to the same spot,
basically, and Tiger is a great player. He plays well every time he goes out. I mean, I am
always amazed at how well he does play. But if there is a golf course that is going to
neutralize his game a little bit, next week is going to do that somewhat.

Q. Talk about playing -- well, seems like you said you haven't played in a few weeks;
Azinger said he hasn't played in a few weeks. But you are knocking down good numbers. Is
that the key to good golf around here? 

HAL SUTTON: I don't know. I needed a break. I had played quite a bit to that point, so
I was kind of washed out and the one thing that I have noticed is the bad breaks that I
have got this week, that kind of just hit my back like water hitting a duck's back. I
haven't been mad about it or anything else. When you have played a lot and really trying
to grind and get the most out of it, when you get a bad break, you are angered by it. This
week I have kind of brushed off all the bad. So I think after a rest, that is what
happens.

Q. Even though you are a pretty good driver, as you say Valhalla takes that out, the
strength of your game also is iron-play (inaudible) do you like the fact that it is that
type of course or not?

HAL SUTTON: When I say, you know, Tiger hits it 15 yards further than I do, so he is
going to be backing off a little bit. I may hit a driver somewhere where he hits 3-wood. I
am just saying that his length is going to cause him to back off a little bit, sometimes,
is what I am thinking.

Q. (inaudible)

HAL SUTTON: It is all I can shoot. I don't get another chance to make another birdie so
I am happy with it. Have to wait until the first hole tomorrow to make another birdie.

Q. Next week is there a unique psychology to the PGA since it is the last major of the
year and Augusta seems like it is a long ways off? Is that kind of the way the players
look at it, a sense of extra urgency at all?

HAL SUTTON: Not really. I don't think so. Not from my standpoint anyway. I just -- I
think -- it is funny, I didn't say this a minute ago, I was more impressed with Valhalla
when I went down there the other day than I was four years ago when we were there. For
whatever reason, I don't know why, but it just didn't seem to strike a chord with me four
years ago and I actually thought it was a little bit better the other day when I was down
there. It was playing a little longer the other day when I was down there and I remember
when we were there before, it was playing really, really short. It just didn't seem like a
major championship golf course before when we hit driver two, three times a round. I
always thought if you won major you are supposed to see if you can drive it in the
fairway.

Q. (inaudible) Paul was addressing that subject yesterday. He said we need to give the
new courses in the PGA rotation a chance too mature. Do you think Valhalla might fit that
description?

HAL SUTTON: That is what I was kind of saying. I liked it a lot better this time. I
played with a member the other day, that is a member at Valhalla and I said, you know, it
has been criticized as not being a major championship golf course, but I mean, it is
still, in its own right, is still a very, very good golf course. And I think in time it
will mature into a really good golf course. Maybe that kind of golf course.

Q. Any significant changes?

HAL SUTTON: They lengthened 1 and 2. They are talking about playing the left side on
No. 7 being able to go both ways. Other than that, I didn't notice a whole lot.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT