U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HAL SUTTON: I have not. This will be my first round today. I can't tell you, other than
it looks beautiful. 

HAL SUTTON: Well, it's been a good year so far. I've played a lot up to this point. I
was fortunate enough to have the last two weeks off. I was glad to get that two weeks off
prior to this week, to get a little rest in.

HAL SUTTON: I played Pebble Beach quite a lot. It's a great test of golf. Probably one
of the most scenic places in the world that I've ever played golf. And we're seeing some
very good weather; so we get to see scenic at its best, I guess. It's warm. I'm surprised
how warm it is. 

Q. Hal, could you talk about THE PLAYERS and how you performed down the stretch and
what that did for your game?

HAL SUTTON: Well, obviously that was a highlight of my career, winning at that
tournament, and certainly winning against Tiger. I felt like my game was really good going
into that week. I felt like the golf course suited me, because it was kind of from point A
to point B, strategic-type golf, and that usually suits my game. And it ended up working
out for me somehow.

Q. Hal, that's an interesting strategy. You've had two weeks off, and you haven't
played the course until the day before. What's your thinking? What are you trying to do?

HAL SUTTON: It wasn't by design. My back was bothering me the last couple of days; so I
didn't do much. I was trying to make sure that I give it a chance to get a little bit
better before I pressed it.

Q. Hal, this golf course, the other three Opens that were here, produced outrageous
dramas. What is about a tournament like this that you have to have a little luck go your
way? Colin Montgomerie was just in here saying luck always plays a part.

HAL SUTTON: I think that's true that. Anytime you win a golf tournament you have to
have luck. But at a U.S. Open, and the golf course set up as difficult as it is, luck even
plays more of a factor. One thing that I think always plays out is that it is a true
champion that wins the U.S. Open, too. He may have to have a little luck going, but he
better have a lot of game along the way, too. 

Q. You played the first three months of the season beautifully, and the last month, I
guess, that you played wasn't so great, and you took a couple of weeks off. Was that
because you were tired? Was your back bothering you? Was fatigue an issue?

HAL SUTTON: Your expectations are unbelievable. Actually, I've had an Achilles heel
problem, and that bothered me. And I probably shouldn't have played during that stretch,
because people, like you, think that whenever you play, you play poorly, and you get
reminded of it. I was thinking the whole time that I probably shouldn't have been playing
in that stretch, because everybody was going to say: "Well, what's wrong with Hal, he
finished 50th?" So I had a little Achilles heel problem. I'm getting old. What can I
say? 

Q. What strengths do you bring to this golf course? Does this golf course suit your
game more than other previous Open tracks that you've played?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I think that in every U.S. Open, you'd better drive the ball
straight, and driving is an important part of the game. When a golf course gets hard and
fast like this one is, from what I hear, that makes it even harder. You better hit it even
straighter. So to answer your question, I drive the ball decently, and I think that's one
of the most important things.

Q. Hal, how do you believe your game is different now than when you won the PGA?

HAL SUTTON: My game is a lot different now than it was then. I was more of a gambler.
My short game wasn't nearly as good then as it is now. I'm not quite as much of a
risk-taker now as I was then. I think what I do now is more calculated. I'm going to play
the percentage shot most of the time. I only play a risky shot when I think I really need
to.

Q. Hal, very simply, just your thoughts on the tribute to Payne Stewart this morning?

HAL SUTTON: Well, every time -- it seemed like every time I've been to a tribute to
Payne, it gets tougher. Nothing seems fitting, especially in this setting. I was sitting
there thinking about how beautiful this is, and he's missed the opportunity to be present
and be the defending champion, to walk the fairways thinking "I won this tournament
last year." As beautiful as all that was today, that void is still in Tracey's life,
as she mentioned. And I think we'll always miss him. I think what Paul said was
tremendous. No matter what you do, and you can do great things in life, you will be
remembered, but will you be missed and who will miss you. And I think that's very fitting.

Q. Hal, back to your back bothering you. Does it feel fine now, and as far as the heel
goes?

HAL SUTTON: It is okay. 

Q. Hal, with your strength off the tee, and also your iron game, which has always been
regarded as one of the best, is this a tournament you thought you would win early in your
career? Is it a tournament you thought you had really a good chance?

HAL SUTTON: Well, there's so many factors that go into winning a U.S. Open. You can
look on paper and you can say: This guy has got a good chance, because he's got this sort
of game; this guy has got a good chance. But you know what, we're not transparent. You
cannot look inside a person. And the one thing that I think majors bring out the most is
what's inside the person. And we would all like to win one. We'd all like to win more than
one. We just have to go out there and get it done, and it's both the things you see as
well as the things you can't see that are parts of getting it done.

Q. What happened to your back? Did you just hurt it? Also, did you try to play
yesterday at all?

HAL SUTTON: I was just hitting balls yesterday morning really early and I felt a catch
in my back, and it hurt pretty bad. I went over and tried to play one hole and it was
hurting pretty bad. And I thought, rather than push this, I'm not going to try -- I felt
like I changed my golf swing trying to do that; so I decided to get it worked on. And they
said, "You'd probably be better off if you didn't play today." So I didn't play.
But you know what, I only played nine holes in the practice round at the TPC. So practice
rounds are not everything. You all make a big deal out of that. It doesn't have to happen.


End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT