GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
May 20, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER: We'd like to thank Hal Sutton for coming into the interview room. He
shot 5-under, 67 today. Let's talk about how the course played and how you played.

HAL SUTTON: When I teed off, I didn't think the scores were going to be that low. But
as we progressed around there, I could see that they were. The golf course was much drier
than I thought it was going to be after the first couple of days here. And then the greens
were putting nicely. So I think that had a lot to do with the lower score. For myself, I
played pretty good. Didn't drive it quite as much as I normally did. I hit it in the rough
five times today. And you don't like hitting it in the rough here. I didn't have a
terrible lie, so I was able to avoid those bogeys.

Q. Hal, why do you think the scores were so low, just the reception of the greens?

HAL SUTTON: I'm not real sure why they were. I thought they had some pretty nice pins
out there today, too. You know, the greens were holding, but they're not really spinning
back a lot, which is an optimum way for you to have it, because where you land it is
pretty much where it stays. If the ball is going hard forward, it's hard to judge; if it's
spinning back, it's hard to judge. 

Q. Evidently your iron play was your key today?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I holed an iron shot today. On the 5th hole, I holed a pitching
wedge. And I hit some other nice iron shots. But I putted the ball really well today. I
didn't hit anything super close. And when I did, I made it. And every time I hit a lag
putt, if I was four or five feet, I made them. So I felt like I stroked the ball well
today.

Q. (Inaudible.)

HAL SUTTON: Who knows. All you can do is tee it up and go try to do it.

Q. Hal, those five fairways you missed, did you get anything but pars or bogeys on
those?

HAL SUTTON: All pars. I didn't have any bogeys today. 

HAL SUTTON: That pitching wedge was the first -- where I made if for eagle from 130
yards. 9, I hit a pitching wedge about four feet from 120 yards. 10, I hit a 7-iron from
150 yards about six feet. 1, I hit a 9-iron from 148 yards, about 12 feet behind it. 

Q. Do you feel like, though, if you'd been striking the ball and getting it in the
fairways as much as you usually do, that you would have maybe --?

HAL SUTTON: I would have given myself five more opportunities out of the fairway to get
the ball close, and that's a big difference. I didn't hit it badly. I'm not trying to tell
you I hit it bad. I just kind of slipped them into the edge of the rough. Unlike me, I was
fading the ball a little bit, and I never could make myself aim left. I kept slipping it
in the right rough, and not very far, three or four feet. But that's -- that's three or
four feet too far, when the rough is 8 or 10 inches high.

Q. Hal, playing with Brian, I guess he birdied 7 of 8 during a stretch there. Does that
spur you on when a guy in your group is --?

HAL SUTTON: He played very well. He hit a lot of good, close shots during that stretch.
It wasn't like he was making a lot of long putts, either. I think he made maybe a
20-footer. And then on 14, he made probably a 30-footer. But the rest of them were within
five feet; and that's the way you shoot low.

Q. What's the biggest difference in Hal Sutton today and the Hal Sutton that was
struggling a few years ago? Is it mental, is it mechanical, is it maturity?

HAL SUTTON: All of the above. I've improved my golf swing and my short game. Because of
that, my confidence level is much higher. So I believe in myself, so I'm mentally sharper.
A husband and a daddy three times, so that's matured me. Just a lot of things.

Q. Hal, how about your game, suited to this course?

HAL SUTTON: I think so, if I straighten that driver out a little bit, hit it down the
middle of the fairway, I really like it.

Q. How about your putting, still feel that good urge?

HAL SUTTON: I loved the way I putted today. I hope I putt that way the next three
rounds.

Q. Talk a little bit about the group. 

HAL SUTTON: 15-under par, that was pretty good for a group, wasn't it? It was good. We
all hit a couple of shots we didn't want to hit, but that's golf. You all play, don't you?
You all understand this game, don't you? We were all probably pleased with the results
that we got. I'm sure Brian would have liked to make that putt on the last hole for a par.
But he played very well. Jesper didn't hit it his best, and he shot a 69, so I'm sure he's
pleased with that. I thought it was a good group.

Q. When you were struggling, did you ever wonder if you could get back to where you
are? All those heights you hadn't been before?

HAL SUTTON: Oh, yeah. I wondered if I could get back to playing halfway decent. I don't
know that if I could have even guessed that I could play the way I'm playing now. So I
certainly wanted to, aspired to, but it was a little bit out of the realm of my thinking
at that point.

Q. Trying to take more small steps type of things?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, I was trying to crawl before I walked, and walked before I ran. This
game makes you really test your patience. Even when you're playing good, you still have to
stay very patient. It's something you have to remind yourself of every day is to be
patient.

Q. When do you think that the turn started, and you could see --?

HAL SUTTON: In my game? 

Q. Yes. 

HAL SUTTON: Probably '94. I could begin to see my game coming back in '94. And I worked
on it all the way through, and it just started coming back in, I'd say '94.

Q. Considering how the scoring has been here, and knowing that the course was going to
be a little softer this morning, did you feel it was important to get a low number to
start with?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I think any tournament that you play in it's important to get off to
a real good start. And I don't know if it's any more important here than it is anywhere
else we go. Each week you think if you don't get off to that good start, you think: Well,
I've got my work cut out for me the next three rounds. This is the PGA TOUR, they're
playing good out here. You don't want to give them any more ground than they have to. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT