GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 23, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HAL SUTTON: Well, thanks. I felt very fortunate to finish on top. It was pretty close
out there for a while. The golf course played tough this weekend I thought. It was hard to
make birdies and hard to keep the ball in the fairway. I felt very fortunate. I don't know
what else to say. I finally drove it a little bit better. 

Q. Take us back to 15, Hal, the shot you hit in there, Andrew said that put pressure on
him. Do you think it did?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, I think we were right there at the point where -- in fact, when I hit
the ball out of the rough, I was glad my ball was a little further from the hole than his,
because I wanted to be able to hit that shot into the green first. I had a real good
yardage, but the ball was 6 inches above my feet with a left pin. That makes it easier for
you to pull the ball off that stance. I had to hit it hard, too. Had 128 yards uphill
hitting a pitching wedge. I was trying to make sure I got it left, but I didn't want to
get it in the left fringe. When I saw it was ten feet left of the hole, putting straight
uphill, that was good.

Q. Hal, would you have ever thought that a par, 1-under par in the final two rounds
would have given you a championship, and by three strokes?

HAL SUTTON: I don't ever think about what kind of score it's going to keep, I think
that adds pressure to what you're trying to do. The golf course played tougher this
weekend than it did the first two days. When this golf course dries out, it gets difficult
because a lot of fairways are sloping, and it makes them tighter and the rough is deep.
17, I had 180 yards uphill and I hit a 6-iron high, and it went 15 feet. So the greens
were getting firm at the end. I really don't think about scores, what it's going to take.

Q. How did you keep it together after 13? He hits the ball off the tee into the woods,
comes out with a par, and you probably hit your worst shot of the tournament back over
into the high stuff and get a bogey?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I don't want to sit up here and act really weird and say, "Well,
I should have got this break or that break," or whatever. But I felt like my tee ball
was going to stay up on top. I hit a 4-wood for that purpose, and it eased over the top of
the hill. So that made me have to layup. And that third shot just played really short. I
couldn't believe how short it played. And I was dead from there. The main thing there was
to make sure you make 6 and don't make 7. If you try to leave it -- try to hit it close,
you might leave it in the fringe and not get it up-and-down from there. So 6 was the worst
score I wanted to make from there. I was aggravated by that. That was a gift, there. 

Q. How do you get over when you're aggravated and now it's a one-shot game?

HAL SUTTON: Well, it's decent walk from the 13th green to the 14th tee. All I told
myself was, "I've still got the lead, and let's go drive it in the fairway." And
I had trouble driving it in the 14th fairway this week, so that was really a big drive
when I drove it in the fairway on 14. 

Q. Do you think about what you've done just in the last month, winning twice in a month
period?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I hadn't really thought about it until you said that just then. But
Tiger Woods sets the expectations high, doesn't he? If you want to play in the same game
with him, you have to elevate your own thinking.

Q. Have you elevated your own thinking out here?

HAL SUTTON: I'm trying to. I'm certainly trying to.

Q. Hal, two years ago you finished tied for 8th here, and that was the first of four
top-10 finishes. Can you talk about what that stretch did to your game over the last few
years, and did you feel like that was the beginning of all of this?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I felt like I was playing good prior to that. But when you have a
stretch like that, you feel like things are beginning to come together. A lot of times as
a player you see your game evolving in the direction that you want it to evolve before
maybe the public sees it. Maybe your scores aren't indicative of the way you played. But
inside, you, as a player, know that, hey, it's coming, just keep being patient. And I felt
like prior to that stretch it was coming. And then I did have a real good stretch through
here, and that kind of let me know it was there.

Q. Did you feel a little uncomfortable with the putter starting the round out?

HAL SUTTON: Every putt I had was a straight downhill putt, fast as greased lightning.
And I never had anything that I could be aggressive with. One of the things that made it
really tough is that the greens increased in speed by two feet, at least, on the weekend.
And when that happens and you're used to some other speed, then all of a sudden it makes
it more difficult. And I just didn't feel like I ever had a putt that I could do anything
with. I felt like I was having to be protective. Like the putt where I 3-putted on 3, I
thought I'd try to leave that putt short, and it goes five feet by. They were quick.

Q. Hal, you've made this great comeback in your career, and you've won money, you've
won tournaments. Will it be complete until you win a major championship?

HAL SUTTON: That was my goal at the beginning of the year to win a major championship.
I think I've already won the hardest one there is to win, but you don't call it a major.
So I think as far as all the players are concerned, I think the TPC is a major. But that's
not the one I had my sights set on, since you all don't see it that way.

Q. The rough at the TPC, the rough here, very open like, do you feel like that's
setting up well for you, then?

HAL SUTTON: I like to see rough. That's one of the things -- although this week I
didn't drive it as well as I'd like to. Maybe I'd like to have seen shorter rough this
week. When I arrive at a tournament and I see a lot of rough, I like that usually.

Q. Andrew isn't one of the fastest players around. Does that bother you at all?

HAL SUTTON: You mean you all noticed? (Laughter.)

Q. Does that bother you at all when you're trying to go through your round?

HAL SUTTON: I probably looked pretty boring out there. I tried to keep looking down at
the ground and keep emotions on a very even keel. When you're waiting on people a lot,
your mind tends to wander and you've got to really focus in order to win a tournament. And
I was trying to stay focused. I was trying to keep my mind from wandering during those
times. That's your answer. 

Q. Hal, as a guy who had a reputation as a certain kind of ex-phenom, how fun is it now
to be delivering the goods and have a reputation again as a reborn player?

HAL SUTTON: Well, the second time around is a little sweeter, because I've experienced
a lot of things now that I hadn't experienced at that time. I know just how humbling this
game can be and how fleeting it can be and how you can't take anything in life for
granted. So because of those reasons, I'm humbled by being able to have this resurgence in
my career, I guess.

Q. Is it fun, though, in the golf sense to hear other guys maybe talking about you now,
like, "Man, he's --"?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, but, you know, you try not to get caught up in that kind of thing,
because I've got to leave here and go home tonight and then head to Houston on Tuesday
morning. And all of a sudden we'll be at another event, and it will be time to play again.
And if you get caught up too much in what other people are saying about you, you forget
about what your job is. And sooner or later it's gone. And that's that fleeting part that
I'm talking about. I tell you what, with where I've been in life and where my career is
concerned, I can't allow myself to think that way.

Q. Hal, along that line, when you won THE PLAYERS Championship, you chastised us in the
media for making Tiger Woods bigger than he is. This is a little tongue in cheek. Is there
a danger that we might start to make you bigger than you are?

HAL SUTTON: I didn't mean to chastise you all. I'm sorry, I owe you an apology
(laughter.) I'll say this one more time: Nobody is bigger than the game. The game is a
great game. It's a game that I've enjoyed most of my life. There was a little time there
where I didn't. I think we owe the respect to the people that pave the way in order for us
to be where we are today. There's a lot of hard work that's gone into the efforts of where
the Tour is at right now and where it's going in the future. And I think we, as players,
have a responsibility to the game itself to be respectful. And I think maybe the media has
a responsibility to be the same. And I don't know, you've got to deal with that. I have to
deal with my issues of being respectful to the game. And I don't know what to say other
than that. Maybe I'm avoiding your question. But I just don't think anybody is bigger than
the game. Jack Nicklaus was my idol growing up. And he went about his business and won
many, many golf tournaments, and he just never seemed bigger than the game. Maybe I wasn't
old enough to read between the lines in the newspaper. Maybe he was made out to be bigger
than the game, I don't know. 

Q. Is this the media age where everyone jumps on a bandwagon and then jumps off and
jumps on another bandwagon; and going to the U.S. open now, you're a U.S. Open type
player. Everyone might be certain to call you the favorite. Is that fair?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I don't know. I enjoy being in that position. If you think I'm good
enough to win that tournament, well, then that's great. I'm excited to be in that
position. I'm looking forward to going to Pebble Beach. What can I say? That's a tricky
question. 

Q. How does Pebble set up for you as an open venue, do you think?

HAL SUTTON: I think it will be better as an open venue. I didn't play in '90 or
whenever Tom won. I was there in '82. It plays firmer during that time, and I like that. I
don't like it when it plays really, really soft. It's the greatest place in the world. If
God says you have one day to play, Pebble Beach is where I want to go.

Q. Hal, the rankings say Tiger is No. 1 in the world and you're in the top-5 or 6 in
the world. Do you feel like now you're one of the toughest players in the world to beat?

HAL SUTTON: Did you all get together and ask these questions? You all are trying to
build a rivalry here, aren't you? I can sense this (laughter.) You know what? Tiger Woods
is a great player. And he makes his presence felt everywhere he goes. If you all think
that I deserve to be mentioned in that same paragraph, then I feel good about where my
game is at right now. 

Q. You said yesterday you have to have a gameplan and stick to it. Can you sort of tell
us what your gameplan was today and how closely you stuck to it?

HAL SUTTON: My gameplan was to hit fairways and greens and try to make some birdies
where I could, but not try to force the issue anywhere. When you start with a three-shot
lead, I said Friday that I felt challenged by that, and I do -- I mean, I did. It's very
difficult to go out there and not play conservative and wait on them to come to you. These
guys are good out here, they're going to come to you if you do that. I really wasn't
trying to play conservative, it just worked out where I didn't do any better than I did
this weekend. I played hard; I couldn't go any lower.

Q. Did Sam offer any words of wisdom out there to you?

HAL SUTTON: No, he said he sent a flower out for me to smell it. I didn't get it, I
guess. Anyway, he told me he thought I was going to lose it out there. He was worried
about me, that's what he said.

HAL SUTTON: 3, I hit a 7-iron in there about 20 feet behind the hole and thought I made
the first putt, and it goes about 5 feet by, and I miss it coming back. 6, I hit a 7-iron
about 15 feet behind the hole and made that. 10, I hit a pitching wedge about 10 feet and
made that. 13, I guess you all saw, I hit a sand wedge over the green and couldn't get it
up-and-down and missed it from 18 feet probably. 15, I hit the pitching wedge about 10
feet left of the hole and made that. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT