THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 27, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HAL SUTTON: I feel really tired. I knew it wasn't going to go without Tiger making his
charge. All I can say is I was planning on him making that eagle putt. I hope me planning
on it didn't force it in the hole for him. But anyway, he played great. He is -- he lives
up to his No. 1 ranking all the time, and I can't say enough good things about Tiger. He
is a great player.

Q. Is it okay to praise him now that it is over?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, it is okay to praise him now. I don't have to go hit another shot
with him out there.

Q. Thoughts about the way you played all week.

HAL SUTTON: I played good. I was really proud of the way I played because I kept my
game plan all week long to play strategic golf and try to take advantage of the
opportunities when I had -- when I had the chance. Going into the final round, I was going
to make sure that I did not beat myself and I drove the ball so good the last round, with
the exception of 16, where I came off of it and put it in the right rough. I just -- that
was one of the big factors, just never looked like I was in trouble from Tiger's
perspective. If you give him an open door, he just rushes through it, that is what I was
trying to keep from doing, was to keep from giving him an open door.

Q. Was that simply because your golf or the fact that you kept saying you weren't
playing Tiger? Was it because Tiger was right there, or would you have done it at any
other golf tournament that you have a one-shot lead?

HAL SUTTON: I wouldn't have done it any other -- on this particular golf course, you
know, I mean, I read the paper -- or I heard Tiger -- whatever it was, where he said there
is a lot of water you have got to hit it over. That is true. I had the same water that he
had to hit over. I mean, this golf course, it asked everything of you. It asked you to
drive it straight. It asked you to know how far to hit each club. It asked you to have a
good short game, and it asked you to have a lot of nerves. I don't know what else is
required of a great golf course.

Q. You said yesterday this wasn't Hal Sutton versus Tiger Woods. With all the things
have been said all week, was there a little Hal Sutton versus Tiger Woods?

HAL SUTTON: Not with me it wasn't. I mean, I said out there, I thank the crowd for
keeping the respect in and the integrity in the game, because Tiger Woods is not bigger
than the game. And you all do a damn good job of making him bigger than the game. That is
what makes it tough. That is why a lot of people get even against him because they pull
for the underdog sometimes. You know, I mean, I beckon you all to let's keep the respect
in the game. Let's go back to Arnold Palmer days, Ben Hogan days, Jack Nicklaus days. None
of those guys were ever bigger than the game. The game is the biggest of all. I will tell
you all the truth: I got nervous as heck. I have been nervous for the last two or three
days knowing that the big deal that it had been made, and I had said, I'd continually said
that it was not a "Tiger Woods against Hal Sutton." And I mean, I kept getting
more nervous and more nervous. The other night, I was sitting in the bed, I thought: Well,
you know what, I am not praying to him. I am not praying to him, so he is not a god, for
sure. So I mean, when I finally -- that realization came over me, it is like: Okay, you
know, this is okay. He is just human just like I am, so we can do this.

Q. Did you sense you had the crowd on your side, especially the last three or four
holes?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah. But again, that is kind of like what I was talking about. I mean,
Tiger has done enough of his winning. Everybody has made him so big that -- I don't in any
way want to take anything away from Tiger. I, above all, can tell you how hard he is to
beat. He is -- he is the greatest player in the game.

Q. You don't think he made it rain yesterday (inaudible)?

HAL SUTTON: I tell you what, I don't know. I thought as I was riding in the van on the
way in. I thought: What else I am going to have to deal with this week?

Q. Talk about your outstanding putting this week. Boy, you never really put any
pressure on that second putt, did you?

HAL SUTTON: I was trying to keep from doing that. I actually had a lot of putts in the
last round. It was because I hit 17 greens, and my strategy for the last round was to make
sure that I stayed where I could always 2-putt. I never wanted to 3-putt, and I pretty
much did that. One thing that hurt was I never attacked the pin, basically, which I didn't
get a lot of real good birdie putts. I had a lot of 15-footers, 20-, 25-footers.

Q. When you say that you actually never fired at a pin in the last round, you were
always in the center of the green, that was your target?

HAL SUTTON: Like at 16, I was trying to play the ball off the slope on my third shot
there. I needed to have carried it further. But, I mean, I didn't want to go right at the
pin. I knew the slope would help me get it to the right. 17, was the same way. There was
no way I was going to fire at that pin. I mean, I knew all I had to do was hit that thing
on dry land over there in the middle of that green and I could 2-putt that. If I happened
to push it ten feet, well, then it catches slope. It will go down to the flag. But, you
know, that is the way I tried to play. At 18, I actually played it at the right center of
the green. I had exactly the right club and distance to where I could just go ahead and
put my swing on it, kind of drew in the hole. I still wasn't shooting right at the flag
for that. I let the draw take it over there.

Q. What about on 18 when, I think Tiger hit 2-iron off the tee and you hit a driver?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah.

Q. Any thoughts there as to play it safe or --

HAL SUTTON: Well, yeah. I mean I was really shocked when he pulled out his iron off
that tee. I thought to myself, I looked over, saw he had his iron in his hand. I
immediately went across my mind: Maybe I ought to back off and hit 3-wood. But then I
said: Well, you know what, I am not going to be able to hit my 3-wood any further than he
is going to hit his iron. I need the advantage on the last hole. I think I am one of the
best drivers in the game, so I am going to play to my strength. And I picked out those
trees in the distance, those real light colored trees. I hit it right at it. So....

Q. Yesterday you said this is not Hal Sutton versus Tiger Woods; you are playing the
golf course. Do you think you're more likely to tell your grandchildren that you beat the
stadium course or you beat Tiger Woods?

HAL SUTTON: I won't have to do that. You all will do that for me. I mean, I am
guaranteed -- in fact, I can predict all these articles tomorrow. You know what, we hash
this anyway we want to. I have always said he is the greatest player in the game three or
four times here today. I am proud to have beat him. What can I say? I mean, it was
nerve-wracking to beat him. I had to make several three-footers coming down the stretch
there. He put a lot of pressure on me there. When he birdied -- come back after 3-putting
12, he comes right back and birdies 13, and then eagles 16. I mean, he is a great player.

Q. Follow-up question, you have essentially had three careers: The good beginning, the
good end, and the dark middle. What was the lowest point in the middle?

HAL SUTTON: Probably the second year of that slump whenever I didn't play any better. I
thought the first year was a fluke, then the second year when I didn't play any better,
the realization that, hey, I am going to take my one-time exemption, and we're either
going to do it this next year or we are going to find something else to do.

Q. When you finally finished you hole out, that final putt, you realized -- did
anything -- did all these 17 years come rushing back to you and, hey, where have I come?
Did you even think about that at all?

HAL SUTTON: No. Not at that point, I didn't. Going back to those dark years, there was
no way that I could have done this then. I didn't have the courage to do that then. I
mean, to be honest with you, it takes a lot of courage to play this golf course in itself.
Then, when you have got Tiger running rampant out there on it too, that makes it that much
more difficult.

Q. Do you think because you had to deal with such expectations when you were younger
that it brings a sense of perspective on Tiger that maybe a lot of other people don't have
out here? You seem almost concerned that Tiger is being deified. You had to deal with
that, a bit of that in your early age. I was wondering if that has anything to do with it.

HAL SUTTON: I feel for Tiger in a lot of ways. He is living in a glass cage. He does a
spectacular job of handling himself. We all know what a special player he is. But at the
same time, you know, to a small degree I had some of the same expectations put on me, and
he handles it so very well for such a young guy. Week after week, he is the man to beat.
And I just -- I caution everybody, including him, that the game is still the biggest
person.

Q. That night in bed when you were -- you got the perspective when you are lying in
bed, were you fighting the feeling, the hype that "it is me and him and I got to get
past that; I have to back it up"?

HAL SUTTON: I have been fighting it all week. I would think everybody in here -- we
have had our boxing gloves on. You all just don't realize the magnitude that you all play
this up to be. I mean, it is like -- we are not duking it out out there. The other day I
read in the paper where it said that we were going to get down in the dirt and fight. If I
said that, what I really meant, I guess you all want us to get in the dirt and fight. You
know, we are human beings; we have hit millions of practice balls, whatever we have hit,
in our life. We are just trying to go in there and put it in the hole the quickest; that
is all we are trying to do. We are trying to do it in a respectful and honorable way. He
is trying to do the same thing that I am trying to do. That is the way a person's got to
look at it. That is the way he is looking at it.

Q. When you talk how about the confidence level now heading toward Augusta --

HAL SUTTON: I will need it because I have never played very good at Augusta so, you
know, I can't think to Augusta right now.

Q. Where do you rank this victory for you, Hal?

HAL SUTTON: Right at the top. I think any time you win on this golf course you have had
to overcome your nerves, I mean, you have had to show courage. And then for Tiger to be
the one that I was playing in the last group and having to beat, that makes it very
special.

Q. What are your thoughts on the 17th tee? What did you hit?

HAL SUTTON: 9-iron, I had 148 yards I think it was, or I don't remember exactly what
the yardage was, but it was, you know, just a smooth one was all I was trying to do. Just
trying to put a good swing on it. That is what I have said you have got to do on that hole
every time, and you can just -- after the club leaves -- after the ball leaves the club, I
don't have any control over it. And my only control is to make sure that I make a good
swing and I knew that I had made a good swing. So after that it was out of my control.

Q. 8 and 11 were the key holes in the final round which was the most difficult; which
was the most important as you look back now?

HAL SUTTON: 8 was the most, by far, the most difficult. Looking back on it, was the
most important too. Because Tiger I am sure thought the same thing I did whenever I looked
up there and saw my ball -- I couldn't stand in it. Well, I got him now. When I hit that
bunker shot, it surprised us all, I think. It surprised me included. That is not one that
we practice on very much, so you know, then making that putt on top of it sent a message
that I was going to do what I had to do in order to stay there.

Q. You talked about those dark years. What happened? Did you just totally lose your
swing and is it true that you were embarrassed to go on the range with some of the other
pros?

HAL SUTTON: Well, yeah. That is right. I did lose my swing and I was embarrassed. Now
you and I go out on the range, I'd a still made you look pretty bad. But you know, we are
talking world greatest players here and they are all fairly discriminating about what they
think a golf shot ought to be. So I didn't -- I was a little embarrassed to be on the
driving range with them. Did that answer your question?

Q. Why do you think you lost your swing? What happened?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I used to take the club back a little shut and hit it low and
consequently a lot of people thought I needed to hit the ball higher in order to play this
game at the very highest level. I started reading all that stuff in the newspapers and
magazines and so I started seeking out somebody that everybody thought was a good teacher.
I went through the whole gamut of what everybody thought was a good teacher and by the
time I got all those confusing thoughts in my head, I was pretty well wasted. It was like
a computer that had overload on it, just see all the smoke coming out of the top on it.
That is what was going on with me.

Q. Given soft conditions were you considering No. 16 a 3-shot hole for you today before
your tee shot?

HAL SUTTON: Well, yes, I was, as a matter of fact. Because the worst thing that I could
have done there was making aggressive play and hit it in the water or over correct and hit
it way left trying to keep from hitting it in the water. I felt like it was going to be a
3-shot hole for me unless I absolutely killed the drive off that tee. I really wasn't
going to swing at it hard enough to do that. In answer to your question, yes.

Q. What did you hit into 18?

HAL SUTTON: 6-iron.

Q. In hindsight how big is Tiger's 3-putt at 12?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I don't know. That is hard to say. I felt like -- I will tell you the
truth, when he hit it in there I knew he had a hard putt even if we had putted out
yesterday, he'd have it a lot harder yesterday than he did this morning because the greens
were pretty fast. Had to ride the ridge the whole way. Then it fell off on the left-hand
side. 3-putts work sometimes in a lot of different ways, could have made him really mad
and he played 3-under from there in. So we could speculate on that 'til next year in time
and we might not know the real answer on that.

Q. It seems -- we kind of stand accused here of building Tiger up too big. On the other
hand, he has finished first or second in 10 of his 11 tournaments. I don't know that we
have seen a stretch like that in our lifetime.

HAL SUTTON: He is still not bigger than the game. You know, you need to do what you
need to do but you all need to do what I need to do too.

Q. Do you feel like by building him up that no one gives anyone else a chance; is that
kind of what your point is?

HAL SUTTON: You all didn't give me a chance. You might have wanted me to win but you
truly didn't think I could win and, you know, I think -- I would caution all the other
players and everything else too, Tiger is a human being; he is a good human being. I mean
-- I don't want anything made out of this any different than it is. He is a good human
being, a fantastic player. But he is not bigger than the game. He has done spectacular
things. No way -- I am not accusing you of anything, basically, I am saying that I -- I
could not get caught up in your trap. That is what I am saying. I was fighting not getting
caught up in what you all were saying because if I believed -- if I bought into what you
were saying then how could I convince myself that I could beat him. Do you see what I am
saying? That is what I had to do. I had to convince myself that coming down that stretch I
could do anything that he was going to do. I was going to match everything that he did.

Q. We saw Darren Clarke take him down a couple of weeks ago. What makes you think that
we didn't think you could do it?

HAL SUTTON: Match Play is a different story. You know what? That shot I hit on 17 the
other day, if we had been in Match Play, that would have been one hole; not three shots;
that is a whole different scenario.

Q. Is there a sense of satisfaction that seems like you had every chance to kind of
crumble with the winds on Thursday and then the rain stoppage and triple bogey and you
weathered all of that?

HAL SUTTON: A great deal of satisfaction. You know, to lead any golf tournament from
start to finish is a dream come true for any young man that has grown up in this anywhere
in the world playing golf all of his life, but to lead THE PLAYERS Championship from start
to finish and to be able to play in the final round with Tiger Woods in the last group and
beat him head-to-head, I can't not paint that dream any prettier.

Q. You said you were saying earlier you didn't have the courage to deal with this kind
of situation some years ago. Where does this courage come from? 

HAL SUTTON: Well, it could be related to confidence. I mean, as I have been beginning
to play better, you gain your confidence and you begin to expect more of yourself, but
when it comes right down to it, you put yourself in that situation, you think the
best-laid plans in the world, you get to the 17th hole, you got one-shot lead; all of a
sudden now and the last time you played it you made triple bogey on it. It's like, okay,
let's reach down inside.

Q. The whole hype thing and you seem to be a little bit disturbed about it the other
day. Is it hard to play angry? Did you have to push that aside? How did you deal with
that?

HAL SUTTON: I was never angry and if you all took me as being angry, then you all
misunderstood me. I am worried about where the game of golf is going. I mean, our fan
base, we have got new fans that we have never had before. They are great fans and we want
them in the game, but they don't understand the game. I don't want us to lose sight of
golf as a gentlemen's game. It is a respectful game, I have to respect the guys that laid
the groundwork for me to do what I am doing, the guys that walked these fairways ahead of
me. I mean, I just don't want us to lose sight of that fact. I mean, I think we have to
educate in every way we can, the new fan base. We want them. We love them. We want
everybody to enjoy this game. That is what this game is about is enjoying this game, but
let's not lose sight of it.

Q. You were saying we have kind of built this up like in the last week, Davis on
Sunday, Saturday said he didn't want to play with Tiger in the last group. Monty said that
after the first round he thought it was over. It seems to me like some of the players now
were saying what you think that we have been building up. Do you feel like that you need
to talk to those players or do -- does that concern you at all that the players are the
ones that have been doing this recently?

HAL SUTTON: You sound like my little girl: "Not me, not me, not me."
(laughter).

Q. They said it.

HAL SUTTON: You know what --

Q. That is what made the whole issue.

HAL SUTTON: It's what comes first, the chicken or the egg? Can you answer that for me?
That is a pretty tough question, isn't it? I am just -- I caution in every way, you know,
those guys got caught up in the trap, a lot of the time exactly what I am talking about
and have been talking about this week, those guys were reading all the stuff that was
going on; that is why they made those remarks. I was not going to read it. I was not going
to listen to it. Because I had to go beat this guy. If I am going to put him in a god-like
scenario, it's going -- the golf course is hard enough in the first place. I have shared
dinner with this guy, we have broke bread together, you know, so I mean, I like Tiger a
lot. I think Tiger likes me. I respect Tiger a great deal. But I mean, if it comes down to
he or I as Jackie Burke put it is, if they put us in a rubber room, one of us has got to
the go down and damn sure ain't going to be me. That is Jackie Burke's words to me; that
is not my words to Tiger.

Q. What is in your makeup, though, that lets you avoid the trap these other guys fall
into?

HAL SUTTON: Man, I have been to hell on earth before. My game went to the bleakest,
blackest spot you can think of. I always trying to head off a trouble spot. I saw that
building as a trouble spot and that is why I wouldn't fall into that trap.

Q. Is it much more important that -- much more special because you did it here today at
43 and not so much against the world's best player, but at 43 you played so well? The last
few years - and Payne Stewart talked about, I think, right before his death, last year he
talked about -- compared his overall play to what you did the last couple of years and
what Mark O'Meara has done, and talked about how special that was to play as well as he
did against the younger kids; to hit it farther --

HAL SUTTON: I tell you what, I didn't pray to Tiger, but I did a little talking to ole
Payne Stewart this week, just to ask for a little help. I didn't know if he had anything
to do with it, but I said, man, I know you know how to do this, so give me a little help
if you can. I miss Payne a lot. I thought about him a lot this week. So it does make it
gratifying when the old guys win one. There has been -- I said it out there, Tim Finchem
and his staff has done a spectacular job. If you all are wondering why a lot of older guys
are playing, it is because of that fitness trailer that says "HealthSouth" out
there and the great physical trainers that we have got. I can go in there and in 30
minutes they can make me feel like I am ten years younger. It is all the extra work that
they put in to getting things like that for us out there. That is why is there is a lot of
guys in there 40s playing like they are in their 30.

Q. What about the 17 years with winning two PLAYERS Championship victories, is this one
more special because of all you have been through?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, I felt like I backed into the one I won in '83. I was just in the
right place at the right time. I birdied 16 and 17 and everybody else was dumping it in
the water on 17 and 18 and nobody was expecting me to win it in that stretch and then all
sudden I upped and won it. This was a whole different scenario this time for me to win. I
was basically in the lead. There might have been a hole or two somewhere along the stretch
that I wasn't in the lead, but basically in the lead the whole time and having to fight
Tiger off.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT