THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, obviously I would have liked to have kept playing. Dangerous
situation - it was good that they called it. I like living better than I do finishing the
golf tournament. Lightning popping everywhere, I guess, that is what they were saying.
Anyway, everything was going well. It was going the way I wanted. I was just playing my
game. 
 
Q. This certainly isn't unfamiliar to you. Last time they suspended play until Monday
in 1983 --
 
 HAL SUTTON: I was just sitting up in the locker room thinking about that. Yeah, we
finished on Monday the year I won. I don't know if that has anything to do with anything,
but it was nice to think about, anyway. 
 
Q. How many holes did you have left then? 
 
 HAL SUTTON: Actually we played the whole 18 on Monday. 
 
Q. Could have basically been five or six shots ahead, just missing those putts; it
looked like first four holes just barely. Did you sort of feel that way, looked like you
were playing well, just missing the putts?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah, I hit some really good putts early on. Especially the putt at No. 1,
I really thought that putt was in. Putt at No. 2 was about as good as I could hit. But you
know the nice part about it was I didn't force anything to happen after that. I stayed in
my game plan. It is easy when you know you are right on the verge. It is like I will turn
it up one more level. Let's see if we can make it. All of a sudden, you make a mistake. I
was able to fight that off. There is an urge to do that. 
 
Q. First green you missed -- (inaudible). I wonder if you could talk about the shot you
had and the putt you made and how much that meant for the rest of the day.
 
 HAL SUTTON: It was big. I was walking up there, I thought: Man, that ball went in there
with a little force. I hope it is not all the way against the back left. Got up there, I
couldn't even stand in the bunker to hit the shot. I was way up above it. I am thinking:
This could be big here, really turn around one way or the other. I just made sure that I
stayed in the shot. There is that urge that, I mean, you feel like you are falling the
whole time. I made sure that I stayed in the shot, and I just flushed it. And it came out
with some really good spin on it, and it went about, I don't know, 10 or 12 feet by, which
was a dream shot. I couldn't have dreamed it any closer than that. Made the putt. That was
real big. 
 
Q. Was the reason you felt like you wanted to keep playing was because you really felt
like you had the momentum going?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah, I felt like I -- we were familiar with what everything was doing at
that time -- the firmness of the greens, the speed of the greens, you know. We are going
to have to come out and regroup and think about other things tomorrow now. 
 
Q. I was just wondering, you have been around a long time. Your thoughts on No. 1, the
delay, and also your thoughts on the fact that you will be coming back tomorrow with a
nice 3-shot cushion? 
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, as I said earlier, I would like to have not had the delay. But I
didn't lay the plan out, and that is what we are going to have to do. As far as having a
3-shot lead, it is not going to affect the way I am going to do things. I am going to come
back out tomorrow, try and do the things the same way I have been doing, that is driving
in the fairway, hit good iron shots into the greens, and play smart golf. 
 
Q. Any better sand saves in your career than the one you had on 8?
 
 HAL SUTTON: No, that was pretty -- was right at the top of the list, I think. You know,
that was -- we were going into 9. Of course Tiger got the advantage when we get to a hole
like 9. As long as -- I can reach in two, I feel like he has got a little bit of
advantage, because at the same time I can get there too. But at 9, I just can't get to 9.
And so I mean, for me if I hadn't gotten that up-and-down, that would have given him the
momentum going into 9. 
 
Q. Just a quick question for you. Obviously in the fairway on 12. How far are you out
right now?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I am 82 yards to the hole. 
 
Q. What was your lie like on 11? Did you have a difficult --
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah, real bad -- up against the green there? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah. It was setting down in the grass. It is something, I was choked down
on the shaft of the club too. You know, that was one of these things where I had to weigh
the odds there. I mean, if I get aggressive with that chip to try make sure I get it up on
the plateau, there is not much back there. And if it comes out with any speed, it could
easily go over the green and into the back bunker. Then I have really played the bad shot.
So I made up my mind if it crept up over the edge of that, it was just going to creep up
over the edge of it. I was ready for the ball to come back. I was -- I felt like it
probably would. Now, making the putt, I wasn't ready for that. It was on line. And I am
glad that it went in the hole. But I was having to play a smart shot. I have had three
shots around the greens, the second hole I hit that shot into the green there, and it
goes, you know, I can't stand in the bunker on that shot; had not much of a play there. I
have had three shots where I have hit it in the green where I didn't have such of a play. 
 
Q. What was the break on that putt?
 
 HAL SUTTON: On 11, broke to the right about six inches. 
 
Q. How far?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I don't know, 25 feet probably. 30. 
 
Q. It is a feeling among the writers at least that they start some of these rounds on
Sunday The Masters, here, so very late for television that any delay or any playoff is
going to really make it very difficult to finish. Do players talk about this at all? Any
sort of feeling?
 
 HAL SUTTON: No. I hadn't heard any discussion about that really. We kind of do what we
are told (laughter). 
 
Q. What was it on 11 (inaudible) you might lose a shot there. Talk about that --
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, you know, Tiger hit a great chip shot where, from where he was at. Me
making that putt in front of him makes his putt a whole lot harder. So that was very big. 
 
Q. After the events at 17 yesterday and this delay here, have you thought any time in
the past hours: If you kick this in, nobody is making it easier for you? Is this one you
are really working at?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, I doubt anybody that was going to try to win this golf tournament
would have said that it would have been easy if everything had been laid out just perfect
for him. We don't come here looking for an easy way to win. I am not going to look for a
way to say: Poor, pitiful me, too, because of all this. We have still got work to do, and
I feel good about the way I am swinging at it and the way I am putting. So I am just going
to try to stay focused on what is at hand. 
 
Q. Do you accept the fact that you are going to have to execute a couple of shots like
8 (inaudible) --
 
 HAL SUTTON: I mean, you are just going to have to if you are going to win this
tournament, you are going to put some of these shots in some places that you are going to
have to hit a spectacular shot from there. 
 
Q. Do you prefer the greens to be kind of hard and crusty, as they were getting, or
soft? Or does it matter for you?
 
 HAL SUTTON: It is not going to matter. It is really not going to matter. Probably if I
had a whole 18 to play, I'd probably like to see them harder and faster like that. But
some of the holes that we have got left and some of where the pins are, it is going to be
nice that the ball is going to hold. 
 
Q. With the first shot of the day tomorrow 82 yards, a lob wedge or sandwedge,
whatever, how does that preparation differ than an ordinary beginning of a round?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, it will be easier than driving it in the fairway on No. 1.
(laughter). Tiger, he hit it in the rough there, and he barely got it on the front of the
green. So he has got a long putt. And if I hit that shot in there close tomorrow, things
are going to get a little bit difficult because he is not going to -- how fast that is or
whatever else, I don't mind being where I am at right now. 
 
Q. Is his length advantage negated more here? Seems like only a few holes on the front
where he, I can't even think of any place where he had it measurably by you. I guess maybe
11.
 
 HAL SUTTON: He wasn't measurably by me on 11. It was questionable who was out there. I
had hit driver on two. He hit driver, by the way, too.  
 
Q. As you were hitting some 3-woods he is generally accepted as one of the longer guys
out here. This golf course maybe negates that advantage a little bit for him, or not fair?
 
 HAL SUTTON: This golf course makes you play all your shots, and it takes a driver out
of your hand some, but it takes driver out of my hand some too. He played driver on 9; I
played 3-wood on 9. So you know, again, this is not a Tiger Woods/Hal Sutton duel. I mean,
I have said this about as many different ways as I can say this, and you all make it out
what you all want to make it out to be. But the fact is, I am playing the golf course out
there. I am not going to say anymore about it. That is what Tiger is doing too. 
 
Q. You all are used to rain delays during the regular tournaments and things like that.
Is there a different mindset, something you have to guard against when it is the final
round that is delayed, and coming back the next day of a big tournament, is that different
(inaudible) --
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, I don't think the mindset changes much on any tournament. I think if
you are in the lead or you are around the lead and you are trying to win the golf
tournament, you are trying to keep a focused mindset of trying to play the golf course and
not trying to get into one-on-one type situation. So it is really -- golf is pretty
simple. We are trying to play the shot that is present at that time. That one shot. That
is all I am trying to do, and that is all anybody should be trying to do in order to play
this game at the highest level. Whether you are TPC or whether you are in The Masters or
U.S. Open or one of the lesser tournaments, you know. 
 
Q. But I mean, as opposed to a second-round rain delay, that makes you finish up, you
know, on Saturday morning finishing up for everything --
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, no. Not really either. Again, we are still just trying to play the
shot at hand and -- I am trying to keep this as about as simple as I can. There are a lot
of different ways to try to figure out how to lose this thing, and I don't want to figure
that out. I want to figure out how to win. 
 
Q. Monday finish on any of your other victories?
 
 HAL SUTTON: The one I won here. 
 
Q. Outside of this one --
 
 HAL SUTTON: I don't know. That is a good question. I don't remember.  
 
Q. Did you notice Tiger's power walk when that siren went off? Looked like he was ready
to come in, just curious.
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah. I thought he would be in the van. He wasn't in the van. I don't know
how he got in. So, you know, Tiger hit a couple of good putts that didn't go in too. This
is a frustrating game. When you think you got it right where you want, it is not there,
whatever else, and I don't know what to say about it. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT