THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HAL SUTTON: Overall I had thought I played very well today. Golf course was again in
excellent shape and the wind was a little bit fairer to us today. I was happy with the way
I played, really. I'd like to recall the shot on 17, but I am not sure I'd play it any
differently. I put a good swing on it and the ball just stayed in the air a long time. Had
145 yards to the hole and 151 or two over the green and just hit a little 3-quarter
9-iron, that is usually -- that is taking into consideration downwind too. I don't
normally hit it that far. I don't know that I had done it any differently. Pitching wedge
wasn't the right club.

Q. When you hit the shot you didn't think it was going to be long?

HAL SUTTON: Did you? 

Q. You could have sensed --

HAL SUTTON: No, I didn't think it was too long. I needed to carry it up on top and
anything that landed just short was coming back down obviously. His ball took off really
fast. My ball just -- I just kind of tapped in, you know, it just stayed in the air a long
time. I still liked it while I was in the air; I didn't think it was going to be too long.
I won't make a big deal out of it, but every shot I have played on that hole this week I
have had to watch somebody go in the water in front of me including the shot when we
dropped it. And that doesn't give you positive vibes, you know, when you are standing on
the tee (laughter). I still made a good swing. I was very happy with the swing. I didn't
think I overplayed the shot. I was aimed about six feet left -- eight feet left of the
hole; that is where the ball went, so ...

Q. A beautiful round except, really, for that hole. Like you said, you put a good swing
on it. How deflating is that? Obviously you played a pretty decent 18th hole; looked like
you regrouped.

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, it wasn't -- it was obviously deflating, I'd like to have the 4-shot
lead back, but you know, obviously it happened for a reason because I played the shot the
way I wanted to play it. I will just take what I have got and go do the best I can with
that tomorrow.

Q. Earlier in the week you talked about welcoming the challenge of beating Tiger Woods.
Now you are in the final round paired with him at the players. Your thoughts about that?

HAL SUTTON: That is what I play golf for, is to be paired in THE PLAYERS Championship
with the greatest player in the world, you know. He is ranked No. 1 in the world, so I
don't want to start anything but he is one shot down right now starting tomorrow, so. . .
. (laughter) Tiger is a great player, but as I have said many times this week, I can't do
anything with Tiger. All I can do something with is Hal Sutton, and that is what I will
start trying to do something with right now is myself.

Q. Mentally how different is it, a blink of an eye you got a 4-shot lead; now it is
only one going to the final 18?

HAL SUTTON: You know, we can hash this out anyway we want to. We can talk about this
for the next hour. All I can say is I made a good swing on it. I am accepting it. 

Q. I just feel you are very, very confident with your game and you are playing good
golf, especially for the last couple of years. You are still confident and, in fact,
anything that went wrong this week wasn't the swing fault or anything like that so you
still got to be confident?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, I am very confident. I feel real good about what I am doing. To stand
up there on 18, I mean, after making triple bogey and letting Tiger back into the
tournament like that, I played good, 3-wood off the tee, I was going to play 3-wood even
if I birdied that hole, I already made up my mind I was going to play 3-wood off that
hole. I hit a perfect 5-iron in there right on the exact line I was looking in. So I felt
like I had control of my golf swing out there.

Q. You are putting exceptionally well too?

HAL SUTTON: I feel good about my short game. Everything has been working good. I just
need to stay confident and stay in the present and stay patient; pick my spots where I am
trying to do something with it.

Q. Take us through the rest of 17, the drop area, you see the ball go in again. Now you
have got to do it, slides all the way back -- the whole deal....

HAL SUTTON: After I watched him hit it in the water the second time, you know, it is
like, well, how hard is the back of this green, you know. Omar plays kind of a
driving-type shot, so, I couldn't take a chance on the ball, you know, on landing it back
there on top and it going over again. I had to try to hit it right to the edge of the
crest which I did. I was just a foot or two short. It comes back up against it. The reason
why I called for a ruling was there was a microphone there, I don't know what it was for,
but it was a little bitty microphone. I was really, as much as anything, biding for some
time to try to figure out how to play this shot because that rough is like wire first of
all, and it is about that tall, (indicating three inches), so it is taller than the ball.
The fringe is like this, so I have got to hit it down into the fringe like that and I got
to pop down on it because of the fringe, the rough being higher. So I mean that brought in
another thing, I could have easily, if I had been too aggressive with that, putted that
ball across the green in the water from right there. So I mean, I was hollering uncle the
whole time and couldn't get away from the hole. I played an absolute -- my fifth -- the
shot for the double bogey, the putt -- I made an unbelievable putt. I thought it was in
all the way. It didn't go in. I guess only beauty of that was I was able to tap in and
finally finish the hole, but --

Q. You talk about accepting that shot and going on. This is a quirky course, things
like that are going to happen. Is that an important part of playing this course and
winning here? You have done it.

HAL SUTTON: I think -- you know, I think part of playing well here is you have got to
expect the unexpected so to speak. You have got -- not really expect the unexpected, but
be willing to accept the unexpected. If you are not willing to accept it, I can't move on
and go play the next hole - something catastrophic happens on the next hole. It was a
triple bogey, but it wasn't the end of the world because I had it to give back. That is
why I said I had to accept it and move on.

Q. Two questions. One is the front nine have you played that as well as you have played
all week? I know you played some great golf, but that front nine was quite good. Was that
as well as you have played?

HAL SUTTON: I was playing really well on the front nine today. I played a lot of good
shots. I mean, I played, you know, I was maneuvering the ball exactly the way I wanted to.
I overdid it a little bit, overcooked it on 16. I planned on trying to take it right
around the edge of the trees on 16. But other than that swing, I basically did everything
I wanted to do with the golf ball all day long.

Q. The swing on the tee ball on 16?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, that was a lot worse swing than the shot on 17.

Q. The other question is - and I know -- I don't want to make too big a deal out of it
- but you came in, you made the statement that you were sort of tired of the whole Tiger
worshiping here - I am wondering do you feel like you have to be a success tomorrow to
make your point or have you already made it?

HAL SUTTON: There is no winning in this conversation, is there? (laughter) You know,
the point is that you have got the greatest Championship in the game and you have got the
best player in the world according to the World Rankings right there on my tail. Now that
doesn't mean he is going to win tomorrow. Even though everybody else in the world is
trying to figure out a way for him to go ahead and do it. I don't have to make any other
points. The only point I really want to make is driving it in the fairway tomorrow on the
first tee. I will start trying to make my points after that.

Q. I would imagine the series that you will take with you to that first tee is what
happened on 12 and 13, Tiger made a nice birdie putt at 13 and I know that you knew he
made that; you turned around and made a putt at 12 that was about the similar length --

HAL SUTTON: Well, I knew Tiger was playing well today. I mean, it was obvious - to see
his name on the board, I was trying to answer everything that he did. I am not going to
roll over and play dead, I am going to tell you that. You all can figure a way for me to
do that, but I am going to figure out every way not to.

Q. Do you think we are all rooting against you?

HAL SUTTON: I really don't know. Only you know what you feel.

Q. With respect to the other players, it is a two-man ballgame tomorrow? Anybody who
can get through --

HAL SUTTON: I don't know, you all figured out a way for me to try to figure out that I
can't do anything with him, so I don't know how in the world somebody from way back there
behind us is going to do anything with him. (APPLAUSE) We can be funny about this and all
that sort of stuff, but this is what we dream about doing. This is -- as a little boy, a
long time ago for me, I will be 42 years old next month, that is the only advantage Tiger
has got tomorrow is that he is a lot younger than I am so he may not be quite as tired as
I am. You know, this is what you dream about being in. You want to be in that position and
I am not going to try to figure out a way where I wish I was in the group prior to that,
you know. I am glad I am in the last group playing with Tiger Woods.

Q. Was there a point in your career when you wouldn't have welcomed this kind of a
challenge?

HAL SUTTON: Oh, yeah. Yeah, there was a point in my career where I wouldn't have
welcomed this, but, you know, I feel good about my game. I don't know how good my game
will be tomorrow. I hope it will be good. I will keep trying to do the same things that I
have been doing to this point. I don't feel like I need to go out there and work on
anything right now. I think it is there.

Q. You have won here in 1983, a long time ago. What is different about you as a golfer
and a person versus 1983? 

HAL SUTTON: Well, there is a lot different about me. My short game is a whole lot
better in 2000 than it was in '83. I am a lot smarter player than I was back then and my
family life is great. My little girl started walking yesterday, my twins, both of them
started walking on the same day. That is a pretty good omen right there, isn't it? I
thought that is pretty cute. I walked into the house and both of them started just walking
up to me, I thought that was pretty neat.

Q. As challenges go, any way you can compare the challenge you have got ahead of you
tomorrow to the challenge you had early Sunday morning at the country club in Brookline?

HAL SUTTON: Not really. I won't -- I don't know that I can draw anything off of that.

Q. Just totally different things?

HAL SUTTON: Totally different scenario.

Q. Do you expect you guys will be doing much talking at all tomorrow or is it just
going to be business?

HAL SUTTON: Probably be just business to business. Tiger doesn't talk a whole lot while
he is playing and neither do I. We both got some work to do so we just have to get out
there and do it. Probably going to be some dirtiness in it, you know, like we will have to
get down in the dirt and fight a little bit probably, you know.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT