THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 HAL SUTTON: I was very happy to get that 69. I thought the golf course was showing its
teeth out there a little bit today. The golf course played a little faster today than it
has been playing in the practice rounds; and, you know, you couldn't get through without
making some bogeys. So you needed to make some birdies whenever you get the opportunity,
and par 5s played -- they were accessible today. So you had to catch them, because some of
those other holes were playing pretty difficult. 
 
Q. Description of the course today, I mean of the weather today?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Description of it? Cool and breezy. (laughs) The wind was kind of gusty,
and that made it pretty difficult. And especially when you get on some of those holes
where you need to be exact on where that ball comes down. 
 
Q. You know you always allow me one ridiculous question a tournament. I am going to ask
it early. 3-under on a day like this, with looking at everybody else, what might come up
this afternoon, I presume you are pleased.
 
 HAL SUTTON: Very pleased. When I got here this morning, I knew the round was going to
be difficult. I knew that there were going to be some bogeys made out there by everybody.
And the main word that I kept running through my head all day long was
"patience," you know, just show a lot of patience out here. I got tested early.
I hit a good drive on one, hit a real good second shot in there; landed about ten feet
short, sucked back off the green all the way back down the hill, and left me with a really
difficult up-and-down, which I didn't get it up-and-down. So just kind of take it on the
chin, go on. I felt like I played two really good shots, went to the next hole, 4-wood in
there about eight feet; made the eagle which turned around.  
 
Q. You talk about just about everyone is not going to be able to make it through the
round without a bogey at some point. Does it creep into your mind at all to stay away, not
so much from a bogey, but a big number, a double, triple; is that inevitable?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah. You want to stay away from a big number if you can. I mean, that is
-- I will give you an example. On the 4th hole today, I hit not a bad drive down the
left-hand side. It bounces just into the edge of the rough about a foot. I am sitting
there looking at this lie. I am thinking: You know what? Best case scenario, I could
probably carry it across that water, but if I don't carry it across that water have to get
it up-and-down for 5. Bring 6 into play. So you know what I did, I just chipped it out in
the fairway, knocked the next one on the green. Almost made par, and made my bogey and
walked off. That is what makes this golf course great. There is always that urge to test
it, to see if you can do that, whatever it is there. It is -- you can do it. That is what
I think has made this golf course great through the years. The risk is there at all times
with a reward out there too. 
 
Q. Is that pretty unusual for you or anybody on the 4th hole of a tournament to already
be thinking of laying up on a par 4? That doesn't happen very often?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, when you get rough like they have got here, I mean, this stuff is
like wire. And it is only about three, four inches deep. But I mean it goes all the way to
the bottom. I mean it is gnarly stuff. You can get yourself in some serious trouble trying
to hit it hard out of this. 
 
Q. How far did you have about for that second shot, if had you gone for the green?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I had about 120 yards to the front of the green, about 140, 2 or 3 to the
hole. 
 
Q. Obviously, you putted very well today with, all this wind, and what they say, on
pretty fast greens right now.
 
 HAL SUTTON: I did. I tell you the wind -- I thought the wind affected the putts a
little bit. I had three putts on the back nine downwind. I had a birdie putt on 13 that I
-- it was gusting. I kind of backed off; didn't hit it quite as hard as I wanted to. The
wind let up; left it about this far short (indicating inches) dead center. Same thing on
15 with a par-putt. Then on 18 I had that birdie putt on 18. I mean, it was so fast going
down there, I thought we were downwind with that putt, too. I thought, just be gentle with
it. If it goes in, great; if it doesn't, let's have a kick-in. 
 
Q. You made the statement about the golf course and the risk/reward and what a terrific
course it is. What other great courses have these characteristics?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I am lost. My mind can't think out there. We are at TPC at Sawgrass right
now. That is the only place I want to be right now. I can't think of another course right
off the top of my head that does this. I don't know right off the top of my head. This is
at the top of the charts on that, though. 
 
Q. You see Tiger playing a couple in front of you. He is at 3-under at one point. What
is going through your mind? Pay any attention? I know what you said yesterday --
 
 HAL SUTTON: He was over and under on how long it was going to take before somebody
asked me that question. Actually, went over. I couldn't believe it took that long. I said
on NBC in there or SKY, I said, I think -- I can't wait, somebody is going to ask me
shortly, I know: What did I think; how did I beat Tiger today. No, never crossed my mind
what Tiger was doing. This game is hard enough to play your own game. I mean, this golf
course has got all the challenges in the world to it and I find it difficult just to
manage my own game much less worry about what somebody else's game is doing, so... 
 
Q. I was going to ask you if you thought it was over. (laughter)
 
 HAL SUTTON: No, I don't. 
 
Q. In normal circumstances what would you hit into 4, a wedge from that spot?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah, probably hit a wedge from there with a downwind like it was. 
 
Q. After you said what you said yesterday, anybody talk to you about it, any of the
guys in the locker room talk to you about it?
 
 HAL SUTTON: About what I said? 
 
Q. Yeah, just Tiger. About the Tiger chasing.
 
 HAL SUTTON: Did somebody know about it or something? 
 
Q. No, I just wondered.
 
 HAL SUTTON: What are you referring to about what I said about it wasn't over? 
 
Q. Yeah, just the -- you know --
 
 HAL SUTTON: No, I just -- I think it would be bad business for one to take a defeatist
attitude like that. I just -- sure, he is a great player, but there is still a lot of golf
to be played in every event. He is just as capable of making a mistake as anybody else is,
you know, on this golf course, there is a lot of mistakes to be made on this golf course,
so..... 
 
Q. When you talk about feeling the need to be patient when you step on the first tee
this morning, where else - not necessarily a course, but what other tournaments do you
feel that way?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I will tell you what, that is what I think makes this a major. Major
championships are just about always you got to be patient and when conditions get
difficult on a great golf course where there is a lot of risk/reward - you asked me the
question a few minutes ago about risk/reward - Augusta National is a big risk/reward golf
course. When you have got that kind of situation you have got to be smart enough to know
where you need to take those risks. Usually it takes a lot of patience, especially on a
difficult day. 
 
Q. When you are standing on the 17th tee actually see your ball take a bounce, what
kind of relief goes through your mind?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, today Stuart Appleby had to take it in front of me. He fanned that
ball out to the right; hit it in the water. That threw me for a loop when I saw that, too,
because Stewart is long. He hit a little 8-iron. I was thinking it was a nice smooth
8-iron for me too. When he kind -- I knew he blocked it - there is always that. Well, I
wonder how he really hit it. I didn't hit the shot. I didn't feel the shot. So I don't
know. I was thinking, man, I wish I'd be the only birdie on the last hole so I didn't have
to see that shot ahead. (laughter). But I went ahead, I hit 8 -- I went ahead and hit it
harder, flew it all the way to the back; sucked it up. So, yes, when you do see the ball
bounce on 17 -- you know, 17 is not that hard a hole, but when you get conditions like we
had today where the wind is gusting up, things like that, I mean, you don't have total
control over what that ball does. That is a hole where you like to have all the control
and you don't when the wind is blowing like that. 
 
Q. Do you know you are on dry land as soon as the ball leaves your club or do you still
have to wait?
 
 HAL SUTTON: No, I don't know about that. I have seen a lot of good shots hit the top
part of that green go over in the water. So I don't quit looking. I knew that ball today
couldn't come back in the water because that rough is too high. I knew it could come up to
the railing there, but there is about that much (indicating a foot) of that wire, I was
telling you about, of rough around the front collar of that green there. So it can't come
back in the water. 
 
Q. Your practice round, was that part of the nine-hole practice round?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah. 
 
Q. Did you bother taking any shots from the drop area?
 
 HAL SUTTON: No. I sure hope I don't have to hit any shots from that drop area this week
too. 
 
Q. Is that a shot that guys ever practice? Do you ever see them on Tuesday, Wednesday
actually going to the drop area?
 
 HAL SUTTON: No, but that is kind of like taking that defeatist attitude that you were
all talking about with Tiger. 
 
Q. It is part of preparation.
 
 HAL SUTTON: I don't know. That is preparation for a bad result is what that is
preparation for, you know. If you put four good swings on that tee over there, you won't
be hitting it from that drop area.  
 
Q. You, perchance, would hit the ball in the water, would you go to the drop or would
you retee?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Depends on what the wind is doing. 
 
Q. Today.
 
 HAL SUTTON: Today, it was easy to go to the drop area. 
 
Q. If this course is at the top of the charts on risk/reward, you are saying -- then
you mentioned Augusta. If this course is say, 10 on a 1 to 10 scale where would Augusta be
on a 1 to 10 scale risk/reward?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I'd say Augusta might even be a little bit ahead of this one in risk/reward
only because just like on 16 where I said there was that little wire around the fringe
there where the ball couldn't come back in the water, they shave everything down. They
want you to take the risk and get punished for it. (laughs) That is really what they want.
So here you can take the risk and if you hit the shot most of the time on dry land, it
will pretty much stay on dry land. You won't see guys chipping it in the water, things
like that here. 
 
 HAL SUTTON: I have told you about 1 and 2. And 4 -- 
 
 HAL SUTTON: 15 feet, just 2-putted for bogey. 6, 9-iron about a foot. 10, I drove it in
the right rough and went for the green and pulled it just into the left fringe and had the
worst lie I have ever seen in my life; knocked it out 25 feet behind the hole and
2-putted. 11, I hit the green in two with a 3-iron and 2-putted from about 45 or 50 feet.
12, I hit a pitching wedge in there about ten feet behind the hole, made it. 14, I hit a
9-iron about two feet, made that. 15, I drove it really good, just hit a bad iron shot out
of the middle of the fairway, missed the green to the right; had a terrible lie again. Hit
a pretty good chip from where I was at about ten feet behind the hole, left it short. 16,
4-iron on the green about 35 or 40 feet, 2-putted. 
 
Q. What was 2, Hal?
 
 HAL SUTTON: 2, I hit a 4-wood in there about eight feet for eagle, made it. 
 
Q. Putt on 17? 
 
 HAL SUTTON: My putt at 17 was 17, 18 feet, something like that. 
 
Q. On 18?
 
 HAL SUTTON: 18 was about ten feet probably. It was one of those that if I made it, it
was just going to creep in. 
 
Q. Is this the kind of course that on most Tour weeks you get it ten feet, you expect
to make the putt and you are kind of angry with yourself if you don't.
 
 HAL SUTTON: Even on this golf course in some cases you know you have got ten feet, you
kind of expect to make it. These greens are perfect condition. But where that pin was
sitting today, that is a really difficult putt. It kind of -- either if you putt it out to
the right of the hole it will go right. If you putt it out to the left of the hole, it
will go left. Your speed has to be exactly right. I mean, the way you'd really like to hit
that putt is to hit it firmer, but you can't do it putting downhill, straight downwind. I
mean, you can do it, but risk/reward again, you know. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT