THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HAL SUTTON: I played pretty good so far this year. I had a chance to win Phoenix and
didn't do it. And that is what we are out here for, is to win. I have driven the ball very
well. I have not put my irons as close as I'd like to put them. And I think that I am not
making as many birdies as I normally would like to make. Hopefully, that is changing.

Q. Does the condition of the course look like it could turn out to be near what it was
last year?

HAL SUTTON: I played none Monday. I played nine holes yesterday, and I played none
today. When I played yesterday, the fairways were really soft. The greens were somewhat
firm for as soft as the fairways were. I can't really answer your question yet. 

Q. Is there a reason why you have played so little here these past three days? Are you
trying something different?

HAL SUTTON: I made a lot of changes. I made some changes in my shafts, in my irons. I
was wanting to try to make sure I was doing the right thing with that. So I was spending a
lot of time hitting because -- and my arm has been hurting me a little bit. Trying to get
as much done with as little effort, I guess, is what I am trying to say. I have played
this golf course enough. I think I can get around it without -- I played that back nine so
I can get that 17th hole one time before the tournament.

Q. How much do you normally practice on a tournament site, one that you have played
maybe as often as you have had this one?

HAL SUTTON: Usually just the Pro-Am round and then go. So I haven't done anything a
whole lot different than I normally do it. Other than I have been here Monday, Tuesday,
and Wednesday. I wouldn't normally be here Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.

Q. Could you address the autograph issue, the collectors, and how much of a problem it
is out there?

HAL SUTTON: I think it is a big problem because it is hard to decipher who is who, and
we know they are there. If you remember paying attention from one week to the next, you
notice who it is, and you don't want to be ugly to someone that is not an autograph
seeker. I mean, that is just a normal autograph seeker. But I mean, we kind of like to get
rid of those guys that are having them come up on Ebay or whatever. They got their own
little personal shops or whatever the deal is I don't know what they do with them. They
are a nuisance, I know that.

Q. Solutions you see?

HAL SUTTON: I don't know the solution to that problem.

Q. Are there some things you won't sign?

HAL SUTTON: If I see a guy standing around with five or six flags in his hand, I
usually won't do that. But you know what? It is pretty bad. You don't really want to tell
what you do, because they figure out another way to approach you after that. So you try to
hide your strategy almost from them. Isn't that terrible that we are sitting around
talking about this?

Q. Speaking of which, your Commissioner has been quite outspoken the last few days
about this issue. Was it brought up at THE PLAYERS meeting last night, maybe a strategy
for handling this?

HAL SUTTON: Was it brought up? I don't know. You know what? It came up some place I was
at yesterday, but I have been to so many meetings that I don't remember which one of the
meetings it came up in. It has come up. I have to go to more meetings this week than I
normally had to go to. So that is part of the reason why I haven't played any more than I
have to.

Q. Not to tax your memory so much, but do you recall a strategy of any kind that was
any kind of resolution at all?

HAL SUTTON: When it came up, they were talking about, it was problem last week at -- in
The Legends. And they addressed it with staff, so -- and that they are going to try to do
that more. I think actually the Tour has been taking pictures of these people and they
know kind of who is who. Same people show up every week. They always got their deal over
their shoulder, got their backpack or their whatever.

Q. What are you trying achieve with the equipment change?

HAL SUTTON: Lower ball flight. It is usually helpful when the wind is blowing (laughs).

Q. Never really been a high-ball hitter, have you?

HAL SUTTON: Early on in my career, I wasn't. But as I have changed my swing last four,
five years, I have gotten to where I hit the ball a lot higher. And it has become
increasingly a problem for me to get the ball close to the hole with shorter irons the
higher I hit it because, you know, based on the wind, the distance of the club is varying
a lot, and it is hard to judge that.

Q. What about that theory that the guys who hit it long and high have the advantage out
here? You don't buy into that?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, well, until you get down into your scoring irons, your 8, 9, pitching
wedge, things like that, then you want to be exact on your distances, normally a little
bit flatter trajectory is a little bit better with that. Guys that hit it long and high
with their woods and their long irons, usually what they are referring to. Everybody's
probably trying to do the same thing with their scoring irons.

Q. This is isn't exactly a new discussion, but with the importance that THE PLAYERS
Championship has gotten over recent years, I am wondering would you be in favor of seeing
it moved to May where it would be a nice segue between -- it's the only month without a
major golf tournament, quote, unquote. I was curious if you thought you liked it right
now, two weeks before The Masters, or as in May as I said --

HAL SUTTON: It's the only month, you mean summer month? Is that what you mean?

Q. Right. In other words, you have Masters in April; then nothing in May; then you go
June, July, August with major golf tournaments.

HAL SUTTON: I am hesitating because I don't know if I have got a feel for that or not.
Pretty nice scenario right here. I think there is a lot of people that seem to think that
the TPC might have more of a major status if we moved it into May. One of the things that
I think would happen if we moved it into May, and I don't live here, but I bet you the
wind blows less in May than it does right here now. And I think the golf course would play
a lot different if we moved it into May. I think this time of the year there is a
possibility guys have to hit more of a variety of shots than they would be in May.

Q. There has been a lot -- obviously a lot said about Tiger who has been playing pretty
well lately.

HAL SUTTON: Do you think we can say it any differently than it has been said? And I
don't even know what your question is.

Q. Curtis raised the issue at Kapalua that maybe it's not a bright idea for guys coming
in and keep praising Tiger when they essentially have to go out and beat him. That maybe
the more you talk about him and build him up, you are building up an image that he can't
be beat. Any thoughts on that? Monty was in here this morning and he said after the first
round of Bay Hill Tiger is at 69, one off the lead, that he had a view in the locker room
that everyone else was going to be playing for second on Thursday.

HAL SUTTON: He is going in a different locker room than I was going in, or he wasn't
close to my locker anyway. I don't really like to think that way. I will tell you this: By
praising Tiger all the time, I don't know what it is doing for Tiger, but it's certainly
putting a defeatist attitude in the guy that is doing all the praising all the time. I
don't know how it is affecting Tiger.

Q. You think it is harmful if a guy just -- creeps into the psyche?

HAL SUTTON: I tell you what, I have only played with Tiger once this year, first two
rounds at Los Angeles. And I felt like it was important that I send a message to me and
him in those two rounds, you know. One, that I could beat him, playing with him; and two,
that he knew that I could beat him playing with him. And I know that was Thursday and
Friday of the tournament. That is the only part of the tournament. But, you know, I think
when -- that will turn into some Sunday somewhere. And I need to know going into that,
that, hey, I have beat him in these circumstances. And that proves ones thing, that it can
happen again. It proves the same thing to him too. So I think that answers in a backwards
way what you were asking there. I think that you need to have confidence that you can beat
him. If you are going to praise him all the time and tell him how great he is and his game
is superior to everybody's you have ever seen in your life, well, you know, doesn't matter
how good yours is. You have just said he is better than you.

Q. For lack of a better word, is that intimidation at work there?

HAL SUTTON: What? Praising him? All that sort of stuff? 

Q. In the reverse way, he's already got it going kind of?

HAL SUTTON: I'll tell you all a funny story. In 1987 I played with -- I stayed at the
Ryder Cup with Jack Nicklaus. I was the only single guy on the team. I stayed in the same
house with he and Barbara. And I asked him at that point I said, "Jack, could you do
today what you did 15 years ago? Could you have the same record if you were playing with
your best game right now versus then? " He said, "No way, Hal." He said,
"The reason why is because it was only three or four guys that thought that they
could beat me. But today there is a lot of people that think they can beat me." Well,
"a la" Tiger, there is a lot of people that don't think they can beat him come
right down to the stretch on Sunday. Probably a lot of doubt in their mind as to whether
they can. Some of it is put there. Some of it is self-inflicted. Some of it is put there
by you all. And some of it is put there by Tiger's own doing. The guy plays great. I mean,
he plays the game at a level that few people have ever known. But that system doesn't mean
he can't be beat.

Q. Could you beat him? 

HAL SUTTON: Yeah, I can beat him. I did beat him, last time I played with him I beat
him. You know what, I am not going to sit up here -- I mean I'd be stupid to sit up here
an tell you, I mean, I think on a given day I can beat him. I mean, day in, day out, he
hits the ball 20 yards further than I do. He hits it a lot higher than I do. He has got a
great touch around the greens. He has got an unbelievable competitive spirit. With all of
those things coupled together, you have got a guy that has made over $2 million in a short
period of time. Won how many tournaments out of the last 15? I don't know what it is, but
it is a lot. We are describing the best player in the game is what we are doing. But that
doesn't mean he can't be beat. I am not going to be foolish to tell you that I think if we
played ten times I am going to beat him eight out of ten times I am not going to do that.
But --

Q. On a given Sunday?

HAL SUTTON: On a given Sunday he could be beat.

Q. Are you looking forward to going to Augusta at all?

HAL SUTTON: Yeah. The challenge for me to play well is still there. I really want --
I'd love to have a good tournament there. I have never played well there.

Q. What is it about that place for you?

HAL SUTTON: I think you have to play a little bit more defensive than I play there,
that I normally like to play. I have always been a guy that likes to try to attack pins
and be aggressive and the penalty is high for missing in the wrong spot there. So...

Q. Even with the changes, do you still consider that a bomber's course?

HAL SUTTON: I don't know, every week is a bomber's course. I accuse them of setting up
every week for a bomber's course. When I get here I see the fairways soft as they can be
and the greens firm, I am like, oh, well what is new, you know. I mean, I would like to
see something change on the Tour. I would like to see us play a variety of type golf
courses. And I am not talking about changing the golf course. I am talking about, you
know, let's play something -- Bay Hill, let's go back to Bay Hill. There was a time that
that 18th hole was a very difficult hole to drive it in the fairway. That fairway was 60
yards wide last week; wasn't any way you could miss that fairway. You see what I am
saying? So okay, if you are going to have 60-yard wide fairways, let's swing as hard as we
can. Some guys can literally create more speed than other guys can. So you are going to
hit a lot further. I mean, I'd like to see who can hit it straight again. I am going to
give you another scenario. In 1987, 1988, 1989 there was one guy that averaged 80
percentile in fairway accuracy. Right now you can pull the stats up there are six or
seven. Second place in those years, would be 72 and 73 percent. Now there is six guys
hitting over 80% of the fairways and a lot of guys hitting 79, 78 percent of the fairways,
lots of them. The equipment is better. The drivers are better. The balls are better, and
we are playing wider fairways today than we were then. You see what I am saying? So what
has it turned into? You tell me.

Q. I think the word is "Bomber."

HAL SUTTON: If you were going to be -- if you had a son and you were going to teach him
how to play golf, what would you-- what would you tell him to do, kill it or hit it
straight?

Q. Swing hard.

HAL SUTTON: Swing hard, son, swing hard. That is exactly right. So, you know what, I'd
love to be Tiger Woods now. But I am not. I am Hal Sutton. (laughs).

Q. To follow that a little bit about driving it straight, when you get to an Open
course everything changes, so that the USGA, the way they do things, you like the way they
keep people in line or make them stay in line?

HAL SUTTON: Tiger probably doesn't feel like he has got near as good a chance at a U.S.
Open as he does elsewhere.

Q. Would you say that would be true this year going to Pebble?

HAL SUTTON: I don't know. We will see. We will see. I don't know.

Q. How do you feel it suits you?

HAL SUTTON: I like it when they get tight.

Q. I know you are thinking about Sunday getting through this week. Anything specific
that you are working on for Augusta or are you going to change the way that you play this
week at all?

HAL SUTTON: No, I am going to do the same things. I will probably have a little
different strategy at Augusta than I normally have, but I am going to do a little bit more
point A-to-point-B-type playing at Augusta than I normally. I am going to move the pin
around a little bit; try to put myself in a good position; pick the spots that you attack
the hole. Try to do that a little bit better than I normally do there.

Q. As the years have gone along, more and more stats enter the picture. From the ones
you are talking about, driving accuracy, and length, do you feel like driving distance is
more pertinent now than it was in the past? Other the -- other than the obvious scoring
stats, what ball-striking stats do you think are most significant to success out here and
has it changed?

HAL SUTTON: Well, I'd say total driving is a stat that you really want to look at.
Those guys that are in total driving is -- those are the guys that hit it the longest and
the straightest. That is basically what it means. You are going to have some of those guys
that are quite a bit straighter, but still have adequate distance. Then you are going to
have some of those guys that have got extreme distance and adequate accuracy. That is
where you are going to --

Q. You need --

HAL SUTTON: You need to be really strong at one of those two things and adequate at the
other one is what I am trying to say. A lot of people try to focus in on greens in
regulation. I tell you that can go up a lot. If I feel that is all I really wanted to do,
go out and hit greens, I could kiss scoring good-bye and I could see my greens in
regulation go to 85% but that is not going to do me any good. I have got to get it close
to the hole sometimes and that means I am going to short-side myself sometimes when the
pin gets on the edge of the green, I will miss it to the short side and I will have it to
go up and down, that sort of stuff. Scrambling stats, guys when they miss a green that
they get it up-and-down, that is a big stat. Putting -- that they are keeping now with how
many putts you are making for the greens that you hit, is important. But it is a little
bit deceptive in that you know you might be hitting the greens and having a 40-footer
every time too. So that is obviously going to raise that number up. Putting stats are most
of the time directly related to how you are hitting the ball. And people don't really take
that into consideration. But if I got a 15-footer every time instead of a 40-footer every
time, my stats were going to go down, because I am going to make more of those 15-footers
than I am 40-footers every time. If I am chipping the ball a foot instead of six feet, I
am going to get it up-and-down a lot more.

Q. They could be deceptive. Almost rewards a guy for missing greens, putting stats --
(inaudible)?

HAL SUTTON: Total putts, definitely does. You can learn a little something from the
stats, but you can get so hung up on them that it really can do damage.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT