WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2000
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 HAL SUTTON: I played good today. We both hit the second green in 2, and 2-putted for
birdies, and I made about a 12-footer on No. 4. We were under par all day long, and it was
-- I never could get up on him very much. Finally he missed a short putt on No. 13 for me
to go 3-up on him, I guess. Then he comes right back and birdies 16 when he had to. And I
hit a good shot in there about 12 feet and lipped it out, and he made it from about 6 feet
to keep it going. He played good, and I played good. 
 
Q. Hal, have you played with or against Duffy in the past, and what's your opinion of
how his game has progressed?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, Duffy is a good player. I certainly wasn't going to take him lightly.
He's very long after the tee, which is -- since we're playing in the mud, that's a big
item. He's explosive. He can make a lot of birdies. Duffy is a good player. He's gotten
better and better all the time. 
 
Q. Seems like more of the top seeds are playing better in this event than they did last
year. Is there -- do you think people came in with a different type of mindset than they
did before?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, it was the first time any of us had played match play for a long
time. Someone asked me earlier in the week if I thought the veterans had the advantage,
and I thought probably the other guys, the younger guys have the advantage. They play a
lot more match play golf in amateur golf than we had. We played one match play event a
year, which is only one singles event. The rest of them are a team event. So you've got a
partner that you're relying on. If you played in every Presidents Cup and Ryder Cup, you'd
played in one match-play singles event a year. I mean one round is what I'm saying. We
haven't got a lot of experience at match play. So I think the answer to that question is
everybody is more comfortable after last year. 
 
Q. How comfortable are you out there, Hal?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I feel pretty good about my game right now. I feel like I'm hitting the
ball where I need to at the right time. To me, match play strategy, I think you can always
-- you can't look at a guy's score and tell how he's playing in match play, because you're
playing off of what the other guy is doing. There were several times I had a 8- or 9-foot
birdie putt, where he's running by three or four feet. I'm trying to make it but I don't
want to do anything stupid and run it three or four feet by, and have to put the pressure
back on myself at that point. So I don't know that you can look at a guy's score and
really tell the whole story in match play. So I feel good out there. 
 
Q. Does the same go for the ranking? You can't look at a guy's ranking?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Rankings might be a little bit off, but they're not way off. Out here it's
talked about all the time. There's very few people when you look down that ranking system
that ought to be over three or four spots one way or the other. The only place you're
going to find the player that might be out of place is the guy that hasn't played well for
6 months or 8 months or something like that, but he played really good for the two years
prior to that. Maybe he's not playing very well, and it seems like it's a slow decline.
That's the only place that you might see a little bit of disparity on that world ranking. 
 
Q. What do you expect from Darren tomorrow, based on what you saw in the Ryder Cup,
what are you looking for?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Different kind of golf course here than we're playing there. So Darren is
long. He's very aggressive. I'm sure he'll be the same way tomorrow. So we'll probably
have the let the birdies fly.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 HAL SUTTON: Just walk down that 10th fairway down there. That's got to be one of those
holes that's below sea level that they keep talking about. 
 
Q. I understand you had a 60-footer on one hole?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah. No. 9. I didn't hit a very good third shot. I had kind of a muddy lie
on a downslope and hit it a little heavy and sucked it back to 25 feet all the way to the
front of the green and canned it. I was as surprised as anybody else was. One of those
where you're just trying to get it up close, and it wandered in.  
 
Q. What hole was that on?
 
 HAL SUTTON: No. 9. 
 
Q. That must be the best shot of the day.
 
 HAL SUTTON: It was my shot of the day. I don't know yours.  
 
Q. We're always looking for those for the papers.
 
 HAL SUTTON: Okay.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT