THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY
October 27, 1999
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 HAL SUTTON: Well, I have just said it several times: The golfing world is going to miss
a flamboyant, easy-to-get-along with personality in Payne. Payne is in a better place. I
am sure he is not going to make anymore bogeys in his life. He is going to make all pars
and birdies, but I do feel bad for Tracey and the kids. It is going to be hard to go on
with their life. I am sure they will, but it will be difficult. I am glad that we are
taking the day off Friday so we can go to the services. He deserves his day.  
 
Q. Do you have any idea about how many of the players are going to go to the services?
Secondly, as far as the players, is there anything that you all have talked about? I know
you are wearing the ribbons, but is there anything else the players will do this week in
honor?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Somebody was saying this and I wouldn't normally be for this. I have kidded
Payne all my life about his knickers, but just as a tribute to him, I think it would be
kind of neat if we all wore knickers on Sunday. I don't know if that is possible or not.
But be kind of neat, I think. As far as everybody going down there, I am not sure who is
going. Getting planes together to go to, that is all I know.  
 
Q. Can you talk about how the interaction between players has changed this week, when
you see each other, if you are at dinner together, elevator together, practice green, what
have you, what it has been like?
 
 HAL SUTTON: There has certainly been a different feel around here this week. I think
the one thing that this challenges us to think about is how short life really is. And
although Payne wasn't a family member of mine, I almost feel like I lost a family member.
Payne and I have been competing against one another for a better part of 22 years, whether
it was amateur golf or professional golf, and because our names were so close together, we
were always lockered beside one another and we were parking in alphabetical order; when we
were parking beside one another. Every time I look at his locker this week, it just causes
distress in my insides. 
 
Q. What are some of your favorite Payne Stewart stories? What is jumping out at you now
as a memory of him?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Most recently was the things that we -- Payne and I got a lot closer at the
Ryder Cup and spent a lot of time together there. He was kidding me about he'd never been
on a horse in his life; that he was going to come up to my farm and ride a horse with me.
And he was -- he had a hunting trip planned after we got back from Spain. He invited me to
go on the hunting trip with him. Then the night after we won, we were sitting there, and
everybody else was having a good time. He and I were quietly talking. He said, "I
know I feel sure that one or both of us will be a Captain of this Ryder Cup team one
day." He said, "You and I both share the same passion for the Ryder Cup."
They have got this code, this assistant Captain thing going on. He said, "If I am
ever Captain, I'd really want you to be a part of my team." Of course, I said the
same thing. Payne was an interesting personality. He had an arrogance about him that he
was able to get away with that not a lot of other guys were able to get away with because
he always had that twinkle in his eye and that smile. He might say something that might be
a little bit brash, but then he would wink at you or he'd have that twinkle in his eye. If
somebody else had said, it you might have thought that is a little bit too much. But
because Payne said it, you know he didn't mean anything brash by it; if he did, you
overlooked it. Payne had his own style, his own way. I don't have to explain that to
everybody. Everybody knows Payne's style. We will miss him. 
 
Q. You and Payne had a little bit of a career resurgence about the same time. The past
couple of years have been good to you. When you weren't playing as well as you'd like or
he wasn't playing as well as he would like, did you ever talk about that?
 
 HAL SUTTON: No. That is not things that we ever talked about. I mean, I think this is
-- as tragic as this is, I think it makes us all evaluate what we are all going through in
our life. We are a lot more of a family out here than everybody has always made us to seem
to be, and in a tragic situation like this, you find out how much more of a family you
really are. In the past, we haven't shared moments of -- you know, when we were distraught
and out with our game. We didn't talk about it with other guys. Payne and I never had that
kind of conversation together. Maybe we should have. Maybe together we with could have
pulled one another out of it, but if he were here today and we were having that same
problem, I know we would talk about it. 
 
Q. Last couple of years, you have been playing well. Did you ever have any talks with
him about: "We still got something left"?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah, last year or so, I guess you might say we took some pride in the fact
that we were coming back at the age that we were at. We were being competitive. And he'd
say to me, "Let's win one for the old guys," or things like that. Although,
Payne and I don't want to admit we are older; so I don't know. Payne and I shared a lot of
moments together. I mean, being as honest as I know how to be, you know, early on in our
careers, Payne was so aggressive with his self-confidence that, you know, it was almost
intimidating to some degree. When he'd sign a cap, he'd sign all the way across the bill.
That would aggravate me. I'd kid him. I'd say, "They need to make hats bigger for you
so you can sign your name." But as we grew out here and matured out here together,
you know, that never bothered me anymore. I knew Payne and he knew Hal. 
 
Q. Talk about how difficult the physical and emotional toll of this week, obviously
with the memorial service, with the flight that you guys have to take to Orlando, with the
27 holes on Thursday and Saturday, how much of a toll will that take, and how much will
that affect how you guys play or your drive to play?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I have been thinking about that all day long. And I think the only answer
that I have to that question is that this is one of those situations in life where you are
asked to prioritize. And I think the priority here is not this golf tournament, but what
has happened to us as a TOUR with the loss of Payne; the loss of a friend; what Tracey and
the kids are going through. So I am sure we will all be putting our best foot forward, and
there will an winner on Sunday night. But there is a greater priority; so I am not really
worried about how I focus or I don't focus this week. I think about being how many times
we have all flown on private airplanes and how many times we have gotten in that private
airplane and we didn't know anything about that airplane or anything about the pilots in
that airplane. I think about how many times I have put my family into a situation like
that, and, you know, that is just tragic that Payne had to be an example for us. 
 
Q. Do you own a jet or are you part of that Flex Jet Program?
 
 HAL SUTTON: No, I don't. I just bought an airplane about two months ago. 
 
Q. What kind?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I bought a small jet. So I looked at that Fractional (sic) Jet Program. I
will be honest with you, that is something that I almost bought into the Fractional Jet
Program, but the reason why I didn't was because I didn't know the pilot and I don't know
the airplanes. And you fly with a different set of pilots every time; in a different
airplane every time, and I just felt like that was -- that is taking too much of a gamble
and too much of a risk. This way, I know the airplane and maintenance program that it has
been on and I know the pilot. And then if they tell me something is wrong with the
airplane, it is my choice. My choice, I would promise you, would be not to go. 
 
Q. Do you have two pilots that you specifically use?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah. 
 
Q. The pilots are on standby for you?
 
 HAL SUTTON: They fly strictly for me. They have just been in the business for a long
time.  
 
Q. Do you have any idea how tomorrow morning will be when you have to tee it up, how
you will get yourself focused on the first tee -- when you step on that first tee, will
you then revert to being a professional golfer; things will come back?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I will tell you in the morning about 10:36, Jerry. I would think that we
will. I would think that Payne would want us to. I think it is going to be just
individually how we cope with it. I don't know the answer to that question, to be honest.
I am not trying to avoid you there. 
 
Q. Ben is here today. He is said he is going to try to talk to the Ryder Cup people.
Have you talked to him about it? He said it is important for guys to talk and get their
feelings out.
 
 HAL SUTTON: I saw Ben earlier. We didn't sit down and chat about it. We are going to. I
think it is important that we do that. I guess the nicest thing about having spent the
last six weeks in the large part with Payne is that I got to know Payne on a much deeper
level. Maybe why it hurts a little bit right now is because I do know him on a much more
deeper level. 
 
Q. Not to change the subject, Hal, but how are you playing coming into this
championship, and what is the mindset being a defending champion, but a different venue?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I feel like my game is pretty good. I had a little slipup last week, but
all and all, my game feels really good to me. Mindset is to go out and attack it one shot
at a time the same way I do every week. East Lake was a great golf course, but I will tell
you what, Champions is, also. It is going to take, just like East Lake, you are going to
have to drive your ball really well here. Big greens, and you need to be pretty good iron
player because you can be on the green and be in a different zip code, basically. So you
better be a pretty good ball-striker. 
 
Q. I keep thinking in the last couple of weeks, I have been with you at various
tournaments. You appeared to be as happy with your game, your life, your success than I
think you have ever been. Now you have something like this to cope with. Have you thought
about that, how life could go from high to low like that?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah, I think about it all the time, but I don't know what I can do about
it, or anything else, other than cope with each day just like we did prior to this
tragedy. We are reminded a lot of the time by how short life really is, and we are just
passing through this life that we are living. When a friend gets taken in a tragedy like
Payne has, you are just reminded of how short it really is. So all the people you haven't
told you love lately, you better tell them. And you better live your days like you mean
it. 
 
Q. With the new format now, can fatigue become a factor in this tournament or no? Is 27
holes not a factor?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I don't really think so. I don't think it will be that big a deal. No more
fatigue than normal, basically. I think we are down to the end of the year. Everybody has
gone through a long, hard year. We are all tired before we start, basically. We are all
ready for things to quit meaning so much; that we can settle down and have a two-month
family life here. But I don't think it is any more so than normal. 
 
Q. Could you just run through the circumstances of where you were, what you were doing
Monday when you found out about the plane and when you found out Payne was on board?
 
 HAL SUTTON: I was at lunch with my dad. And my sister called me and said she had just
heard it on the news; that it was a prominent golfer from Orlando on board the plane. And
she was -- didn't know who it was. And, of course, I will be honest, but I felt like it
was Payne going to Dallas and I knew it was either going to be him or Scott Hoch -- or who
else flew out there on Flex Jet. When they said it was --. 
 
Q. You guys were having lunch here?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yeah. Mark O'Meara, he is in there, too. No. We weren't having lunch here.
We were in Shreveport. I hoped it wasn't. I hoped it was one that was chartered by him and
he wasn't on it. But --. 
 
Q. Who did you call? Did you call someone to try to confirm it at that point?
 
 HAL SUTTON: No, I didn't. I called my wife and told her to turn on the TV. And then I
left and went straight home. And, you know, how do you know who to call to confirm, and
don't call the house. You know, I was just like anybody else, watching it. Only thing I
think is a little bit wrong with our country right now, I am not sure that everybody
deserves to know every detail of what is going on in somebody's life. I have not talked to
Tracey or anybody else, but I hope she didn't have to sit there and watch that and hear
everything they talked about and everything else. That was her husband and her children's
daddy in that airplane. If I can caution any of you all about anything, it is not the
obligation to point out every detail of everything that goes on with everybody. It is not
necessarily your responsibility to share every detail with everybody. That was a tragic
moment in life. I just know that if that would have been my situation there, I wouldn't
have wanted to have to dealt with everything that was on that TV.  
 
Q. Are you going to Valderrama?
 
 HAL SUTTON: Yes. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT