FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 11, 1999
Hal Sutton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HAL SUTTON:  Starting on 10, I birdied 10 and hit a 7-iron in there about eight feet and made that.  Birdied 14, I hit a 3-iron about 12 feet and made that.  And then I parred all the way around the 3, and hit a 3-iron in there about 20 feet, and made that for eagle.  And then 5, I missed the green just off the right side and chipped it up.  Hung on the lip; so, about half an inch putt.  And then the last hole, I 3-putted from about 16 or 18 feet behind the hole. 
 

Q.  What do you expect them to do to the course this weekend? There's a 16-under par.  You're in good shape, too.  Do you think they are going to toughen it up a lot?  What do you think they are going to do?
 
HAL SUTTON:  I don't think there is a lot they can do to it.  I think it's -- you know, it would probably help a little bit if it rained on it, because then it would play a little bit longer.  I think that the greens are a good speed to make putts on, and they are holding well enough that you can hit it pretty close.  That makes for good scoring conditions. 
 

Q.  Is the ball rolling better today than yesterday?
 
HAL SUTTON:  On the greens, you mean? 
 

Q.  On the fairways.
 
HAL SUTTON:  It's playing fast.  Hitting irons to all the par 5, it's, you know, except 5.  The wind switched on us on 5, and we had to hit wood in there. 
 

Q.  What do you think it's going to take to win? 
 
HAL SUTTON:  I have no idea.  I'd say a lot under par, with the way it's playing. 
 

Q.  When you came in here this week, did you figure that after two rounds, somebody might have shot two 63s?  How unlikely is that, or is the course that vulnerable?
 
HAL SUTTON:  I don't think it's that vulnerable.  That's awful low.  16-under; is that what it is?  That's awful low.  There's only one thing I've got to say:  He ain't got but one way he can go.  Hard to keep that pace.  That's awfully good playing for David, there.  My hat's off. 
 

Q.  What did the delay do?  Did that affect you at all?
 
HAL SUTTON:  I think it stops the momentum. I had just made a 20-footer to make eagle, and at that point, you're kind of wanting to go.  But it could work both ways.  If the guy is playing bad, it gives him a chance to regroup. 
 

Q.  Tomorrow -- obviously with David so far up, tomorrow, do you just look sort of to put yourself in position that Sunday you have a chance to make a run at it?
 
HAL SUTTON:  36 holes is a lot of golf.  I'll play the same strategy tomorrow and Sunday that I'm playing right now, and that's one shot at a time.  I can't do anything with David.  The only thing I can do -- the only person I can do anything with is me. So David will have to work for David, and I'll have to work for me. 
 

Q.  You said you were considering making the Ryder Cup, and these points this week should move you into a pretty strong position to make the team.
 
HAL SUTTON:  Well, you know, first thing's first.  And I think that's -- we've got to play this weekend, and I'll have to take whatever points I can gain by playing this weekend.  You know, that's on the back of my mind, but winning this tournament is first thing on my mind. 
 

Q.  What's your schedule like from here?  Are you playing heavy?
 
HAL SUTTON:  I'm playing next week,  obviously, and then not a real heavy schedule.  I mean, I'm playing some, but -- I'm playing the Western.  I'm playing the British Open, Buick, PGA. Maybe one or two more in the summer.  The World Championships in Akron.  I can't think right off the top of my head.  It's been a long day. 
 

Q.  Are you pacing yourself, would you say?
 
HAL SUTTON:  Yeah.  That's not a heavy schedule, but it's enough that I stay in tune playing. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT