OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 27, 2008
Wes Hefernan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  WES HEFERNAN: I played last year, so I had a little bit of experience, and Graham, this is his first time. The winds get swirling around here, and I'm sure guys were talking, it's tough to pick the right club a lot of times and in the best-ball, it's not quite as big of a problem in alternate-shot if it is as windy as it was today.
 We got off to a fairly slow start. The Americans were 4-under through four, so we were watching them, thinking we have to try to keep up to this because they were on a good pace. We started making a couple birdies and started getting going. 
 I struggled probably the first 12 holes and Graham kept us in there and made four birdies himself. It was nice making a bunch of birdies, and I birdied four of the last five. So it was kind of his start and my finish. It was good team work. 

 Q. Stating the obvious, but it is all about team work, isn't it? You have to help yourself out regardless, with it being all the more critical in the foursomes. 
 WES HEFERNAN: When one guy is out of the hole, you have to step up. And it's a different feeling obviously in this kind of format, because you're not just playing for yourself, but for your teammate and your country. 
 64 is a pretty good start would say I.

 Q. Do you feel the benefit of playing here last year? 
 WES HEFERNAN: Definitely, more comfort level, and with the swirling winds, we had it last year, so kind of go back to the shots you hit last year and what the wind is doing on certain holes and especially holes like 18, because it's a tough tee shot and so to hit that tee shot before is a nice feeling to know that you can rely on what you did last year, if you hit a good tee shot, obviously. 
 We both hit great tee shots on 18 and able to birdie it, which is a nice way to finish.

 Q. While I'm sure Graham can look after himself, you being the senior partner after him, are you saying, look, this is how it works in China?
 WES HEFERNAN: I guess so, a little bit. It's been the second time in my career to be playing, last time with Mike Weir, but I have the experience of playing before. So I can sort of tell him what it was like last year and hopefully he can continue onto have a good performance the last three days.

 Q. How do you think of the per one day and another?
 WES HEFERNAN: It's that much harder to get into rhythm sometimes. If you're making birdies out there, I'm sure you can get into that rhythm but at the same time, if you're struggling, it is tough to get back. 
 It was good for us, we had to qualify, and we've played this format before. I think playing and pulling together, boast best-ball and alternate-shot will help us tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT