UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 20, 2007
Evan Sharpley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q.  Can you just kind of assess the struggles today, you guys trying to move the ball? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  That's how I would assess it.  It was a struggle.  It was difficult.  They're a very good defense, kudos to them, and we had a tough time. 

 Q.  Were you able to stay confident during the game? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  You have to if you want any shot at winning.  We weren't throwing in the towel, we still haven't.  Unfortunately it got out of hand and we just didn't make any plays. 

 Q.  Having a start under your belt, where do you go from here? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  I don't think I'm really going to change anything.  Unfortunately we lost today so we have to go and make some corrections and watch the tape and see how we can get better. 

 Q.  What was most difficult for you out there, was it the pressure or the speed of their DBs? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  I don't think it was really anything in particular.  They are, they're a great defense, they have a lot of great players, and when they have great players all across the board, it's difficult to make plays, and unfortunately we didn't get any. 

 Q.  Is it more pressure starting as opposed to coming in at halftime? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  No, not at all, no. 

 Q.  Did you have more friends and family here than normal for a game? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  It was about the same.  It really hadn't changed much. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Well, you know, it was a short-lived drive.  Obviously we didn't see it going that way, and those things happen in football.  We needed to recover on the drive after that, and we didn't. 

 Q.  Did Charlie tell you guys before the game that he thought it would be a defensive game, that it would be low scoring? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  I don't know if that was his reasoning, but he did tell us beforehand that that was why we were doing it.  That was his choice. 

 Q.  Did it seem like you got tossed around a lot out there? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  They're very physical.  The guys up front on their defense are very talented, like I've been saying.  It's tough to make plays when they have a lot of talented guys. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Well, they were also playing some pretty tough defense, so plays presented themselves and we just were taking what they were giving us. 

 Q.  Could you talk about a game like this, an opponent like this, you have field position, you're not able to capitalize, what does that do to you guys? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Psychologically it's very difficult.  When you have the ball in plus territory you need to score, and we didn't do that today, so it's frustrating. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Well, I mean, I'm sure that that played into it.  I haven't watched the tape yet obviously, so I'm not sure.  You know, 3rd downs are a big key.  Obviously 3rd down production is huge, too. 

 Q.  Coach Weis made a statement, somebody asked him about the losing streak, and he said, you'd better get us now.  What do you see in this team that would lead him to believe that there's going to be a turning point here soon? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  You know, all of our guys, they're still going to come here and work hard here the next three practices and they're going to get out there after we come back from our break on Monday, and that's our goal. 

 Q.  Do you expect or hope to start the next game based on today? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  You know, that's totally not up to me.  That's not in my hands. 

 Q.  What are you focused on these final four games? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  You know, our goal is to win the final four games, to get better as a team and also individually.  It's a great opportunity for some younger guys to solidify themselves as players for next year.  And upper classmen, as well, they're playing for personal reasons, as well, but we still want to win. 

 Q.  What about you? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  I'm going to do the same thing.  I'm going to try to get better and do the best I can to help our team win. 

 Q.  Can you put a finger on (inaudible)? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  I'm not sure.  I haven't gone back and looked at the film yet.  I've got a better chance to kind of possibly put my finger on that once I see the film. 

 Q.  In general nothing worked; just seemed like before that you guys were moving the ball. 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  I think you have to give a lot of credit to their defense.  They had a good plan, a good scheme, and they played well. 

 Q.  Coach Weis said that it's probably good for this team that you have next week off.  How do you feel about that? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Yeah, psychologically it'll be good.  We've been through this first part of the season and it was rough on us.  It'll be good and positive for a lot of people to get away and regroup and refocus and come back strong to win our next four games. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  It's very frustrating.  It's frustrating any time you lose no matter who it is.  Yeah, losing doesn't get any easier. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Yeah, we thought we had a great game plan going into the game, and we have to make plays, and we take what the defense gives us.  I'm going through my reads and the throws that I was throwing were based on what the defense gave us.  So they did a great job.  I'm going to tip my hat to them.  They're a great team. 

 Q.  Is there a breaking point, or is it you just have to keep trying, people ask the same questions week after week? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  It is, but I don't think there is a breaking point.  I think we have a great group of guys that are going to keep working hard.  It's the type of character people that we have here. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT