UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 13, 2007
Evan Sharpley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q.  Take us through the touchdown pass when everybody was cheering.  Take us through that. 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  It's a terrible feeling when you go through a play like that and have success and then there's some laundry on the field.  That's how the game goes sometimes. 

 Q.  Any other opportunities here for you for the taking? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  I don't know.  I mean, like I've been saying, it's not up to me.  It's up to other people. 
 Hopefully I keep improving and we keep improving and getting better. 

 Q.  Is it frustrating a little bit, you come in, you do well a couple times throughout the season and yet you haven't got the chance to be a starter? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  I think it's more frustrating that we're still losing, and we want to win.  That's all anybody wants this year.  I think that's the most frustrating part right now. 

 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Yeah, I mean, he's the head coach, and what he sees and what he says during the week is what they're going to go on. 

 Q.  Do you think you give this team a shot of energy, especially coming off the bench like you did today? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Well, I'd like to hope so.  You'd have to ask some of them.  You know, when I'm on the field hopefully our team has the best chance to win, and that's what hopefully I did today a little bit. 

 Q.  What was going through your mind on that 4th and 1?  Take us through that play. 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Yeah, I mean, that's football.  It's disappointing when you have success and then it's taken away from you.  Those things happen, though. 

 Q.  Can you talk about Robby Parris? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  Yeah, Robby is doing a great job getting open, and fortunately enough we got to hook up a few times and move the ball a little bit. 

 Q.  (Inaudible.) 
EVAN SHARPLEY:  It's difficult.  It was a good play and it was a good call.  Sometimes those things happen. 

 Q.  When you're coming back and bringing the team back, is that one of the reasons you love being a quarterback? 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  I think it's one of the reasons everybody plays football.  It's a great feeling when those moments occur, and you really have to suck those in.  Unfortunately it got taken away.  That's tough, and that's life. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 EVAN SHARPLEY:  You know, I'm not going to be the judge of that.  I continually say, I'm not the head coach.  The coaches are making decisions and they're the ones that are ultimately getting paid, not me. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT