TMS - MONTE-CARLO
April 21, 2006
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  What did you find most difficult out there today?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Through translation.)  The difficulties were, first of all, the heat.  Also, my physical condition and the intensity that Nadal puts in each point.  Also, the fact that I was coming out of two very long matches, three hours, and yesterday I finished very late.  Today I was very tired.   
 The first two games were very long and very intense, and after that I started feeling sort of nauseous and without strength and I started being tired.  That's why there was a great difference between the first two games and the rest of the match.   
 Also, it's very difficult to win against Nadal if you're not 100%.   
  Q.  Have you ever felt quite as bad and had to have your blood pressure taken on court before?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Through translation.)  Well, I was concerned because I was trembling.  I felt nauseous.  I was very tired.  They took my blood pressure early because I had doubts, but when they told me it was normal, I was relaxed.  They just told me that I was very tired and today it was warmer than the other days.   
 Also, Nadal plays very aggressively.  His balls are very heavy.  It cost me a lot to play.   
 In fact, it's very difficult.  Nadal played very well the important points, and even if I had been 100% fit, it would have been difficult for me because he played with a lot of confidence.   
  Q.  Is he the hardest, toughest player that you've encountered anywhere in tennis?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Through translation.)  On this surface, on clay, yes, he's the toughest player because every point is very intense.  He plays very intense.   
 Also, on both sides he hits very hard.  Until 4-2, all the games were very tight, but he ended up winning them because he had a better physical condition.  He is like a beast, an animal, on the court.  He's very strong and he's very well prepared.   
  Q.  Last year you could play five hours against him.  What is the difference between last year and this year?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Through translation.)  In fact, in Rome the surface was a bit faster than here in Monte-Carlo.  Also, I hadn't played two long matches of three hours before.   
 But I don't know what happened to me this time that I got tired so quickly.  In fact, I played two or three loose games and then he came up, and with a lot of confidence.   
 In Rome, the situation was different.  In fact, I was better prepared physically to play against him.   
  Q.  At the moment are you just going to play Rome, Hamburg before Paris?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, yes, yes.   
  Q.  No other tournaments?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  Barcelona and Munich.   
  Q.  You're playing everything?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes.   
  Q.  And you are ready to play all these tournaments?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  I hope (smiling).   
 (Through translation.)  Well, I hope I will be able to.  In fact, I spent a few days preparing myself very hard.  I played hard in practice.  In fact, it never happened to me like it happened today.  When I woke up, I felt nauseous, I was trembling.  Maybe I didn't eat right before; I should have eaten better before the match.   
 Anyway, it never happened to me the way it happened today.  I was prepared physically, but it's just that I played those two tough matches against Mathieu and Kiefer.  That's the reason why, because I was prepared physically.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT