US OPEN
September 7, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You fought very hard.  He had five matchpoints on you that you were able to fight off, stave off.  Then to have it finish on a double-fault, I imagine that leaves a bad taste in your mouth, yeah? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  He has been having problems with the nerve that doesn't allow him to grip very hard.  He was losing feeling on the hand.  This has been happening for four days.

Q.  He said as a consequence of the operation. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  He had a lot of treatment during the four days, but during the match, the more he serves, the more it gets tight, the forearm, the shoulder.  He knew it could happen.  That's just the way it is. 

Q.  Robby has surprised a lot of people with the fact that he has gone so deep in this tournament.  I just would like to know what your assessment of him as an opponent is. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  He's been playing very well.  He maybe got a little nervous during the third set there, but was able to turn it around and win it.  This match must have got him tired for the next match, the semifinal.  But just being in the semifinal will probably get him motivated to play well. 

Q.  Just if you could comment on your own play.  You're playing on hard courts.  You had a tough one with Massu.  This was a very difficult one, almost went to a tiebreak in the fifth set.  Can you assess your own play during this tournament. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  He goes out of here feeling very good about the way he played.  Last year he could barely lift his arm because of the shoulder surgery at this time during the tournament.  It was bad luck that the match with Massu was such a long match.  Today he had a lot of pain throughout the whole body.  It was hard to move the way he did.  It feels very weird stepping on to the center court for the first time in two years.  But gave it all: ran, tried hard and just gave it all, all he could. 

Q.  Other than the hand, was there anything else injured? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Everything hurt, but that's from the Massu match.  But he knew this is the quarterfinal of a Grand Slam; you try your hardest.  Ginepri, the one thing they want to say also, Ginepri won because he played better than him.  At the decisive moments, he played better than him.  He won because he deserved it. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT