WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You, fourth round. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  (In English) Unbelievable. 

Q.  Tell us a bit about your commitment to becoming a very good grass court player and why. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Hours of work prior to this tournament.  Last year I couldn't play my best tennis because of my shoulder injury, but I left with good feelings.  As a matter of fact, this year I am very happy because things are developing according to the amount of work we have put in.  But also that I myself have learned to believe that I, too, can be a dangerous player. 

Q.  Are there grass courts in Argentina? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  There are six courts that are prepared for this period, but it's not the habitual thing.  So all year round, there are some courts, but during this time of the year the cricket courts are prepared specifically for here.  But I prefer to come and play the tournaments to improve. 

Q.  Many Latin American players don't care whether they're good on grass.  You do.  Why? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Because I want to be a complete player.  I have always said this.  This is the most difficult surface for me.  It's a big challenge for me to be able to play well here. 

Q.  Do you feel the rhythm on the grass now? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, the more matches you play, the better you feel.  Fortunately, I am not falling as often as I used to in my first years, and that's the thing that makes me happiest (smiling).

Q.  Now your tormenter, Andy Roddick. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, it's going to be a good match because it will show me where I am, what my level is in this type of surface.  But I'd love to have him in front of me to play him - be it at Roland Garros or on a clay court.  I always have to play him on grass.

Q.  You've seen him 140 miles an hour at Key Biscayne; you've seen him at the Masters.  What is it going to look like on grass? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, but I am happy with my level.  I didn't serve the same way in previous matches, but I am confident with my serve and that gives me confidence to face up to the match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT