WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  A couple comments about the Davis Cup. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Two, three weeks more.  It's good for me to win because then I am adding matches in this type of surface.  Australia is a big favorite in this series, but we really want to win there.  
 
Q.  You obviously wanted to have everyone fit and available.  How disappointing is it for you not to have Guillermo there, as well? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Are you talking about Australia?  
 
Q.  For the Davis Cup, Canas said he is not going to play. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  We have many players, fortunately.  It's true that Canas is a very important player.  But let's hope that I am the one to replace him and to play really well to look good in the singles.  We're going to try and go there with the best possible team.  
 
Q.  Do you know what he's going through now? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I don't know exactly what the problem is, but I found out whilst being here already.  It's a very delicate subject.  You have to be really careful before you discuss it.  You should be helped because he's going through a very bad moment.  One shouldn't talk because one doesn't know what actually happened.  
 
Q.  What might be the plan for the doubles without Guillermo? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  The truth is we haven't discussed it with the captain yet to see how it's going to actually take place.  But obviously Canas was a very important player both for singles and doubles.  
 
Q.  This is the fourth Argentinian player to have a test, a positive test.  Does this put a cloud over the team? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's bad luck.  
 
Q.  When you say "bud luck," you must be concerned that the reputation of Argentinian tennis is suffering to continually have this happen. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, but these are things that happen.  You have to pay attention, you have to be careful.  It's a great pity that it's another Argentinian.  But he is not guilty of anything yet.  
 
Q.  Do there need to be improvements in, say, education or awareness about the doping protocols?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I don't know what the problem is.  But we have to wait.  We have to see what happens with Canas.  I totally trust that he is innocent.  
 
Q.  In that case, would you prefer that he play Davis Cup?  Would you urge him to play? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, of course, I would.  But it's a hard time so you have to respect his decision, whatever decision he takes.  But he's a great person, and I would really like to see him in the team because we lived through a Davis Cup together before.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT