TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 8, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  (Question not translated into English).

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I'm a little bit not satisfied because I ran for five hours just to lose with two points.  So I am very disappointed. It's normal but, you know, I lost with a top player who played a great match.  So that's it.


Q.  When do you think you lost the match?  In the first set, you may have won the first set.  What was the key moment of the match?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I don't think there was a special moment.  We went 8-6 in tiebreak, so it was very, very close match.  We ran for four hours, and you do a lot of errors.  It's normal.  It depends on the concentration. But I think the match was very tight.


Q.  What does it take to beat Nadal?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I think I was pretty close to beating him today, but he's very confident.  He has won a lot of matches and he's making some incredible shots and he's very confident of his game. But I was close today, so it will happen sooner or later.


Q.  You were 3-Love up in the fifth set.  What turned the match around at that point?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, that was a key moment, but I played it as I could.  He played very well.  He was really at ease.  He played an incredible game and he broke me, and then he was playing better and better and it was very tough. But I'm fine.  I feel well because I lost fighting.


Q.  (Question not translated into English).

GUILLERMO CORIA:  At the end of the fourth set I was really, really tired, but I was up 3-Love because he was tired, too, and he was making mistakes which he hadn't done before.  So we were both very tired.


Q.  (Question not translated into English).

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I had very tough finals, too, but this is my record - 5 hours 15 minutes.  But I'm satisfied because I was really tired and I could still struggle.  This gives me a lot of confidence for the future.


Q.  (Question not translated into English).

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, because in Monte-Carlo I felt I hadn't played so well.  But, as I said, now he's very confident.  He's very solid.  But he also had a little bit of luck, and so I hope that at some time luck will be on my side, too.


Q.  Were you surprised that he found the energy to rally when he was down 3-Love in the fifth?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I was really surprised by how he was running and his shots.  I think there are very little players who can hit so hard.


Q.  (Question not translated into English).

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, but I still haven't won a tournament.  But I'm satisfied because I didn't finish well last year and I had my operation.  And to have two finals in a row, it's very important and it gives me confidence that I can win a tournament in the weeks to come.


Q.  (Question not translated into English).

GUILLERMO CORIA:  This was a very tough match not only physically, but also mentally.  Yes, the whole match, both of them, was very tough.  But I was very focused on struggling hard.  I thought that sooner or later he would give up, he would have a loss of pressure, but he didn't. I think I fought, I gave everything I had, I had my chances, and I tried to use them.  He was always responding with incredible shots on lines so...


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT