TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 7, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  The impression we have is that you were not too happy with the behavior of the crowd towards you and Agassi, or did you say something like that after the match?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, you know, it's normal because he's very famous here and many people are his fans. That point was incredible, but, I mean, you don't decide a match on just one ball so...


Q.  What's the difference between the way you're playing now and the way you were playing to get into the Monte-Carlo final?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, it's very different because in Monte-Carlo I was playing for the first time a final after a long time, and now is going to be very different.  I think I can win, and I'm happy to play against Nadal.


Q.  After this Agassi match, do you think he was a little slow?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I don't know.  I know that I was running a lot.  I was taking very difficult balls, shots he was making.  My tactic was to hold on and to make a hard time for him.  Then I took the second set just that way.


Q.  How long did it take you to get over the defeat to Gaudio in the French Open final, or do you still find yourself thinking about it and disappointed about it?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, that was a very long time ago so I won't stay in bed and cry over it just for that.  It's just one match; it doesn't matter. I wanted to go on, win Rome and Roland Garros and who knows whatever.


Q.  In the second set were you a little worried?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I was a little bit worried, but then that moment I started to play like I did in the first set.  I knew if I couldn't take my serve, then I would be able to break him.  That's what happened.  Then I started to play better and better and I could win this very difficult match.


Q.  Do you still believe that Agassi is fit enough to win a big tournament like a Masters Series or a Grand Slam?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I think that Agassi is Agassi and, I mean, every time you think it's his last year, he comes back and he's even fitter and tougher.  I met him in Indian Wells and it was amazing how well he could run.  Today he was running a lot and he's able to really put you in pressure. I think he's very fit physically and mentally because of all the matches he's played in the past.


Q.  Before Monte-Carlo, Nadal was in great, great shape; today he seems a little bit more tired.  You in Monte-Carlo were so-so; now you seem strong.  Do you think you have more chances, to be honest, or no?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, maybe this is possible.  But even when he's not very fit, I mean, he runs a lot.  He's still incredible.  So I don't know.  He's really eager to win, and he wants to win every match and he's very confident because he has won a lot of matches. On my side, I wanted to repeat the victory in Monte-Carlo which I had a few years ago, and I would like to win Rome, too, which is a goal I set to myself a long time ago.


Q.  If you had to compare your game last year the same time of the year and now, what do you do better now?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I think I'm better physically.  I feel better.  I am trying to find THE rhythm and the confidence I lacked. I'm very happy, the way I could overcome my operation, which was sort of heavy.  I'm very pleased of being in two finals in such a short time.  I'm very thankful to all the people who helped me in this situation.


Q.  Has it actually helped you to have had the three months off from August to November to let the rest of your body recover from so many months of intensive playing?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, but what was really important is the way the group of people around me worked with me because you never know after such an operation what might happen.  They really believed in me and they made it possible.  So that was very important, how they worked with me.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT