TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Rafael played a very good match today.  How do you feel you played overall?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, I let the first set escape me, but the conditions were not favorable for me today because it was raining pretty hard and the balls were very heavy.  I was not able to hurt him as much as I wanted to and as much as I did at the end.  I was almost able to turn it around.  I'm still very pleased with that match. 
 

Q.  For a first tournament on clay, you are happy overall?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, because I lost against the best player on clay, on this surface.  I thought that if the match was going to go long enough, he might get tired, but he was able to run very well. Given my game on clay and given my tennis, my confidence is rising a lot.  I believe that if I continue that way, I'll be all right for the French Open. 
 

Q.  Last year when you won here, do you feel you were playing better than now, a little bit better, a lot better, same?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Every year is different.  Today I finished the match playing as well as I was playing last year, I believe.  Therefore, I feel ready to fight for my next tournaments, the next Masters Series and also in the French Open. I believe today I lost again to one of the favorites for the French Open, so this gives me confidence.  Although I lost, I'm very pleased with my game today. 
 

Q.  Are you more disappointed that you lost the match, or that you missed that last dropshot?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He was playing well in all parts of the game and I didn't know where to play.  I saw he was standing very far back, so I was also thinking that the percentage of my dropshots were good.  I won more points with that than I lost, so I thought it was favorable.  I thought I would hurt him with that. But, anyway, I lost the finals of a Masters Series against a very good player. 
 

Q.  Was it a solution to play a lot of dropshots to make him play with the touch?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, because he's not as good at the net as he is from the baseline.  As I said, I won more points with that than I lost.  But we were running so much, I had to find a solution for that match.  During the whole week, I felt good with my dropshots. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible).
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Today, no, I didn't see anything else because the conditions were very humid and the balls were very heavy.  It was very difficult to win a point against him just leaving him far away from the ball. He played very well, and I was surprised how much he was able to run.  He was very good physically.  Also, he was having a lot of success and luck with his shots.  Even at the net he was winning points against me, and he served well.  What I wanted to do is bring him up to the net. 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT