TMS - MONTE-CARLO
April 20, 2006
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  To win a match like this must be a double satisfaction?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, a triple satisfaction, because like the other time, I had problems with my serve.  Winning against a player ranked top 13 or 14 in the world is very good for me, but I definitely must improve my serve to continue in the tournament.   
  Q.  You made 43 double-faults.  Has that happened to you before?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, it happened to me in Australia against Grosjean.  But whatever the number of double-faults, be it 15 or 20, it doesn't matter.  The problem is rather to remain concentrated and to remain calm; then, I will be able to make less double-faults.  When I will be serving well, the double-faults will not be so important.  I was able to win in spite of my bad serve, so this gives me confidence for future matches.   
 Since I had surgery on my shoulder, I cannot hope to serve as well as I did before, but I'm still working on that shot and what I need is confidence.  I'm hoping I will be able to serve as good as I played in my first match in Miami where I didn't make any double-faults.   
  Q.  What goes through your mind when you are serving?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  What happens to me is that I forget the movement.  So what I have to do is remain calm, as I did in the third set where I made less double-faults.  In the third set against Mathieu, I also made less double-faults.  What is important is to keep concentrating.   
  Q.  What does Higueras say to you about your serve?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  He said my technique is good.  He said if my technique was bad, I would serve badly all the time, I would be playing the same movement each time and it would turn out bad each time.  In fact, what happens is sometimes things turn right and I make no double-faults.   
 Also, during my practicing I serve well.  So what I have to do, he tells me to just think about my movement and not about anything else.   
  Q.  You had a bad history with doping, and also you lost twice in the French Open, once in the semifinal and once in the final.  Now with your shoulder and your double-faults, do you believe you are becoming unlucky?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  No.  I believe these are moments that one must overcome.  When I lost in the semifinal and the final in the French Open, it was because I played against two players who took advantage of every opportunity in the match.   
 The surgery was just a surgery.  Every player is injured now and then; sometimes it's more serious than others.   
 As to the double-faults, this is just a matter of confidence, nothing else, so it's not that bad.   
  Q.  Kiefer seemed to be cross with you at the end of the match.   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  I didn't like him to question the mark and also to be cross because I was asking the umpire to check the mark.  But I remained in the match and I was not entering any dispute with him.  I didn't like at all the fact that he insulted me at the end of the match.   
  Q.  What did he say to you?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  It doesn't matter.  It was just in the heat of the moment on the court, but now it's over.   
  Q.  Kiefer said that he never saw a player making so many double-faults except in women's tennis:  Kournikova.   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  But I won the match, I broke his serve more than he broke mine.   
  Q.  Do you have to manage your match in a different way because of your bad serve, because you need to break the opponent more often?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  I just play point after point.  I just try to forget the point before.  If I hadn't done that, I wouldn't have won against Mathieu or Kiefer.   
 Tomorrow will be another day.  I hope I will wake up feeling good.   
  Q.  How do you feel playing against Nadal with your serving problem?   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's going to be a good challenge.  I'm sure it's going to be a great match.  He's the best player on this surface at the moment.  It's going to be an entertaining match.  I will try to play my best tennis, and I hope it's going to be good to watch for the crowd.   
  Q.  Nadal didn't make any comment about your serve, but he said tomorrow you will be under no pressure and then you might serve better.   
 GUILLERMO CORIA:  It can be.  Everyone has his own opinion.  Many players make many double-faults - sometimes eight or ten.  It's just that I made a great number of them.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT