TMS MONTE CARLO
April 16, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  How do you feel, reaching your second consecutive final here in Monte-Carlo?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I'm extremely pleased to be in the finals again in Monte-Carlo.  It's incredible for me.  Whoever the next opponent might be, Nadal or Gasquet, I know it's going to be a very difficult match, and I really hope to be able to do as I did last year. 
 

Q.  When you were 4-Love down in the second set, it seemed as if mentally you were possibly preparing for a third.  What changed it around?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I believe the important point was at 4-Love when Ferrero was serving because I was able to break him playing very well in that game.  After that, I believed that if I was able to continue at that level, I would be able maybe to win the set.  I did continue to play as good as that, so I'm very happy because this was a very tough match. 
 

Q.  Argentinians seem to change coaches quite often.  You have one coach one year, another one next year.  Why is that?  What is the difference between one and another?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's true that we change a lot, but we are traveling a lot so it makes it difficult.  I know it's not a good thing to change all the time and every moment, but that's the way it is. I hope as far as I'm concerned that it will be the last change. 
 

Q.  But what's the difference between each one of them?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, every coach is different from another.  I had several, and they were all different.  You always like a coach for one thing and you like another one for something else. What I do, I always act the same with every coach.  I always try to draw the best they have and that can be useful to me. 
 

Q.  When you arrived here did you expect to play this good?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  When I came here, the only thing I was thinking about was to get back to my real level.  I was very lucky today because I played a great match.  I was feeling very comfortable on the court, and I won that match playing very well. 
 

Q.  Gasquet is one set up.  Are you surprised by what he does?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I am not surprised.  If he was able to beat Federer, I believe he can beat any kind of player.  Also, his backhand is the best on the circuit and he's very confident right now. If today he beats Nadal, I think it's going to be a real triumph because I believe Nadal is the best player on this surface in the world. 
 

Q.  Some Spanish and Argentinian players seem to believe that the physio trainer is even more important than the tennis coach.  Do you agree with that, or not?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I believe both of them have their role to play and are very important.  It's true that the physical trainer is very important on this surface in particular because we have to run a lot and the matches are long and tough. But the coach also is important. 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT