TMS MONTE CARLO
April 15, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  It seemed to take you quite a lot of time to get into that match today.  Was there a lack of atmosphere on the court?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, Ferrer is a very dangerous player.  He was able to take the initiative every time I played a short point.  He was running very well, and he had good inspiration. So during the second set I was lucky to be able to manage the situation, but it was a tough match.  He was playing very solid.


Q.  What kind of year do you expect this year?  I mean, after all the good you had done last year, is it more difficult to confirm, or you're confident, or so-so?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, reaching the semifinals is a very important thing for me.  When I came here I was not very confident, but Monte-Carlo is a place where I feel good and it suits me well. So this result is good for my confidence.  I really hope that I will be able to repeat what I did last year here and during the whole season up to the French Open. I am going to continue to work very hard, and I hope I will continue to win matches.  It will be good for my confidence.  It's good for me.


Q.  Looking at you, you seem stronger physically.  Have you done something in particular in the gym or somewhere else?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I worked very hard on this point because last year I had several injuries, and especially the injury on my shoulder.  I had to have surgery because of that. So I changed my physical trainer, and I'm very happy because I became stronger.  I put on three kilos in three months, and I changed my way of eating also.  Of course it costs me a little bit when I try to run fast.  The speed, it costs me because I'm heavier. But I think with the matches after matches, it will become better.


Q.  Can you tell us what you were eating before and what you are eating now.

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, you should ask my physical trainer. Anyway, I stopped eating anything with sugar.  I stopped drinking or eating anything that has bubbles, Coca-Cola.  Also I eat a lot of proteins, and I really stopped the sugar.  I don't eat chocolate anymore.


Q.  The name of your physical trainer?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Javier Capitaina (phonetic).


Q.  You played two times on the Court des Princes.  Do you think it's fair, since you're the titleholder, not to play on the big court?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I should have won more matches before coming into this tournament if I wanted to play on center court. But anyway, it doesn't bother me at all.  I played maybe better matches on that court than I would have anyway. I must say those two courts are completely different, one from the other.  But anyway, you must do what you are told.


Q.  Do you like the attention?  Do you like having attention, having a lot of people watch you, or you don't care so much?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I enjoy when people treat me well, and I like that other court because it's smaller and you can feel the crowd around you much more than on center court, which is bigger. I feel good in this tournament, really.  Whatever I do, whether I practice, whether I play, or even if I go for a walk, I feel good.


Q.  One year later, after Gaudio won Roland Garros, who is the most famous and popular tennis player in Argentina:  You, Gaudio, Nalbandian?  Who is more recognized in your country, or no difference?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  In fact, in Argentina they like all the players.  There's also Puerta, Canas.  The Argentinian public is not looking after one single player, the public is watching all the tennis in Argentina. In February we had a Davis Cup tie, and it was very impressive, the way the crowd encouraged every single one of us.  I'm very pleased with the kindness and the liking of the public for us. In Argentina, each one has his own favorite.  It can be Canas, Puerta, Nalbandian or whatever.  It's like in soccer, in football.  But when the country Argentina is playing, they're all behind us, all of us.


Q.  How important is Davis Cup for you this season?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Davis Cup is very important to me.  In February, for me, it was the first time I played in Davis Cup in Argentina, and it was really incredible what happened there.  I never lived something similar to that.  I really would like to win the Davis Cup one year.


Q.  In the past in Argentina they didn't have money to give to the players to play Davis Cup.  Has this changed, or you get money, is important to get the money for Davis Cup, or is not important, you would play for free?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, the important thing is to be united the way we are, all together, and to be able to achieve this dream we all have to win the Davis Cup one day because Argentina never won, never got to win it. You will not become rich or poor with the Davis Cup anyway.  Everything is settled.  You should not mistrust anybody.  The main thing you have to do is go and play.


Q.  Is the Argentinian team very united, or are there rivalries and sometimes tensions?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, as I said, we are all united because we are all aiming at the same objective all together, which is to win the Davis Cup.  We really want to win. We have many players who have tennis that is good enough for us to win this event.  So the most important thing is to be united and to go and play.


Q.  If you win, you are going to play home, correct?  You are playing abroad sometimes?  If you win, how many ties you have to play in Argentina, you think?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, this year nothing.  No ties in Argentina this year.


Q.  Next round is where?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Australia.  Then Slovakia, Holland.


Q.  Are you in regular contact with Guillermo Vilas or not?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I see him very little because I am in Barcelona and he mainly lives in Monte-Carlo or Buenos Aires.  I see him here in Monte-Carlo or sometimes in Paris, but I don't see him very much. Anyway, the relationship is still very good.


Q.  How long have you been in Barcelona, for how long?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Since I started with my new coach, Perlas, since December.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT