TMS MONTE CARLO
April 14, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  After your first round here this year you said you were very happy with your fitness.  Bearing in mind what happened in France last year, in Paris last year, and the need to be fit, have you done anything special to improve your fitness, and how much fitter are you now than you were then?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Last year I had cramps, I didn't have an injury in particular.  I've been working physically, indeed, but not because of what happened in the French Open in particular.  I worked harder just because I had an injury on my shoulder and other injuries in my body.  But in the French Open I didn't become nervous or anything about what happened.  It was just because I was nervous and because I lacked experience.  They were cramps only; it was not an injury.


Q.  Has Carla finished her studies now?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, she's still studying, but she's going to be with me this season because it's a very important season for me.  She's very good company and she's going to stay with me.


Q.  There was an incident with the court and you lost a couple of games.  It was at 3-2.  Did it upset you?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I didn't get nervous, but the conditions were dangerous.  The court was in a very bad state.  He broke me because he played well, and I certainly did not lose my concentration.


Q.  You have a new coach.  Are you happy with your work with him?  What do you work on?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  He's a very important person for me.  He has a lot of experience.  He had done good work previously with Costa and Moya.  He is a Davis Cup champion.  This is very important because I know he can help me to improve my game.  I'm very happy with the way we are working together.


Q.  What are you working on specifically?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Many things, because each coach has his own style.  It's the first time I'm working with a European.  What I like about him is that he's very calm and he has a lot of experience.  I agree with what we are working on together to improve my game and, more specifically, trying to improve my game at the net.  We are working hard.  It's a bit early right now to see the results immediately.


Q.  Do you hope to be ready for the French Open?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I hope so.  This is the objective of this season, to reach the French Open 100% physically and tennistically.  It's a great tournament.  Every player dreams of winning a Grand Slam, and I'm trying to be prepared to achieve my dream.


Q.  Are you working with a nutritionist and a sports psychologist?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I only have my physical trainer.  He controls my nutrition.  I'm very happy with the way it went from January until now.  We are working well together.  I'm happy about the work we are doing. But I'm not working with a psychologist.  I tried it for two weeks and I didn't like it at all.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT