TMS MONTE CARLO
April 11, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  This was your first singles match on clay since Roland Garros last year.  How important was this for you today to get out there and get a victory?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I spent a lot of time without playing on clay except once or twice in Davis Cup, so this was an ATP match against Mathieu.  It was a very difficult match because he's very good on clay.  I was very pleased because that match was very difficult and I am not at the same level as I was last year.  But it was necessary for me to win that match, and I was lucky that I pulled it out.


Q.  What is your assessment of the beginning of the year until now?  You wanted to try to play more on fast.  You did not so bad, but not maybe as good as you expected.  What do you think you can get out of it, and how do you assess it?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, for me it's very good because the matches that I won were a very good thing because I had an operation, surgery on my shoulder, and it was very difficult to be back up at that level.  Being in the fourth round in Australia was very important for me.  It's true that I didn't have so many good results, but I am very pleased and very cool and okay because I know that I'm on the right track.  And if I continue that way, soon the results will come.  I hope I will have some good wins in Monte-Carlo to build up my confidence.


Q.  Is there an aspect of your game that you think is getting better than even last year, anything that you've improved or that you've learned?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I think I improved my physical fitness.  I put on three kilos, and I feel very strong now. What I do lack is wins under my belt and to feel more relaxed and more confident on clay as I was last year.


Q.  Why didn't you play on clay in South America?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  In fact I had a contract with Marseille, and that's why I had to come back to Europe. On top of it, I want to improve my game on fast surfaces because I want to be a complete player.  I want to be an all-surface player.  So that's the reason why I came back to Europe.


Q.  Who are the most difficult opponents for you this season on clay?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I think Nadal and Gaudio.  They have everything to play very good on clay.  They are the favorites to win all the tournaments - especially Gaudio, who won the French Open.  They have the game to win all the tournaments.


Q.  And Federer?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, he can be dangerous on clay, yes, indeed, but he must be more patient.  Also I think Nadal and Gaudio have a better game than he does on clay. But Federer is playing very good on all kinds of surfaces.  If he has to play against either Nadal or Gaudio, it can become a bit complicated for him. But, anyway, there are many favorites:  There's Safin, there's Roddick, there's Ferrero, who's coming back again.  There are many of them.


Q.  What happened last year in Roland Garros, has that made you even more determined coming into this clay court season?  Has it given you extra motivation?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I'm more determined.  However, I still have to improve my level a lot in order to be either a favorite or to win the French Open because I'm, for the time being, not at the same level as last year. But it's true that what happened in the French Open last year was difficult for me.  But if ever it happened to me that I would win the French Open or any other Grand Slam now, for me, it would be a greater happiness than it would have been last year because of what happened.  This is the reason why I'm working very hard every day in order to achieve such a dream as winning the French Open.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT