NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Is Miami your favorite tournament, or would you say that you still prefer, for example, the French Open on the red clay? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  As for the tournaments on hard court, I think this one is the best.  The way they organize the tournament, it makes me almost feel like the French Open, Roland Garros, my favorite tournament.  I think in the States this is the best tournament by far. 

Q.  Were you surprised with the way Dent played today? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Not really.  He's been playing well.  He beat Safin last week.  When he's playing well, he serves very well and that affects a lot.  Plus, I didn't play my best tennis today and he played very well.  So it was no surprise.

Q.  It would seem that your game is better suited to windy conditions, but it looked like Dent handled them better.  What happened today? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, the biggest difference was that Dent started serving very well from the beginning of the match.  He was hitting very well the slice.  I never felt comfortable out there, but I feel that I didn't play as well because of the way Taylor Dent played.  He put a lot of pressure on me and played very well. 

Q.  How difficult or how challenging is it to play a serve-and-volleyer when there aren't that many on the tour? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I usually like to play against serve-and-volleyers.  I feel that my return is good enough to play against them.  Then when I serve, I can move them around.  But today with the conditions, I never felt comfortable.  I was not myself today. 

Q.  How did you feel mentally today, and was there a point where you felt yourself getting more discouraged? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I was very motivated to play.  I felt that at times when I played my best tennis, Dent came up with even better shots which, of course, deflated me a little bit.  But that's one of the reasons why Dent beat me today, because he was stronger mentally and came up with bigger shots at the right time. 

Q.  When Dent's game is clicking, do you feel that he's one of the most dangerous players on the tour? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes.  Like today, he served at 135, 140.  And he can volley, he has incredible volleys.  He had some great volleys out there.  With the slice now, the way it works, he has a very good slice.  He can do a lot of things with the forehand and come forward and attack.  Yes, he's one of the most dangerous when he's playing. 

Q.  You and David are the top Argentines, but you're now out of the tournament.  What would you attribute your success to since you can both play very well on all surfaces, not just clay? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  We work hard every day and know that one of the goals is to play better on every surface, especially the surface where you're not as comfortable as clay.  Of course by winning matches it makes you feel better, too, it makes you feel more comfortable playing anywhere. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT