NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 23, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  How are you feeling coming into the tournament? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Perfect.  He feels 10 points out of 10.  He's been working very hard and he feels very good.  Also this tournament helps him a lot because he likes it very much.  So perfect, everything is perfect. 
 
Q.  What are your memories from last year when you played well but had a difficult time in the final? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Apart from the problem that he had, physical problems - he had little stones in his kidneys - apart from that, he had good memories from the tournament, from what he did last year.  That helped give him confidence when he went to the matches in Europe. Apart from that, he has good memories.  There are more Latins here than in Latin America, in South America, so he feels good here.  
 
Q.  Let me ask you a question about tennis development in South America.  We are seeing so many players coming from Argentina, Chile.  Do you feel that the system is better in Argentina now than it was when you were coming up?  There are more courts, more coaches, more money. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  There are no secrets; it's the hard work, practice every day.  That's what takes you up.  He says that obviously the good results of the Argentinian players in particular, that helps the young players to look at them and encourage them to get better.  Hopefully there will be more to come. 
 
Q.  There's lots of criticism of the federation in Argentina.  Do you feel it's gotten better than when you were coming up as a junior? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He says he has nothing against the federation because they helped him when he was a young player.  In the case of himself, Nalbandian and Salerni, they helped them to develop their game.  He has nothing to say against the federation.  He doesn't know nowadays the way they're working because he has no contact.  But no complaints.  
 
Q.  I'm working on a story about Joachim Johansson.  Have you ever played him? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No. 
 
Q.  Never?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT