AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Can you tell us how you felt in your match today, how you feel now looking forward to the latter stages of this tournament, looking into next week? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Today I felt excellent.  It was a difficult match and I had to be very focused.  I made the most of the moments where I could break his service, and I really made the most of the moments where I could win.  I felt much better than last match, since I was quite good at all my strokes.  And I feel now very confident to face the next match.  
 
Q.  Argentine players seem to be doing really well here. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  There is the possibility of playing Nalbandian next match, and I'm very happy about all Argentinians showing that we can be quite good in this kind of surface.  
 
Q.  If you get past Nalbandian, you might play Lleyton Hewitt.  How do you see his form in the last few rounds? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He first needs to beat Chela tonight (smiling).  He needs to beat Nalbandian, but then Nalbandian needs to win now.  
 
Q.  Can you put down any reason why Argentine men are doing well here this year as compared to previous seasons?  I know they've played well, but we now have four through to the third round. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's the attitude with Argentinian players.  They are all very young and motivated.  Looking forward to making history in their own country.  
 
Q.  What is it like to play another Argentine player if you do come up against Nalbandian?  Would it be easier to play someone else from your homeland? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, because we know each other since we are little kids.  All these matches are very difficult.  Even if I had to play Gonzalez, it would also be very difficult.  When you start playing a match, you forget who is your opponent.  You just want to do your best.  
 
Q.  In Houston you were just finding your game again.  Your serve was not quite so good.  How close do you think you are to getting back to really your very best? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I'm very close.  After being such a long time out of the circuit, coming back and being in the fourth round of a big tournament is very important.  Today's match was a great test for me to check my performance.  I'm serving much more stronger than before, and that's giving me lots of confidence.  
 
Q.  Would you say in percentage terms on your serve, would you say 80%? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  (In English.)  80%.  
 
Q.  How does the shoulder feel? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  (In English.)  Fine, perfect (thumbs up).  
 
Q.  You proved last year that you could be one of the best clay court players in the world.  Is it a goal this year to prove that on hard courts? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I hope so.  I'm working hard in this kind of surface to be as good as I can be on clay and this surface as in hard court or grass.  To be No. 1, you have to be the best in all kinds of surfaces.  
 
Q.  Are you surprised how easy the match was today against Juan Carlos? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  A bit.  I knew I had to be really focused, not stop running, and make the most of all the opportunities.  He was not very confident, so I had to show that I was really at my best.  
 
Q.  You know how difficult it is to come back, having dropped down.  How hard is it going to be for you, given the strength of the men's game, to get back to where you were before? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  You have to treat people individually.  I had very hard times in my life, and kept working very hard.  That made me bring out the best in me.  Each match I won I enjoyed the most.  Since Wimbledon, I didn't play very good matches.  I positioned the dates like the biggest joy.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT