TENNIS MASTERS CUP- HOUSTON
November 19, 2004
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  I have one question about your surgery.  What was it exactly?  What was the surgery exactly? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  We will tell you later in a drawing.  It's kind of long - if you want. They had to cut something and put it back.  I don't know the name, but they took off a tendon and then had to put it together with some other parts.  There was also a bone that was hurting, so they had to cut the bone. I don't know the technical names.  There was a bone, torn from 11 to 12.  So they had to put it together.  There was a part where the nerve was not sending information to the muscle and it got atrophied.  So they went to the muscle and opened up. They had to free the tendon a little bit, and then they put together where the nerves were torn.  
 
Q.  Is it fair to say they restructured the shoulder? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes.  It's something that's genetic.  They had to do it because sooner or later it was going to happen.  So they had to do it. 
 
Q.  You played a really high-quality match today against Roddick.  You almost came pretty close to taking that first set.  Do you feel that maybe your level is getting back to where you were perhaps before you took that injury break? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I leave the tournament very happy.  Obviously, there are some things that I have to get there, like my serve is not there, and some points, the way I play those points is not there still.  But to just come here with only one week of preparation and play like this, it gives me a lot of confidence for next year to see that I'm going to be back there.  
 
Q.  Did the doctor tell you how long it would be until you found your power again with the shoulder? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I'm ready.  I'm ready to serve hard.  There's some parts I need to work on a little bit more, because otherwise when I serve with full power, it hurts other parts.  So I just have to work on that part. But in the match, I was serving as hard as I could and I was doing okay.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT