TENNIS MASTERS CUP- HOUSTON
November 16, 2004
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  I just wondered, in view of your injury and the preparation you had coming here, is there any chance that you may leave the tournament now, or will you see it through? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Zero possibilities I won't play.  
 
Q.  Could you look back at Safin's match. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  His level didn't surprise me at all.  He's been playing very good, so his level didn't surprise me.  I didn't play too well in the first set, so I was not too happy about that.  I was a little bit scared of my arm, and that didn't allow me to be as focused as I should have been.  I loosened up a little bit in the second set, and I'm very happy because I'm leaving that match without any kind of pain or without any kind of feeling the arm.  
 
Q.  I wanted to ask about the announcement that they're going to have safeguarded nutritional supplements in the drinks, the program they are going to announce at 6 o'clock; GlaxoSmithKline will take precautions to make sure there's no tainted, contaminated items that you might take.  My question is in light of what happened with you, how important do you think this is?  How big a step is this? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I think it's a very important step that the ATP is doing for the players to be calm, and for them.  
 
Q.  It's very brave of you to come to the Masters Cup after not having played for something like five months.  On a different note, do you think the Masters Cup should be played on clay? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No.  No, not really.  Because if you're coming from a long swing in indoor or hard court, it doesn't make sense to suddenly play a tournament on clay.  But it still would be interesting that it would be done on clay for my own advantage (smiling).  
 
Q.  What were you doing to stay in shape during the time that you couldn't play tennis? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I practiced very hard for those two weeks.  I only practiced really two weeks, but with very intense rhythm to be ready to come here. 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT