TENNIS MASTERS CUP- HOUSTON
November 14, 2004
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good evening.  Questions in English, please.  
 
 
Q.  It seemed to be moving in your direction and then very rapidly changed. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yeah, the match changed a lot.  I had an opportunity.  The match changed.  I had an opportunity in the third set when it was 4-2.  I didn't take advantage of it.  I got a lot of confidence there and strength.  Then he was unstoppable.  
 
Q.  What exactly happened when you were up 40-love in that game?  You missed a few forehands.  Was it nerves? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I lost concentration that I had.  I think I relaxed myself a little bit too much.  I mean, I started to get nervous after the second forehand that I missed.  That played against me.  I didn't play the game that I was playing, and especially that 40-all.  He really got fired up.  That made a difference for him.  Still, this is gonna be a good experience for me because I'm gonna learn from this.  Hopefully, it won't happen again.  
 
Q.  You wear a necklace.  It seems to have some significance or importance. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  River Plate, a soccer team from Argentina.  I'm a big supporter, big fan of it.  
 
Q.  What do you take away from your first Masters experience? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I think it's a very positive experience for me.  I started the first match playing very bad.  My attitude on court was very negative, was very bad.  But then, immediately against Moya, my attitude changed and it was very positive.  I also played very well.  I lost today, but I think I fought until the end.  For sure, this is gonna be an experience for me and for the next Masters Cup that I will play, it will be positive for that.  
 
Q.  What is the secret of the strength of Argentinian tennis?  You have five great players in the Top 30 in the world. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I don't really know.  There's a whole bunch of young players that have a lot of talent and that work very hard.  Obviously, what happened in Hamburg was very important for Argentinian tennis.  The key of this, I don't know.  If anybody would know this, there would be a lot of people that would do it.  So there must not be something special.  At the same time, there are other countries such as Spain and the US that also have this amount of players, good players.  
 
Q.  The Argentinian crowd support, how did that make you feel?  Also, what does "Ole, Ole, Ole, Ole" mean?  How does it feel to come here to the States and have such support? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I was very happy with the Argentinian support, of course.  "Ole, Ole, Ole, Ole" is the way they cheer soccer in Argentina. 
 
Q.  And tennis?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  And now tennis.  And not only in Argentina.  
 
Q.  Two questions about playing.  The open-stance backhand and forehand, did you start learning that young or later on as you became better?  Did they teach that when you were very young?  The other thing is the volley, did they do more training when you were young with the topspin volley at the net? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, obviously, I worked at these shots when I was very young.  It's a shot that I love to do and I try to do as much as I can.  But, obviously, something that you have to work a lot on.  Since I was very young, very little, I was trying that shot.  
 
Q.  From the beginning you were taught that then? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like the surface took away your main strength, which is probably your running ability, your scrambling?  Did the surface have an effect on your ability to chase balls down, to keep rallies going?  
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, not at all.  
 
Q.  You played Roddick here on clay a couple years ago.  How has Andy's game progressed or changed since you last played him here? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It is, obviously, very difficult to play him here on this surface.  His serve is a very big difference.  On clay, when we played on clay, we were completely different players.  He's now No. 1; I'm No. 4.  I think at the time when we played stance was out of the Top 100.  Still, it is very difficult to play against him here on hard court outdoors.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT