WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2004
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, Ladies and Gentlemen.  Can I present Guillermo Coria.  We're going to do what we did last time, which is translate questions from English into Spanish and then do the reverse.  Are there any questions in English? 


Q.  Before the French Open, you were talking about the problems you had with kidney stones.  Has that been sorted out now? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, it has been sorted out.  And hopefully it won't ever happen again.  But when I go home to Argentina, I'm going to have some tests to find out why I got them in the first place. 

Q.  At the moment, it's completely clear?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes. 

Q.  How much did the four days that it took to complete the first-round match affect you today in your match? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, it didn't really affect me.  Because, as I have already said, all that time waiting was good for my arm.  Today I met a player who made good use of all his opportunities, who did everything well, and there was nothing I could do about it. 

Q.  What will you do now?  Do you go back to Argentina?  Do you begin preparing for the US hard court season? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I'm going to take five days off for a rest, for a holiday.  I haven't decided yet whether I'll take this holiday at home or whether I will spend these days in Europe.  And after that brief holiday, I will go home to train.  I don't know whether I will be playing in Stuttgart, where I am on the list, or whether I will be playing in the tour hard courts.

Q.  What tournaments do you expect to play in the run up to the US Open?  Will you play Toronto, Cincinnati?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Toronto, Cincinnati, Olympic Games, US Open. 

Q.  Is your wife here with you in Wimbledon?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes.

Q.  And is she traveling a lot more with you now than before? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  She tries to travel with me.  But sometimes she has to study.

Q.  Is her studying part-time then in that case? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, she's doing her exams.  She's studying on her own and then sitting for her exams.

Q.  In Buenos Aires?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  In Rosaria.

Q.  You seem very calm, serene, despite the loss today.  I sense a peace in you today.  Can you explain? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  If you lose, having done your best, particularly the way I'm feeling now, referring to my injury, there's nothing you can do. 

Q.  The injury you're referring to?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  The shoulder, all this area of the shoulder and the arm.  I've got some liquid up here.  It's all affected. 

Q.  Could you confirm who your sponsors are, apart from your kit sponsor? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Only adidas and Prince. 

Q.  No one else in Argentina?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No. 


Q.  You seemed relaxed, comfortable. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I was in great pain.  And I knew I had to serve, have strong serves.  I knew also, I was aware, that the pain was gradually getting worse. 

Q.  Was today the day you were most in pain? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes.  I don't know if it had to do with the weather, the fact that it was cold in the morning.  And yesterday, when I went in for the two final points, I was also in very great pain.  I was taking antiinflammatories and applying ice, and also the trainers were really working on it. 

Q.  Did you have problems before this tournament with the injury to your right arm? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No.  It's the first time in my life that I have this pain from this injury, and it's worse than when I had that problem with my kidneys.  And even worse than when last year I had this torn muscle in my leg.  The balls are really heavy, and that are lots of players that have exactly the same problem.  I think that what did me in was the two matches I played in Holland. 

Q.  Are the balls the same in Holland?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, they're all the same.

Q.  These five days that you've just said you're taking off as a holiday, no tennis? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, it's going to be rest only because the two tournaments, the previous one on clay and this one, have been lengthy, so I need a rest. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT