TMS MONTE CARLO
April 24, 2004
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  After this match are you more convinced you are the No. 1 on clay? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Laughing).  I have to continue winning more matches, that's very important, especially to win 25 matches that I played.  But I believe what I lack is having won more important tournaments to consider myself as one of the best players on clay.  I think Ferrero won more than I did  - more matches, more tournaments.  
 
Q.  The problem is five sets is too long, too much for your body, or what? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, no.  For me, it's better that it's the best-of-five because when you go into the court, you might be a bit nervous.  If it's in five sets, you have more opportunities to turn the situation around and come back into the match.  I'm going to step on to the court with a lot of confidence.  I feel perfectly fit.  So for me it's not a problem that it's in five sets.  
 
Q.  What are the problems you face when you play such a player like Safin  - so powerful, very aggressive?  What do you have to do better than usual to cope with that? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Safin is a very dangerous player.  He is good on all sides - forehand, backhand, everywhere  - and he has a beautiful serve.  What I must do is play him very deep, keep putting pressure on him all the time, because if I lower my intensity, then I'll be out of the match.  It's an important match for me because Safin is one of the best players.  
 
Q.  What happened in the second set? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  In fact, he broke my serve.  I was concentrated, but at that particular moment I lacked concentration.  He stopped moving for a while, and I lost this game.  After, it was very difficult to break back.  So what I did is try to save myself for the third set.  
 
Q.  Why did you complain with the umpire when the ball boy or ball girl took the ball?  Come on, the ball was far out. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, in fact, if it had been closer to the court, it would have been the same.  It was just a joke, in fact.  It was a joke mainly.  The score wasn't that important. 
 
Q.  If you had to face either Safin or Ferrero in the final of Roland Garros, which one would you prefer to play?  Which is more dangerous for you, do you think? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  In fact, both of them have completely different games from each other.  Ferrero has very good results on clay, so he's more difficult.  But Safin can be a very dangerous player.  In fact, if I get to the finals in the French Open, I would rather have neither of them and have another player (smiling). 
 
Q.  If you look at the 25 wins on clay, which one are you the most proud about?  Which do you like the most?  Which one was the most important for you? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  The match I prefer, the win I prefer, is the final in Hamburg.  That's the most important match and, for me, the most important win.  The other wins were important, too.  The other match that was very important to me also to win was against Agassi in the French Open.  
 
Q.  Tomorrow who do you prefer - Moya or Schuettler? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Either of them will be the same thing.  Moya went to the finals in Buenos Aires and I won, and Schuettler has been having good results recently.  He's a very dangerous and fast player.  Right now his confidence is very high.  So with either of them it's going to be the same.  What I have to do is think about myself.  
 
Q.  Do you go to watch matches of other players  - not Argentinian, in general  - because you like them, because you are to play against them? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, sometimes on TV I watch a match if it's very tight or if it's a very important match, then I'll watch.  But otherwise, I don't watch a lot because I know all the players anyway.  
 
Q.  Sorry, we asked you this maybe last year, but I don't remember the answer.  In Venado Tuerto there are many tennis courts, tennis clubs or tennis courts?  The same before you started to play, or more now in one year? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  There are 15 courts in this village, but they didn't increase the number of courts since I've been having good results.  Nothing has changed.  In fact, it's a very small area, and it's a bit difficult.  But tennis is getting very strong - not only in Venado Tuerto, but also in the whole country of Argentina.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT