NASDAQ-100 OPEN
April 4, 2004
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Do you know exactly when the injury occurred? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  At 4-all, when (I/he) served at 15-love, when I came down, the whole left side of the back stiffened up.  It came from nothing, because I was feeling great up to that point.  
 
Q.  Then you had a 25-stroke rally two points after that.  Can you just talk about how you were able to keep going even in pain?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  The problem was really to serve.  When I had to turn during the service motion, I don't recall playing long points to be honest.  If I did, I believe that Roddick was the one missing the shots.  
 
Q.  Was it more difficult or more painful to run to your right or to your left? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  At the beginning, it was just the serve.  Then as I progressed, it started hurting on every side - sitting down, standing up.  I knew it was very difficult to play Roddick feeling this way.   When I served, I had to go up to stretch to get to the ball, and that made things even harder for me.  
 
Q.  When did you first feel the injury? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  4-all, 15-love.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the thought process when, obviously, you want to keep going but you just know that there's just no way?  Like the points you played, what are you thinking when you finally say, "I can't go anymore"? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I felt burned out and very sad after all that I had to go through this week, the tough matches that I had to play, to in one point feel the pain that I felt, it was extremely hard for me, very disappointing.  I was hoping that the pain was going to go away, but I knew after a certain point that it was not going to go away.  
 
Q.  How much help did you get from Bill Norris the first time he came out to work on you? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He gave me a massage.  But right there, Bill noticed that it was very stiff, the area.  He told me to be careful out there.  But the massage, really, there was not much that could be done at that point. 
 
Q.  Did you think about quitting before the actual moment when you did retire? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I believe I should have retired after the first set, but nobody wants to retire in a final with all the people that paid the money to come see me play.   I knew that I probably couldn't go through.  I knew against Roddick, it would be very tough.  But I didn't want to retire then so...  I knew I should be in the first set, after the first set. 
 
Q.  You're saying you knew you should have retired?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Even though you won the first set, you felt you weren't going to make it in a best-of-five set match, is that right? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I thought of course if it was three sets, it may be easier.  But it's still very hard because with the way I was serving, what I could do with the serve against Roddick, I would not win. 
 
Q.  Do you have any idea what the recuperation is, with Davis Cup obviously coming up? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I'm going tomorrow, and I believe in two or three days I will be ready to go.  I don't want to miss the opportunity to play Davis Cup for Argentina like I had to do against Spain last year.  Especially now that Nalbandian is out, I feel that I really need to give it a try in two or three days.  
 
Q.  You've had a number of small injuries over your very short career so far.  Do you think you're fragile? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I don't think so.  It was one bad motion that caused this, and I feel that I have played long matches before where the other guys were in a lot worse shape than me. I believe I am stronger than many guys out there.  I would not be 4 in the world if I was not strong enough. 
 
Q.  What was the motion that caused this injury? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It was on the serve.  It could have started to develop when I was returning Andy's serve because I was returning the serve way up there all the time.  I was always up.  I had to always stretch to get the ball up there.  That could have helped the problem to develop.  
 
Q.  Did it feel like a home match for you, especially in that first set with all of the fans waving the Argentinian flag and rooting for you? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Like I said on court, the crowd was incredible and got me really motivated and focused out there.  It felt like a soccer game.  It helped me get through some of the pain.  And, like I said the whole week, I have felt that I was playing at home here.  
 
Q.  What were you feeling when you were sitting at the end with your head in the towel?  What kind of thoughts were going through your mind at the end of the match? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I was very upset, very sad.  To get injured in a final in a big tournament like this, which it was a dream for me to get to the final, it was very upsetting.  I hope to have a chance to get back and get to a final like this again.  
 
Q.  The injury aside, how close do you feel that you are to really winning a big hard court title like this? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Winning the indoor tournament in Basel last year and getting to the final here, which is considered the fifth biggest tournament in the world, shows that I am very close, I believe.  I'm going to continue to work hard to hopefully win a big one on hard soon. 
 
Q.  You said on the TV interview you felt Andy was nervous at the beginning.  Could you just elaborate on that.  What is it you saw in Andy? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It was just a feeling I had in the locker room.  There is nothing really to point that out exactly, that Andy was nervous.  Maybe he was not, maybe I'm just imagining.  But then once we got on court, Andy was playing very quick.  I felt that that was something also that kind of showed that Andy maybe was nervous.  That made me play even more consistent and missing less shots.   And then in the second set, once Andy saw that I was not 100 percent, I felt that Andy slowed down and started playing his game a lot more.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT