NASDAQ-100 OPEN
April 2, 2004
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You've come a long way on the hard courts, even from Brazil a couple years ago. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I also won in Basel, indoor. 

Q.  But tell us how your hard court game has evolved to here. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I'm working hard every day.  Last year I had good results - quarters of Cincinnati, quarters of the US Open.   But I feel it's great to be in a final here, in a big tournament like this on hard court, but I still feel I need to improve day by day.

Q.  Has your training for hard courts been different than training for clay? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  We have been working more on attacking, getting to the net, keeping the points shorter.  Of course that's the difference between the preparation between playing on clay and playing on hard. 

Q.  Four times in this match you were one point from defeat.  How did you pull this out? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  When I go on court, I never give up.  I will continue to fight throughout the match.  The match is never over until I shake hands with the opponent. 

Q.  How many times were you told when you were very young, "You're too small, you'll never be a good professional"? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Many times.  They told me many times that.  But if you look, Hewitt was twice year-end No. 1.  If you look at the history, maybe you'll find smaller guys finishing No. 1 more often than the big, big ones. 

Q.  But every time you were told, "You're too small," what drove you on to keep playing? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I let it come in here (indicating one ear) and leave right there (indicating the other ear).  I cannot change my physical attributes.  I cannot stay home just because I'm small.  I just worked hard.  They must have told Grosjean and Clement the same thing various times, and they are great players.  I'm sure the way I do things is the way they do things; they go out there and compete.

Q.  What is it like playing against Fernando?  His game is so unpredictable. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  (I/He) went on court maybe a little too flat because it's very hard to play against a guy who doesn't give you any rhythm.  Luckily, I was able to react early enough, at the right time, and start getting the balls a little deeper and move him a little more.  But without any doubt, it's very hard to play someone who doesn't give you any rhythm like Fernando.

Q.  Do you think Gonzalez has learned you don't dropshot Guillermo Coria? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  At first, I gave him good results, Fernando.  I was missing a lot of the short balls.  Once I got into the match, I think I felt pretty comfortable hitting those shots.  But I hope Fernando doesn't ever learn that (laughter).

Q.  Who would you choose to meet in the final? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Either one is going to be a very tough match.  It's a completely different matchup with those two guys.  But with either one of them, it's going to be very hard.  But I would like to have revenge against Roddick. 

Q.  How intense is the rivalry between Argentina and Chile whenever you play soccer, tennis, anything?  

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, I think it's not bad, it's not bad.  I feel that maybe the Chileans give a little more importance to the rivalry, but especially in football.  But the crowd was pretty good today. 

Q.  In a Tennis Masters Series event like this, would you rather play a best two-out-of three final or a best three-out-of-five final, and why? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Especially if I play with Roddick, I prefer to play five sets.  It gives you more chances to come back in the match when you play five sets.

Q.  If it is Roddick on Sunday, what can you say about the challenge of facing him? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  He's going to have to win every point.  I'm going to fight very hard every point.  Roddick is going to have to earn it.  It was very important to win this match, to come back in this match.  I feel pretty good about that.  I also am still pretty hot about my loss against Roddick in Houston.  But, also, I still think that Roddick has to go through a very tough opponent today, Spadea, since Spadea beat him in Scottsdale last month.

Q.  What can you say about Spadea, if he's your opponent, and the run he's been on in the last month?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, he's a very good player.  He can hit from both sides.  He's very consistent.  But the same thing  - he's going to have to earn every single point because it's my first final here in a Masters Series on hard court, and I would love to take the title of a Masters Series hard court home. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT