NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 31, 2004
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Is this almost like home court for you with so many Argentinians out there rooting for you? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, it's like playing at home here and I'm very happy that the people are coming out to support me.  I hope that I can make them happy by winning on Sunday, hopefully.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the match.  You were playing really well, he was not playing well; expand on that.
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I start playing today completely different than when I start playing against Benneteau.  I took advantage of the opportunities I had to break his serve.  In 4-love in the second set, I had the opportunity to continue to play my game, but I dropped my level and he kind of got back a little bit in the match.  But at 5-3, I'm happy that I was able to close out the match.  Even though (I/he) might not have played at his best level, I'm very happy with this win.  
 
Q.  Why did your level drop at 4-love, when you were 4-love?  Any particular reason or...? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  First, I could see the light at the end of the tunnel.  I could see I was close to the end.  But also, he changed a little bit.  He started hitting the ball a little harder.  I made two unforced errors that were important in the game, and he took advantage of it.  
 
Q.  Do you think at all about the possibility of an Argentinian final here? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It would be very nice to repeat the final from Hamburg last year, but there is still a lot of matches to be played, a lot of hard matches.  But it would be nice.  
 
Q.  Obviously, you've patterned a lot of your game after Andre Agassi.  Can you talk about his influence on your game, from when you were a kid until now. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I believe that everybody kind of mirrors Agassi because he's an example on and off the court.  But in reality, it's impossible to play exactly like him so...  But he's an example for me.  
 
Q.  From when you were little? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a little bit, Greg Rusedski...
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Oh... 
 
Q.  But are you unhappy with how things went for you in regards to how it went for him? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I'm happy that he is back playing.  I would have liked if the same thing happened to me, but that's it for me now.  I don't think it does any good to anybody to talk about this case anymore.  I could agree or disagree with the decision, but I don't think that we should be talking about this right now when I reach my first semifinal here in a Masters Series.  I really don't want to talk about this anymore.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT