PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 16, 2004
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  I want to ask you about Andre Agassi.  It says in your biography that he was one of your heros, that you looked up to him.  You played him a couple times, beat him a couple times.  How does it change?  You played him.  He was your hero.  Now you play him again.  How does your thinking about him change? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I'm going to put aside my thoughts about him being my hero, which he still is.  When I'm on the court, I'm going to play and still win. I think one of the reasons I lost The Open was I was hurt.  I hurt myself in my thigh.  Now I'm fine and I'm planning to win.  
 
Q.  How many times have you played Andre Agassi? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  3-1.  
 
 
Q.  Can you tell us about your change of coach and why? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He was great in his career.  I have a lot of respect for him.  I want to keep private why we split.  I still owe him a lot.  I always respect him, and I feel we did get along very well, but I just felt I needed a change.  
 
Q.  How did you find your new coach? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He's from Argentina, too.  I grew up knowing him.  I decided to go with him.  
 
Q.  What were the keys to your victory? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I changed my attitude, and I'm going to concentrate and focus.  I lost the first set, and I knew I had to change my attitude mentally in order to have success, and I did.  
 
Q.  In the second set? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  In the second set.  
 
Q.  You are fourth seeded here, yet all the other players are getting all the attention, even players seeded below you.  Is that kind of nice to ease through quietly without all the pressure back on the back courts till today?  Do you like that or would you rather be out on the main court right from the start? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's difficult.  Against Mirnyi, we played on Court 6.  It's very different to playing in the stadium.  I do prefer to play in the stadium.  
 
Q.  He prefers to play in the stadium?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  There's a big difference between the outer court and the stadium.  I do prefer the stadium. 
 
Q.  Difference how?  You like more people in the stands? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I like that there's no distractions in the stadium, because I don't look up at the mountains.  I can see everything going on around me, and I can concentrate better in the stadium.  And there aren't the big moths all over the place in the stadium.  
 
Q.  What does the ring symbolize? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's a racquet.  It's a present from a friend, a racquet and a ring.  I got married in December.  I put my wedding ring here.  
 
Q.  I believe we should congratulate you.  We haven't seen you as a married man before. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Thank you.  
 
Q.  Is your wife traveling with you?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes.  
 
Q.  This moment, are you playing with a lot of confidence? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  In the beginning, I didn't have a lot of confidence.  Now this victory is really going to help me feel better.  
 
Q.  He didn't have confidence until the victory, until you won Buenos Aires?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, not in the beginning of the tournament, but I'm feeling better and better as I'm going along.  Three completely different kind of matches before this.  I'm feeling better and better about my play with all kinds of players.  
 
Q.  How, at 145 pounds, do you deal with somebody like Max Mirnyi?  You handled him without a problem. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's difficult.  I have to give it my best shot every time with someone that big, make sure I put it in the right place.  You have very few chances for the point when Max is serving.  I had to really concentrate very hard.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT