TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 11, 2003
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Can you comment on the match? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I wasn't feeling too good physically.  That made me play bad because my game is based on good physical conditioning.  I'm fast, so I get to the balls and I can hit the balls.  It was also very hot out there.  I never felt comfortable on court.  That made me make too many mistakes.  I never make that many mistakes.  So the conditions, I just didn't feel too good.  Physically, I didn't feel too good either.

Q.  Why didn't you feel good? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  As you know, I had a fever before the tournament, in Paris.  I could not prepare well.  I was taking antibiotics.  Here, you come to play this tournament where you have the best of the best.  When you're not in your best condition, you're not able to practice as much as you would.  Obviously, you don't arrive in the best of conditions.

Q.  Can you say something about Rainer Schuettler. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  He started very solid, very quickly, and he immediately got an advantage in the game.  He was able to take advantage of the opportunities he had. 

Q.  You played your first Masters Cup.  What was your impression of playing? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, it's not a very fast surface, it's the same surface as every other event, as the US Open and every other event.  It's not fast.  It's not a fast surface.  I felt comfortable on the court.  You can play from the baseline with no problem.

Q.  Do you feel there were an unusual number of close calls in the match?  How many went your way and how many didn't? 

GUILLERMO CORIA: No, they're human beings.  They can make mistakes.  Sometimes they make mistakes for you; sometimes for the other player.  It's not a big deal.  There were two balls that I really think were out; one was called and one was overruled by the umpire.  I don't understand why the second one was not overruled.  I saw it out, and I don't understand why the lady on the line didn't see it either.  It's just a normal fact of the game. 

Q.  To not be feeling well and have the match become a kind of a marathon, what were you able to do, if anything, between breaks to help yourself? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, just thinking what I had to do, try to cheer myself up on the changeovers and try to think about what I had to do to go point by point and try to win the match, although knowing that I was not in the best of physical conditions.  That's it. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT