US OPEN
September 4, 2003
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Tomorrow, when you play Andre, can you put the leg out of your mind and just play tennis, or will you be thinking about it too much? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, well, I don't really mind and I'm not gonna think about it tomorrow.  I'm gonna try to play the same match I played in Roland Garros against him.  It's gonna be even tougher because I'm gonna play against my idol in his favorite tournament, at his home.  If I have any pain at all, I will start thinking about it.  Right now, I'm not thinking about it.  
 
Q.  At Roland Garros, you hit 16 down-the-line-backhand winners with Agassi.  Now the ball will sit up for him.  Is it going to be more difficult?  (Sit up for him) ^ check?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Every single game against Agassi is very, very tough.  I'm gonna try to play the same tennis.  I'm gonna use the same tactics.  I'm hoping to make it not 16 but 32 backhands, double, yeah.  
 
Q.  Do you fear Agassi? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He's my idol.  I respect him a lot.  But in the court, I won't respect him and I demonstrated that in Roland Garros, yeah.  
 
Q.  Today, after you injured the leg again running to the left and slammed the racquet against the fence, for a set you didn't play well.  It looked as if maybe you were too concerned about your leg.  What did you try to tell yourself in the fourth set to win the match? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I had to forget about my pain; otherwise, I would have a lot of trouble beating him.  I just forgot about it.  In the fourth set, I just tried to play good tennis, forget about the pain and everything.  I made two breaks and forgot about it.  Otherwise, I would have big, big trouble beating him, yeah. 
 
Q.  How much therapy will you be taking between now and tomorrow when you play? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I already received enough treatment so far and I don't think I'm going to need anymore.  I think I am ready for the next game tomorrow.  
 
Q.  How important was Bill Norris in getting you through this match? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It was really fundamental.  Against Carraz, Gregory Carraz, he told me not to take a lot of risks.  Today, he told me just to forget about any pain I would have or feel and focus on playing, nothing else.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT