US OPEN
August 28, 2003
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You're playing on Court 11, people are walking by.  You're the No.  5 player in the world.  Do you think you deserve a little better than that?  
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I'm going to try to play as best I can, no matter where I play.  Wherever they put me, I'm going to play the best I can.  It is a little distracting.  But I'm going to play the best I can, no matter what court it is.  
 
Q.  Did you think about the fact that you were playing against the only other player unjustly accused of taking steroids? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He was found guilty for a reason, and he was happy to play.  He's happy he had a chance to play, too.  
 
Q.  Did you see any irony that he was playing the other person who had been accused of that? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No.  
 
Q.  Most people who win the US Open in modern times are big, powerful people.  Do you think you can win consistently on hard court? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He's playing with the best confidence in a while.  He thinks he can play with the best of the ones that are considered hard court players.  He's got a lot of confidence right now in his game.  
 
Q.  Did you ever play better than the three tournaments you won in Europe?  Did you ever play better than that in your life?  Was that your best tennis? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yeah, it's been great, winning those three in a row.  It's been great.  He hopes to keep the same level, keep going with the consistency. 
 
Q.  Did you feel like you couldn't miss in those matches, that it was almost perfect tennis? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He's playing with a lot of confidence, a lot of concentration.  He really thinks he can play well here. 
 
Q.  Was he surprised he won so easily, all three tournaments? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  A little surprised because they were high-level matches.  He can't believe he won those. 
 
Q.  Do you feel ignored by the people who promote this tournament, the people who promote it? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, he doesn't even think about that one way or the other. 
 
Q.  What is his best quality on hard courts, to play well on hard courts? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Concentration, his quickness on the court are his best strengths. 
 
Q.  What role did Alberto Mancini play for you as a coach?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yeah, just his experience, helping him.  It's evident with the results he's been having. 
 
Q.  He was a clay player, as well.  I think he didn't win a lot on hard court, did he? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, because his experience and everything. 
 
Q.  During the three weeks, did any player make a joke, you are a fantastic player, bowing because you were so fantastic? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  He said, yeah, just because of the caliber of the players right now.  One player to win three tournaments in a row, it's kind of unheard of right now.  There were some jokes.  
 
Q.  Any players in particular? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT