TMS MONTE CARLO
April 20, 2003
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Did he overwhelm you today? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, of course I can't say otherwise.  I couldn't say no, because he was really above me.  But what happened is the weather affected me a lot.  It was not like the other matches.  The court was harder, and I was not able to relax properly.  Also, my shots didn't come out well for some reason.  He took advantage of that, and he never let go. 

Q.  Carlos Moya said yesterday that if the weather was like today, it would be more of an advantage to you because Ferrero likes when the court is quicker. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  It might be true, but today the ball was very heavy and the court was not as fast as yesterday.  I was not feeling like the other days on the court.  I was tense when I stepped on the court, because we had to wait, we didn't know when we were going to play and everything.  Also, I was playing very short shots and he took advantage of those shots.  I was not feeling good on the court today. 

Q.  Was there also the weight of the first big final for you? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I know the final is the most important match, but it had nothing to do with the fact that it was a final.  It was a problem of waiting.  I was even thinking we were going to play tomorrow, so I was not really ready.  But you learn a lot after those experiences, and in spite of my loss today I still am happy because I believe I had a very good week. 

Q.  What did you learn about Ferrero today?  I mean, I think you will play him other times.  What did you learn? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, I saw he was extremely professional.  He played very well from the start of the match.  Since I was not feeling well, as I said, I was not able to put into place my tactics.  I let him play and he took advantage of it immediately.  This is something I must take from him, I must copy from him, because this will help if you want to have better results. 

Q.  Can you talk about how important this week is for you psychologically for the upcoming weeks and months? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Except for the fact that today I didn't play as I wanted, I still remain positive about this week.  I played good matches, and I must remain positive and I must continue in the same way that I've been doing this week.  I hope I will have a good year and I will improve every week. 

Q.  If you have a chance to play Ferrero next week in Barcelona, how will you play?  What will you change? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Of course I have to change many things if I play him again because otherwise it's going to be as fast as today.  I know it's going to be a very difficult match if I play him in Barcelona because he's one of the best players on clay right now.  You have to play perfect in order to be able to win against him. 

Q.  What is wrong with your serve?  Maybe tactically you can change your serve, because you lost your serve all the time today. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, during the rest of the week I served very well.  Against Moya I didn't drop one single serve.  But today the balls were very heavy, and also I had breakpoints and I didn't convert them.  This is something I must change.  I must serve better. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT