TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2003
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What was the key in the game today? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I believe I had breakpoints against me that I saved, and that was very important.  Also, after that, in the tiebreaker I had opportunities that I converted.  I believe the key of the match was the first set.  
 
Q.  Is this the most important moment of your tennis career? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, it is certainly something I've dreamt of.  I practiced very hard in the beginning of the year in order to be prepared for the French Open, and I'm having some good results before that so I'm very pleased about that.  But I still have to improve many things in my game.  
 
Q.  In the media guide it is written that you are called Guillermo because of Vilas.  Is that true?  Sometimes they make it up (laughter).  Your parents were very fond of tennis? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, my father is a tennis teacher, and he liked very much Guillermo Vilas.  So that's the reason why.  
 
Q.  Do you know if Guillermo is the name of a Saint?  "Saint Guillermo"?  Do you think about it?  Did you ever wonder about it? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No.  
 
Q.  You won a tournament Under-16 in Milan.  It was the finals against which player? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I don't remember.  
 
Q.  You don't remember if you got in the final or no, Under-16 in Milan? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  I don't know.  
 
Q.  What happened between Monte-Carlo 2001 and now, to your life and in your career?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, I feel a lot more mature now, and also my game is much more solid.  Also, changing coaches was a very important move.  Now I'm with Mancini.  He's helping me a lot, as well as my physical trainer.  They both help me a lot.  I hope I'm going to continue in this way.  
 
Q.  What is the difference between your former coach and your new one now? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's a difficult question.  Franco was a great person, he helped me a lot.  But I felt I needed a change.  Thanks to God, I met Mancini.  He has a lot of experience as a player in this tournament, for example, and in Rome.  I think the difference is Mancini has experience as a player and he's able to transmit to me that experience  - even outside of the courts, not just on the court.  
 
Q.  Does it mean something in your head that Mancini was the last Argentinian in the final here? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's extra motivation to know that my own coach was in the finals here one day, and I really hope to do like he did, because I believe he won. 
 
Q.  The suspension for doping, was it a drama, something you can't explain, is it finished for you and over with, or does it have an influence in your future life?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It was a very difficult period, but actually it was not the ATP who suspended me, it was an independent committee.  Nobody believes me, but I took something contaminated, but I didn't do it on purpose.  Nobody believes me, but... 
 
NICOLA ARZANI:  He proved that, that the vitamins were contaminated.  
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  There was a trial against the company who manufactured the vitamins I took, and it was proved that they were contaminated.  But this is in the past now.  
 
Q.  There are several Argentinian players who had the same kind of problems.  How do you explain that?  In fact, there were two:  You and Chela. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, you know, when they pick one Spanish, they think all the Spanish are contaminated.  In this situation, this is the same.  It's just a coincidence that there are two Argentinians.  Anyway, it's an independent company who makes the tests and who suspends you.  It's not the ATP.  In fact, people have a sort of state of mind  when they see you're doing well, they think you must be drugged or something, which is not true.  They don't take into account all the work you've been doing before to reach that level.  When I was in that final, I had done a lot of work to reach that final before.  That was the reason why I was playing well, and not a matter of drugs.  But the general state of mind of people is to be suspicious when a player plays particularly well.  
 
Q.  This experience with doping and the suspension, did it help you fight back even harder than you would have otherwise? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Actually, when it happened, it was a real shock for me and for my whole family.  I was very cool and I was all right because I knew I was able to demonstrate that the pills were contaminated.  So I didn't feel guilty or anything.  Now, I'm stronger than ever.  I've done technological work, but I feel stronger than ever after it happened now.  
 
Q.  How difficult is it when you're the No. 1 or close to the No. 1 in every tournament as a junior, then you become professional and you are not the No. 1?  How difficult is it to improve and to go back to the top level as a professional? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Actually, there's a great difference between the junior world and the professional world.  When you're a junior, people respect you more.  When you're a professional, you're part of many players who are at the same level and you're just in the middle of them.  So, of course, my main, maximum target is to become No. 1 some day, but I know I have to work a lot to achieve that.  I know I must do everything perfect and I must be a professional on the court and off the court.  Really, I hope one day I'll be able to achieve this.  
 
Q.  Moya said the conditions favored you today because the court was heavy.  Your match tomorrow, what sort of conditions are you hoping for, and does that make a difference to you? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, I will go on the court exactly like today and try to play exactly like today.  About the climate and surface, whatever the situation, I know it's going to be a very difficult match because Juan Carlos has been playing very well lately, he's a very good player.  I just hope it's going to be nice weather, and I will do everything perfect. 
 
Q.  Why did you ask Moya for his shirt? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Actually, I once asked him in the finals in Buenos Aires, but then Moya won at that moment.  This time, I won and I asked him again for the T-shirt just to have a T-shirt for both occasions . 
 
Q.  You did this only with Moya?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, only with Moya.  
 
Q.  Do you play any mixed doubles? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, no.  
 
Q.  Do you have any special results in running?  You are very, very fast.  Did you ever have any test to know how fast you are? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, since I do not have a big body, I have to work on my speed.  But I'm practicing for that.  It's not just God who put his finger on me and said, "You're going to be fast."  I'm working for it.  
 
Q.  I read in the ATP guide that you live in Buenos Aires, but it also says your residence is another place. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Venado Tuerto. 
 
Q.  Yes, what does it mean, this place, if you make a translation of this word? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's an animal with horns.  In the ATP guide it says I live in Buenos Aires.  The name of where I live is the name of an animal with horns if you translate it.  The animal can see only with one eye.  With the other eye, he can't see.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT