TMS MONTE CARLO
April 18, 2003
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You must be very confident now, 6-1, 6-1.  Moya says you're playing very well.  How do you feel about a semifinal? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I feel very good.  I'm very pleased, reaching the semis in a major tournament like this one.  I'm waiting for a re-match, after Buenos Aires. 


Q.  How do you explain why you won so easily today?  Do you feel you played much better than the rest of the week? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I played excellently.  I played perfectly.  I'm going to try to continue that way.  I'm very pleased because I'm back to my level of 2001 when I reached the semifinals.

Q.  Do you feel this is the best match you've played in a long time? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I played very well against Corretja in Indian Wells, but I believe this match was the best of my career. 

Q.  Yesterday you said you still needed some confidence to come back to your level of before.  Do you feel this confidence is really coming? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes.  Today I stepped on the court with a lot of confidence.  I felt I was able to make no mistakes, and I relaxed and I really played well. 

Q.  Do you have a plan to play Moya?  How are you approaching it? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, but if I tell you, he might know about it. 

Q.  You do have one in mind? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I played him two months ago in Buenos Aires.  It was a very tight match, and I hope tomorrow I'll be able to win.

Q.  Are you going to make him drink tonight? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, I prefer him to be in his best shape and beat him under those conditions (smiling). 

Q.  Two years ago you were 25, ranked 25 in the world.  Now you've come back and are ranked 26.  Is it more satisfying to get back the ground you lost under difficult circumstances? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I'm 26 and I'm playing better and better every day.  Actually, I believe I can have a great year if I continue in this way.  The important thing is to play well, and I have to continue to improve because I'm lacking many things still.  I hope I will finish the year Top 15.  Last year was a very difficult year because I was coming back after a long leave.  Now, my confidence is coming back again and I'm very pleased about playing those semifinals and reaching the semifinals.  It makes me very happy. 

Q.  Can you say a little bit about Alberto Mancini and what he's done to help you.  He was a player who was in the Top 10 and got very close to Grand Slams.  Has he been a good influence on you? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes.  Plus, he won this tournament.  He's really a plus.  He's very important in my career and for my game.  I also have a physical trainer, Jorge Travesal (phonetic spelling), and he's important, too, for my game.  He plays a role.  That's the reason why I'm playing well. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT