TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2003
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  The first set especially was very, very tough for you.  What was the most difficult thing about his game? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, during the first set I believe I started the match a bit tense and I wasn't feeling my game properly.  Also, I didn't know exactly what tactics I should play against him.  But I was able to win that tiebreaker, and in the second set I was more relaxed and it had become more easy.  
 
Q.  You said on the court that you didn't know your opponent before this week.  So what do you think about him? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, I believe he's a great player.  He played really great here.  I believe that if he keeps on going like this week, he can become a great champion.  
 
Q.  What was your level or your ranking when you were 16 years old? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Junior, I was playing the junior circuit.  
 
Q.  How much better do you feel now than when you were in the semifinals here a couple of years ago? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, actually, I think the other time I was playing better than I am playing now.  But little by little, I am picking up my level, and I hope I will soon be able to be at the same level very soon.  
 
Q.  What's missing most, do you feel?  What do you want to improve mostly? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Actually, what I lack is confidence in my game.  What I need is to be able to step on the court knowing that if I do my best, I can go far in the tournament.  Right now, I lack trusting my game.  I don't have confidence.  
 
Q.  Is it difficult for you to play against another Argentinian player, as you are going to do tomorrow afternoon? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, on the contrary, it's better because I know him perfectly well.  I know it's going to be very difficult against him, like every time we play each other.  But it's important that there be an Argentinian player in the semis.  
 
Q.  Nalbandian decided to pick an Italian passport so he could travel easier.  For you, is there a problem leaving South America or not? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, we need a visa for very few countries, actually.  So it's not a problem being Argentinians.  Even if you need a visa, it only takes two days to obtain it, so it's absolutely no problem.  I'm not thinking about taking another nationality. 
 
Q.  What is your background, your history?  Where does the Coria family come from?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  Italian. 
 
Q.  You know where from?  South, north? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No. 
 
Q.  No idea?
 
GUILLERMO CORIA:  No.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT