PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 13, 2003
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Were there times during that match when you thought you were going to win? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA (through translator):  Since the beginning of the match, he thought he could have a chance to win the match.  Obviously when he was one set up, 2-1 in the second with a break up, he has a good chance to do that.  Unfortunately, he was not able to make it at that time, then the match was getting tougher.  
 
Q.  Lleyton paid you a great tribute saying he felt that you played quite similar to Lleyton.  It would be nice to tell him that, a lot of people think he plays similar to Lleyton. 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA (through translator):  He's saying to some extent he has the same kind of game, but obviously he feels that he has a lot of things to learn to be at the level of Lleyton.  On many strokes, he feels that Lleyton is pretty strong.  He thinks he needs to improve in all those aspects. 
 
Q.  Was this match in any way similar to your match against Kuerten?  I guess it's different, it's not a final, it's not Kuerten.  That was also a close three-set match on a hard surface.  How are you different now from then? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA (through translator):  He's saying to some extent they are almost the same, those two matches.  Obviously he has a chance on both.  He was not able to make it.  He played also against two pretty strong players.  He felt what he's missing right now is he has to play more matches at that level just to be able to win that kind of match.  He has been out of the game for a while, then he's coming back.  He feels with the ability to play more at that level and to compete against that kind of players, he will be able to make it.  
 
Q.  Lleyton said if there's one difference between you and him today, it was maybe the serve, he was able to get more free points.  Would you agree with that? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA (through translator):  He agrees with that.  He he's saying, as he said previously, he still have to improve in a lot of aspects, all of different strokes.  But obviously he thought he could serve better.  He has been serving better.  He's still working on it, to improve on that, because he believes also for the future to be one of the best he has to do it.  
 
Q.  Davis Cup, it's something you said you wanted to do.  Are you playing on the Davis Cup team for the next tie, where that's at? 
 
GUILLERMO CORIA (through translator):  He's saying that at this stage the team is not already on.  Obviously there is the possibility for all the guys who have been on last year to still be in.  At this stage, somebody like Canas is injured, so might not play.  Might be a possibility to get in.  As he said, there are a lot of players who can make it because Argentina at this point is very strong.  This is something where if he has a chance, he'll be pleased to play for his country.  This is a dream to be part of the Argentinean squad representing Argentina in Davis Cup.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT