TMS MONTE CARLO
April 22, 2002
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You had a slow start, Guillermo. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, I started well, leading 2-love, but after I was not able to win that game to be 3-love up.  Then he picked up his confidence and he played at a very high level.  I started rushing too much; therefore, I made errors.  At 5-2 I felt calmer again.  I recovered my game, and I changed the result.  So I'm very pleased with that match because it was a very difficult one.

Q.  You are now considered one of the favorites  - or the favorite  - because of your past on clay.  Does that add pressure? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No, it's extra motivation, on the contrary.  But there are other players like Safin, Hewitt, Santoro, who are dangerous.  I am going to take things match by match.  Now I feel calm and more confident.  If I continue playing that way, then I might win it - maybe. 

Q.  You have been very unlucky.  This year you played well against Roddick.  Do you believe this unluckiness you had was extra motivation for you? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, I had difficult problems at the time, but now I try to take things by day. 

Q.  How do we compare the Coria of last year to the Coria of this year?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  I am much more confident, I have more experience.  Last year I played great tournaments, major tournaments, against very big players.  I was just happy if I played a good match.  But since I reached the semis in the French Open, I won Hamburg, and I won several matches in a row, I am now very confident.  I feel very strong when I get on the court, and my mind is the state of mind of a winner.  So now I know that the other player has to play at his best level if he wants to beat me, whoever the player is. 

Q.  What is the difference between your game on hard courts and your game on clay court?  Did you change something? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, I tried to go to the net, to tighten up the game, to work on my volley, on my serve, because I want to have the same confidence that I had on hard courts. 

Q.  Now you are married.  Is it important?  Does it make a difference in your game mentally? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, it's very important for me.  This person is very special to me, and I like when she watches me because she gives me positive waves to help me. 

Q.  So she has to be there in every tournament? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, but she's studying in Argentina and she isn't always able to come. 

Q.  What is she studying?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Economic Science.

Q.  How did you choose your new coach? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, it's someone I've known since I was a very tiny child, it's a long time ago.  He works very well, and he's eager to work.  We want to work together, and the results are there so he proves it's fruitful. 

Q.  What is your relationship with your former coach, Mancini?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's good.  Before things went bad, we preferred to separate ourselves.  It was a decision from both of us.  We wanted to leave the door open so we could get together maybe later.  I would like him very much to be the captain of our Davis Cup in my country, and I'm very happy about the work I've done with him all those years in the past. 

Q.  What is the difference between your two coaches in your game? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Well, there are many differences  - the ranking is different, my game has changed.  But I'm very pleased with Mancini.  He's a great person, a very good guy, and this is the reason why we have a good relationship still.  Today we are separated, but we never talk about each other in bad terms.  We have a lot of respect for each other.  As I said, I'm very happy with the work I've done with him. 

Q.  Did you have any doubts during that match? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  No.  Otherwise, I would have lost.  When you're on the court, you must keep being positive and not have the state of mind of a loser.  This is the reason why I won that match. 

Q.  Of the Top 10 players, everyone makes a lot of aces; you don't.  Many people, they serve aces all the time; you don't do it.  Is that something you can improve a lot, or you think you will always be more or less what you are now in terms of your serving?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  The players with big serves... Roddick, Federer. 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Agassi, no.  Well, last year my statistics regarding my serve were very good.  I think I would like to improve in order to be able to win free points with my serve.  But a big server, when he does not serve well, is not good, he doesn't have any other shot to rely on; whereas I'm a complete player out there. 

Q.  Do you have any physical trainer traveling with you?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes. 

Q.  His name is? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Federico Palermo.  He's also the physical preparator of my academy. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT