TMS MONTE CARLO
April 21, 2001
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You're obviously very pleased, but were you disappointed with today? Do you think it's been educational this week?

GUILLERMO CORIA: It was a very positive week for me.  Of course I'm disappointed for today because no one likes to lose, but I fought until the last point.  He played well.  I have to improve all my shots, but still it was very positive this week and now I have to look at Barcelona, which is starting on Monday. 


Q.  Do you think you were playing the best clay court player in the world out there today?

GUILLERMO CORIA: He's not only the best on clay, but also on cement.  In a Masters, it's the first time I was confronted with Guga and I was not overwhelmed by respect.  I tried my best, but he was really impressive and I think he really deserves this victory. 


Q.  What part of his game is the most impressive, or was today?

GUILLERMO CORIA: He has an excellent serve and a very good backhand.  He serves very well and he follows with a solid backhand, so it's very difficult to play against him and win a point. 


Q.  When you were playing a challenger at the start of this year, in your wildest dreams did you think you'd be in a Masters Series semifinal within three or four months?

GUILLERMO CORIA: It's a dream of every player to reach the semifinals of a big tournament like this.  As the question was, it's true that three months ago I was playing challengers.  I've been working very hard, I've been making many sacrifices, and I've been able to step forward thanks to the whole group with which I'm practicing with and which is around me and which has given me a lot of encouragement to be aware of my possibilities, to be conscious that I'm able to reach that level. 


Q.  Are we going to see you at Wimbledon this year?

GUILLERMO CORIA: Yes. 


Q.  What kind of sacrifices have you been making physically or tennis-wise? What kind of sacrifices?

GUILLERMO CORIA: Well, the first sacrifice is to be far from the family because Argentina is very far from Europe, and all the major tournaments are played in Europe.  So it's very difficult for South American players to be far from their family. And also, the other thing is to play day after day, to practice a lot, and to do your best possible effort every day to be able to improve every day. 


Q.  During the eight first games, you were absolutely equal to Guga.  Does this inspire you?

GUILLERMO CORIA: Well, in fact it was good until the game where he broke me, then it made the difference.  And that was lack of experience on my part, because that's what happens against big players, top players.  It's that they win two points and then they're ahead and they give you no presents afterwards.  So I hope I will play another big player next time so I won't lose my concentration.  But anyway, he deserves to be credited for this game where he broke me because he played very solid on that game. 


Q.  Is it an advantage not to play Davis Cup so you can practice on clay for a longer period of time and you can come to the tournaments being better prepared?

GUILLERMO CORIA: I was the fourth player, so I didn't get to play.  But it's a dream that I have since I've been a kid.  I really practiced strongly this week and it's a dream of mine to play the Davis Cup and to represent my country.  But we have a very solid team.  We beat Mexico 5-love and another team 5-love.  If I get the opportunity of playing, I will be delighted. 


Q.  Are you going to play Rome?

GUILLERMO CORIA:  Yes, I'm going to Rome and Hamburg. 


Q.  Can you ask the question about this great grandfather you have that's from Italian origin, because the other day you said you didn't know where he came from. 

GUILLERMO CORIA: Yes, I'll ask the question, but it's a very small city where I live.  We don't really know. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT