TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 13, 2005
Guillermo Coria
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What do you think about the last point? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Translated from Spanish)  I don't think about only the last point, I think about the whole match.  He played an unbelievable match.  He served unbelievably well.  He just played better the whole match. 

Q.  I would like to ask, your outfit today, how about your top today that you wore?  Do you like it? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Translated from Spanish)  It's a bit strange, but I really like it.  It's a new line of adidas for next year also.  I really like it.  It's very comfortable.  I try to intimidate Ljubicic by that, but it didn't work.  Been lifting weights for one month to impress him, but it didn't work (smiling). 

Q.  What do you think about your next match with David Nalbandian? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Translated from Spanish)  Well, definitely he's the favorite.  He plays much better on this surface right now.  I don't see myself on this surface winning the match.  It's too difficult.  The only thing I've got now is to enjoy the tournament because it's a fantastic tournament.  That's the only thing I have left here, is to enjoy. 

Q.  What do you think of the court surface? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  It's like playing on ice.  It's very difficult to play on ice.  It's also kind of strange to play only one match on this kind of surface practically during the whole year.  I'm not good, especially against a guy like Ljubicic.  It's not good for the show.  There's no way the people can enjoy a show like this.  Thank God that Safin didn't make it here because otherwise it would have been even worse. 

Q.  Your main weak points today, what were they?  How much did the surface have to do with the fact that you lost? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Translated from Spanish)  He was very solid today, so I have nothing to say about that.  He also was lucky at some points with some shots, some net cords.  It's difficult to create points with such a fast surface.  It's very difficult to initiate and create points and dominate. 

Q.  You think the surface is the biggest factor.  If the match is played on an outdoor hard court, you think you could win today? 

GUILLERMO CORIA:  (Translated from Spanish)  The tactic would have been completely different.  Every match is different.  Also the tactics I would normally use against him is completely different.  It varies completely because he's playing more on his forehand, and that would get him more in trouble.  On this surface, being so fast, the fact is the guy can hide a bit of his weaknesses.  I beat him indoors in Basel and St. Petersburg, which is pretty slow indoor court.  But then Ljubicic beat me in Rome, which is on clay, but it's much faster.  It depends. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT