CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2012
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jiyai, nice round today.   You shot 69.   You're in the hunt.   Tell us about how you played? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, actually, every day my goal was just to make a couple of birdies, because the last couple of days I hit at 2‑under, 2‑under.   So I'm really happy with this course.   It's really tough. 
So until today, I made just one bogey.   I think that is the really good thing about this golf course.   My shot and my putting, the tempo is really good at the moment, so I just keep it for tomorrow also.

Q.   What is the plan for tomorrow? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, actually, this golf course most important thing is patience.   So I just keep focusing by myself and be patient.

Q.   You've had a few injuries.   How are you feeling? 
JIYAI SHIN:   It isn't a hundred percent, but I think it's good enough.   In Vancouver there is a really big Korean population here, so a lot of Korean gallery, lot of Korean fans come out to cheer us, so I really play with a lot of fans.

Q.   Eating well this week? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Of course.   Yeah, lot of good Korean restaurants, lot of good Asian restaurants, and even this tournament, the hospitality is great every year.   I really enjoy it here.

Q.   What enabled you to make such a big move today after your first couple of rounds? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I don't know.   I'm just enjoying this tournament always.   I don't know why, but when I play this tournament, I always get finished, so it makes me have confident.   Also today this morning it feels like the weather is going to be good, so it helps my score.

Q.   Lydia still has the lead with a couple of holes to play on day three.   Are you a little surprised at that, that a 15‑year‑old can hold it together that long? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes, it's true.   Because just like it's already Sunday, but I have one more day, and then hopefully I can keep good weather like this and a lot of gallery ask fans come to watch us.

Q.   Lydia has the lead with only two holes to play on day three.   Are you a little surprised that she has kept it together this long against such a strong field because she's so young? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I think it's good for her because I'm 24 years old, but I'm still young I feel like.   But I know she's really young.   It's good for her and good experience for her for her future.   This is a really big tournament, lot of great players come and play all together, so I think it will be good experience for her. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT