JAMIE FARR TOLEDO CLASSIC PRESENTED BY KROGER, OWENS CORNING AND O-I
August 11, 2012
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Jiyai Shin to the interview room.   Can you start out by telling me what went well for you today. 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, today was another wet day, so I just tried to keep focused, do not make the bogey.   I made five birdies today.   My shot was getting better than yesterday.   So I play much easier today. 
THE MODERATOR:   I know you've had some health problems in the past few years.   How are you feeling now? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, it's not hundred percent, but I think it's good enough.   I really happy to come back to play this tournament because we missed it last year.   Also last couple months I didn't play so much.   I'm missing play on the Tour, and competition with other players. 
It's just like I'm on the way.   I have a little bit of pressure on myself.   But I miss it so much, it feels good. 
THE MODERATOR:   Do you think you always apply a lot of pressure to yourself? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Of course, because lot of players are dreaming for the win.   If we have a chance, we have a lot of pressure from the people, from myself, so...   But the good players, they're enjoying with the pressure on the tour. 
THE MODERATOR:   What would it mean for you to walk away with a win tomorrow? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Today I just focus on my game, my swing tempo.   I just keep doing like this tomorrow, too.   It was work today, so hopefully it work tomorrow, too. 

Q.   With so many Koreans near the top of the leaderboard, do you know a lot about each of them?   Between you, is there a competition? 
JIYAI SHIN:   There's a lot of Korean players playing on this Tour.   Also we are very close because we just came over to play in U.S.   We missing, homesick, missing friends and family in Korea.   That make us close to each other. 
At the time, it's very close to the win, so I think it make more good competition because we are good player on the course and good friends out of the course.   It will make it fun to watch for the people tomorrow. 

Q.   If we had each of you vote, who would end up being voted the best player of this group? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, it's pretty tough (laughter).   Doesn't matter because I just focus on my game, so it doesn't matter who play with me. 

Q.   You played here three days now.   Do you get an inkling for what might make the difference tomorrow, since everybody is so logjammed at the top?   Who has to do what to win this tournament tomorrow? 
JIYAI SHIN:   This course is not too long, but it's pretty much tiny.   Few holes very tiny.   First we need to just keep on the fairway in front of the tee. 
That's why I play so good this week, because my strength is consistent.   I think the Korean players pretty strong with the consistent.   So last two years for this tournament win the Korean players, too.   Lot of Korean players have a chance to win this week. 
Well, I don't know.   I want, because I missed last couple years.   But I know so many good players out there, so I just do my best.   Yeah, just do my best. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 
JIYAI SHIN:   Thanks so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT