LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 18, 2012
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JIYAI SHIN:   When I came to in here, when I practice it was so windy, so I mostly practice with short game, with the chipping and putting.   So my putting speed and control was all good. 
I made just one bogey.   Actually this morning my goal was even, because pretty tough course and then wind makes so difficult. 
But my simple, yeah, was good. 
MODERATOR:   Talk about your decision to go blonde.   Why did you decided to do that? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Blonde is more fun.   (Laughing.) 

Q.   How long have you had it blonde?
JIYAI SHIN:   Almost two months.

Q.   Before that it wasn't black, was it?
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes.

Q.   There was another color in there somewhere, wasn't there, or a streak?
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I tried like dark red or brown, but, yeah, not that much.
Yeah, it's change that looks big different.   So many Asian playing on the LPGA, so I just try to look more special.   (Laughter.)
MODERATOR:   Well, it's working.   Can you talk about how you feel you've been playing this year.
JIYAI SHIN:   I think it's coming really good, because I finished three times in top 10 and two times finish in top 5.   So I think last year I didn't win, but it feels like it's coming soon.
So my shot and all the golf skill are good at the moment, so I think it's good chance it's coming. 

Q.   You talk about playing simple.   How do you do that when the wind is 25 or 30 miles an hour?
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, my strength is accuracy.   I miss a couple times the fairway, but mostly I‑‑ well, this course is pretty wide, but we need that more small point for the next shot.   Because a lot of hole is dogleg hole, like right to the left or left to the right, so we need to keep focus on the right of the fairway or left side of the fairway.
It worked pretty good today, so make simple course maintenance. 
MODERATOR:   For a while it was you, it was Cristie, Suzann, Yani all battling for No. 1.   Yani has kind of started to dominate.   How did you see Yani right now, and is it making you try to train harder? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, (indiscernible) couple times this year, and then when I see her, on the face she has a lot of the confidence.   In the swing, too. 
And then she have a great feeling, like good control about the ball.   Yeah, a lot of‑‑ we know how she's strong at the moment, but we also training so hard.   So I think we get more inspired from her. 

Q.   You talk about your game being better.   Do you feel like you're playing as well as you were when you were winning tournaments on a pretty regular basis? 
JIYAI SHIN:   I think so.   I think so, yeah.   Actually, I think more better than when I won on the LPGA.   I play better. 
But golf mostly psychology is very important.   So last year I lost a lot of my confidence.   Then before when I hit a ball, I always get worried, like afraid for the shot.
But it's almost recovered at the moment, back to the confidence.   So I think I really enjoy the play now. 
MODERATOR:   You said in the off‑season you worked on tying to walk more confidently on the golf course.   How is that working out? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, first, it feels like, I don't know, my body‑‑ I lost some weight, about few pounds, like six, seven pounds, so I feel really comfortable and then just like really light when I walk.   So that might help.
And also, I try to open my chest and then walk with like confidence.   It make help, because when I made a miss‑shot, I still tried to get confidence by myself.   So it's help a lot.
MODERATOR:   Thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT