KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2012
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Jiyai Shin into the interview room.   Congratulations on a great round today, 4‑under par.  
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes, thank you.   
THE MODERATOR:   Putting yourself right up there in the final group for tomorrow.   I know you're very familiar with being in that position, but just tell me your thoughts about heading into tomorrow a couple shots behind Yani.   
JIYAI SHIN:   I have another 18 holes, and then I'm just three shots behind Yani.   So I think 18 is all I need (laughing).   
I played with Yani in Singapore, and we're very close.   We're very good friends, so I'm really excited to play with Yani.   She hit it really long, so I just keep focusing on my game.   
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through the round today.   What was working well for you and what was your goal heading into the round?   
JIYAI SHIN:   This morning when I swung, the feel was so good, so I knew I'd play well today.   The first three holes, I made all birdies, so it was a good start.   I tried to stay close to the leader.   But since 8 to 12 I missed a lot of short putts, so I lost score on those holes.   But I made three birdies on the back nine.   So I prefer that for tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR:   I was going to say when you get off to that hot start, three birdies in the first three holes, are you thinking a pretty low number in your head, or knowing this golf course, were you just trying to maintain that momentum?   
JIYAI SHIN:   Just a couple minutes.   I was thinking for the lower score.   Because last year on this tournament I hit 9‑under par on the second round, so I was thinking, oh, maybe I have a chance for 9‑under.   
But I know this course very well too.   It's pretty hard, and the greens are very tough and hard to read.   I just keep focusing every shot.   
THE MODERATOR:   Last year you did come so close to winning this event.   Came down to the final hole before Sandra hit that wedge shot in and sunk the putt.   What would it mean for you to be able to come back this year and be able to pull out a victory here?   
JIYAI SHIN:   First, this tournament is a Korean company that sponsors it, so I'm all the time thinking about that.   I appreciate the sponsor every time.   In California, here they have a lot of Korean people, so they're watching and cheering for me, so it feels like I'm really ready to go when I play.   
The last couple years I played good in this tournament, so I only have good memories.  
   
 Q.   You hit a real rough stretch there right around the turn with the missed putts at 9, 11 and 12.   They all looked very short, within maybe three feet.   What was happening there?   
JIYAI SHIN:   This green is pretty bumpy.   So when I hit it just straight, it bumped to the right or to the left.   I just tried my best every shot.   But I was just thinking it was unlucky.  
   
 Q.   You turned it around very quickly, because then you made rather long putts at 13 and 14 for birdies.   How do you get over the frustration of what you went through those previous four holes?   
JIYAI SHIN:   Actually after the 12th hole when I missed the short putt I talked to my caddie.   He said what are you thinking?   I said, I don't know what I'm thinking (laughing).   So the first front nine, the first six holes my putting was perfect.   It felt smooth and was hitting perfect.   
So I just kept reminding myself on my putting on the front nine so that helped me make more birdies on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   What difference does it make now when you go into a final round and you're chasing Yani and knowing how well she's done over the past year and how many times she's won?   Does it change your mindset at all about what you have to do in the final round?   
JIYAI SHIN:   I think so.   First, I played with Caroline today.   She played good, but on the back nine I'm thinking I really want to play with Yani tomorrow.   So I focused more on the 17th for a birdie.   Because I know if I make that putt, I play with Yani for tomorrow.   
I was really looking to play with Yani on the final day.   So she plays good, and I know she's strong, but it's a good challenge for me.  
   
 Q.   You've been in contention a lot the last three years.   What have you learned that you're going to be able to apply tomorrow when you go out there with Yani?   
JIYAI SHIN:   Actually, off‑season I'm practicing and training on my walking.   I don't know when I got the problem, but last year when I looked at my walking, it looks like tired and so flat.   So I tried to get more confidence with walking first.   
So when I play with a strong player, some people they already feel like oh, she's good, she's good.   They already give up before they start.   But I know how I'm good, and I have a lot of confidence right now in my shot and my putting is okay.   So I just keep focusing for my confidence and for my play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT