RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2012
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome our current leader, Jiyai Shin into the interview room.   Congratulations on a great round of 66 today.   Very consistent, 33 on the front, 33 on the back, bogey-free round.   Can you just take me through the day and what was working well for you out there? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I played with Sandra and Brittany.   It was great pairing today, so I really enjoyed the other players. 
Actually, the weather was perfect this morning, no wind, and green was soft.   So first couple holes I made a birdie.   It was a good start, so I just tried to do more of the same on the Back 9, too. 
Well, I know this course is pretty tough.   Desert course is always tough because the bounce and rough is pretty tough.   So I just more focus to the accuracy with my shot. 
THE MODERATOR:   Do you like desert golf?   Is this something that seems to suit you, more pin placement, having to kind of place your shots and know where you want to hit it? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I like the desert course for looking.   It looks beautiful, and yeah, I think I do because I have a good confidence with sand, so when I play on desert and if I miss the shot, it feels like I can recover on the next shot, too.   So I'm more comfortable and confident.
THE MODERATOR:   You're coming off two good tournaments in Thailand and Singapore.   How did you feel about your game coming into this year, and anything specific that you worked on during the off season that you're starting to see kind of pay off right now? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Actually, when I trained in the wintertime, not much to do, just repetition with the shot, just make on my tempo.   So finally I got on my tempo for like since Thailand. 
And I really good walking with my caddie, actually.   We worked last year, too, but this year we're talking a lot about my game, so he helped a lot of me. 
THE MODERATOR:   I know you've had a little change with the hair.
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes.
THE MODERATOR:   What happened?   What made you change the hair up?   Kind of a fun look.
JIYAI SHIN:   You know, a lot of Asian players play here, they're black or dark brown, so I wanted to make like fresh, but I love them. 
THE MODERATOR:   New distinguishing look; right? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jiyai? 

Q. Jiyai, Brittany hits it so long.   Like on No. 2 I think she was 40 yards ahead of you.   So you said you liked that pairing, but how do you keep from just not getting a little bit distracted by that?
JIYAI SHIN:   Actually, I knew she hit it really long because I played at the Thailand, too.   Some holes she just carry over me and like 60 yards in front of me.   It was, oh, my God. 
So first key is I'm not looking at her swing.   I just look at the ground and look at the ball because I know she hit it really long and her tempo is pretty fast than me. 
So just, okay, I know, she hit out there.   I can hit.   But I have the confidence with my fairway wood and hybrid, so it just covers it.   So when I play Thailand with her, on the second -- third round, I guess, I hit 6-under at the time, and Brittany hit it 2-under.   And I said, you hit it great driver with long distance, but she said, okay, you can take my driver.   Just give me the couple birdies.   (Laughs). 
Well, she's a nice person.   I always happy playing with her. 

Q. Have any new songs coming out soon?
JIYAI SHIN:   That's my winter job actually.   It's already started for this year, but not soon.   But if I have another chance for the song, I want to do that. 

Q. Do you ever write a song if you're playing well?
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes, a little bit, a little bit, because I love song. 
THE MODERATOR:   It's a good way to carry you through a round. 

Q. Can you imagine a day when music is the primary focus of your life and not golf?
JIYAI SHIN:   Actually, more golf.   Just music just helps when I play practice, when I'm doing a lot of practice, it helps because, you know, when I stay a whole day on the course, I was so tired and bored sometimes, but when I listen to a song or sing a song, it just makes it more fun with my life, and golf too. 
THE MODERATOR:   Gives you a good balance.
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes.
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Jiyai?   All right.   Thank you very much.
JIYAI SHIN:   Thanks so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT