EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 20, 2011
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome our defending champion, Jiyai Shin, into the interview room. Thanks for joining us today. First off, just thoughts on being back here after winning last year.
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I really happy to come back here because this is my favorite place. So I'm all the time happy to play here.
 Actually very sunny, nice dry place here, but I'm very surprise when I came to here it's so cold and rainy. Feels like it's Scotland. 
 But hopefully no rain next few days. Well, I have a lot of good memory on this course, so I feel really good. 
 MODERATOR: Let's talk about your season a little bit. No wins so far, but you've had some pretty good performances, a few runner-up finishes. How do you think your game is coming into this week? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually, last year also before this week, before Evian, I didn't win. This is my last year first time win on this course, so I think it's time. (Laughter.)
 Yeah, it's time to win. I know a lot of my fans waiting, and I'm also very waiting for the win. I think I prepared last couple days, so I feel like I really ready.
 MODERATOR: What do you think has been the difference between your runner-up finishes and not getting that win so far? 
 JIYAI SHIN: I changed a lot. I changed the caddie and my coach, and I did a Lasik surgery, too. A lot of people worry because so many things change, but, yeah, I think -- I feels like it makes more better, so just take a little bit of time.
 But I think I played well, just a little bit up and down. Still, I think I played good. And just my putting, sometimes my putting doesn't work. But I'm practicing a lot, so maybe the good feeling is coming.
 MODERATOR: You talked about how much you love this place and this course. What is it that you love about the golf course itself? 
 JIYAI SHIN: It's really just beautiful. It's a lot of flowers, a lot of trees, and we can see the lake on the course. 
 Actually, here this course is on the mountain, so very similar to what Korean golf course, too. So when I play, I feel very calm, very comfortable. 
 And nice people. Just only one tournament in France. So I think very charming, like French, somebody speak French is very charming. So when I came to here, I have to listen to French. I try to speak French, too, but it's too tough. Yeah.
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Who is your new coach?
 JIYAI SHIN: His name is Glen Daugherty. He's from San Diego. He teaching for long time Yani. Yani change the couch a couple years ago, but before he teaching Yani. 
 After I change I get a little bit more distance, about 15 yards, like Yani. Not enough, but...

 Q. Your old coach, is he back at home, that you needed to change, or was he in America? You had a coach before this one. Was he in America or back at home in Korea?
 JIYAI SHIN: He's in USA, yeah.

 Q. Oh, I see. So you changed one American coach for another?
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah.

 Q. And your caddie, are you back with Dean Herden or not?
 JIYAI SHIN: No, I still good friend with Dean, but I change new caddie since January.

 Q. Is that because Dean's parents are ill or something?
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, he want to care about his mom. He was traveling all the time, too so you wanted to more care about his mom.

 Q. You heard you speak French last night. What were you saying?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, just simple things like bon jour, comment allez-vouz.

 Q. What do you know about Carnoustie?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well actually I never been there, but my caddie, last week he went there, so he already talking about the course. He said, This my course, too. 
 But this week I'm here, so I'm more focused on this week. When I go to there, I focus on that course. 

 Q. Your caddie's name as well?
 JIYAI SHIN: Shaun Clews. 
 MODERATOR: Thanks for joining us very much. 
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT