LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 10, 2011
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Jiyai Shin into the interview room. Congratulations on another nice round today.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you.  
 MODERATOR: And one that included a hole-in-one. Just talk a little bit about the hole-in-one on No. 2.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, first hole I made a par. It was par-5, but I just went, hmm, maybe started a little bit bad.  
 But when I standing on the second hole, it was a little bit -- they have a bridge from right to left, so I take an 8-iron and I hit it. Hit was good, pretty good.   
 And then when I watching the ball fly, ball going when I thinking same going. So, Oh, maybe. Maybe get close.  
 But we couldn't see the hole from the tee box because it was a little bit uphill and they have a mound, so I couldn't see the ball's going. But the gallery, I saw the scream and motion. It was big. I think, I made it?   
 Then it's just like very exciting and very surprised.  
 MODERATOR: How many hole-in-ones do you have in your career?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, actually this is my eighth time hole-in-one, but first time on the LPGA. Few times in Korea and couple times in Japan.   
 So, well, yeah, really happy.   
 MODERATOR: Yeah. Even though you've had so many, are they still as exciting every time when you get one?   
 JIYAI SHIN: I am. All time. When I prepare for the shot, I just thinking about my hole-in-one today all time. So maybe I can make another hole-in-one.  
 MODERATOR: Now, 10-under for the tournament; three shots off the lead. How do you feel going into the weekend?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, yesterday and today I didn't make any bogeys, so I really happy with that, and my score, too. That's the very important things for me.   
 Today my shot was a little bit up and down; wasn't good some holes. But I did great recovery with my chip shot and putting, so I feels like I really ready to win.  
 We have two more rounds, so I just keep on going.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. After the hole-in-one, you go 2-under, right, for the rest of the round?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes.  
  
  Q. Certainly that's great. But, I mean, were you thinking, I'm going to put up a really big or really low score today?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, actually, I tried. (Laughter.) I try all the time, but my putting was -- I don't know. My putting is every times short. I couldn't get to the hole, so...   
 Well, but I missed the putt on No. 2. (Laughing.) I made a hole-in-one so I didn't putting as well.   
 Well, but I think just 4-under is really good score. In the afternoon we had a lot of wind, too, so I did my best and I did well.   
  
  Q. Kind of going along with what he said, on the par-5s today, did you have any pretty good birdie chances on any of the par-5s?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I did on couple holes, but my putting doesn't go in. Just hit a edge, edge, edge. (Laughing.) Very close, but...   
 Today is already past, so I just thinking for next two days.  
  
  Q. On No. 2, you said the pin -- hole was kind of -- there was a mound so it was kind of just beyond -- was it like left side of the green or right side of the green?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Right side. Front right side behind the bunker.  
  
  Q. Oh, behind the bunker mound. I see.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You said this is your first LPGA, American LPGA hole-in-one?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. But you've had seven others?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, in Korea and Japan.  
  
  Q. Yesterday on that hole I think you needed, what did you say, about 50 feet to make birdie. You went from that to hole-in-one, so you like that hole?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah. Three shots, two days on second hole, so this is my favorite hole.  
  
  Q. Sounds like it. We'll call it Shin's Corner or something.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah. I can't waiting for tomorrow for second hole.  
  
  Q. Mindy Kim is in first place; she had another good rounds. Have you played with her over the years?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually not. First time playing practice round on this week. Tuesday morning was first time playing with each other, and she very played well.  
 I just missed the final group tomorrow. But she be in maybe final round. It could be if the same pairing on the final girls.  
  
  Q. Did you notice from playing in that practice round with Mindy that she was playing really well? I mean, she played well last week at ShopRite; her game seems to be good. Did you notice that?  
 JIYAI SHIN: When I came early morning she already played front nine, so I just joined the back nine. I asked Mindy, Can I join it? And she say, Oh, sure. Why not?   
 We play on the back nine. We really was good time, yeah. I watched her a lot of shot, and putting was really good, so I know that she play very well this year.   
 She's still -- she also has a good chance to win, big win actually, yeah.  
  
  Q. She's at 13-under; a couple of girls are at 11-under; you're at -10. I think last year Cristie Kerr won and it was 22-under total. Just the way the course has played so far, any guess what it might take to win on Sunday, like a total?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually, I really surprised the players make the score. Like Cristie, even Cristie, she won at 22-under. I think this course is pretty tough, but everybody play so well.   
 Actually, I don't understand. I play so well because I hitting great all the time. With luck, too. So I'm very surprised.   
 So I think tomorrow and next -- on Sunday maybe the temperatures getting cooler, so the feel make more better for players.  
  
  Q. When you said you're surprised, are you surprised the scores -- did you think the scores would be even lower than they've been?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, I did. Very long, few long par-4 and a lot of breeze, a lot wind here. So two years ago when I came here, my guessing maybe -- guessing winning score was 12-, 13-under, but a lot more than that. So I really surprised, too of the.  
 MODERATOR: All right. Thank you very much, Jiyai.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT