LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 9, 2011
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome one of our current leaders, Jiyai Shin, into the interview room. Congratulations on your 6-under 66 today. I know you played well last week, coming very close at ShopRite, finishing one stroke out of winning. 
 What has been the difference in your game, and how did you feel today out there on the golf course? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Um, actually, when I came here is totally different course shape than last week, so I need more long shot, I mean, with long irons, with fairway wood. But I really have a confidence with my fairway wood, so... 
 And I have great memory from last week, so when I practicing on this course I feel really good, I feel ready. 
 Last year I missed this event, so when I came here Monday, Tuesday, I really sorry about to the sponsor and big fans, because they are the last year.
 But I really appreciate their warm welcome. And, well, I really happy this day with my shot and putting, too.
 MODERATOR: What was the key to the round today? Was it putting? Shots into the green? What did you feel best about? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, my shot was great today. I missed two fairway and just one missed green. I hit it great with my iron and fairway woods, so I made a lot of chance for birdie.
 I miss a few, but I still make a lot, so I finish with a good score. 
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. I think you made the turn and you were 4- or 5-under, I can't remember. You played No. 1, the par-5, and parred that. Then I think you birdied No. 2, the par-3. Talk about that hole. Did you hit your tee shot really close or what happened on No. 2?
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually, it's long way from the hole. It was almost 50 feet from the hole. 

 Q. 50?
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, almost 50. I made a long putt from the left side, back corner. 
 Well, I missed -- No. 1 hole I missed a birdie. It was short, so I was just like, Oh, I missed a good chance. But I just keep focus for the next few holes.
 But on second hole, tee shot I above wind, I just thinking left to the right, but it doesn't turn to the right. So ball is going straight and a little bit long way to the hole. 
 Well, I just -- nothing feel about the birdie. I just eat the lunch when I walk to the green because I was a little hungry. (Laughing.) So I just buy some snack, and well, okay, think fresh. 
 I think never get in -- never get out, never get in, so I tried it hit fast and it made it. I was surprised, too.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, not really. It was uphill putt, so I just thinking, Get close. Get over. 

 Q. Of your other birdies today, anything else stand out? Any long putts or any where you hit it into the green really close?
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually, on No. 18. I started on No. 10 today, so this is my 9th hole. I made about maybe 20, 25 feet, 25 feet to the hole.

 Q. Was it uphill?
 JIYAI SHIN: It was downhill. Downhill a little bit break from right to left. Actually, just behind me, Katherine Hull hit a putt and she made the putt, so I just saw the line and I just follow her line and then I made it, too.

 Q. For those that don't cover you on a regular basis, tell us a little bit about yourself. When did you start playing golf, and when did you realize you could be pretty good at it?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I start golf when I was 11 years old. I played good. Actually, played pretty well when I start. (Laughter.)
 But 2004, I guess, yeah. Because 2003 remember my mom passed away. But before my mom's accident, I didn't get any wins. But after four months my mother's accident, I get first win and four times win in 2004. 
 So maybe big change about my life from that happening. 

 Q. Sorry to ask this, but what happened to your mother?
 JIYAI SHIN: My mother is get car accident in 2003, so she passed away. 

 Q. Did you dedicate improving your game a little bit to your mother?
 JIYAI SHIN: All the time, yeah.

 Q. Do you do anything to honor her?
 JIYAI SHIN: All the time actually, yeah. But I really -- it was eight years ago. When I'm thinking, time's going so quick, so I really surprised. I have one younger brother and one younger sister that take accident with my mom, too, and they stay one year, almost for one year stay in the hospital. 
 So I stay with my sister and brother in hospital, so I have in my memory, 2003, 2004 is too dark. Actually, I can't remember. Just remember small things.
 So, well, but I'm thinking I'm very strong right now after that happening. And my sister and brother, they're healthy right now, so I really happy with my family, too.
 So, um, yeah. Actually, I all the time dedicate to my mom, because she never see my win.

 Q. Did you get some lessons? When did golf start really kicking in? Did it come naturally? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, actually, I starting the golf I watched Se Ri Pak won in U.S. Open 1998. So after that, I started golf. Actually, my father's friend, he have a driving range in Korea, so I practice there and then they into the course so I take some lessons. 

 Q. One more. Have you met Jack Nicklaus? What do you know about him if you have?
 JIYAI SHIN: No. Well, everybody ask that, but I saw one time. Actually I went to the Masters last year, so I just watching his play and his practice, but I've never met him. I want to met him. 

 Q. Are you proud to wear his stuff?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, yeah. This is where Korea where company is, and then I really thank you about the American people. They really liking my clothing, so I think should ask to the my company starting to selling in U.S. Maybe people like it. 

 Q. Somebody else mentioned, is this your first year where you're kind of traveling more just on your own? Before had your father traveled with you most of the time?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, yeah, this is my first year. Well, I played 12 years, played golf for last 11, almost 12 years, and my father always follow me and care about me all the time.
 But this year my father starting the college in Korea. Yeah, he's student. So when I call to him, he say, Oh, I got to go. I have a class. We talk later. He busier more than me. Yeah, he's busier more than me. 
 So I really happy my father is doing something, because I really appreciate for my dad all the time care about me. But I want to think also he's doing his own life. He's doing right now, so I really happy.
 Well, the beginning of decision I have little bit of pressure because I'm traveling alone. My father give me a little bit pressure, but he's doing okay. I'm doing okay, too. 
 MODERATOR: Any more questions? Thank you so much, Jiyai.
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you very much.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT