SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 4, 2011
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Jiyai, thank you for coming in. You had a good day. You shot even par. A lot of other players are going a little bit lower, but you just told me you still feel pretty good about how you played.
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, yeah. When I started this morning, the weather conditions were much better than yesterday - no wind, and a little bit chilly this morning. 
 But this morning I feel really good. I'm ready for today. But when I started the first hole I was kind of like I missed the putt, I made two bogies, so it was like, oh, my God, what am I doing? 
 But it came back to even, and I'm really happy with that. I don't know, my condition and my timing was so bad today, so a little bit -- I was a little bit worried and unconfident with my shots today.

 Q. Can you talk about recently you decided to go to Orlando and practice with Yani Tseng who is the Rolex Rankings No. 1, which you had been last summer? Why did you decide to do that? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually Yani invited me. I really thank her for that. We're good friends when we played juniors. We played a lot of matches on a team. Like she was the Taiwan team and I was on the Korean team. We played a lot for a long time. 
 And she invited me to her house. When I went there, she lives in a great house, a big house right next to the golf course. So we're practicing together about four days, and we're practicing a lot all day. 
 We had a really fun time. Well, when I talk to anybody, they're surprised when I practice with Yani, because we are rivals with the world rankings. But we're all the time enjoying the competition with Yani, and we have a great time.

 Q. You obviously scored great yesterday in really difficult conditions. Like Mike said, it's a little bit easier today. Does that kind of even out over the two rounds? You had one really great round in horrible conditions and one that's kind of even with the field today? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I feel it was okay because when I started on the first couple of holes with the two bogies I was just like how can I finish today? I'm guessing it's maybe a long day. 
 But I made a birdie on No. 3, and I made another bogey on No. 4. So I just tried to focus more on my timing and then my playing.

 Q. When you look back, I guess you sit down and say I'm right where I want to be heading into the final round? 
 JIYAI SHIN: I think so, yeah. Actually I'm very comfortable because actually today was really bad my condition and same tempo. But still I a made a few mistakes, but that's it. I had a good recovery after my mistakes. So I feel really good right now, and I need a little bit more practice. 
 I played with Catriona, and she's really playing good right now. And her putting and shots were really good, so maybe tomorrow we can make it a great tournament.

 Q. Will you go to practice now and work on all of that? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I have to eat first.

 Q. After that? 
 JIYAI SHIN: After that. Today I missed three or four times a short putt, so I practiced with putting.

 Q. Were the greens as fast today or quicker? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, it is. First of all, I left about 25 feet for the pin to the hole little bit downhill. But my stroke was past the hole about 7 feet past the hole. I said, okay, this is downhill. I think, okay, this is downhill. 
 Then the second hole, it was uphill, and I hit a great tempo, but it also passed about six feet. After that I little worried with my putting speed. But after that I felt really good, so, yeah.

 Q. Could you talk about your bogey on 12? Then you had two birdies after that, could you talk about those as well? 
 JIYAI SHIN: On No. 12? No, I think No. 13 I did a three-putt. Well, I had a great birdie chance there about ten feet to the hole, but little bit downhill. I missed the birdie putt, and my par putt was just two feet, but mis-hit.

 Q. And the birdie after? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, one birdie after, straight after the bogey.

 Q. Is getting back to No. 1, is that driving, something that motivates you? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I am. I think I was still close to the No. 1 spot. My shots are still getting better. We still have a lot of tournaments, so I'm just waiting. I have to focus on tomorrow first.

 Q. How comfortable are you being in that final group on the last day of a tournament. 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I'm all the time enjoying the crowd. When a lot of people are coming and watching, I can more focus for my play. So I'm not sure, because the afternoon group just started, so I don't know about the afternoon. 
 I think I am very close to the final group, so if I join the final group, I'm more excited to play.

 Q. Can you talk about the tempo of your swing and also the putting, what do you want to improve tomorrow, the putting or the tempo? 
 JIYAI SHIN: I need them both (laughing).

 Q. I know, I know, but you have to choose only one now. 
 JIYAI SHIN: I think putting because my timing is a little bit bad today, but I made a few shots I made it great. I think tomorrow you have a good chance for a birdie putt. I have to make it. I have to catch a chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT