SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 3, 2011
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Jiyai Shin, our current leader. Congratulations on your round today. What was it that went well for you today? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Okay. Thank you for coming here. And, well, my tee time was in the afternoon. So I was a little bit worried about the wind, because when I came for practice, it was so windy. 
 So I'm guessing, oh, today my goal is maybe even or just 1-under par. And I started the first hole with great shot, great second shot. And when I hit the putting, the winds take it a long way.
 So I'm thinking, again, oh, it's really tough. And second hole I made a great birdie. So I feel a little bit confidence after the second hole's birdie.
 I've been practicing a lot of the putting this week. And today my putting was great, good work, and my shot also, and I didn't miss any fairways. I missed a couple of holes, three or four holes, the greens. But it's pretty good play with this wind.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. To get a birdie on No. 2, one of the hardest holes out here, that had to be a nudge of confidence for you?
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes. I was practicing on Monday, Tuesday, second hole was into the breeze. It was a really strong hole. So when I was standing on the tee path, today was a little bit down breeze. So maybe I play with a short club, and I hit 7-iron out there, great hit, and I made a great birdie.

 Q. About how far was the putt on No. 2 for birdie? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, it's almost 30 feet, yeah, behind the pin, downhill. 

 Q. Are you talking when you got here for practice today, was that today when you came here to warm up for your round, you noticed the wind was, you're talking about today then?
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, yes, because when I played the Pro-Am with the wind, it's a totally different direction. So today too much thinking about the wind before the play. 
 But fortunately the wind direction, every hole is the same. It doesn't change, doesn't turn around, the wind, the same way.
 So I think my caddie is a really good help. He's great with the wind.

 Q. And you didn't play here last year; I think you had your appendectomy and missed the tournament. What have you heard about the course, or did you have any expectations coming here this year for the first time?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, first I really appreciate for a lot of people's warm welcome to here, because first time here. So I am really excited to play. And a lot of players say: This is your course, because it's not far, because drive a shot and it's not a long course. So I'm not a long hitter. So a few players said it's really great for me. 

 Q. You played in the same group with Sandra. Did the fact that both of were you playing well, did that help? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, yes, I think so. Because when I make birdie, she make birdie also. And I think -- oh, okay just more like -- my English. 
 THE MODERATOR: Like competitive? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, and we played at the Kia, we played great match in April and March. So I have a good memory with Sandra. So it's really close to the Kia tournament, because we play so great and then she made a lot of great birdie putt and a couple of putts, too.
 So I think really good, happy with the play with Sandra. I think we play tomorrow, too, I guess.

 Q. Did you find that the wind died down as the day went on, or was it much pretty much the same wind the whole way?
 JIYAI SHIN: It was pretty much the same way the whole way because not much trees, no mountains. This is, fortunately, good for the players. 

 Q. This year you played well at times, you've played not well, what's the state of your game? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, actually, really harder practicing for, prepare for this season. And I came here a little up and down. My shot was great, but my putter didn't work through two tournaments. I practiced a lot with the putter. When I was in Japan a couple of months ago, I was practicing 28 hours for five days. So it's a lot. 
 And then it feels it's coming now and I have a great feeling with the putter.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT