KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2011
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Well, Jiyai, obviously didn't work out the way you wanted to today. But give us some thoughts on the day?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, when I started this morning, my putter wasn't good, so I made three bogeys on the front nine. But I still tried to make birdie a lot of times because my iron shots still were good. So I had a lot of birdie chances, but my putt was -- it was so many missed putts.  
  
  Q. I noticed there were a few short putts that you missed, including the one on 18 which is sort of uncharacteristic. Can you describe was that mental or something physical you were doing wrong?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, every hole plays close to the win. Standing on the 18th hole everybody gets pressure. So it was really big pressure, because Sandra was really close to the hole. So I'm thinking I have to make this putt for the playoff. And, well, just too much pressure on myself.   
 The greens were still fast today also. So I tried to make no mistakes and not a bogey, so maybe too much worried.   
 THE MODERATOR: Is that why you backed off?   
 JIYAI SHIN: I think so. Yeah, because my shot was perfect today too. On the back nine I missed a lot of good chances. So, yeah, that's the reason.  
  
  Q. How long was that putt on 18 do you think?   
 JIYAI SHIN: That putt was four feet.  
  
  Q. Did she surprise you at all? She hasn't won before, and you took the lead there at the end and she hung in there. You hit a great shot on 18 and she hit one even better.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, but today I played with Sandra, and she had a lot of -- she did the mistakes on the green a few times, but she made a great putt. She made a great chip shot, big up and down. I was just thinking, oh, she didn't make a mistake. Well, just my putting wasn't good.  
  
  Q. Did you think that last putt was in? Were you surprised when it rimmed in and out? Were you afraid you were going to miss it?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, it was close. It was a good try, but no more shots, too firm.  
  
  Q. What did you think when the crowd started cheering after you backed off of the putt? What was going through your head during that whole sequence?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, on the front nine?   
  
  Q. No, on the 18th hole. You were about to putt, and then you backed away and the crowd started cheering. Then you went back to putt.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, no, just my heartbeat was too big (laughing).  
  
  Q. Do you feel that you're playing well going into next week? Has this made you confident in your game?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, I am, because my shot was perfect this week. Well, I just need a little bit more practice for putting. I still have good confidence with the shot, but my putting was a little bit bad.   
 But next week the green is more firm, and still fast greens. So if I get more practice time with the putter, it will be good.  
  
  Q. Do you remember how hard it was to win your first tournament? What do you think Sandra's feeling right now? What is the feeling like when you get that first tournament win?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I won lot of times.  
  
  Q. Do you remember first one?   
 JIYAI SHIN: The first event on the LPGA was the British Open 2008. I was really, really nervous, but I don't know why. At the time my body movement was just like mushy, so I was really comfortable with my first win.   
 So maybe Sandra, she had a great shot, great save. She made a lot of good putts. I watched her face, and she was really enjoying it.  
  
  Q. She was smiling all the time, wasn't she?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, she was really enjoying it too. I really enjoyed playing with Sandra. We made a great tournament. And a lot of Korean people came to watch us. I really appreciate it too, yeah.  
  
  Q. With the way you played, do you almost feel like you let one get away today?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Pardon me?   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you were in control most of the way, but let it get away from you?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Not really. I try my best all the time. When I played after three bogeys, I was just thinking okay, the bogeys are already done. It's birdie time. So I tried to make it in my mind all the time.  
  
  Q. When you were in Palm Springs during the off-season, where were you practicing?   
 JIYAI SHIN: At Mission Hills.  
  
  Q. You were at Mission Hills?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, but I changed the swing, so I just stayed the whole day on the range. I played one time the course.  
  
  Q. Really?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, for one month.  
  
  Q. For a month, you only played it once, wow.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, but that's my favorite course.  
  
  Q. Why?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Beautiful shape, great conditions, and nice weather too. We need sun.  
  
  Q. Is it your favorite range too?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Oh, yeah, because I stayed the whole day, long days.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT