KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2011
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We're here with our tournament leader. Just start off with some post-round thoughts?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Okay. Thank you for coming here. And well we started late, 1:40, so just this morning when I woke up I was just waiting for the tee time for a long time. I just feel a little bit tired because today was a long day also.   
 But when I started on the front nine, my putting was a little bit wasn't good, so I hit it good. I hit woods good, so I was just waiting for the chance for birdie. Then I made my first birdie on the 9th. Then after that I got more good feeling with the putter. Yeah, I played 3-under par today. I think it's pretty good.  
 THE MODERATOR: The tee shot on 18, what happened there?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Oh, well, it's getting dark so I hurried myself a little bit. Little bit I missed on my timing and hit a big hook. Well, it's the first time (laughing).   
 It's okay. It was par-5, and I still had one more round for tomorrow. Maybe more fun tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Were you getting cold out there? You started putting your jacket on near the end and even took your sunglasses off, so it must have been getting dark?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, it was. When I played on the back nine, me and Sandra and I.K., we said we hope they changed it today, the round. We're done, so I'm happy to finish at the moment.   
 Tomorrow we hope the sun will come up, because we need sun. It's really chilly out there.  
  
  Q. It will be a little like match play tomorrow, won't it, because you and Sandra have a pretty big advantage over the rest of the field?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, but golf is nobody knows. Still other players are playing good. I really enjoy playing with Sandra today.   
 We have one more round. Maybe we'll play really -- I'm really excited to play with Sandra tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Sandra said coming out and finishing her second round was an advantage because she got to get a feel for the course. Was it a disadvantage for you to have to wait so long to play?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, but it was good sleep last night for a long time. That's a good thing for me. But I only played the three rounds so I had a good feeling with my shot and putt too, so it doesn't matter when I'm waiting for a long time.  
  
  Q. Did it take a while to get used to playing with sunglasses on because you always played with your spectacles? Was that an odd thing? Do you like it? Is it a much different look?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, yes, it is when I wear the sunglasses. It's a more better look at the grass, the way. So I'm just wearing the sunglasses even when I'm putting too. It really helped me with my golf.  
  
  Q. Did you gain distance just by changing your swing, or did changing your ball help too?   
 JIYAI SHIN: I changed the swing a little bit. I changed coaches too. Since January I changed the swing just a little bit of my lower body movement. So it's really helping for my distance. Yeah, I think I've got more, 10, 15 yards with the driver.  
  
  Q. How confident do you feel now?   
 JIYAI SHIN: How confident? Actually, I really trust myself too, and I really trust my shot. So I have really big confidence at the moment because the last three rounds I played very well.   
 Then I think the course is a good match with me. I just can't wait for tomorrow. Maybe it will be a really great day. I think so.  
  
  Q. Yesterday you said the birdie bus came and it came pretty early. Was it a little frustrating when the birdie bus didn't come today for a while?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, when I started on the first couple of holes, I was a little bit nervous because I was late. Yesterday I hit so well, so I just maybe had too much confidence. Golf is simple, too much thinking.   
 After that after a few holes, I was just trusting myself. The birdie came on the 9th, so I was really happy with that too. It's not too late (laughing).   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT