CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2010
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Jiyai Shin, great round today; 3-under 69. You're tied for the lead with Michelle Wie. Can you tell us about your thoughts going into tomorrow's round? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Thanks for coming in. Today it was raining, so it made it really hard, very hard to play, because first my driver shot was off today, so I played really hard. But I made a good -- lots of good recoveries with the chipping and putts. 
 I really had chances for birdies a couple more times because my shot was really bad. And then anyway, I'm really happy with my score. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Was there one shot that really kind of got you back into it when things were struggling there? What was the one shot that you'll think back on, that one kind of saved my day?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well -- one shot. Hmm, it's a lot. Well, No. 12. No. 12 and No. 16. 
 My driver shot was really bad, but I made a great recovery on 16. I was happy with my chipping on 16 because the pin location was really hard, and I know that I'm close to Michelle, so I knew I have to make a par, and then Michelle was really good with a great tempo and made it. 

 Q. All the competitors have mentioned the mosquitoes today. Did they bother you?
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes. Actually they tried to kill me. (Laughs). It was so bad, my right arm, only my right arm almost ten, so at this point my whole body. 
 So I tried to keep long shirts, long pants, but it doesn't work. And put some spray, too. But it doesn't work. They're coming everywhere. 

 Q. Do you know what was going wrong there at the start of the back nine and what did you do to fix it?
 JIYAI SHIN: Just my tempo, I think. My tempo was so fast because Michelle made a birdie on 10, and after that I tried to more like be aggressive. So that made my tempo faster. 
 So after my two bogeys, I'm thinking, oh, I have a chance to get two more top 5s. So I'm thinking, oh, just focus on my tempo, tempo. And then it worked. 

 Q. Going into the final round tied, like how confident are you that, you know, you can earn that victory rather than being 3 back I guess?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I think tomorrow should make a fun game because Michelle right now she has great play. And then also I have a good feeling, too. 
 We play together all three rounds, and then we play tomorrow, too. So we really -- I am really comfortable with playing with Michelle right now. I know her playing, her style. So I think she knows my play, too. So maybe tomorrow we can make it fun game. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Jiyai.
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT