CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2010
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Jiyai Shin. Jiyai, good round today, 7-under for the tournament. Can you tell us about your round and how you feel going into the weekend? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you for coming in. And yeah, I finished at 5-under par today. I feel it was really good because I didn't -- just a couple times I missed the fairway. And actually my putts was really good this week. So I have a really good speed on the greens. 
 And then fortunately we played in the morning, it was a really good thing because the last couple holes was very windy. So last couple played a little bit hard. But I was just happy to finish. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. Jiyai, do you like fast greens, and why?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I really like fast greens because, well, sometimes just before the putt we just putt careful, like more focused for the chalk. So I think that is more help for my playing. 
 And sometimes we worry about speed, like we hit downhill, doesn't stop, but then we're more focused on the greens.

 Q. Are you thinking about that battle for the No. 1 spot in the world this week at all, just the way some of the top ones are playing?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, the world No. 1 is very important, but this time I just want to focus on this event, nothing else. So I really waiting for win or victory or another win. 
 I just focus on this week's tournament. To get No. 1 spot I have a lot of time. We still have a lot of tournaments. We're still close, very close. So just take time. 

 Q. Considering you're three strokes back of Michelle and probably playing with her tomorrow again, for somebody who's been in contention and won a lot like yourself, do you kind of have her right where you want her sort of thing? How comfortable are you going into the weekend, even though you're three shots back trailing somebody who hasn't won as much as you?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, this year we've played lots of times this year. We've played almost 10 times like already. So now we are very comfortable. And then she hits so long, but I already knew that. And then I just contemplated my distance. That's all. 
 And then she speaks good English, and she speak good Korean, too, so we're talking all the time. So it makes it really comfortable.

 Q. I'll just follow that up. How is she playing this year or now compared to before?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I saw her the last three or four years. She came to swing a little bit. Her movement is better right now. She hits quite straight right now. 
 Her putting and short game was really great. She is grinding out right now. 

 Q. What's been your reaction to the big crowds on the first two days here?
 JIYAI SHIN: I really appreciate it, the whole gallery. This is my second time in Canada. And last year it also was a big crowd, and this year also. So I'm really happy with that, because when I hit just normal, not really good. But there's always crowd for me because then they're happy and they're more pushing for me like to gain. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? 

 Q. Jiyai, you are one of the world's top three or four players in the rankings, but until an hour ago did you feel like you were flying under the radar here at this tournament? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I really felt that last year, but just a little people not know my name, they know just my face, but right now they know, "go Shin" and everybody know my name, so I'm really happy and appreciate it, too. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? Thank you, Jiyai. 
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT