RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2010
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JIYAI SHIN: My time was very early morning but windy morning, too, and the rain, too, so really hard to get into focus. But I made just one bogey, which is a really good point for me. Really happy.

 Q. Talk about conditions. How difficult was it to keep the score around par today? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, we know it's difficult, it's very tough and there's lots of bunkers, very tough rough. So I was trying to not make mistakes, just hit it straight, hit it straight, so I tried that. And I did. A few holes was a little bit tough, hard to make par. But it was good, too. 

 Q. How nice is it to have two par-5s to finish because you took advantage today and made birdie at 18? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I was trying to get there in two, and I missed. I think today was tough for me, but it's a good score and I made only one bogey, so I had a good day. 

 Q. What happened on 2?
 JIYAI SHIN: My second shot I left about 180 yards, but I hit 5-wood. It was big right-to-left wind, so the wind took my ball, so left side bunker. Then it was really hard to stand, so my one foot just outside the bunker, one foot inside the bunker, so I hit it out and two-putt.

 Q. And then you bounced straight back with a birdie on 3?
 JIYAI SHIN: I hit driver, I made the fairway, and second shot was almost 110 yards, and then 15 feet just right side of the pin and made it.

 Q. Birdie on 18, great way to finish. 
 JIYAI SHIN: I hit driver, missed the fairway right because really strong wind left to right, so inside the rough I hit 5-wood and just 20, 25 yards short of the green, and then I hit running approach with 8-iron.

 Q. How did you find the wind? 
 JIYAI SHIN: It was really hard because actually I checked the tee time a couple days ago, I said, well, we're lucky with the early times, but when I get here this morning it's really windy. I was just trying to make a par every hole. I focused for that. I did well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT