KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2017
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you describe your day for us?
JIYAI SHIN: I hit it pretty good, solid today.  My putter was good.  My shot was good.  I'm very happy with three bogeys today, and, well, I played with Stacy.  Last time we played together, like three, four years ago, so I very enjoyed playing with her.
I think I'm pretty lucky because I started a little bit early in the morning.  I started early in the morning.  That's why easy to make a few birdies.
Q. Do you think was it getting harder as the day went on, the course?
JIYAI SHIN: Yes, and also the win comes more.  Definitely would make it a little bit harder.
Q. We asked the other day if you thought you could win some more majors and you said, why not.  How do you feel about your position and your chance?
JIYAI SHIN: Yes, why not.  I do my best, and I have another 18 holes.  But, you know, I finish with 8-under, but I don't know how other players still play out on the course.
So I don't know after where they finish; I don't know what's my position.  But I think I have a good spot at the moment, so I do my best for tomorrow.
Q. How does your game right now compare to when you were world No. 1?
JIYAI SHIN: Well, actually this year, I gained more distance.  So that makes it a little bit easier.  Even 18th hole, I made two shots to the green.  That means I gained a distance and it makes it much easier.
Q. How much?
JIYAI SHIN: I think between 15 and 20 yards.
Q. What do you think that's from?
JIYAI SHIN: Training, eating.  Eat a lot.  (Laughter).
Q. Did you get a little momentum going into the back nine?
JIYAI SHIN: Yes, after hole No. 9, it was quite a hard, tough hole for me because I hit driver and 5-wood from the fairway and I made a birdie, and make more confidence.  So I'm pretty solid every shot on the back nine.
Q. How often do you reflect on your past major victories?  How often do you think about when you won the British?
JIYAI SHIN: Well, I had only -- I won it only two times, the British.  So I don't know, maybe I like wind.  I like the wind.  So I think tomorrow is going to be a little bit hotter and also windy.  So I try to enjoy but more close to the windy, like a friend.
Q. When you come back to play in America, does it cause you to reflect on your time when you did play here regularly?
JIYAI SHIN: Well, yeah, I'm so enjoying, and I very enjoy playing, and to be here, because, well, like today, when I play with Stacy, and then other good LPGA players, it makes more -- yeah, I gain more motivating from them, so it makes me feel a little better, enjoy.
Q. How happy are you now playing in Korea and Japan?
JIYAI SHIN: Well, mainly I play in Japan.  Well, I very enjoy because less traveling and more three-day tournaments.  So physically, I feel much better.  But, well, this week, I'm here, so I'm more focused on this week on the LPGA.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT