KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2010
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVID HIGDON: Jiyai Shin, welcome to the Kraft Nabisco Championship. Jiyai Shin was the 2009 Rolex Rookie of the Year, and close to being the Player of the Year as well. She was awarded the Top Player of the Year by the Golf Writers Association of America. First, let's start with your memories of Kraft Nabisco last year and what you expect out of this year for the event.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I'm really happy every time I play here because this is my favorite golf course every year, great confidence, so I'm really happy and very enjoy it.   
 And last year I think maybe I finished Top 20. I'm not sure. But last year, my play was not bad, and then last year was so windy. But I still -- I think my play is better than last year, so this week my goal is to finish inside Top 10.   
 I think last year I played well, too, so I'll bring good feelings to -- well, I could play different tournament.  
 DAVID HIGDON: Well, you actually had two straight tournaments with some good results. You finished tied for third in the HSBC Champions in Singapore and you tied for third last week in the KIA CLASSIC presented by J Golf, so clearly you're close. Anything you think you need to do to go from T3 to first?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I think just play my game from start to end. So should be better this week.   
  
  Q. What is it about the course you like particularly?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, it's a beautiful course, beautiful design. And well, when you're looking at the golf course, it's really beautiful and great golf course, and then you have a narrow fairway and tough lob, great greens speed. Everything is perfect.   
  
  Q. A couple of players have said the rough is very thick this week. Have you seen this?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes.  
  
  Q. Keep it in the middle of the fairway?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, of course. And I have a good confidence with my driver, so well, I think this is a good match for me.   
  
  Q. You said your game is good right now?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes. I did.   
  
  Q. What is it about your game that -- I mean you played so well all last year. Could it be better than it was last year?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, last year I was just rookie, so my goal was Rookie of the Year. So now I only make last year my goal.   
 This year my goal is more consistent play than last year. So I only play in three events, and I am doing great, so I just keep it up.   
  
  Q. You won a Major championship a year and a half ago, two years ago.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes.  
  
  Q. When you weren't a rookie.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes.  
  
  Q. How important are the other majors now since you've won one? Do you look at this as a bigger deal or is it like another tournament?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, this event is the first major tournament of the season, so more everybody want it. Actually, after winning we jump in the water and everybody want to dive in.  
  
  Q. You want to jump in the water?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes. Yes. I want to. But I am scared of the water, but I really want to jump in there, especially here.  
  
  Q. It's very cold.   
 JIYAI SHIN: That's okay. It's okay.   
  
  Q. Last week it's a very long golf course, this week a very long golf course. Good preparation last week for this week?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, last week was really, really long clubs for me because I hit a couple shots from -- I hit an iron on a couple, just a couple of holes. So I'm usually using my fairway wood and hybrid.   
 But I think I hit a lot of quality from the fairway, so I have a good feeling with my fairway wood, so I don't want -- I can't make birdie putts with my 3-wood and 5-wood.   
  
  Q. So 18 here, two tees, one back, one forward, if they play it forward, would you be able to get to the green in two?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I only played three times this event. Two or three years I can make it two on I get to the green, but last year was a little wind, so I couldn't get. So mostly I check the wind first.  
  
  Q. But you can if everything is good?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes. Of course. Yes. My play style is a little bit aggressive.  
  
  Q. When?  
 JIYAI SHIN: That's okay. So I should try aggressive one time.   
 DAVID HIGDON: Didn't you work on your strength over the off season as well?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, I do; I did.   
 DAVID HIGDON: So you feel like you can hit the ball further now?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I'm not sure a little bit, just a little bit, because I was moving away.   
 Well, I got more muscle and I feel more strength, but yeah, I got more five, seven yards, I get more distance, but I think it's not enough.   
 DAVID HIGDON: The other thing is interesting with the winner last week with Hee Kyung, you met her previously on the LPGA, and she talked about how you helped her kind of overcome some of her problems. How did you meet and what do you think of her as a player and as a person?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I really appreciated that she said that, because before that playing here, about three years ago, I was all the time training with Hee Kyung. And I did pitching a lot. She just -- she learning her by herself. And then she breaks away now. She have strong lines, so she's a great player.   
 DAVID HIGDON: How do you think her game suits this course here?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, she said her goal is to just make the cut this week because she only played last year, she missed the cut. So she said this week her goal is to just make the cut.   
 But I think last week she won, so she have great feeling and she'll get her mind off of everything and is a little bit up. So she should play very well, I think, because golf is a mental game. Every shot is mental, so she should play very good, I think.   
 DAVID HIGDON: So you weren't surprised by her play last week?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes. Yes, because you know, she -- couple shots mistake, but she great recovery on the short game and putting, so really surprised.   
 DAVID HIGDON: Well, congratulations on the last couple of tournaments and good luck here at the Kraft Nabisco Championship.  
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT