HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 24, 2010
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Jiyai, welcome back to the HSBC Women's Champions. Last year you had a fantastic 6-under par 66 in the final round to win the tournament. If you would, just tell us about your memories from last year. 
 JIYAI SHIN: First, thank you for coming. 
 Well, I came here Monday afternoon, and Tuesday I came to the golf course to play nine holes, and I feel really surprised because last almost one year is gone. It just feels like last week. I have really real memories in here, so I feel really happy about myself and confident, too. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Yesterday at the opening press conference you said you felt like you were just warming up with the tie for 22nd last week. Do you feel like you can possibly defend your title here and win again? 
 JIYAI SHIN: I think so. I try my best to, and last week, I played not bad, actually. Fourth day, I missed the driver in the fairway four or five times, that's it, and my problem was the putting speed. I couldn't get comfortable with my speed on the greens. Actually I need more practise for putting to be there helping. 

 Q. You have a very nice group, are these girls --
 JIYAI SHIN: I think really good pairing for me. They are really good players. So I would try to follow -- if our group plays good, following is really good. But if other people play bad, I feel people will be following the best. So I think it's really good for me. And more, I try my best, and I just focus on my game, too. 

 Q. You were very close last year to No. 1, do you think --
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, No. 1 was my goal. So I've not yet turned 22, and I'm really close to ranking No. 1, and I'm really surprised because it's coming so fast for me. 
 Well, I just -- first I just focus on my game. I'm not thinking, oh, I have to be No. 1 this year or this week. It's too much pressure on myself and it doesn't help with my goal. 

 Q. But are you surprised --
 JIYAI SHIN: This is my second year on the LPGA Tour. Playing here is always a surprise because I'm always dreaming of playing here. Last year, I played very well, and I guess over the year, too. So it's like everything is a dream. I'm really happy with the good play, too. 

 Q. What is it about Lorena's game that you like?
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I think I saw the last time Lorena played, she played so easy. Yeah, easy, and I think she can make every shot from anywhere, a very important point. Because we saw the really impossible shot, she can make it easy, every time. 

 Q. Presumably you have some hobbies outside of golf --
 JIYAI SHIN: I like listening to music. My hobbies are listening to music and just calling my family and my friends. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: What about singing? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Just listening. I like just listening. 

 Q. Do you listen to your own singing or just singing, period?
 JIYAI SHIN: It's just for fun, yeah. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Do you take classes or have a vocal teacher? 
 JIYAI SHIN: No, because I'm working on my second album last December and I just try this year, too, so after the season I'm learning for the singing.

 Q. What do you have to learn in singing? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I don't know. I don't know my singing level. 

 Q. If you had to put a handicap on singing, what would your handicap be? Would you be scratch?
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually recording a Christian song because my father is a minister, pastor, so I really enjoy the -- we have a fellowship, so I want to make presents for the group, for my friends. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: So would you be like a 10 handicap on the singing? 
 JIYAI SHIN: I don't think so. One or two. (Laughter) I'm not bad. 

 Q. Your nickname the "Final Round Queen," how do you feel about it? 
 JIYAI SHIN: I'm really happy with the nickname because that nickname is made from my fans, my fans gave to me the nickname, so I'm really happy. 
 Before my nickname was like my team, Chalk Line, because every time -- (giggling. ) I need more strong. Before I need more strong nickname but my fans make like -- it's really has a strong feel and more confidence. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Jiyai, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT