LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
November 22, 2009
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JIYAI SHIN: Actually, the course conditions...  
  
  Q. Yeah. The course conditions were?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Wet, and then green was really soft. So greens softer, that's a big help for the players, because we just can aggress your shot.   
 Then no wind today really was perfect.   
  
  Q. What did you do during the break for the two days to pass the time before you were able to tee off today?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually, I a little bit worried this morning, because last two days I didn't practice, so...  
  
  Q. When is the last time you have not practiced two days in a row?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, right.   
  
  Q. Long time?   
 JIYAI SHIN: I think, so this morning I a little worried. I don't have a feeling, so...  
 But after like couple hole, my feelings come back. And then I think this helps to me, my physical condition really good now. Actually, this is my sixth straight week of tournament.   
 So before like the first round like I feel bad, not really good. But today was getting really good. And then, yeah.   
  
  Q. You're coming down to the final day for Player of the Year. What do you think about your chances? Do you feel like you're in a good position?  
 JIYAI SHIN: I think so, yeah. I play very good today, and then I still have a good shot and putting skill, so I still feel really close.  
  
  Q. For the final round, when you're close to winning, is it easier since you have won so many times before?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, of course, because every players have like a chance always get nervous and pressure. But also I get nervous pressure, but I much easy control my pressure.   
  
  Q. Some of the players said they went to movies, they got pedicures, they watched TV. What did you do since you could not practice?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I'm so tired, like I was tired, so like a really long sleep. (Laughter.) So my feeling is good.  
  
  Q. Will you try to keep an eye on Lorena tomorrow to see what she's doing for Player of the Year?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, of course. And then tomorrow is the final day, so it's very important. Gonna be important day tomorrow all my life.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT