LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 14, 2009
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Jiyai, thanks for coming in. You're one shot off the lead and you had kind of a tough back nine today. Can you tell us about it, please.
 JIYAI SHIN: Hello, everyone, thanks for coming. 
 Actually this morning, my feel was not really good. The first front nine holes, I played not bad, but I still had chances for birdie but I missed a lot of times. On the back nine, on 10, I made birdie. And No. 12, after my shot, I did not made up-and-down. 

 Q. On the last approach, all three of your balls really went past the green. Why do you think that was? Is it because of the backspin this time? 
 JIYAI SHIN: The last hole, the green is a big slope, and so we are thinking about a lot of backspin. But it didn't come back. So actually I had about a 45-feet putt, and I hit five feet. But I think all the time there is backspin, it's very fast. Standing back there, I was really surprised, because it's a big downhill. 

 Q. What are your expectations for tomorrow? Are you going to change something about your game?
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually today my score is 2-over, but my playing is not bad. On the greens, my putting, I have some problems with speed. Actually the front nine, I missed a couple of putts. My confidence a little bit was getting low, so my putting, I just try. I still have good feelings, so I want to just carry to tomorrow. 
 Every player in four rounds, one will be really hard and today is my bad day. And then tomorrow I think should be a comeback. Yeah, I'm really confident right now and just following the leader by one stroke, so I'm really confident. 

 Q. Is there any particular reason -- inaudible.
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I don't know. Actually for three hours, I couldn't get to sleep, I don't know why. I don't drink coffee, coke, anything, I don't drink. But it was a little bit hard. 
 Today I hit a lots of shots like never before, so for more tired, it was a good play. 

 Q. Can you talk about the weather, yesterday it was about 20 and today is dropped to about eight, do you think the weather difference had something to do with it? 
 JIYAI SHIN: I think the weather is perfect this week. Today there was a little wind but it doesn't matter, very low. So I think the weather is perfect for to play golf. 

 Q. In other interviews, you said you were a little jet-lagged; does that have something to do? 
 JIYAI SHIN: I think it's much better now. Beginning of the week, I really had bad jet-lag but now it's fine. Just last night was a problem. But I think there's no problem problems with that. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Jiyai, thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT