RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2013
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER:   I'd like to welcome defending champion Jiyai Shin.   Must be great to be back considering how well you played last year.  
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I'm always happy to play in this tournament, especially this year we play the St. Andrews golf course.   I'm really waiting for this tournament, and then, well, I have a great memory from last year.   
Well, I can't believe that a year has gone, time is going so quick.   But just like I'm really great to play a links course in bad weather, but hopefully stays like this for this week.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   You played very, very well in the bad weather last year.   Perhaps it is might be an advantage to you if there was some bad weather?   
JIYAI SHIN:   It was a great experience of my life I think.   Because, you know, I never played in bad weather.   So it was a great challenge by myself, and then I tried to keep confidence in myself, and then it was working.   I think that experience definitely helped with this week, too.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   Are you enjoying your week in St. Andrews so far?   
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes, actually I take like hundreds of pictures at the golf course.   Then I played in 2007, too, so‑‑ well, it's always a great honor to play here.   I'm really happy to play St. Andrews.   
   
 Q.   Can you recall how difficult it was last year, mainly the wind?   And you said that was the most difficult conditions you've ever played in, yeah?   
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes, and then especially Royal Liverpool was a really tough golf course, too.   And then last year, I played practise round only eight holes, because I arrived from Virginia on Tuesday in the afternoon.   So I didn't play the Pro‑Am and I didn't play any practise rounds.   So I'm just walking to the golf course, and it looks really tough.   I won at Sunningdale golf course, I know it's a totally different course shape, but I have good confidence with this tournament I think with the British Open.  
And then also, when I play with the bad weather, I just keep patient and keep focused on myself, so definitely last year was great work with the mind psychologist.   
   
 Q.   Does this course also suit your eye?   Do you like this course as well, standing on the tees?   
JIYAI SHIN:   I do.   I really like it, this course.   And, well, especially this week when I had my practise round Monday and yesterday was the Pro‑Am, my concentrating in my mind and my shot is really good, so I have a good feeling.   On Tuesday, we took a photo toot with a few other players on the bridge on No.18, and then they give me the trophy.   I know it comes from last year, but it felt like, really ready, because I really tried to make it exactly the same on Sunday with holding the trophy.   
   
 Q.   How would you compare this course to last year's at Lytham?   And what would you say is the main strengths of your game?   
JIYAI SHIN:   Lytham is more narrow, the fairways, and this course is very wide.   But they also put a lot of bunkers on the fairway, it's still really hard, and I'm not a long hitter, so I just had a lot of time with my driving irons and hybrid from the fairways.   So fortunately these courses have big greens.   I think I can make‑‑ definitely we need good speed on these greens.   
Back to 2007 in my memory, I hit it like 54 yards birdie putt.   So I never get that distance, I try, but hopefully not this week.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   Did you hole that very long putt?   
JIYAI SHIN:   No, left it a few yards short.  
   
 Q.   You only played eight holes before last year‑‑ why going into a major did you cut it so fine?  
JIYAI SHIN:   On Wednesday, my tee time was pretty late, like around 11 o'clock, and then when it started, all the bad weather come up.   So it was really heavy rain, so I couldn't play the other holes.   So I just working on 11 holes.   
I think that Wednesday‑‑ same as on Sunday, so if I played, it was good practise for the Sunday.  
   
 Q.   You said you're not a long hitter.   Can you give us an example, say the 17th, for instance, what clubs you'll be hitting there?  
JIYAI SHIN:   Yesterday, I hit a really good drive shot and I hit a 5‑wood.   It just made the green.   And on Monday, I hit a 3‑wood from the fairway.   I know it's a pretty long way for me, but I think I'm in good control with my fairway wood.   And especially last year on the 72nd hole, I hit driver, 3‑wood, still left like 55 yards to the hole.   So I know the major tournaments, they are always tough and make it long, but that's why I hit it is a lot of times, practise with my fairway wood.   
   
 Q.   What's your average drive?  
JIYAI SHIN:   240.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel that the level of pressure has now been lifted off your shoulders because of what Inbee has done this season?   Do you feel relaxed coming in as defending champion?   
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I played already two times with Inbee and last year I played a whole round with Inbee, so I learn from her playing, because she plays so good and then her putting looks like very smooth in any conditions.   
Especially when I see her, she looks like very comfortable all the time and then it looks like she doesn't get any pressure out there during the play.   Well, I really‑‑ inspired from her.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   She's done so well this year, she's in the spotlight, does that make it easier for you coming here?   
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, it makes it more challenge.   You know, so many good players out there, and then I practise so hard and I really prepare for this tournament, too.   I think it should make a good make a good game for all the players, me, too.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   You've won this tournament twice; is it your favourite tournament?   
JIYAI SHIN:   Yes, any conditions.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   Thank you very much, good luck.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT