LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 12, 2009
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's do your score hard r card. Birdie on 1.  
 JIYAI SHIN: 3-wood and pitching wedge about 110 yards, two feet.   
 3, driver, 3-wood, same, 110 yards, about four feet.   
 5, I hit driver and 7-wood and left about 190 yards, and then ten feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: What club did you hit in?   
 JIYAI SHIN: 7-wood.   
 6, 6-iron, ten feet.   
 8, 6-iron about 30 feet over the pin, 3-putt.   
 10, hit driver and 3-wood 20 yards, 60-degree wedge, and two feet.   
 12, I hit driver and hybrid 180 yards, and about 15 feet.   
 13, hit 7-iron to five feet.   
 16, hit driver, 7-iron and then right side green about 20 yards chip and ten feet put.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you for coming in. You're two shots off the lead of Song-Hee Kim right now. Would you just tell us about your day and how you played.  
 JIYAI SHIN: Hello, everyone. Thanks for coming. I played very well today, because I still have a jet-lag, but the first hole, I made birdie, and then I still keep good feeling to 18 holes. So I had really good playing today.   
 The first six holes, I made four birdies, so the first nine, I was really surprised. But No. 8, I made bogey, but I think it I still have 3-under par, so keep going, keep going and then I made another birdie.   
  
  Q. What do you think about the bermudagrass here, is it hard to play?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, a little bit harder because actually it's a little bit stiff for me, so I just try to make easy putts and just hill balls, and today I did, so I played very well.   
 Some holes are very soft but some holes are really hard, so sometimes it's really difficult for the distance.   
  
  Q. How do you manage the stress of these kind of tournaments where the best golfers in the world, including yourself, are playing here? Do you have a routine previous to starting the round, or what do you do to manage the stress?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I all the time listen to music to relax. I really like listening to music. So last night and this morning, I heard lots of songs -- not much, though, but not my song -- (laughter). I hear the slow songs to make a slow tempo because sometimes when I get pressure, my tempo gets fast. Especially tournament days, I play slow songs.   
  
  Q. What do you think of the people here in Guadalajara?   
 JIYAI SHIN: A lot of kids here, so I'm really surprised, and they are good-mannered, too, so I'm really happy playing in Guadalajara.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Who do you listen to, Frank Sinatra? Do you know Frank?  
 JIYAI SHIN: My favorite thing is Celine Dion and Mariah Carey.   
  
  Q. What can you think of the green?  
 JIYAI SHIN: I think the greens are really good, because downhill, it's so fast and it gets really slippery, yeah, downhill is. So I try every hole, try uphill, but every green, every hole is really hard, so I did some downhill putts. It was really fast. But uphill putt is really good, smooth.   
  
  Q. You had a lot of birdie chances but you missed a couple; tomorrow, what do you need to improve?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I think today my play is very well, so I would just carry it to tomorrow. And I find my driver feel, because last couple of weeks, my driver a little bit -- a little scary to hit driver because sometimes a little too far left. But today no mistakes with the driver. I'm really happy to hit driver today, so my confidence is good. So I just want to just carry this feel.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT