P&G BEAUTY NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
September 13, 2009
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: All right. Well, congratulations.
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: Your third victory this year in the playoffs. If you can just kind of talk about how you're feeling right now? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Hello everyone. Thank you for coming here. Well, usually my goal is top 10, because last couple months my shots have been a little bit down. So my goal is top 10. Yeah, last Tuesday my shot was perfect. It was really good. But my putting is too much mistakes for the chance. 
 But today my goal was just be 2 under par, because I heard the rain coming and the windy day, so I want to just make under par score. But my shot still was good, and my putting was really, really good today. So, yeah. 
 Then last hole I played the playoff, where I really get pressure and nervous because I didn't think about to the win this morning. I really felt try to get the chance. So, yeah, I really am happy. 

 Q. I guess this is at least the second time this year you've won a tournament when you were significantly behind in the last day. At what point did you think you might have a chance to win when you were 7 strokes behind at the beginning? Did you realize on on the back nine you might be able to on post a score to get the win? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, I scored 30. 5 under par, so, yeah (laughing). Well, today I said at the beginning for the nine, the leader's score is 9 and my score's 7, so I'm 7 strokes behind the leader. 
 So, well, just I think the weather was bad, so I just close to the lead. And I think play not easy because wind and the rain. In the first is my measurements is getting better day by day. So I make good score. 

 Q. Very good score?
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you. 

 Q. During the back nine today, can you talk about the birdie that you made on number 16? It was kind of a long putt. It was one of two birdies made there all day?
 JIYAI SHIN: Oh, really? 

 Q. Yes, good job?
 JIYAI SHIN: A really tough hole. It's first challenge hole, number 15, because I think distance is 404 yards, and then it's turning. And they have a big tree right side that really make it hard to look at the pin. 
 So number 15 is I think on the left side of the fairway. And not right side of the fairway, so I didn't worry about the second shot. But today pin was on the left side, so I had a little bit and just look at the pin. And then about 40 feet from the front of the pin. Usually on Tuesday I practiced there. 
 Yeah, I know the line and I hit it and I made it. I know the lines, but I'm just thinking make par, because number 16 was really challenge hole, so he she might par. I think number 15 very easy, good for one. 

 Q. I'm wondering the first time you played 18 today, you hit a shot to a few feet. How far away were you and what iron did you hit on that? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Number 18. That shot was 110 yards. And then it just two feet by the cup. 

 Q. The second time you had kind of a weird distance, didn't you? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Still 45 yards to the pin.

 Q. Talk about how hard a shot maybe that was? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, first time missed the fairway, so you know, enough to get two on. So I have to wait till two on thinking about that. And I felt my ball was standing a little bit high. So I hit 5-wood. It was really good. Little bit short, and it comes up with 30 yards.

 Q. You've won your sixth win now in the last two years. Why do you think you've been able to win so many tournaments? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Oh, that's hard. Well, just lucky. Always, lucky has followed me. 

 Q. On the winning hole in the playoffs, about how long was that putt you had, and did it help that Angela took one along the same line? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, it was 12 feet to the hole. And then 12-foot, I saw that Angela's ball looks like just almost straightaway, no left to the right. But Angela's ball went left to the right. So I said that was different looking. So I trust Angela's putt, and then I set up about the cup to the left of the hole and then I made it. Angela's big help for me. 

 Q. Your drive on 18 the first time, what happened? Did you miss that drive in it seemed like you were in some trouble? 
 JIYAI SHIN: No, I hit was really good. Just downwind, little bit down. So I tried to travel over the bunker, but little bit short. Just top of the bunker little bit. But I made birdie. That's enough. 

 Q. You finished so much earlier than the other competitors from the playoff. I saw you in the room in there. It didn't look like you guys were watching very carefully, very closely the other players. Talk about what you did for those two hours while you were waiting to go back out? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, today I saw it, I came to here about 5:30 in the morning. It was long day. Then after my finish, I saw the last group is on on number 12. We had 12 holes, so I said, Wow, I have to waiting a long time. 
 Then first time was just watching the other players play. Then I get more nervous after watching, because it's really close, a lot of players were really close. But I tried to make it comfortable by myself because I didn't think about this money. I said is, yeah, I played really good. That's enough. Yeah, I made it comfortable in my mind. 

 Q. When this season first started, did you have the goal of winning Rookie of the Year in your mind? Did you think of that? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, of course. Of course. Last two months -- last two months my offense was big up-and-down, so I was to my score for Rookie of the Year, too. But last week in Canada I played not good. But final round I he played and made it a a63 score, so really confident because 63 is my best score. So my shot and my putting is getting better. 

 Q. What would it mean to you if you did get the Rookie of the Year? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, Rookie of the Year is just one chance for the whole life. So I only focus on the Rookie of the Year. Now I play more closer. 

 Q. How well do you know Angela? What do you think of her as a golfer and a fellow competitor? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, Angela she is my big sister this year. We play together on Friday. Watching her play, she was really good to the putting and everything, the shot, really. She has good. 
 She said Monday I really make a better shot -- bad shot, so she say to taking my lucky a little bit. And then she like touch me a little bit, Angela. And I made bogey on number 17. So she said, oh, it worked. And then today the last hole at the playoff, number 15, she said give back. Give back my luck (laughing). 

 Q. Did you do it? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah. (Laughing).

 Q. What would it mean to you if you win the Rookie of the Year and the player of the year? And that's not been done since 1979. So what would it mean if you win both this year? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, that would be huge, a huge thing for me, because I'm rookie this year, so I just focus on the Rookie of the Year. 
 But now I have chance for player of the year, too. So I want to now focus to the whole thing. Well, first, Nancy Lopez, she got two things, so, maybe -- maybe I got a -- maybe I try to the Rookie of the Year and Player of the Year. Maybe I get both. If I get both I think I can't live by myself, I think, yeah. 

 Q. It would be really exciting? 
 JIYAI SHIN: Of course. 
 THE MODERATOR: Awesome. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT