RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2009
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Do you quite like your chances now?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, today I was really good. Think driver was good, everything was good. I played well. I'm happy  
  
  Q. You changed drivers?  
 JIYAI SHIN: I changed after the first day. I changed to a new driver, but it didn't work. So I change it back.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're in a good position to chase the leaders tomorrow?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, of course, I'm following the leaders right now. I'm not far away. I think this course is very tough, so nobody knows what the the score will be, so I have a chance.  
  
  Q. What do you think the secrets are of playing this course well?   
 JIYAI SHIN: This course is really, really tough. A lot of bunkers and then tough rough. So every hole I try to stay in the fairway and stay in the green.   
 Today I did. So tomorrow, I focus to make the fairways and the greens.   
  
  Q. Last year I think you were 18 under par when you won at Sunningdale. This year the scores are much higher. So what's the difference?   
 JIYAI SHIN: The course is much tougher. And last year we could hit all the par 5s in two. This year we can't. Last year, so many players make birdie or eagle on the par 5s but this course very hard to play.   
  
  Q. Will the experience of winning this event last year help you in your mind?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Of course. After this event last year, I thought about winning the tournament a lot and it help my confidence. Last year I felt I played really well in the last round and that helped as well. I feel I can play good when it matters.   
  
  Q. Today, did you try to hit your tee shot on 17 down 16  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, and in the first round as well. Not second round. Today I had 156 yard into pin. Hit a 5-iron into bunker and didn't get up and down.  
  
  Q. What happened in the first round?  
 I hit down 16 but then hit my second into water. I took a drop and then hit a good shot but it spun 30-feet backwards off the green. I was very surprised. It cost me a 6.   
  
  Q. So, having dropped those three shots in the 1st round and today, will you try to do it again tomorrow if you're in the right position?  
 JIYAI SHIN: After I check the pin location. If the pin is in the right place, I might.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT