U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2009
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Round of 72, your overall reaction to your game today.   
 JIYAI SHIN: First three holes, I played very well, because first three holes I made all birdies, so I feel a little bit up.   
 But after hole No. 13, I made bogeys, but I think still my play is not bad. Then today -- actually I had mistake with my driver a couple times, so those were big points today.   
 Then yeah, the course is really, really tough. But after pin 9 I feel my shot is better. Maybe next round maybe I'll try good game.   
  
  Q. When you stepped to the fourth tee and you were 3-under through three holes, were you feeling like, wow, this could be a really good day?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah. I'm just surprised because No. 12, actually I missed the putting, but they make it. They made it, so I'm very surprised.   
 Oh, I'm thinking, oh, maybe today, lucky with me, so but not anymore. Finish the south hole and then just my play.  
  
  Q. Particularly because it's the Women's Open, do you have to feel maybe more conservative with your play and not try and be too aggressive with going for the flag and that kind of thing?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I think couple holes the pin location is so hard, but yeah, U. S. Open, always pin location always I'm thinking every hole, so just I try to make par, because very important. Some holes, just miss and make triple or double bogey, so I try to save the fairway and save the green, and save par.  
  
  Q. So despite the 1-over par finish after a 3-under start, you're still satisfied because of the way you kept things pretty solid? Is that a good assessment?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah. Actually, I have three more rounds, and then just five strokes, very hard course. So I think I still have a chance for the win.   
  
  Q. Does the course condition seem different to you from the practice rounds?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Oh, yes.  
  
  Q. Tell me how.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Actually, I went a couple times ago, couple weeks ago I went to play in here, but couple weeks ago, it was so wet and chilly weather, so just very soft fairway and then greens, so just I think my problem is distance because two weeks ago, nothing learned.   
 I think, oh, two weeks ago this golf course is very long, so I need the distance. But I came to Sunday night, and then I played Tuesday, it's much firm, the fairway, and then I played yesterday, but just one day, it's a big difference, because today and yesterday, wow, it's so different.  
  
  Q. You might have different conditions because you're going to play in the morning, too. It might be a little softer tomorrow, too.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah. I think morning time is better for the play for the low scores, so I'll try tomorrow, my best.   
  
  Q. Okay. Very good.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Hopefully I'll play under par.   
  
  Q. Very good. Thank you so much for your time.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT