LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 6, 2009
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Thank you for coming in. You had a good day today. You finished at 11-under overall, a couple back from the lead. A good place to be in for the final round tomorrow.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you for inviting me.   
 Yeah, today windy, very hard. So today very hard, yeah. My play little bit hard for distance. Feels like is different course, you know.   
 Last couple hole, my iron shot missed the green, so I get very nervous. But good save. Then I have more confidence. I waiting for tomorrow.   
 JASON TAYLOR: You're ready for tomorrow?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes.   
 JASON TAYLOR: One more day?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Of course, one more day.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Was the wind really strong from the very start of your round or did it get stronger as the day went on?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, first I tried hit fairway because this golf course rough is very thick. Very important save the fairway. I tried no mistake. So today my driver very well. My iron shots doing well, too.   
 Yeah, first nine hole play very easy. My second shot is very well today. But then I little bit lost my focus. Little bit hard. I think good save today.   
  
  Q. Do you think when you lost your focus, was that because of the wind?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah. I play five hours. First nine holes I can keep the focus. But my body feel more tired, wind is more stronger. Yeah, I think very hard.   
  
  Q. You won early in the season. A little bit up and down since then. Coming to this tournament, did you feel good, confident with how you were playing?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, I always have confidence. Comfortable, too. But last three or four tournament, I just top 20 or 30.   
 I think my shot and my putting is not problem. I can't make it, the low score. Actually, this week I changed the putter and fairway wood. I think fairway wood is very good work this week, yeah.   
  
  Q. You have a different putter and fairway woods this week?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What kind of putter are you using now?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Putter is same putter, just new one. Fairway wood I'm used Royal collection from Japan. Now I'm using 14. Fly very well. Easy control. Good for me, yeah.   
 Actually today about nine, eight time I'm using the fairway wood on the fairway. I saved the green. Very good help for me.   
  
  Q. You said you used the fairway woods a lot today. Mainly because of the wind?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Not getting as much distance?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes.  
  
  Q. It looks like you will be in the last lead group tomorrow. Are you excited about that? Do you like that sort of situation?  
 JIYAI SHIN: I like to play join the last group because last group have a lot of gallery. I like galleries. Then, well, yesterday and today play very well. I really get confident. This tournament is my first time. This is great golf course. Guess I'm ready.   
  
  Q. When you play with a big gallery, does that give you more confidence?  
 JIYAI SHIN: I like that feel.  
  
  Q. You like when a lot of people are watching you play?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes, I like it.  
  
  Q. The LPGA Championship is next week, the McDonald's. Playing well this week, regardless of what happens tomorrow, do you feel like this is going to give you a boost going into the McDonald's next week?  
 JIYAI SHIN: I think so. But this tournament is this tournament, not next week. So I just focused for tomorrow, not next week.   
 JASON TAYLOR: All right, thank you.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT