WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 8, 2013
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome Jiyai Shin to the interview room here at the Wegmans LPGA Championship.   Currently you're in a tie for fourth, shot one over par today.   Before we get to your round just talk about being back in Rochester.   You won here in 2009 at this golf course before it was a major championship.   Just tell me about your feelings about being back here. 
JIYAI SHIN:   Actually I finished one over for today. 
And well, I'm always happy to come back to here because this is my first U. S. win after I joined the LPGA.   So it's why I have a great memory of this course.
Well, last year I didn't play because I had my hand operation, so it take a couple of months for recovery.   So I missed this tournament.   And I just watched on TV and stayed home.   And so I feel so bad.   But finally I'm really happy now and I'm really happy to be back here to play now.
THE MODERATOR:   You've had a couple of really NICE finishes at the LPGA championship in the past, I think a tie for third and A third place, but haven't been able to win it.   You've had a lot of success at the British Open.   How nice would it be to come here and get a victory here this week? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I have two titles British Open.   Always surprised because, well, when I play at the links course it's pretty tough course to me, but I won two times.   It makes me really surprised.
But I am more these greens and fairways are much softer than links course, but much easier to play, but rough is really thick and fairways really narrow, so it makes a lot of challenge.   And well, I had a great finish couple times of the championship, but I'm really looking forward to this week.   I feel really good now.
THE MODERATOR:   Just talk about today's course conditions.   Were they different, better, worse than yesterday? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, pretty same.   The course is more interesting is bigger fairway.   Green is much softer.   It helps making a lot of birdies, but still tough to play.
THE MODERATOR:   Can you tell us about your birdies and your bogeys today? 
JIYAI SHIN:   I did one birdie on No. 11.   That was my first birdie and last birdie.   (Laughs).   I had a driver and 3‑wood.   Left like almost 110 yards to the hole and then I hit 9‑iron which was five feet to the hole.   Then I made a bogey on number 14, yeah, 14, I hit driver, and it was 190 yards to the flag.   I hit 5‑wood, just short of the green, and it almost like 15 yards to the hole, but I did a three‑putt. 
And another bogey on No. 6, hit a driver, made the fairway.   But almost 205 yards to the hole.   I hit a 3‑wood and missed to the left.   And I hit it like 20 yards to the hole, but it was way over to the green.   And came back again from the back side and like five feet to the hole for bogey and made it. 

Q.   We've heard a lot this week about the rough.   How penal is it and how much is it being wet affecting it?
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I missed a few fairways today.   I did a really good recovery with my wedges. 
You know, if it goes into the rough, hitting to the green is really tough.   I tried to hit like my hybrid and 6‑iron, but it couldn't come out.   It was just out.   So and you know, especially I think I worry about ‑‑ I don't want to get any injury from the rough, because if it's really tough and also it's really wet.   So it makes it more sticky.   So it makes it really, really hard. 

Q.   How do you prepare for 36 holes in one day of a major championship?
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, I knew how to play the 36 holes, because I played last year at the British Open with very bad weather.   So I know it's like couple shots behind the lead at the moment, but now I have 36 holes left.   So morning time I checked my physical conditioning and all my skill and maybe I try to hit more aggressive in the afternoon. 
THE MODERATOR:   You won the Ricoh Women's British Open last August.   Like you said, there was 36 holes on Sunday because of bad weather earlier:   Will you think about that tomorrow, a great memory for you and also something you might be able to draw on as an experience? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, yeah.   It was a great memory and also great experience for me because last year at the British Open I was nine shots lead, but I still kept focused to the end.   So it was great tally by myself.   And also this course is really tough.   So never know where we make the bogeys.   So very need the patience for this course.   So I just try to keep focused and be patient tomorrow. 

Q.   Can you tell us a little bit about your hand surgery?   I'm sorry.   I don't know the details of that. 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, last year ‑‑ actually beginning of the last year I got my hand is getting pain.   Yeah, just left hand, bottom, right here.   I have a scar.   Well, and I just checked a couple months later after Singapore I went to the hospital and they take x‑ray and they say bone and broken.   So I said, how can I do?   They said ‑‑ doctor asked me, said, well, my suggestion is just take the surgery and then took out the bone.   I said, no.   All these big tournaments come up.   I said, I don't want to take the rest.   So I just keep playing with it, lots of pain on it. 
Well, it wasn't working for me.   It helped a little bit, but getting pain.   So I just made the decision to take the operation, and it take two months recovery, and then I come back at the Evian Masters, play wasn't good but made the cut.   That's good points for me.   And then after months later I won at the Kingsmill and then British, too.   So last year I learned a lot from how to care about my body, and also like I did a lot of immediate training, so it helped like finally I am learning from that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Where was the hospital? 
JIYAI SHIN:   Oh, in LA. 
THE MODERATOR:   What month? 
JIYAI SHIN:   May 24th. 
THE MODERATOR:   You've had a couple of health issues in your career.   You had, I remember in Springfield one year, you had your appendix out.
JIYAI SHIN:   Oh, yeah.   It's already three years ago, right? 
Yeah, at the Springfield, just before this tournament and then my stomach was really sick.   And so I take a lot of medicines for the pain kill, but it doesn't work, so I went to the hospital in the middle of the night.   Yeah, I went to the hospital at midnight and then they said, oh, you have to take your appendix.   So I said, I have a tournament in a couple of days.   Can I surgery after that?   Doctor said, no, in ten hours you have to do that.   So I don't have any choice, and I just take the surgery.   And then back to Atlanta to my home and take a couple of weeks.   And then I come back to here to play, because I don't want to miss this tournament, because I was the defending champion.   And then also it come up to major tournament.   So I really want to play.   I don't know if two months was enough time to have recovery.
But I did a great finish that year.   I finished third in it.   Yeah.   Third.   So it was a good challenge. 
THE MODERATOR:   Jiyai, thank you so much for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT