HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 8, 2009
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Welcome, Jiyai, you're the 2009 champion of the HSBC Women's Champions. It has to be a very, very exciting start to your rookie year, and your first year as a member of the LPGA. Talk about coming back and winning this Champion's event?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, actually, this tournament my goal is top 10, to get to top 10 because first my tournament and how I missed the cut in Hawaii. I think upset me. So I wanted to make the top 10.  
 Yeah, yesterday I played very well, so I tried, I'm thinking I get chance for top 10, not for win. But this morning I just feel comfortable, yeah. And the first four holes I make birdies I am very surprised. Because this I hit the putter, with chip and then make a birdie, very surprised, very easy to make birdie. So, yeah, I feel very happy now.   
  
  Q. After your first few rounds, I think 72, 73, did you change anything specifically that made you then go out and shoot two rounds of 66?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Nothing, I think it's nothing changed. Just changed the score. I just make birdie. I think yesterday and today I am no bogies, so that makes it more easy to make low score. First round, second round, yeah, make birdie, but too much mistakes. But more my iron shot, driver shot has been more very easy yesterday and today.   
  
  Q. You are the final round queen so now you live up to your name, I suppose, is that right?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, Korea, my fans make that name, so, yeah. Couple of years in Korea, I make it last final round, I make it the win change the leader. So they make it for me that queen name. So, yeah I was thinking today not for me but for fans.  
  
  Q. With nine holes to go you were four shots behind Katherine. Were you aware of the situation? And when did you realize you were leading the tournament for the first time?   
 SHIN: Well, actually, last year at the Korean Open, I think last round, to finish the nine holes I'm a little bit behind like maybe four strokes, same like today. So I was thinking, 'Oh, maybe four strokes I'm behind. Maybe I get more,' make it birdie at 10. I'm thinking that.   
 Anyway, I make it to the 15 hole, make a birdie. And Katherine, she at number 13 makes double bogey, yeah. So I know the score, so I'm more set of my game. Just keep it on the fairway and greens.  
  
  Q. Do you miss anything about not being a regular 20-year-old? And secondly, do you even feel 20 years old?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, I am 20 years old. Yeah, the more I go, the more I get everything. Because before I play golf, I don't have friends or after a match talking like this. So that makes a change for my life, and more makes it perfect in my life and for me, so yeah. And then next month I turn 21 (laughing).   
  
  Q. What will you do when you turn 21? Will you have a big celebration?  
 JIYAI SHIN: I don't know.   
  
  Q. The last putt of your opponent of the tournament was an easy one for you. Can you tell us what's going through your mind as you finish up the tournament with that final putt?   
 JIYAI SHIN: I'm just thinking about two-putt, I want to make it two-putt not birdie. Because the lie is difficult and very fast downhill. So I hit it very soft, and it is very soft. So a couple of things about the shots, but no, I make it two putt.  
  
  Q. Were you nervous today? You always appear so calm.   
 JIYAI SHIN: Sure, I'm very nervous. I started nervous at number 16. Yeah, I changed to leader, and I get nervous, pressure.   
  
  Q. You won four big tournaments in a very short space of time. Do you feel like you belong in the top echelon of women's golf now or is this sort of a shock to you?   
 JIYAI SHIN: I don't know. I just tried my best. And then this event and then I got win, so make a chance to the top, make it, maybe.   
(via translator) I think more important after four years, I think, it's very important. Four wins is nice, finishing off the season strong is more important.   
  
  Q. Could you just sum up for us what this victory means to you and how it's going to prepare you for the season coming up and what your goals are for this season?   
 JIYAI SHIN: This year my first goal is to win Rookie of the Year. So I think this tournament I moved more closer little bit. Then I want to defend my titles. Yeah, it's this year my goal.   
 Then this week, first round, second round, I'm very not good score, but I changed in third round and fourth round, final round. So I get more confident. First day, second day mistakes, I think, doesn't matter.   
  
  Q. Do you think there is less pressure on you compared to Katherine Hull, since she was the leader going into the final round?   
 JIYAI SHIN: No, I think she feels more pressure. Today she start as the leader, and I start tied for sixth. So I just missed. I tried my best, so I try next tournament. But she starts leader and she looks at the score, she gets more, I think, big pressure.   
  
  Q. You already surpassed Pak Se Ri's money in Korea. And you've won three world tournaments in the U.S. Do you think you can have as much impact as Pak Se Ri in the States?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: Right now I just start tournament play. She plays a lot over 10 years. So I just try in 10 years to make it. I want to do more sport like Se Ri Pak, but she's a great leader and winner in tournaments, so I tried.   
This is my first win here. As an LPGA player, a member.  
  
  Q. The recent winners of the Champions tournaments have been Phil Mickelson, Lorena Ochoa, Sergio Garcia and now you. How does that feel? What is the significance to you?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, I feel like this morning I tried make it to the (indiscernible) little bit more help for me.  
  
  Q. Even when you're not playing very well like on the first two days, you appear very calm on the golf course. Is that just the way you are, or do you ever lose your temper?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Oh, little bit (laughing). Yeah, I'm player so making mistake I sometimes upset. But yes, this tournament is the first my goal is top 10. So I tried not won, but more get comfortable after mistakes, yeah.   
  
  Q. Why do you think Koreans are so good at golf?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Well, that's same question every time get same question. I always say that we have Kimchi, and it has special powers, spicy, I think (laughing). I think we long time have family to support, the players. So, get more hard mental, and then more training.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT