HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 3, 2009
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you, everyone, for joining us. Jiyai, welcome to the HSBC Women's Champions. You were here last year, correct?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yes.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: But this year, you are here because you won three times on the LPGA, as well as being the top money winner on the Korean LPGA last year. So you had a pretty exciting year in 2008. Can you talk about 2009?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, really exciting, the last year, because, yeah, I won three times. I still can't believe it, because being here, the money and the players, it's a great tournament.   
 So I just play happy on the LPGA Tour, but I won the tournaments, and I'm excited.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised that no Korean has been the number one player in the world yet, despite so many Koreans winning on the Tour and having major wins?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, many Korean players played the LPGA, 40 players, 45 players.   
 I don't know, maybe two? Maybe Korean player number one player in the world maybe in the future.   
  
  Q. So, because they're so good, why do you think there has not been an Asian number one player?  
 JIYAI SHIN (via translator): I think that, first of all, players on the LPGA, especially the ones in the top five are quite tough to beat. Hopefully some day one of my compatriots will be good enough to rise to the first.   
 The only reason being is probably because so many Koreans are actually winning tournaments, but nobody with a mean streak where one player continuously wins a couple or two subsequent tournaments. Probably that's why, to the detriment of the whole Korean players, that we actually have to rotate winning tournaments, that's maybe another problem.   
  
  Q. Obviously Lorena is hot this week; how do you rate your own challenges, and have you tried out the course and what do you think about the course this week?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, Lorena she last year won this tournament, and had a really good score. This course is a little bit long this time and very narrow, I think for me, or every player, long this time. This course is so long.   
 I made big hits for driver, and more focus on my game. Yeah, I think last year, I think seven, so I want to try to do more, try my best.   
  
  Q. Regarding the Koreans having the mean streak to win and win and win, do you have that mean streak?   
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, I have confidence and I'm very comfortable on this tour, the LPGA, because I'm last year, three times I won. Every year I try my best. Yeah, try my best.   
  
  Q. You are very young; how do you handle the stress and pressures of staying on top of your game week-in and week-out, because that must be a very exciting experience for you over here.   
 JIYAI SHIN (via translator): The pressure is, you can't win over pressure, over nervousness. So you try to live with it. That's how I prepare every tournament mentally.   
 Trying to win over the pressure and the nervousness, and all of the butterflies in your stomach would actually take too much of an energy and too much of a toll on your actually game. So my game is geared up towards playing and prevailing over pressure, but still, within that pressure, trying to excel as much as I can. And so far, it's worked out quite well.   
 And also, you do need a certain aspect of nervousness to keep yourself quite sharp on the course, as well.   
  
  Q. You mentioned, you carry a bear everywhere you go; when did you first get that bear, and why do you bring it everywhere you go? Do you sleep with a bear every night?  
 JIYAI SHIN: Yeah, about four years, it's very cute. I am more comfortable when I sleep with it every night.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT