ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2008
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: I want to congratulate you for winning 1 million dollars on the PGA Championship. You won 7 times on the KLPGA, and won the season Grand Slam. You're the first player to do that. You won one time on the JLPGA in Japan, and now you've won three times on the LPGA Tour this year. Can you just talk about this year and how fun it's been? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: It is very, very quick, yeah, this year, because I'm only play 35 tournaments. So, so fast time. Then, yeah, my time won this year, so it's very special. 
 Because before the year I only won in Korea, but this year I won in Japan and the LPGA tournament. 
 I can't believe, because last year I only watching the TV, LPGA Tour, but now I play here and then I won, so exciting (smiling). 

 Q. Can you talk about your shot on 16, to get so close, and how important that was? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: 16, yeah. The first time pick driver, and then about 150 yards, then I hit 8-iron. Then front of pin about 2 feet, under 2 feet, yeah, 1 feet, 2 feet in between. Yeah, actually -- oh, sorry. 
 Actually, I'm very nervous that hole, number 16 because it's very tough pin location and very strong winds. Then I just one by stroke Karrie, so I'm very nervous. 
 Yeah, but, but I can make a birdie, and then more get the comfortable. 

 Q. Karrie just said of all the Korean players that she's played with over the years, she thinks that you might be the best one that's come here since Se Ri Pak. How does that make you feel when you hear somebody like Karrie say something like that? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Oh, well, that is actually Se Ri Pak, she is my hero. And I'm next best she. And then she say just -- well, yeah. I'm just now I'm start next year LPGA Tour, so I'm just ready for LPGA tournament. Because I'm not member yet, so I'm very important next year. So I try to keep going. 

 Q. Have you thought about what you'll do with the million dollars? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah, everybody asked me, the million dollars. Actually I'm, me and my father talking. Then, first thing is in Korea now it's very cold. I just some charity, and then I am looking for good house in America. 
 Yeah, because next year I come to this tour, so I need a house. Then I am looking for a good place now. I think maybe -- I have younger sister and younger brother will come to here, so I need good house (smiling). 

 Q. Where are you looking? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: I don't know. There's too many good places (laughing). Because I'm not much time in America. I play in Palm Springs and then Minneapolis and then here. 

 Q. Don't go to Minneapolis. 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Oh, yes. Sorry. 

 Q. You don't want to live there. It's too cold. 
 JI-YAI SHIN: New York or something. Yeah. Actually, many Korean player live in Orlando, so just thinking about the Orlando or California or something, I don't know yet. 

 Q. Does it feel any different winning on American soil? You've won all over the world, is it better, the same? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: No, it is big different. Actually, first my champion, I won British Open, I'm so nervous. But this tournament more comfortable because it starts every play even starts. 
 Then, yeah, just 8 players, so I'm very comfortable play. Actually, my first plan is to survive to Sunday, but I make it my plan, and then I just try do my best. But, yeah. Then I make it the week. So today very big, lucky many times for me. 

 Q. What did you think of Mira Lago the place you stayed this week? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Oh, so beautiful. Yeah, so nice. Actually my room is second floor, so nice view, yeah. See the nice view, and nice food, everything is good. 

 Q. Was there a point in the round where you started looking at the scoreboard and saying, okay, par, par, par, par will be good enough? Was there a point? Or did you just keep playing? Is?
 JI-YAI SHIN: I just try to don't mistake. Because green is so fast. And then strong winds, very tough course. So I'm just thinking to save the par. But on No. 6 hole, I attack the pin, and then I'm in the water. 
 But I'm thinking -- then my shot I'm thinking about just now 6 hole, I have more 12 holes. Just try the driver. But I missed the green. But I make a par. It is very good point today, that hole, No. 6. 

 Q. Most people will remember this tournament as Annika's last tournament on the LPGA. Does it make this more special to you that you won a tournament that will be remembered for that? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Actually, yes. Because she last tournament this week. But I want to play she, we play. But she last tournament, so I no have more chance with play. 
 Actually, last night in my dream, Annika is, yeah. She have in my dream last night. In my dream, yeah. 

 Q. Were you playing her in your dream? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: No, just -- I'm just talking oh, I want to play you, but you're last tournament, so I'm so sad. Just talking something. 
 Yeah, well, but she's -- she's so great player. Everybody knows, yeah she's fantastic. 

 Q. Do you dream about golf a lot? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Sometimes (laughing). Yeah. In my dream, actually my dream is No. 1 in the world. No. 1, and then I have many respect for another players, so I want my dream is other maybe now start to show players respect for me. That is my dream. 

 Q. Were there times today that you found yourself thinking about the million dollars? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: No (laughing). I think first is the win. Million dollars is second, always, yeah. I'm just thinking to win, and then million dollars to follow the win. 
 But now I get the million dollars (laughing). So I'm happy, excited, yeah. 

 Q. What do you feel is the strength of your game? Karrie said you hit every fairway, and you made all the putts and you didn't seem to have any weaknesses out there. You seemed to be very good at just about everything?
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah, I tried always tempo game. Just keep fairway, just keep green, and make a putt. I just try simple. 
 Then today, yeah, today was my shot at par was good, really. She is good, too. First nine holes we are very close the score, so I'm a little bit nervous, because she's so great at shot and she's so great putting. 
 But she's about 11, 12, 13 hole she make a bogey. So I'm thinking a little comfortable, but actually I like to feel more pressure. I like the feel. But anyway, she finished great finish the last two holes. Today very enjoy with Karrie. 

 Q. You just mentioned that you were feeling a little nervous at the turn, and you also said you were nervous in 16. Karrie said she never detected any sign of nervousness from you. And in talking to your caddie he said he's never seen you nervous either. So how do you keep the nerves from bubbling to the top? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: I am a person, so I feel always nervous and pressure. I don't know, I get the more pressure, I'm little more smiling. Trying the more smiling because the feel is nervous, it's like more hard body. 

 Q. Tense? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah, you need relax. So I just try to eat or drink the water and then try more smile. 

 Q. You said you dreamed of becoming the No. 1 player. Is there a time line in your mind do you see yourself doing that in the next year, next two years? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: I don't know. Actually next year is my start rookie season. Next year I try for Rookie of the Year, not No. 1 next year. Just try step by step, yeah. 

 Q. And are you still taking English lessons? Do you still -- do you have a tutor? Are you practicing? You're getting better. 
 JI-YAI SHIN: No. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: She's practicing in press conferences.

 Q. Just with us? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah, I'm long time about nine months, eight months with caddie, so little more comfortable for English. Because I am just learning last two years just learning English one month, so, thank you. 
 Then my time outside Korea play outside the Korea tournaments, so just I try for English. 
 Actually, many Korean players worry -- speak good English, but worry the mistakes, yeah. But me, too, but I try (laughing). 

 Q. When did you get here? How many practice rounds did you get, and what was your impression of the golf course before the tournament? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: I played two times practice round. Then play this course very tough green. Very important these greens and the green speed is so fast. Actually, second round I very difficult feel for putting distance. 
 But today was good, and then, yeah, putting is so important. Because many players make the three-putt in the hole. Yeah, and then I'm always worried that, yeah -- I always try to just near the hole, near the hole, not in the hole, just near the hole, yeah. 

 Q. You won 11 times around the world this year, and you've lost in two playoffs or is it three? You lost to Karrie in one, and then lost the second one. Is it two or three? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah, two. Two, lost two playoffs.

 Q. So 11 wins and two playoffs?
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Well, you had five playoffs, but you won three. But she only lost two. 
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah, I lost two. 

 Q. What is the rest of your schedule? Are you done yet? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: I'm leaving tonight to Japan, because I have next week I play in Japan big tournament, Ricoh Cup. Then I have Japan, after next week, Korea have Japan and Korea, yeah, have a Cup match event, and then I come to here to rookie orientation. Yeah. 

 Q. How many tournaments will that be for the year? 
 JI-YAI SHIN: I already 35, 34 tournaments already. But I have -- yeah, this year. Then I have more two tournaments (smiling). Yeah, I know, I am so tired. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you, Ji-Yai, congratulations.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT