ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2008
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Ji-Yai, thanks for coming in. You're tied for the lead right now at 3 under for the first round at ADT. If you would, just talk about your day.   
 JI-YAI SHIN: I'm first group, so, only. Then today my drive was good. So I never missed the fairway. And then, I was good at playing so good today, so very comfortable play.   
 Then I back nine to make a bogey. But today's pin location too hard. It's very tough. I think number 15, if somebody make a birdie, I think there's the big news. It's really tough, yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you like the format?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah, sure.   
  
  Q. It's different.   
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah, it's different. I really -- no, I don't like. I don't like, sorry. After two round, cut. 16 top players, and then so just finish top 8 players. I think it's very tough. Yeah, only survive with 8 players play final round.   
 So then final round is just even start every players. It's, I think, very funny, but, yeah, really funny because never tried at this tournament. It's my first time, so I want to try to just survive to last.  
 JASON TAYLOR: Make it to Sunday?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah, make it to Sunday.  
  
  Q. You could have taken up membership on this tour last year, correct, the LPGA?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: No, I'm non-member.  
  
  Q. Non-member?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah. Just actually I played seven or eight tournaments play U.S. one year. Just invites, because I'm Korean money rankings number one, so some tournaments invite to play. So I am still non-member now.  
  
  Q. How come you didn't go to qualifying school here last year and decided to start the year in Korea versus coming over here?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: No, just invite. I'm never tried to qualify school.   
  
  Q. Why didn't you do qualifying school?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: Actually my main tournament is KLPGA, Korea Tour, and I can play some tournament playing in U.S. So I'm just -- I'm thinking maybe next year I try the qualify school. But this year in August I already win, so I get the --  
  
  Q. Automatic.   
 JI-YAI SHIN: Yeah.   
  
  Q. How has your life changed since winning the British Open?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: Oh, I think it's a big change, yeah. One thing is that no qualifying school. It's a direct journey to member, yeah.   
 Yeah, it's a big change for me because I just dream of the LPGA tournament, and then I won. So actually the feeling is I can't believe really, yeah. Because I'm thinking always dream for LPGA tournament.   
 But I can make it, and now I get the more confidence, and then very comfortable to this year, yeah.   
 I'm talking about my father. We're talking about for this year I might get success really good this year.   
  
  Q. Was there any doubt in your mind whether you were ready to play here yet, whether you were good enough to play here? Is that why you stayed in Korea another year?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: No, next year I'm coming to here for full season I'm playing here, maybe.  
  
  Q. You're only what, 21 years old?   
 JI-YAI SHIN: 20, 20 years old.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT