WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 5, 2013
Na Yeon Choi
Inbee Park
Jiyai Shin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for being here at the Wegman's LPGA Championship.   This is a total treat right here to have the top‑three ranked Korean players in the world, three of the biggest names on the LPGA and the most recent three major champions on the LPGA Tour, all fighting for this prize here this week. 
Let's introduce the folks sitting up here, to my immediate right is the No. 1 player in the world, the Kraft Nabisco Championship winner, Inbee Park.   Sitting next to Inbee is the reining U.S. Women's Open champion, No. 3 in the Rolex Rankings, Na Yeon Choi.   And No.9 in the Rolex ranking the and the Ricoh British Women's Open Champion, Jiyai Shin. 
Thank you for being here, and let's start with your thoughts on the course. 
INBEE PARK:   I think the course is tougher‑‑ I don't know if rough is higher, I think every year I play here, I don't know whether I'm getting old, the course is getting tougher, I don't know, it's just playing tougher anywhere and so no exception this year.   It's a very tough golf course, very good, challenging.   The roughs are really up and the greens are really firmer than the years I've played before.   I think it's going to be very tough scoring conditions for this week. 
THE MODERATOR:   Tough scoring conditions.   Na Yeon Choi, do you feel like the course is setting up difficult? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I think the course is pretty difficult.   Like this is a major tournament and I mean like Inbee said, I think the fairways are getting really narrow, and I heard that tomorrow is going to be rain. 
So I think the rough is going to be really thick.   I think I need more power shot from the rough.   Like I saw some other players from the rough, they can get out really easily, but like for me, like actually really difficult.   I try to focus like how I hit on the face, and I try to hit it hard as I can. 
THE MODERATOR:   Going to do some weight lifting tonight?   Going to go get strong? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Maybe.
THE MODERATOR:   What are your impression of this golf course? 
JIYAI SHIN:   I have a great memory of this course from four years ago and I have good confidence with my driver and my strength is accuracy.   So I really enjoy the course at the moment. 
THE MODERATOR:   I think one of the big topics on the LPGA right now, if you're looking at overall story lines, is the battle for the No. 1 ranking.   Right now, you're the one at the top and everybody is chasing you, Inbee.
But for the world of golf, this is a very big positive, I believe personally, that there are so many stars on the LPGA and that we have had this battle between obviously Yani for a long time and Stacy and now you.   What are your impressions?   What's it like to be No. 1 right now for you? 
INBEE PARK:   I still can't believe I'm No. 1.   It's been, what, six, seven weeks that I've been No. 1.   It's tough to believe that I am the top player of this great tour.   I mean, not just myself, but there is a lot of players that's very competitive, and this is a world tour with so many different players representing so many different countries. 
This is a very strong tour and I believe there are still‑‑ it's still in a big fight for the No. 1 player every week, and it could change every week.   We are really good for each other, we inspire each other and that's very good for the Tour.   We share a lot of the wins together and we have a lot of champions.
THE MODERATOR:   I want to tie this into the battle to be at The International Crown in just a while.   Na Yeon, she's it, she's the one that everybody wants to beat right now. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I mean, I really was happy because when she liked being No. 1.   That is one of my goals, too, but I always like working hard to try to be in there.   But I always liked chasing someone.   Even she's my good friend, but you know, when she plays well, I got some motivation there.   So I tried to, you know, working hard and to bring my best. 
THE MODERATOR:   Your thoughts about Inbee and the chase to try to get to No. 1 yourself?   You've been up there. 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, when I went to be No. 1, it was big pressure.   And then after, when I missed like the second, third, all the media and all the fans, they are talking about, what's your problem, what's my problem. 
But now I'm No.9, but if I‑‑ well, when I catch up, though, I want that people say, oh, she's back, she's back.   So comfortable my spot at the moment but still looking forward to be No. 1. 
All players have a goal to be No. 1.   Well, Inbee played the last year at the British Open the whole round and then she played so good and then her putting, well, everybody knows her putting is really very strong.   And then I knew how much is that pressure on being No. 1.   So hopefully she enjoys it. 
THE MODERATOR:   If the three of you walked in downtown Seoul together without your golf clothes on, what would happen, if you were walking hand in hand or arm in arm or just next to each other down the street, would everybody stop?   Would it be a big, mass media situation and everybody wanting autographs? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I don't think so.   I mean, a lot of people recognize Jiyai Shin, but I mean, like people say if I take off the hat, they say like, hard to recognize me. 
JIYAI SHIN:   I think all the old guys who watch golf will recognize us.   If where he go to golf course it's a definite but just walking down Seoul with a bunch of young people, we have a slim chance.
THE MODERATOR:   What does that say? 
INBEE PARK:   In Korea, I think golf is popular for older guys‑‑ I wouldn't say older guys, but a little bit‑‑ mid‑age.   (Laughter).
THE MODERATOR:   But not for the young people.   You guys are role models for young girls in Korea.   They wouldn't run up to you? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Hopefully they would. 

Q.   How much do each of you look back on your major championship, the most recent major championship you won, and when you look back, what do you think about, and in any way, do those victories help you coming into this major championship? 
INBEE PARK:   It is always a good memory and winning a Major Championship is a good experience.   It's always in your mind for a lot longer than other tournaments. 
You know, I just love playing in major championships with the challenge and with the strong field and with all the players trying to play really good; and they have everybody here, family, friends, all the coach.   I just like being in that kind of situation.   I mean, just being in contention would be really good.   Just to be able to experience some kind of pressure on the last day, I think that would be my goal. 
NA YEON CHOI:   I like to play difficult course, and especially major tournaments, people ‑‑ even I won the U.S. Open, I didn't know how I approached to the major tournaments.   But right now it's just different mind‑set.   I have to be really patient until the last hole.   I need to accept every situation. 
If I have a good results with a difficult course, I learn so many things.   Like I am experienced and everything, like fans.   So I love to play with difficult course. 
JIYAI SHIN:   They say all.   Well, yeah, when I play a major tournament, the course setting is more difficult than other tournaments, so it makes a lot of challenge by myself. 
And also, we have to be patient for every single shot, because nobody knows, it's very easy to make the bogey or double‑bogey or more than that.   So I think it's really good, keep the patience.

Q.   Inbee, first of all, how does it feel to have the three of you up there as reining major champions, the current major champions?   And very obvious question, Korea is not the biggest country in the world; why do you all do so well? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, just really proud of my country and I'm really proud of all the friends that are playing out here.   We are all similar age group and we all grow up playing together. 
You know, being able to sit here ten years later when we started playing as a junior golfer and being here on the top on the LPGA where we dreamed all the time, it's just living my dream every day, and you know, I'm sure that it's going to be the same for them, too. 

Q.   Why do you do so well? 
INBEE PARK:   I don't know.   It's in our blood (laughing).   I think maybe we have dominant blood.
THE MODERATOR:   The last eight major championships on the LPGA have been won by Asian a born players.   That's more than coincidence, that's a trend.   You all are playing great, great golf.   How do you explain that? 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think a lot of Korean players, we prove that we can do it I think.   They inspire all the junior golf when we were young, and I think that's why we always make dream to be an LPGA tournament or be a Major Champion. 
And like one day, we just made a dream came true.   I mean, I know this is like amazing feeling, but still, sometimes we still couldn't believe; like she is No. 1 in the world right now and I'm No. 3 in the world; like she's No.9. 
Sometimes, some day, I can't believe I'm No. 3; really?   Like there's so many good players out there, but I'm like No. 3.   Sometimes I really can't believe. 
JIYAI SHIN:   Yeah, I agree.   Well, and then when we start like 15 years ago, we watching‑‑ I think most Korean players, we have like very positive image for the LPGA wins, because when I start golf, I'm watching SeRiPak's win in 1998 U.S. Women's Open, so that's my biggest dreaming, be like her. 
So that's why I think make the positive, and I just do it more like harder training and practice. 

Q.   I know you guys all get along, but is there a rivalry between any of you?   At any point do you get jealous of each other? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Pretty‑‑ (laughter). 
INBEE PARK:   They always started playing really well once they got on the LPGA Tour, and on the other hand I had some tough times three or four years after the Open, and I was really jealous of the consistency.   And for in every year they are playing so good and every year they are finishing in the Top‑10s in the Money List.   That's something I'm always looking forward to doing and they have been my role model for those years. 
THE MODERATOR:   And there's no rivalry here; it's more friendship and kind of camaraderie? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, of course. 

Q.   The practice rounds are over and the Pro‑Am is done.   What do you do to prepare for the tournament this weekend? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Well, I just finish Pro‑Am today, and I mean, I will do a little practice and then like tonight, there's some good Korean restaurants, so I might go there, just to relax. 
We play like almost 30 tournaments a year, like almost every day we play, like golf really serious.   So sometimes we need to relax.   There's usually like movie theatre, too.   So if I have time, I would like to go there and just having fun on the road. 
THE MODERATOR:   Let me ask you something.   You all three combined have won $20 million and you have won 24 tournaments on this tour.   That's pretty remarkable. 
Now, there are a lot of people that talk about your great golf, but fans who watch the LPGA always seem to think, boy, there are a lot of great Asian‑born players but they don't necessarily feel like they know each of you as individual people. 
That wouldn't be something I can say because we've spent time together and I know what your likes, dislikes and so forth are.   How do you answer, perhaps, those that would say there is too much Asian dominance on the LPGA Tour and we don't know these players well.   How important is it to you to get your personality out? 
INBEE PARK:   I think social network has been doing a very good job of getting us get to the fans a little bit more and communicating with the fans a little bit more, Twitter or Facebook.   That kind of thing has been helping us a lot I think to get to know us a little bit better. 
And of course, a good finish will really help.   Once you start getting on TV a lot and they see you, they see us, how we play and they see us how we laugh.   I think it's just‑‑ I think our names are just tough to pronounce and remember for them, so it's tough. 
I mean, it's tougher than obviously the easier names they can remember, the easier faces, they can remember.   It's tougher for us, we have it's‑‑ it's tougher for us than other people to get recognized. 
NA YEON CHOI:   I feel the same way as Jiyai, but I think, I mean, maybe just for me, but when I learn the English, when I speak with people, especially American fans, I felt like really comfortable with them on Tour.   I think after that, a lot of people were kind to me.   I can't like barely speak with the people right now and I can do interviews, I can show on TV and a lot of people recognize me right now.   I think that's huge for me.
THE MODERATOR:   Do you feel welcomed in the States? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I do. 
JIYAI SHIN:   Yeah, a lot of fans, it's easier to remember, maybe because I change my hair color a lot of times.   Well, this is my fifth year on the LPGA Tour, but every week I can feel how they cheer for the Asian players and also they are really looking for us, I really appreciate for that. 
Well, Inbee said, I think the same, is that all the Korean players' name are very close, very similar and it's very hard, pronunciation, but when they call my name, I'm really thankful for that. 
THE MODERATOR:   I sense a very different vibe and atmosphere among the fans of the LPGA. 
How do you break down a stereotype that exists that maybe people don't think you know English well; or you all tried to learn the language because it's clearly not true, you guys are wonderful.   Start with you, NYC. 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, like when I came here at the first, I was like kind of scary to play with the American players with the same group, the same pairings, because if they walk to me or if they try to ask me something, I can't‑‑ I couldn't speak English. 
So like I lost all my confidence from there, and I couldn't focus my game I think.   So after I won the Vare Trophy in 2010, still so many people didn't know my name and I just like decide, I want to learn English and I want to, like a lot of people, a lot of American people knows my name.   So I start to take English and then I travel with my English tutor.   Actually, I didn't have like English class every day, but as long as I spoke with English, I learn so much from there. 
INBEE PARK:   I mean I experienced it when I was very young because I came to America when I was 12 years old, and I had to go to school and I had to play junior golf. 
Yeah, I think it's a little bit different to what these guys have experienced.   I think I would say, I was a little bit easier, because I just had to get along with the kids when I was in school. 
But yeah, still, golf was a little bit tougher because we didn't have any caddies.   We had to have our own bag and got to help each other out and try to tend the pins and all that stuff.   But I just didn't know how to ask, tend the pins, so I just putted without knowing where the ball was.   I was really comfortable finishing second place so that I won't have to do the interview for first place.   I have that kind of experiences, but I think that they have done a really good job coming here to the States when they are really older and trying to play golf and trying to learn the language at the same time, I think that's a talent. 
JIYAI SHIN:   But the good thing is they listen to my talk.   So I'm really thankful that I can keep try speaking and listening.   Well, now I have a lot of friends and a lot of fans being on the Tour, so I'm really happy they understand. 
THE MODERATOR:   Some of your interests:   Inbee:   Skiing?   You're like a good downhill skier?   Tell us about that.
INBEE PARK:   I used to see when I was really younger, and I like to go to ski every year in the wintertime when I'm in Korea. 
THE MODERATOR:   Black Diamond?   Blue slopes?   Green slopes?   The hard ones? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, I can do everything. 
THE MODERATOR:   Jump? 
INBEE PARK:   No, no jump.   I think that's too dangerous now.   I'm not like a wild skier, but I just like to enjoy the snow and I like to ski. 
THE MODERATOR:   And you love traveling? 
INBEE PARK:   I love traveling and I hate traveling, because sometimes it's so good that you get to see so much and you get to see a lot of different places and get to experience a lot of different countries, and that's great.   But once you get on the road for like a month, two months, that just gets really tough and you really miss home.   So I think, yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Piano? 
INBEE PARK:   Really good piano player.
THE MODERATOR:   Better than you are a putter? 
INBEE PARK:   (Laughs).   I mean, yeah, I used to go to tournaments when I was younger, elementary school.   Pretty good, yeah.   I tried a lot of things when I was younger. 
THE MODERATOR:   NYC, cooking, you want to be on a cooking show some day?   Who do we need to call, Emeril Lagasse? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Sometimes takes two hours to make one meal because I'm serious beginner, but I love to cook, and when I cook, I like really don't think about golf and it's a really stressful‑‑ not stressful.   And also, my new trainer is a good‑‑ he can make really good cook, so I always cook him.   Like one day I invite Yani and some friends to my house for dinner‑‑ inaudible. 
THE MODERATOR:   Do you know what's on the menu? 
NA YEON CHOI:   It should be some Korean food, but I don't know, maybe I think she likes some meat, so I might cook some meat, yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   If you could be in any magazine, you want to be in Time Magazine? 
NA YEON CHOI:   Yeah, I said before.   I don't really like follow, I don't really read Time Magazine, but I think it's maybe bigger than I think. 
THE MODERATOR:   So more important than Golf Week, Golf World, Golf Digest‑‑
NA YEON CHOI:   Except golf. 
THE MODERATOR:   Jiyai:   Two CDs, singing?   Tell us that story. 
JIYAI SHIN:   That's my second job.   I have two albums in Korea and I love to sing a song, so a couple years back my manager, he asked to me, let's try to make the CD for the charity.   So I think, oh, that's a good idea and then I did, and the people loved that.   But I made another CD, so, well, still a lot of my friend asked me, what's the next CD to come up, but I don't know yet.   I tried to last year, but it's not enough time to do that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Have you heard of American Idol and The Voice, and do you watch those shows when you're here? 
JIYAI SHIN:   I really like to watching the show, but people think‑‑ are so great, I just think I'm not that good (laughing). 
THE MODERATOR:   Have you guys heard her sing?   When you go to the house, you could sing while she's cooking‑‑
NA YEON CHOI:   I have a karaoke machine in my house. 

Q.   You took some water from the Kraft to your dad; did that make it through security?   What happened to that water? 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, we met him in Hawai'i and I threw it over his‑‑ I poured it over his shirt. 
THE MODERATOR:   I want to talk about the International Crown.   If you look at the standings now, we are about a year away, and I know it's a Solheim Cup year.   Eight countries will qualify, 32 players, and the eight countries that qualify we'll know more about on Monday, November 25 of this year and we'll figure out who the players are next year at the Kraft Nabisco. 
You still have to technically qualify, but now Korea is the top of the list, and each of you in the team right now has a Top‑10 ranking.   There is no other country that has more than one player in the Top‑10 in the world. 
Are you all looking forward to this competition, and just like you being No. 1, knowing that everybody is going to want to try to beat Korea, it's a pretty loaded time right now. 
INBEE PARK:   Yeah, it's going to be a lot of fun.   We've done national team championships with Japan, Korea versus Japan.   It's always fun.   It's a different kind of format that we play.   And teaming up with players that you always try to beat, and if you are on the same team as them, it's just a lot of fun playing with them, playing as a team and playing a different format I think is just going to be a very good experience and I think we'll have a strong team. 
THE MODERATOR:   There's no captains; who would be the person that would be the most vocal?   What would be the leader of the team? 
NA YEON CHOI:   How many players? 
THE MODERATOR:   Four players on your team, you four. 
NA YEON CHOI:   I think maybe Inbee.   Inbee is No. 1.   I think we'll see by that time and then whoever is the top of the ranking, we'll make her our captain. 
THE MODERATOR:   Is that okay with you?   Are you looking forward to this competition?   You get to take on the rest of the world. 
JIYAI SHIN:   Well, no comment‑‑ well, I think, we don't know yet because I know it's four Rolex players, and a lot of Korean players‑‑ well, we will check it out at the time. 
Well, definitely, I do my best. 
THE MODERATOR:   I want to thank all three of you coming in here, appreciate everything and answering some of those questions. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT