NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Thomas Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thomas, if you can start with your feelings about being drafted by Sacramento? 
THOMAS ROBINSON:   I just want to thank the organization for taking me as a fifth pick and I couldn't be more excited to be a part of the organization. 

Q.   Thomas, there is a lot of talk that you would be going No.2 to Charlotte.   Is that where you thought you would be going and is this a bit of a surprise? 
THOMAS ROBINSON:   I really didn't know where I was going to end up at, but it is a bit of a surprise.   I didn't work out for Sacramento at all.   I probably talked to them about once. 
But I'm here, so I'm meant to be here. 

Q.   Talk about you're such a ferocious rebounder, you and Cousins on the front court, that can really cause problems.   Talk about how you are looking forward to developing with him. 
THOMAS ROBINSON:   Well, I can't wait, DeMarcus is similar to me.   He's a tough kid and he's a guard that can play hard, and I'm going to join him.   He put up some numbers last year, but with my help we should be able to get the Kings over the hump.

Q.   You're a winner, going to an organization that has not won in a long time and been in the lottery the last six times; what are you going to bring to the Kings in terms of a winning mentality?
THOMAS ROBINSON:   Exactly what you just said; my winning mentality.   No matter how old I am, a rookie or not, I'm not letting nobody relax.   It's not cool to lose.   I'm going to go and try and bring that attitude. 

Q.   After that second pick, what were the conversations like with you and your agent and the emotions you're feeling now, is that partly because you're ticked off that you were not taken No.2, or the fact that you have just been drafted into the NBA? 
THOMAS ROBINSON:   I was just drafted into the NBA (tearing up). 
There really was no conversation.   I really didn't have a clue. 

Q.   You look very emotional up there; what's running through your mind right now?   You've had a really rough journey.   I know you've had to struggle and fight going through high school, and not really recruited but you made it to Kansas.   What emotions are going through your mind now that you're here?
THOMAS ROBINSON:   I made it.   I mean, I made it through what everybody threw at me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT