SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2011
Wendell Hudson
Tierney Jenkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Alabama. We'll start off with an opening statement with Coach Hudson. Your thoughts on the game today. 
 COACH HUDSON: I thought we played hard. But I thought we did not shoot the ball very well. When we're not shooting the ball very well, we're not as good of a basketball team. Did not play as well as we needed to play together I thought early. 
 I thought we still had some wide-open looks. Shooting 24% for the game, against a team like LSU, it's going to be tough to come out on top. 
 Turnover-wise I was happy with that. Assist-wise, because we didn't shoot the ball very well, that didn't help. LSU did a good job. The way they played defensively halfcourt, didn't do a lot of things we didn't expect them to do, just make you make shots, and we didn't do a very good job of making shots. 
 THE MODERATOR: Tierney, your thoughts on today's game? 
 TIERNEY JENKINS: Like coach said, we really didn't shoot the ball well. That's how we get into our game plan as far as defensively is to make shots and then press. When you're not making shots, it's kind of hard to play how you like to play. 
 Like Coach Hudson said, we played hard, but we just didn't make shots. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athlete. 

 Q. I know you're unhappy with today. Talk about what you were able to do with this team, getting them through February, turned around the season. 
 TIERNEY JENKINS: Just being a senior leader, I knew this was my last go-around. When I first came to Alabama, I knew it wouldn't be an easy process. I felt we were going the right direction. 
 Coach Hudson, the coaches do a great job of recruiting each year. We set a goal this year as far as what we wanted to do. This is my last turn. I wanted to do whatever I could as far as helping the team, so I did that. 

 Q. You couldn't make a basket to start the game. How frustrating was it that you couldn't close that gap even though they left the door open? 
 TIERNEY JENKINS: It was tough for us. We kept saying, Get stops on defense, get stops on defense. There was like a stretch where we got some stops on defense and took good shots. Just wouldn't go in. Gets kind of frustrating. 
 You have a young team, your mindset is you're getting stops on defense, but you're still not scoring. I think that definitely played a factor into tonight. 

 Q. Coach, are you guys looking at maybe a WNIT or something like that down the road? 
 COACH HUDSON: We want to continue to play, post-season play. If we can get into the WNIT, we'd love to continue to play. I think we have worked hard enough and played in this league. We've had a great February, got things kind of turned around, headed in the right direction. 
 It would be really nice to continue to play. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll dismiss the student-athlete. We'll continue with questions for Coach Hudson. 

 Q. Did you see an opening at the start of the second half? 
 COACH HUDSON: We talked about that at halftime. We hadn't played very well. We were still in the basketball game. You look at the halftime score, we thought, Okay, if we can come out, make a couple stops, get a couple baskets. Had some good looks, but just did not make a couple of baskets. 
 Basketball is one of those games where you can play on the defensive end all you want, but eventually you got to be able to score some points. We didn't do a very good job of finishing the plays. 
 I thought the opening was definitely there start of the second half. 

 Q. Talk Barrett's play today. She was inside, outside, rebounded. 
 COACH HUDSON: That's the key. She was inside, then she was outside. She made some big three-point shots. I thought we were pressing them. They turned the ball over three or four times. She stepped up and made a big three-pointer out of the corner there - I remember that one after we came out of the press - that really hurt from our standpoint. I thought she just played a great all-around game. I don't know if she had a turnover. I think she had one turnover, played really well. 
 Not only that, but defensively I thought she did a very good job of causing us some trouble when we got the ball inside. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, coach. 
 COACH HUDSON: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT