U.S. OPEN
August 27, 1996
Anne Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Ann, what were your expectations going into the match?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Well, I guess I went into the match just hoping that I'd play well, not
hoping to win because that's a big expectation, considering I was playing Monica. You
know, I just wanted to play the best that I could. I knew it was a great experience. I
wouldn't say I was a hundred percent happy, because I had some chances, but it was fun. I
thought I played okay as far as the way I felt when I was striking the ball, it felt good,
but as far as keeping enough balls in play, I didn't think that I did. All I wanted to do
was go out and play the best I could, because that's all I really could do, so..... 
 
Q. Monica playing as well as you thought she would?
 
 ANNE MILLER: I kind of had nothing to go on besides seeing her on TV when I was
younger, being amazed by her. You know, you hear this and that being on the Tour now, that
Monica -- they compare her before the incident and then they compare Monica afterwards. I
wasn't around playing before the whole thing happened. I just know she's an awesome
player. I don't know how she thinks she played. I thought she played well. She's one of
the best players ever, so..... 
 
Q. Did she strike you as an awesome player today?
 
 ANNE MILLER: I think so. She's probably the best player I've ever played. I mean, I had
chances that I missed out on as far as missing easy shots or double-faulting or missing
returns when I had game points and stuff. I mean, she doesn't give you too many chances.
She's really consistent. She really didn't have to do much with me today. It's not like
she really was down or in a hole or anything like that and had to prove herself or come
back from any kind of deficit. I thought she played well, so..... 
 
Q. Do you see any weakness in Monica that you could exploit?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Well, I don't know if I could really say anything, just because I didn't
do anything to show any of her weaknesses. I mean, I'm sure that there are some things
that the players ranked higher above me and who play a smarter game would have played a
better match today. Maybe she has some weaknesses there. I thought she played a solid
match today. You know, she's playing well. I can't really say. 
 
Q. Have you ever played against Steffi?
 
 ANNE MILLER: No. 
 
Q. Who is the highest ranked player you have played so far?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Anke Huber last year here. 
 
Q. When she's playing like that, do you give her credit or do you blame yourself? Do
you say that I let her do this or she didn't let me?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Probably today it was just didn't let me -- she didn't let me. I don't
consider my -- I consider my ground strokes to be probably the best part of my game. I
mean, a lot of times they're pretty penetrating. Against Monica, it doesn't even phase
her. She just hits the ball back deeper and wider; gets you running more. I'd say she
didn't let me. I'd also say I had times that there were chances; especially 2-Love in the
first, where I missed about five returns. That was my fault. I guess probably just I tend
to blame myself more because that's how I am. 
 
Q. When did you find out you would be playing on the stadium court and what was your
reaction to all that?
 
 ANNE MILLER: I think I found out at the press conference for the draw. I don't know if
it was last Thursday -- last Wednesday. The morning that it happened or the day that it
happened, my coach came up to the net when we were hitting. He's like, "Anne, let me
tell you a little secret, you play Seles." I wasn't happy about it. I definitely
wasn't happy about it. I mean, it's a good opportunity, but out of 127 people to play, I
would think that I wouldn't draw Seles here. You know, whatever. I wasn't happy, but not
many players get to play someone like that, or not many people get to experience that in
their lifetime. 
 
Q. Did you assume it would be stadium court?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Oh, yeah, for sure. 
 
Q. So now turning it around the other way and looking at it after it's over, not too
many people get to experience that in a lifetime. How do you put that in its place?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Well, it's a little difficult to put it into perspective right now just
because, I guess when you're on the Tour, you're another player. I look up to Monica. I
guess I'm not that much younger than her, but I always used to watch her on TV when she
was 15 winning Grand Slams and stuff. It's hard to put that into perspective because we're
all in the locker rooms together, practicing, playing the same tournaments. It's a
competitive kind of -- everyone is playing against each other. If I got out of my tennis
mind, frame of mind, and if I looked at everything in a good perspective, I mean, I think
it's great. Maybe ten years from now when I'm married and have kids, I'll be able to say,
you know, I played one of the best players in history. Hopefully there will be years to
come when maybe I can improve myself. You know, I think it's great. It's a little hard
right now after the match to think, "Oh, that's okay. She's the greatest." It's
neat. 
 
Q. Did you see her in the locker room beforehand?
 
 ANNE MILLER: No. 
 
Q. Did you speak beforehand or anything?
 
 ANNE MILLER: No, we didn't see each other. 
 
Q. Have you been thinking about your first match or about the US Open?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Yeah, I guess I think about it a lot because it's my favorite tournament
of the year. I mean, I kind of had some better expectations than maybe losing first round.
Since I played Seles, doesn't give you much of a chance. I guess I always think about it,
like I said, because I always look forward to coming here every year, so..... 
 
Q. When the first round losers in the Olympics get the sensation of having worked four
years and being out almost instantly, except they've been in the Olympics, does that
apply? You're here and you worked, however long it was, and there's another tournament
coming, but you're out. How does that fit?
 
 ANNE MILLER: In that sense I feel really lucky because tennis is one of the
professional sports where even though it's tough to say, it's so true; I can just wake up
tomorrow morning and I have tournaments almost every week of the year that I can play if I
make that decision to play them. In that sense, I feel lucky. As long as I'm happy doing
it. With tennis, there's always another week, another tournament, if you have the desire
to be out there and keep improving. In so many other sports, I don't know, I don't really
want to name, but swimming, they train all year, all year, train specifically for the
Olympics, a lot of those sports. I mean, that's a lot of pressure. That's a lot to have to
deal with. With tennis, I feel lucky. The WTA Tour, it's a great Tour. We have tournaments
week in and week out. Hopefully I can just move on. I mean, this tournament will always be
here. I think I'll be playing for a while longer, so I'll try to make the most of it. 
 
Q. Why is this your favorite?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Because it's New York. It's the US Open. Growing up you always watch it on
TV, or I did. Everyone in the crowd in New York is always pretty into it. There's a lot of
excitement. Being from the United States, it's great to play in it, you know. It's kind of
a patriotic thing, I guess. 
 
Q. What are you doing over the next two weeks?
 
 ANNE MILLER: I think I'll maybe stay in New York a couple more days. I want to possibly
do some shopping, maybe go to a show or something. I'm going to go home to Michigan for a
while; then go back to train in Florida. That's where I train. 
 
Q. Were you at all disappointed to walk into the big stadium today and see that it
wasn't more people, that it was kind of sparsely populated? Did you even notice that?
 
 ANNE MILLER: I was trying not to really look because it's better if I don't look up
there. I mean, being that it was the first match and the first match during the day,
really the second day of the tournament, I guess I didn't know if it would be completely
full, the stadium. I thought there were a lot of people. I guess I'm not really used to
that stadium atmosphere. Even if there were a couple hundred people, I would have thought
that there were a lot of people. 
 
Q. What's the biggest, main stadium you've played up to now? Have you played in the
grandstand in any main stadiums?
 
 ANNE MILLER: I played in the stadium here a couple years ago, but that was for
qualifying. There were even fewer people. Let's see. I haven't played in anything very
big. 
 
Q. What have you done in New York so far? When did you get to New York?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Well, I got here last Monday because I didn't play the tournament last
week. I just came here to practice. Pretty much I've just been practicing. I've gone out
to dinner a couple times. I haven't done anything as far as going to Broadway or going
shopping yet. I think I'll take care of that within the next couple days. 
 
Q. What will you see on Broadway?
 
 ANNE MILLER: I don't know. I mean, I saw Phantom here a couple years ago and I loved
it. I want to see that again, but my mind tells me not to just because it's stupid to see
the same thing again, but I liked it. The show Rent, it's been in the paper a lot. I don't
know if I can see that. I haven't decided. I don't know. 
 
Q. I came in late, so excuse me if you've been asked already. You played some fine
points but found her in pretty good form. What was your estimate of Monica's game today? 
 
 ANNE MILLER: Well, as far as like how I played and what she had to deal with, I think
she played really well. She was keeping the ball in and deep. I was tending to miss pretty
early in the points. When I had a chance, I missed it. I think she played very solidly. I
think she played well, so..... 
 
Q. What was the most dominant part of Monica's game? Anything in particular or just
everything?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Well, probably, as usual, I'd say her groundstroking. If I was playing
someone else maybe, if I hit a deep cross-court shot, a lot of people will go into the
defensive mode. She just nails another one to the corner even harder. That's the real
difference with her. She's got the biggest ground strokes in the game. Nothing fazes her.
It's hard to get her to hit short. You don't have that many opportunities. 
 
Q. Is there anybody simulating that as you practice and prepare? How do you simulate
the best ground stroke player in the world when you're practicing?
 
 ANNE MILLER: My coach, when we were practicing, getting ready for the match, he's a
strong guy. I mean, there's a difference between hitting with a guy and a girl, I guess.
Basically he was just hitting the ball, I don't know if it was as hard as he could, but
hard and deep, moving me side to side, working on kind of sprinting back and forth through
the balls. Basically when you play Monica or someone at that top level, you're going to be
running sprints side to side. That's pretty much what you have to do every point if you
want to win. I guess that's how you simulate it, just running back and forth, back and
forth. 
 
Q. Who hit harder, he or yourself?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Well, it was kind of different. She hits with more spin. He hits very
flat. I guess I'd have to say it was even. I wouldn't want to offend anyone. 
 
Q. Had you played or visualized this match in your mind before you went out on the
court?
 
 ANNE MILLER: I mean, a lot of times a player will try to visualize, you know, figure
out what the points may look like, what it's going to be on the court with that. It was a
little hard visualizing playing her. I could close my eyes and visualize winning and
falling down on the court. When I open my eyes, it's like, "Oh, my God, is that
really going to happen?" I tried to think about how the points might be, things like
that. 
 
Q. Do you allow yourself to visualize yourself winning?
 
 ANNE MILLER: Oh, yeah. If you don't do that, it's not fun. That's, I guess, part of
having goals and dreams, is like thinking about beating the greatest player, a great
player, so. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT