TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE v MIAMI
January 1, 2003
Ken  Dorsey
Vernon Carey
Willis McGahee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Willis, a long night?  You look tired, buddy.
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  No, I didn't have a long night. 
 
Q.  Are you getting tired of this press conference after press conference?
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  You hit it right on the head. 
 
Q.  So how do you push through that?  You know the routine, right?
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  I know what to expect.  It's nothing new. 
 
Q.  Ken, could you talk about  -- could you address the great players that have come before, particularly the quarterbacks and what it feels like being part of that continuum of excellence there?
 
KEN DORSEY: That's a big source of pride for myself to be able to carry on the tradition.  Hopefully the guys after me will be able to carry on that tradition as well and perform at a high level as well.  That's why we're constantly working those guys, pushing those guys, trying to get them better. 
 
Q.  Is there a lot of interaction with the former players?
 
KEN DORSEY: They come around a lot.  Those guys are huge helps to me, not only on the field but off the field, and it's been a big advantage for me to have those guys' support. 
 
Q.  Ken, what has Larry meant to you, how would describe him from your standpoint?
 
KEN DORSEY: It's great to have him as a coach for me.  Coming out of high school, I had a coach I was really close to.  You know, a guy who taught me a lot.  Coming into college, sometimes you're worried that that changes, you know, on the next level, but with Coach Coker, it was able to remain consistent, to have a great coach and influence on my life and now when the situation arose for the opportunity for him to become head coach, that helped me out even more knowing I would have that stability there still. 
 
Q.  What bothers him besides maybe a bad practice; is that really the only thing?
 
KEN DORSEY: You know, he definitely  -- he's normal, you know, he gets bothered by things.  He's a low-keyed guy but he gets fired up about things.  He's had good experiences, bad experiences.  He gets fired up.  He stays low-keyed.  I don't know what exactly gets him fired up all the time, but on the practice field I know what gets him fired up. 
 
Q.  Willis, was the Virginia Tech game your most memorable or the run against Pittsburgh this year?
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  Florida State was my most memorable. 
 
Q.  Why?
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  We were down, and we really weren't depressed about it.  We know we was capable of doing it.  We had to come together which is what we did, and everybody stepped up on the field and made their plays. 
 
KEN DORSEY: That's my most memorable run too because I got the passing yards on that. 
 
Q.  How different is Romberg off the field?
 
KEN DORSEY: He's a little more extreme than what you see.  You guys get the PG version of Brett Romberg; I get the Rated R, Rated X. 
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  Rated X. 
 
Q.  Ken, how much has he helped you, Brett?
 
KEN DORSEY: He's helped a lot.  You know, it's kind of different because when you get a different center in there at times it feels different.  Brett and I are so comfortable with each other after three years now.  Half the time he can't even hear me.  He knows when to snap the ball by the feel and stuff like that.  Not only that aspect of it, but the aspect of keeping me relaxed and helping me enjoy every part of the game.  Every part of the experience has really been a big help. 
 
Q.  Ken, looking at Ohio State's defensive line, is there anything you have to do differently preparing with this match-up with the Buckeyes and the regular season?
 
KEN DORSEY:  I'm glad I have had time to prepare for the game.  You've got to be prepared for a lot of different looks when you face them.  It's hard to pick up certain things.  You've got to trust your instincts and rely on your guys to make plays for you.  That's really what it comes down to. 
 
Q.  Do you see Brett's comments on TV and the paper, and is there a favorite one you had from the season?
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  You will have to ask Vernon Carey, that's his fellow offensive lineman. 
 
VERNON CAREY:  I don't read the paper that much.  
 
KEN DORSEY:  The talkative one, Vernon Carey. 
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  Vernon needs some questions. 
 
Q.  Yesterday, Willis said it was up to you how many yards he gets and you decide each game.  How many yards is he going to get?
 
VERNON CAREY:  I usually give like a low number so he usually gets higher.  I will say hopefully 50 yards or something.  I don't know every time  -- he always asks before the game.  I just tell them I don't know, they're a good defense.  Hopefully we will do better.  That's what we're going to do. 
 
Q.  Vernon, another question for you.  One of Ohio State's player compared the preparations for this bowl game to Groundhog Day; wake up, it's the same thing over and over again.  Is the monotony and repetition beginning to take its toll or does it have an effect at all?
 
VERNON CAREY:  We do the same thing every day.  We just practice and lift weights and it's just repetitious.  We're getting tired too but we know on game day we've got to play our best game. 
 
Q.  Ken, can you address that as well?
 
KEN DORSEY:  I mean, naturally you've got to go out and practice every day and everything like that, but, you know, it's all about getting better, Winning a football game.  I think that's what our focus is and not on the monotony of it. 
 
Q.  Ken, what do you think you're going to miss most about college?
 
KEN DORSEY: I think I'm going to miss my teammates, being here with the coaching staff, you know, playing in the Orange Bowl and all of that.  It's a great time.  It's a fun experience, and, you know, it's just part of life, that I'm going to miss in general. 
 
Q.  Vernon how do you compare your experiences this year as compared to last year and your different roles?
 
VERNON CAREY:  Well, last year, I was a back-up, and this year I'm a starter.  I feel more part of the team and contributing a lot, and we've got a back running for a lot of yards every game.  I'm just happy to be a part of it. 
 
Q.  We hear about speed and Miami's speed.  Would you talk about Miami's speed?
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  It's unbelievable.  Vernon Carey running really fast.  You can't picture it, but everybody is running fast.  Everybody is trying to compete on the same level.  That's one things our coach works on is making us fly around and doing things fast.  That's what you can look forward to. 
 
Q.  You guys don't look too nervous what do you think?
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  How are you staying relaxed.  I've got a headache right now Vernon. 
 
VERNON CAREY:  Kenny. 
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  We're used to it.  It's nothing new.  As a matter of fact me and Kenny talked for an hour straight answering questions.  We thought it was the last day we were going to do it.  They woke us up early. 
 
KEN DORSEY: Surprise. 
 
Q.  Can each of you say your New Year's resolution?
 
VERNON CAREY:  My New Year's resolution is to win the championship and come back and do it again next year. 
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  Kenny. 
 
KEN DORSEY:  Put me on the spot.  I think definitely winning a championship and just trying to improve as an all around better person. 
 
WILLIS McGAHEE:  Same thing Kenny said. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT