WNBA FINALS: SHOCK v SILVER STARS
October 5, 2008
Ann Wauters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Ann, just talk about the whole season, so many people on your team played overseas and it took you a while to get going, and I guess looking forward to next year, something you've already talked about, coming back and taking the next step? 
 ANN WAUTERS: Yeah, even though right now it's very disappointing, but if we can look maybe a little bit back on our season, we had a wonderful season. You know, it is pretty tough right now to lose those Finals, especially if you come that far, of course, you want to go there and win it all. 
 But I think we have a wonderful group, you know, wonderful teammates, great coaching staff. So there is a lot of future I think for the San Antonio Silver Stars. Yeah, I think we just have to keep building what we are doing and I think we are on the right path. 

 Q. Coming out strong in the first half, and you had the lead, can you talk about the second half? 
 ANN WAUTERS: Yeah, like at halftime, I think we all felt pretty good. We said, yeah being we can do it. It was the first time in this series that we were leading at halftime. 
 So to be really honest, I have no idea what happened in the second half. I think they just came out really hard. I remember they got some offensive boards that really hurt us, and they played just really strong. I guess that's just what happened because all of a sudden I look up and it's like a 10-point lead for them. So I don't know exactly what happened but it's just -- I think they just played a little harder than we did. 

 Q. You had a lot of injuries, and you used it as an excuse, but can you talk about maybe not having the depth that you had in the regular season?
 ANN WAUTERS: Of course, if our team would have been completely healthy it, would have been another story, I'm sure of that. But I guess for Detroit, you can also point that out. I'm sure they had, also, some injuries here and there. 
 It's always the end of the season, those playoffs are really tough, very tight schedule, but I'm not looking for excuses. But still, I'm sure if we would have been a whole team healthy, it would have been a different game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT