WNBA FINALS: SHOCK v SILVER STARS
October 1, 2008
Ann Wauters
Sophia Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you just talk about the defense, the looks they gave you early to get you in that hole and how you can adjust going forward?   
 SOPHIA YOUNG: Detroit is a good defensive team and they kind of crowd inside a lot early and we were not able to get as many post touches as we usually do but that's something we've got to work on and find ways where we can move the ball around and get screens on the outside for guards to knock some shots down.   
  
  Q. You approach this as being just another game but how much did it take you to get used to being in The Finals and the atmosphere and things like that?   
 SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, you know, we can't make an excuse and say, oh, it's the first time in The Finals, because I guess that's just for lazy people and we are not in that category.   
 Tonight, we were not ourselves. We were not doing things that were us. We went away from a lot of things that we had done to get us to this point, and that's something that we definitely need to work on.   
 They came out shooting and they came out really hot. We can give them credit; they out-played us tonight.   
  
  Q. Y'all closed, tied at 69, with just a little bit left and kind of what happened that last minute and a half?   
 ANN WAUTERS: I think I can talk about it, because it was kind of my mistake. I switched out on Deanna Nolan, who came out for a three and I think Erin got stuck a little and Taj had a layup or a foul -- or was it Braxton? Braxton, I think.  
 So those are mistakes that can -- it's pretty hard, especially in that last minute where we put all of that effort to come back in the game, which was good, you know, like as a team, even when we are down ten, 13, we still came back. That's good for us to know that even in those situations, we don't back down and we just fight.   
 But then it was, of course, disappointing for us that we could not close it and especially in that first game at home that we couldn't get away with a win.   
  
  Q. When Becky has a game where she's struggling early to get her shot, how does that affect the way you guys play, or does it?   
 SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, Becky is one of the best scorers on the team, and those kind of things are going to happen. So it's just up to us to pick her up.   
 I don't necessarily think that we should be like, oh, Becky is not scoring and we are not going to win. So I think there's a lot of mental mistakes that we have made also in the game and most of our shots were not falling. Now that's something that we can definitely work on and find different ways to get Becky open probably and find other ways to get other people involved to score.   
  
  Q. I guess this had the feel of a lot of games you played this year, getting behind early and fighting back and usually you find a way to win; is that maybe the difference, maybe just the outcome, and I guess kind of mind-set?   
 SOPHIA YOUNG: You know, in the regular season, like you said, we had a lot of games like that.   
 But this playoff thing is definitely different. The intensity in the game is much different. We can't put ourselves in that hole anymore. That's just the bottom line of it. I thought we came out real stagnant and we were kind of playing on our heels with them. They made a lot of shots; give them credit.  
 We had a lot of mental mistakes on defense and there was a lot of times we were not really talking. I think we had Katie and Taj get a lot of open looks and that's something we can definitely work on and pick up for Game 2.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT