NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: DES MOINES
March 16, 2016
Justin Tuoyo
Tre McLean
Eric Robertson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We welcome to the podium the Chattanooga student-athletes.  Justin Tuoyo, Eric Robertson and Tré McLean.  Questions for our student-athletes?
Q. Eric, now that you're here describe this feeling, this moment?
ERIC ROBERTSON: It's an awesome feeling.  It's different from anything I've ever experienced.  The NCAA Tournament, they put a lot of hype behind it and they put a lot of money into it and it's just amazing to be here and be part of this amazing experience.
Q. Tré, as far as for you, when you look at this match-up against IU, in your mind what are the keys?  What are you all going to have to do to pull this win out?
TRE McCLEAN: To start off, Indiana, they're a great team.  They're very talented and they have one of the best point guards in the country.  It's all about, I feel like, getting transition stops, guarding the three-point line and rebounding.  They're a good three-point-shooting team and they push in transition, and they also have some very good three-point shooters.  So I feel like if we can perform in those three categories then we will be all right.
Q. Justin, as far as you're concerned, you get a match-up against a big as good as Thomas Bryant, how do you engage yourself in this match-up?
JUSTIN TUOYO: Just go out there and do what I did the whole season.  He's a great big.  The back-up is also pretty good, too.  So just focus on what we do.  Go out there and play our game.  If we do that, it should go in our favor.
Q. Eric, how much do you all appreciate this underdog world because it's been a few months since you've been in that position?
ERIC ROBERTSON: Honestly, we love it.  It takes the pressure off us and puts the pressure on other teams.  Coming in as an underdog, a lot of times when people are watching games they like to root for the underdog and it just seems like the underdog is able to play freer and is not kinda back on their heels at all because, you know, they're just giving it all they got.  I think this underdog role is great for us, and we've been in it a few times this year.  The few times we've been in it we've been successful.  So, you know, it's really good that we get to be in this role.
Q. Justin, for those of us who don't get a chance to see you guys play very often, actually not at all, how often do you guys press full court?  Is it all the time, part of the time, most of the time?
JUSTIN TUOYO: That's the way we play.  We do it all forty minutes and it's just not full court.  We press in half court, and then the way we play on offense everybody on our team can score.  So the whole game we're going to give it to you.  That's our style of play and that's what works for us.
Q. What's the challenge against Indiana a team that has Yogi Ferrell, Robert Johnson and a lot of guys that can handle the ball?
JUSTIN TUOYO: We play plenty of guys like that plenty of times.  Scoochie Smith from Dayton.  Charles Mann from UGA.  We play lots of point guards with lots of skills.  So we just going to go out there and focus on us and we've got players on our team that can make it happen.
THE MODERATOR: How about Eric answering the same question?
ERIC ROBERTSON: What was the question?
Q. The challenge of a point guard like Yogi Ferrell and pressing them on the court?
ERIC ROBERTSON: Honestly we're going to go out and do what we do, and like Tuoyo said, focus on us and not focus on who they may have or what kind of ball handlers they have.  We're going to do what we do and make adjustments accordingly.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for our student-athletes?  Thank you, gentlemen.  Best of luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT