DUBAI OPEN
December 19, 2014
Prom Meesawat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   68.   That must have been really good out there. 
    PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, the course is playing easier today because there's no wind compared to the first round.   I put myself with a good chance.   I hit 17 greens today and still left a bunch of birdie putts on the course, but anyway, 68, 5‑under is a good round for my back condition.   I'm feeling better today, so I need to keep better and better.   Anyway, I have to thank the physiotherapy team again this week.   Hopefully I will get to four rounds.

Q.   Just one shot off the lead to you‑‑
    PROM MEESAWAT:   Is it?   Oh, I didn't expect to be that close.   But this course is, like I say, first time for everybody, so I think everyone is going to be struggling on the greens, especially me.   Some putts I had a couple of wrong reads today.   The door is still open for many players.   Anyways, just trying to get my health good and have a good weekend.

Q.   Knowing that you have to win to finish No.2 in the Order of Merit, will you be trying to be more aggressive the next two rounds?
    PROM MEESAWAT:   Not really, but now I'm in a good position.   But just go out and play, try to get my back getting better first.   That's the things I want.   That's more important.   But I'm in a good position, so I will just try, just try and enjoy.

Q.   What is it that's been working this week for you so far the last two days? 
    PROM MEESAWAT:   You know, the course is just‑‑ this course is wide open.   Like I talked about, you just have to hit the green.   It's very difficult to hit the greens here, and today I did a very good job, hit 17 greens, and the key is you still have to make some putts here.

Q.   How many percent do you think your back is right now?
    PROM MEESAWAT:   Well, it's on and off.   Sometimes I can turn, sometimes it's stiff, because we have to walk, and especially we have to walk in the desert area.   It's about 85 percent right now.

Q.   Do you have to do a lot more stretching?
    PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, more stretching, even before I hit the shot, as well.   Every time before I hit the shot I have to easy swing or (inaudible).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT