DUBAI OPEN
December 17, 2014
Prom Meesawat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thanks for joining us this morning.   Welcome to the inaugural DUBAi Open at the Els Club Dubai.   Final event of the season here for the Asian Tour.   Tell us what will be your goals for this week.   
PROM MEESAWAT:   It's always very nice to come back again to Dubai for me.   This isn't my first time in Dubai.   This time is different time because this is Asian Tour tournament and this was very good for Asian Tour players to have another destination in Dubai again.   
This is a good week for me to try to win a tournament to move myself up to second in the Order of Merit and try to get myself in the World Golf Championships in March, Cadillac World Golf Championships at Doral.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   I gather you had a bit of a back problem after the Kings Cup.   Just give us an update about what's been happening with your back.   
PROM MEESAWAT:   Right now I'm feeling a lot better, so hopefully it's going to be getting better and better during the week.   Yeah, almost 100 per cent right now.   So it's going to be very good fun.   I'm playing with Darren tomorrow.   So going to be very enjoy on the golf course.   
Setup is very nice, and it's amazing golf course here.   
   
 Q.   About the golf course itself, how are you feeling the golf course?   Most of the players are saying it's very tricky.   
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, I would say that tricky is on the green.   All the greens are like elevated and sloped.   If you didn't hit a good approach, I'm sure you will get in trouble in the sand or if you miss on the wrong side, you will get in trouble.   
Anyway, they set up a little bit kindly for the players, because the greens a little bit softer.   If the green is getting firm, it's going to be very difficult to get close to the pin, to hit the green.   
   
 Q.   Do you know what you have to do to get to second on the Order of Merit?   
PROM MEESAWAT:   Well, I have to win the tournament this week.   That's my goal.   That's why I'm trying to get my back and myself ready for the four‑round tournament.   So the win to jump up over Anriban for this week.   
   
 Q.   How confident are you of a victory?  
PROM MEESAWAT:   With the way I'm playing right now I'm very confident on my game, and I've been playing good for a couple months.   I didn't have a good finish last week, but still, still playing good.   Hitting some good shots.   So hope I will do it this week.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us more about your injury?  
PROM MEESAWAT:   I had injury in my lower back but my lower back is feeling better now.   During the round, when I play, first nine holes feels okay.   But after that, I feel like it's very locked up on my left side hip flexor.   But then I have to do a lot of stretching and work with the physio here, and after I get treatment it's a lot better.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   You've had probably your best season as a professional with one win and many Top‑10s this season.   Looking back at the last 12 months, what has been some of the things that really worked for you this year that's taken you to where you are now.  
PROM MEESAWAT:   I've been playing good for two, three years, and I've been working with my sports psychology coach and working on my fitness.   But during the time, I also had a couple of times of injury last year and I didn't work hard on my fitness, as well.   My coach passed away last year but I didn't find my coach, but I still remember what we've been working on together.   That's the key of my team that I'm been getting to this point for the last couple years.  
   
 Q.   What would it mean to you to compete in the World Golf Championships?  
PROM MEESAWAT:   Well, I think it means a lot because this year I played CIMB, and I finished Top‑10.   So I get the FedEx point.   If I get some start or some tournament or invitation in the PGA TOUR, major tournament, something like that, if I play good, I also still can get more the FedEx points.   At the end of the season, if I get enough points for the FedEx points, I still can get a chance to play the Web.com that's another goal for me to go play on Web.com or get a chance to play on the PGA TOUR.   
   
 Q.   So this is a steppingstone for your future.   
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, this is what I'm trying to get in the major or get in the World Golf Championships and then to put myself in the next step.   
   
 Q.   What would be the key to winning here?   You said the approach shots.   
PROM MEESAWAT:   I think the key is‑‑ the challenge of this golf course is putting contest, as well.   If you hit it good, because it's the first time for everyone for this golf course, and also, you know, the course is not so tight and the rough is not so tough like we played last week.   And it's going to be very advantage for the guys who are hitting very long and can reach on the par5.   But the key is still on putting, as well, because the first time for everyone, so we have to work on putting, on manage on the game where you have to put the ball in a good position to make the putt.   
   
 Q.   Is it a lot to ask of yourself to come to a new course and need a win?   Is that a lot to ask in the last event of the season?   
PROM MEESAWAT:   Not really, because just every tournament I go, I just go out and enjoy.   I didn't expect to win the tournament but this week, it's another high expectation for me.   So I try to get myself on the second of the Order of Merit.   I just go out and enjoy, that's the key.   
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thanks, Prom, and all the best this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT