CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2014
Prom Meesawat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Happy with your effort today, 1‑under?  
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yes.   You know, it's inside my goal to try to play under par every round, but today my approach shotnot as sharp as yesterday, so a bit to work on this afternoon.   So hopefully I will try good weekend.  
   
 Q.   Overall still in a good position to be in; right?  
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, of course.   You know, this golf course, if you play under par every round, even one or 2‑under par, you're in a good position, you know, because the grain is quite a bit difficult, and you have to hit a good tee‑‑ you have to be teeing off very good as well.   
You know, it's going to be a good weekend, you know.   Everyone is trying to play good this week.  
   
 Q.   You shot a low round on the first day.   It just goes to show that there's another low round this week for you as well, you can shoot low here as well, doesn't it?  
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah.   You know, I just stick with my plan.   You know, today I didn't hit my putts very good, and I left a bunch of putts on the course as well.   So hopefully this will come on the weekend.   I think I can do it.   
   
 Q.   Which was the most disappointing putts that you left out there?   What hole?  
PROM MEESAWAT:   Well, I don't want to think about it, but you asked me, so hole No. 4, I hit a good tee shot on par‑3 and then just only about four, five feet, and just missed the birdie putt.   And anyway, after walking off the green, I just forget it and then birdied the next hole.   
So yeah, very happy for first two rounds, 5‑under par.  
   
 Q.   You were sick a little bit.   How are you feeling now?  
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, I'm feeling better now, but you know, after two rounds, you know, when you sweat a lot and walk in this golf course and in this condition, so I'm feeling weak right now, so need to get more rest and get ready for the weekend.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT