CIMB CLASSIC
October 30, 2014
Prom Meesawat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Prom, 4‑under, you must be fairly happy with your round?
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, of course, 4‑under, always very happy with opening round under par. 
The course is playing soft today, and the green is quite a bit slow, so I'm hitting good from the tee, teeing off very good today, just only missed a couple fairways, so that's why my game was a bit easier for today.

Q.   That's the key for long hitter's, isn't it, just to hit the fairways, isn't it?
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, of course, it's the key on this golf course.   But this year the rough is not very long for comparison.   Last year when playing the Maybank Malaysian Open, but it's always the key to hit the fairway when you play a different line, you get chance to put ball in nice.   And yeah, very happy with my round today.

Q.   A few of the American guys are saying how hot it is playing in this heat.   Do you feel you have an advantage?
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah.   I used to this weather, and been playing around here and Singapore, it's very hot.   So a lot of advantage for Asian players who are playing on the Asian tour. 
But you know, I think obviously the U.S. players, if you give them time to adjust, they will get used to it, but the player like in the U.S., also they've been playing in Asia a lot and I think they know how to manage to play with heat.

Q.   Is this just a continuation from Macau, had a good final round last week to finish third?
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah.   I've been playing good golf for a couple of months, and since I had my second win last month in Taiwan, so that's built a lot of confidence for me to play, to try, coming here, especially last week and finish second on Macau open, so a lot of confidence to come and play big field with world‑class players.

Q.   I think you just said it, big field, world‑class players.   Do you treat this tournament differently in your approach?
PROM MEESAWAT:   Not really, but you know, just like every tournament I go, I just‑‑ I mean like I'm playing here many times, so I just keep doing what I have been playing the same plan.   Do what I have been doing at this golf course.   Just try to stay in the fairways, hit the greens as much as I can.
But this year the green is slower than compared when we played the last time.   So it's quite tough to get the speed on when you hit a long putt.

Q.   Do you have any personal goals you'd like to achieve, maybe over the next season?
PROM MEESAWAT:   The next season?   I'm looking for my third win on tour now.   That's my goal.   Looking forward. 
But for this year, playing good this week, so try to catch David Lipsky for the Order of Merit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT