CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2014
Prom Meesawat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   This is your second time playing the CIMB Classic after a few years, happy to be back here? 
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, pleased to be back on a big field playing with the PGA TOUR players and some of the world's best players.   Very nice to be back in KLGC again.   We have been playing here many times.

Q.   And you're not feeling too well apparently?   What's wrong with you? 
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, last week, the last round, I'm just feeling bad in my throat and after I had my dinner, I feel like uncomfortable with that and hopefully we'll get it through for this week and try to rest as much as I can. 

Q.   Is this a golf course which you like playing on, and does it suit your game? 
PROM MEESAWAT:   I switched and played nine holes today, switched front nine, back nine.   I think they are quite longer, a couple tee box on 13, and 12, they move it back and No. 6, they moved like ten, 15 yards back, as well.   This course quite suits my game, but this year the rough is not so long.
I think if the rough is thick and long, it's going to be a big advantage for me because.   Holes, like all the guys carry about 280, they can play out of the bunker.   But for me, just have to lay it up.   But if they grow the rough more for those guys who try to be too aggressive, they can get in trouble in the rough.

Q.   You're bringing some form into this week, that must be a good confidence boost for you, as well? 
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yes, of course.   I've been playing good for a couple months and continue in a good form and a good finish last week again to coming this week, a bigger field.   You know, build up my confidence to try to play well here this week. 

Q.   In these big‑money events, anything can happen, are you thinking that? 
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yes, just thinking and just talking with my manager, nobody knows, ten of us to get in this week who are playing good or finish top three or top five, we can catch the Order of Merit for this year, so the chance is open for ten of us this week. 

Q.   Is that one of your goals to the end of the year?
PROM MEESAWAT:   Yeah, it's one of my goals to try to be ton of the Order of Merit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT