NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2006
Tyrus Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk to me about, it's been a long evening for you to finally get up here.  Were you sitting backstage waiting to switch the hats?   
 TYRUS THOMAS:  Yeah, LaMarcus and myself, we were back waiting on a trade to be finalized.  We couldn't move until the trade was finalized so that was about an hour of agony.  We knew where we were going, but we couldn't do anything until the trade got finalized.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about how the trade developed, like when you first heard about it sitting down in the green room and what your reaction was?   
 TYRUS THOMAS:  Yeah, I knew about the trade before the draft even began.   
 I guess it was a Chicago wanted to get more assets and Portland wanted to secure LaMarcus from Charlotte.  We both knew about the trade so, it wasn't a shock to me.  I had a heads-up.   
  
  Q.  What kind of stuff were you talking about in the back room?   
 TYRUS THOMAS:  We were just clowning.  We were relaxed, we know where we were going and we're just happy to be here.  We were both just saying how blessed we were to be in this situation and just anxious to get ready on a new career.   
  
  Q.  Wondering, how do you see yourself fitting into Chicago, the pieces that they have there, what are you excited about and who are you excited about playing with?   
 TYRUS THOMAS:  I'm just excited about the whole situation.  You know, I talked to the guys, they know I'm ready to work and they are ready to push me to the limits and help develop me into a better player.  I'm just excited about the process and ready to go to work.   
  
  Q.  You've been loose since you arrived in New York, how have you stayed so calm through this?   
 TYRUS THOMAS:  You've got to understand the situation.  You know, once I got here to New York -- well, actually before then, once my workouts were over, there wasn't much else I could control.  I just wasn't going to put myself under any pressure.  I was going to relax, it's my first time in Chicago, this is my first and last time being in the draft, so I was just going to relax and have a good time.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT