NHL DRAFT
June 24, 2011
Sean Couturier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What was your initial reaction when you heard your name called? You were projected in the five spot. You fell a little bit. But what was going through your mind while you were sitting there?
 SEAN COUTURIER: I was just enjoying the moment. I'm really happy to be part of the Philadelphia Flyers. It's a great honor. I mean, it's a wonderful day.

 Q. What do you know about the organization? 
 SEAN COUTURIER: I mean, they have a lot of history. I mean, it's a great team, big guys. I'm looking forward to being part of it.

 Q. Sean, was it tough sitting there after those picks went by and not having been selected? 
 SEAN COUTURIER: Not really. Anything can happen in a draft. I mean, once you get to camp it's a whole new story. I'm looking forward to it.

 Q. Were you getting nervous? 
 SEAN COUTURIER: Yeah, for sure. Since I got at the rink I was nervous, so it wasn't any different.

 Q. Today after they traded away two centers, did you like the thoughts of there being an opening there? 
 SEAN COUTURIER: Yeah, maybe, but I think it's going to be up to me to work hard this summer and show what I've got. I can't control the decision after that. 
 But my main goal for sure is going to be part of the team.

 Q. The Flyers didn't have any picks coming into this draft in the first round. Did anybody talk to you from the organization this year? 
 SEAN COUTURIER: No, actually my first meeting was yesterday, so it felt pretty special knowing they just moved up. I knew they had a lot of interest, but like you said, anything can happen in the draft. I didn't really know what to expect.

 Q. Was there anything that they said that made you think they would pick you? 
 SEAN COUTURIER: Not really. It's tough to get a feeling with all the teams. I mean, everyone's had different opinions, and I didn't really know what to expect.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 SEAN COUTURIER: Yeah, I haven't really had time to think about that. It's pretty special just being part of the Philadelphia Flyers. I'm really looking forward to getting there.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 SEAN COUTURIER: Yeah, we played together on the World Junior team.

 Q. How would you describe him? 
 SEAN COUTURIER: He's a complete player. He plays hard. Good two-way forward. He's really responsible.

 Q. Have you set a goal for yourself or path for yourself of where you want to be this time next year? I mean, obviously you're signed up with the Flyers, but do you have any thought on when you want to be there? 
 SEAN COUTURIER: For sure my main goal is going to be to try to make a spot on the roster. We'll go from now and work hard, keep working hard during the summer and improve myself and be ready for camp. Once I get there, I just want to show what I've got.

 Q. When you're a top-rated guy, you often think about going to a team that's struggling. Now the Flyers move up and grab you. What does it mean to be playing for a team that could be contending right away. Especially when you see what happened to Tyler Seguin this year?
 SEAN COUTURIER: Yes, I haven't had time to think too much about that. But it's pretty special to be on such a great team and a great organization. I'm looking forward to going there.

 Q. Reflect back on your junior career and how that helped your development? 
 SEAN COUTURIER: Yeah, I was really lucky to be part of a great organization my three years in Drummondville were awesome. They treated me well. They helped me a lot in my development and I thanked them. It's probably one of the reasons why I'm here today.

 Q. How far do you think you are from making it to the NHL?
 SEAN COUTURIER: I haven't really talked to them too much. I mean, me personally I've got to get stronger overall physically and improve my explosiveness, my skating. But there is still a lot of work to be done. We'll see in training camp. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT