ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 7, 2011
Brad Brownell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: We have Clemson head basketball coach Brad Brownell. Coach, a few comments about your team and then we'll open it up for questions. 
 COACH BROWNELL: Come off a good win against Georgia Tech. Thought our two seniors, Demontez Stitt and Jerai Grant, both played well. Defensively I think we've been playing pretty well lately. That will certainly be put to the best against Boston College. Very impressed with the way they play on film. They've got like 110 more assists than turnovers. 
 I think you're dealing with a team that not only shoots the ball well but really takes care of the ball, values the ball, passes it well. They have a good understanding how to play both individually and in Steve's system. 

 Q. I've been asking coaches a loaded question. Is there a difficulty sometimes in dealing with parents or other outsiders telling kids things that are contrary to the best interest of the program, that they should be starting, playing more, shooting more? Is that a problem you have to deal with very often? Does it ever get out of hand? 
 COACH BROWNELL: Well, certainly I think it's an issue because I'm the father of two daughters. One of my daughters plays some soccer and I think she should always be playing more, too. 
 I think it's natural as parents, we all want our sons or daughters to be out there competing all the time, taking some shots, doing all those things. So I think it's natural. 
 Do I think it's more prevalent now than maybe 15, 20 years ago? Yeah, probably a little bit. I just think that people change teams more regularly now, whether it's AAU teams, whether it's changing high schools, little league. I don't know if that's the parents that are the ones that are allowing that to happen. I would assume some of those people are involved in all those decisions. 
 I think sometimes when things get difficult, instead of just digging in, kids look for an easier way out. Sometimes the people around them think that somewhere else is always better, and that's the easier way, as opposed to just staying where you're at, working a little bit harder, maybe being satisfied with your role for that year, doing what it is, then trying to get better so you can change your role to be bigger as you gain more experience in a program. 

 Q. Everybody has kids transfer, every program loses kids between seasons and sometimes semesters. Have you ever lost a kid in the middle of a second semester when it's really no advantage to leave early, unless there's an academic or legal issue, for instance? 
 COACH BROWNELL: Not that I can remember. We lost two guys in the first semester here this year. I do think the rate of transfer is certainly increasing. That's a little troubling, not only for our sport, but for any sport. But certainly I think in men's basketball with the limited number of scholarships and the high profile, visibility of the players and all that, I think it becomes an issue. But I haven't had anybody leave second semester. Again, we had two guys leave first semester that we didn't anticipate. It was both after the season had started. 
 THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks for taking time being with us today. We'll hear from you same time again next week. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT