OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2016
Mason Rudolph
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Oklahoma State - 24, Baylor - 35
Q. How does it feel after playing pretty well and getting so close to the goal line and not getting it in at the end?
MASON RUDOLPH: You know, I'm really proud of our guys, our offensive linemen.  They did an incredible job all game of moving the ball well on the ground.  Our running backs made some great cuts, some great runs and just ball security just got us.  So we'll work on that and we'll move forward but really proud of those guys up front.
Q. How difficult is it knowing you were so close so many times?
MASON RUDOLPH: You know, it sucks, but you know, nothing we can do now.  We're going to move on, have a great Sunday.  I have to be better.  This offense has to be better.  But we'll move on, we'll make corrections like we always do and we'll rebound.
Q. You kept coming back, you tied it up three times, and you fell down by three.  You were so close to getting the lead right back.  When you encompass everything, what do you learn from a game like that?
MASON RUDOLPH: I think it's good for our mental toughness that we never stopped fighting.  We knew we could win and we kept pushing.  You know, the chips just didn't fall our way.  We had bad ball security, you know, partly my fault.  So correctible mistakes, and like I said, we'll move on and bounce back.
Q. I know it sounds like a simple comment, but is it a simple case of not finishing?
MASON RUDOLPH: You know, I think, gosh, the runs that Justice made tonight were incredible.  He's the one that got us down to the goal line.  You know, we're going to keep handing him the rock.  He's doing great for us.  All our backs ran hard and we're going to keep feeding them the rock and they are doing great, as well as the offensive line.
Q. Broke out, had the turnovers --
MASON RUDOLPH: Yeah, just told him he played great.  I told him he put us in position to win and you know without him, that long run, who knows if we continue the drive.  You know, he's a young guy.  He's got a ton of potential and he's not going to let this get him down for a second.  He's going to continue to improve and perform at a high level.
Q. Was it frustrating to see making strides in the running game -- you needed one more to make --
MASON RUDOLPH: Yeah, I think as long as we continue to make strides, become more balanced, I think tonight was a huge step in that direction.  You know, we're going to be a better football team now.
Q. Gundy seemed as upset at the result of a game as I've ever seen.  Was he that way to you guys?
MASON RUDOLPH: Yeah, I think he was just not happy with the way -- our ball security and being so close, and just kind of handing them the ball a few times.  You know, it's reasonable for him to be upset and we've got to correct it.
Q. Sticking with the run like you guys did requires a lot of patience, both from you guys and the play caller.  How difficult is that because they want to draw you no that stuff and get you into the faster --
MASON RUDOLPH: We had so many long drives, man, gave our defense a chance to recover and game plan over on the sidelines and I think Coach Yurcich called an incredible game, a lot of successful runs, a lot of playaction, a lot of different stuff.  We've just got to finish when it counts and we'll get better, though.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT