MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ANGELS
October 24, 2002
Bengie Molina
Jose Molina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  For either of you two, I understand you wanted to be home with your dad to celebrate this weekend.  But what can you do from afar to kind of celebrate that special moment for him? 

BENGIE MOLINA:  I think by my part, winning the World Series will be a nice gift for him.  He will be proud of us just winning this thing right here.  Not being able to be there, it's hard, it's tough.  It's not easy for us, just being here.  I think it's tough for us, but we got to overcome that and just play baseball and hopefully we'll win the World Series for him. 

Q.  Bengie, when you guys were growing up, how much baseball did you play?  Did you play together on the same team, or against each other?  How did that go? 

BENGIE MOLINA:  We never play against each other or in the same team, but we've been playing baseball since we were four years old.  The league goes from January to August, from September to December.  So, it's all year-round baseball, and we've been doing that since we're four years old.  We haven't missed a year. 

Q.  How much did you guys admire Benito Santiago growing up?  Are you curious now, facing his team in the World Series, from the background on you, as a catcher, being from Puerto Rico, what he meant?

JOSE MOLINA:  When he started, he was a big influence in me because I was the first to be a catcher.  Bengie never was a catcher until he signed.  I mean, when I come up and I start catching, then I see him as a superstar.  I try to learn the way he throws on his knees.  Then, in '99, I played with the Cubs, and he was on that team, too.  He was with me.  To me, he was a big help.  He's been a big part of me and my defense. 

Q.  Looking ahead to Game 6, Bengie, where is Kevin Appier at right now?  He struggled in his first start.  What are you going to expect to see on Saturday? 

BENGIE MOLINA:  Obviously, we're going to see a better Appier than Game 2, that's for sure.  He's a veteran.  He knows what he's doing out there.  He knows what he did wrong in the past game, for sure.  He studied a lot of hitters.  He studied a lot of video.  Like I said, he knows what he did wrong.  He's going to come out even harder the next game.  I think we're going to see a great Appier the next game. 

Q.  Just following on that, what, in your assessment, did he do wrong? 

BENGIE MOLINA:  I think we missed a lot of spots on that game.  We hit the middle of the plate too many times instead of going to the corners, like he usually does.  He hits a corner pretty good.  But in that game we were missing right down the middle with the ball and they didn't miss many hits. 

Q.  Bengie, some coaches and managers think that you will win the Gold Glove this year, breaking Pudge Rodriguez's streak, has that crossed your mind at all? 

BENGIE MOLINA:  Not right now, after I let that fastball get away yesterday.  No, I never thought about that.  I said to myself, "Keep going hard, keep going the way I'm playing right now.  Don't think about that stuff.  Just try to win every game you can.  Right now, try to win the World Series."  After everything is done, yeah, you got a lot of time to think about it.  But not right now. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT