CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2007
Kira Meixner
Jessica Potter
Stephanie Sherlock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Thanks for joining us at the CN Canadian Women's Open press conference.  We're joined by some members of our national amateur team, Team Canada.  I'd like to introduce them right now.  To my immediate right, attending Kent State University, and it's her second CN Canadian Women's Open appearance, Kira Meixner.  Next to Kira in the middle, recent 2007 Canadian Women's Amateur Championship, attending the University of Denver, from Barry, Ontario, Stephanie Sherlock.  To my extreme right, the champion of the 2006 National Women's Amateur, her first debuting at the Canadian Women's Open this week in Edmonton, from British Columbia, Jessica Potter.  We'll begin with questions.   
  
  Q.  I want to ask all the girls how long you think it'll take before you're playing on the LPGA Tour?   
 SPEAKER:  Well, I have one more year of school left, and after that I plan to try out for the LPGA and go to Q-school in the fall, so hopefully my game will be ready by then and we'll see how that goes, and hopefully I'll be successful there.   
 SPEAKER:  I really have no idea what I want to do.  I've got three more years of school left, and I'm just going to see how much more I can improve my game and then make a decision after that, if I'm going to try and play pro or just jump into a career.   
 SPEAKER:  I'm not sure either what I'm going to do.  I have one more year of college left, and I'm going to school with a premed minor, so I'd love to try to play on Tour for a few years and see if my game was okay to do that, and if not I'll keep going to school after that, but I'd love to give it a try.   
  
  Q.  Do you girls feel if you're playing college golf that you have to be winning college golf tournaments before you're good enough to play with the best players in the world?   
 SPEAKER:  Yeah, I definitely think you should be.  You have to play pretty well in college to I think have a shot at making it on Tour for sure, yeah.   
 SPEAKER:  I'm not sure if you'd have to win --   
  
  Q.  I guess dominant college golf to prove you're good enough to make the next step to play against the best players in the world?   
 SPEAKER:  I don't think you've got to dominate, but you have to play well at nationals and regionals every year.   
 SPEAKER:  I think you have to peak at the right time.  If you want to play professional you have to be peaking when you turn professional, depending on what you want to play.  If you just want to stay amateur, doing well in college golf is really important, but it's getting your game to the level that it needs to be when you turn professional, I think.   
 SPEAKER:  I think college golf is a great atmosphere where you will play against a lot of those girls and a lot of those girls will be going into Q-school at the same time as you.  So just compete against them and hopefully win against them, I think that's a good step before you try to turn pro at least.   
  
  Q.  At what point when you started golfing did you realize that you could go far in this game and you could perhaps turn professional?   
 JESSICA POTTER:  I think it was just a steady process for me going from junior golf into college golf and now having the opportunity to play the Open.  I think along the way my love for the game has grown and grown and grown more and more every year, and I think going into college golf, that's really when I found out I had a great passion for the game and would like to do it later in life.   
 STEPHANIE SHERLOCK:  I guess the reason -- I guess I started playing golf at a pretty young age and then kept improving, kept improving, and then I got to the level where, okay, I want to earn a golf scholarship, and that was the goal.  And now that I did that and I play college golf and I got to the Open last year, I thought, maybe if you work hard and get some more experience maybe you could play on the LPGA Tour.  So I guess it's been the last couple of years I realized I might have a chance to play professional golf.   
 KIRA MEIXNER:  I kind of agree with Steph.  I think my first big goal was to try and get a golf scholarship, and I think that opened quite a few doors.  I think it's just a great step, like a natural progression in my mind for me.  I just hope to use my college experience and see where it takes me.   
  
  Q.  The two girls that didn't play in the tournament before, what do the pros do better than you do?   
 SPEAKER:  For me, short game, putting definitely and wedge play.  I think my long game is not where it needs to be yet, but I think the biggest difference for me is in the short game.   
 SPEAKER:  Yeah, I totally agree with that, like wedges, unbelievable how good they are 100 yards and in compared to me.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 SPEAKER:  Oh, like ten feet every time.   
  
  Q.  Which player in the field do you want to get an autograph from?   
 SPEAKER:  For me it's Lorena Ochoa.   
 SPEAKER:  I agree with that.  She's incredible.  We actually got a chance last night coming back from dinner to talk with Lorie Kane.  That was incredible.  She's a great ambassador for Canada.  It was great to meet her.  She's so nice.  I played with Kate Golden today, and she's just wonderful and very encouraging and just helpful in every way.   
 THE MODERATOR:  With that, Kira Meixner, Stephanie Sherlock, Jessica Potter, and the best of luck to you in the Canadian Women's Open.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT