NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 11, 2017
Pekka Rinne
James Neal
Mike Fisher
PK Subban
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Last night of course a late night with the West Coast start, but did you stay up to watch, and if so, what were your thoughts?
PK SUBBAN: Yeah, I watched most of the game, and as soon as it was done, I went to bed.
PEKKA RINNE: Yeah, I watched the game.  Obviously it was exciting for us to know who we're going to see.  It was a good game.
JAMES NEAL: Yeah, I did the same, of course.  Watched both games.  Playoff hockey is exciting for us to watch, too, so it was a couple good games last night.
Q. PK and James, having been to the Conference Finals before, how is the confidence like this round?
PK SUBBAN: Yeah, it's a pretty exciting time.  Obviously it's the final four teams, so it's a lot of media attention, but I think that just learning from the few times I've been here, it's just staying focused and staying hungry, and I think for our team, we've had a couple days of rest, and I think that also generates that hunger to get back at it again.  I think as a group, we're ready to go.
JAMES NEAL: Yeah, I just think as you get older you appreciate it a lot more.  It's really hard to get here, and you put in a ton of work to give yourself a chance to play for the Stanley Cup, so just take advantage of it, know what's at stake, know what kind of chance you have to do something special and to win.  I'll be excited to go tomorrow, and we'll be ready and don't take anything for granted.
Q. Pekka, what is it about this franchise, all the guys that you've matched up with over the years, and what are your impressions and thoughts about the Ducks?
PEKKA RINNE: Well, I feel like for years they've been one of the top teams in the Western Conference.  You know, any time you have a chance to play against them, you know it's going to be a battle.  For both times I've played them, it's been -- I think it was a six-game series and a seven-game series, and just obviously I have nothing but good things to say about this team.  They won a Cup and are one of the top teams, like you said, and it's going to be another big battle.  Expecting it's going to be -- obviously these first couple of games are very important for us, playing on the road.
Q. PK, as you saw that second period last night, the way it looked like the way the Ducks were forechecking, how does that maybe affect the way you guys approach Game 1?
PK SUBBAN: Yeah, you know, they're a hard forechecking team.  I don't think that's what they've shown just in the Playoffs.  They've been that way in the regular season and really since I've been in the league.  They've always been a hard forechecking team.  They're physical players and like to get in and establish a physical presence, and that's what you expect in playoff hockey.  For us, it's the same as usual, continuing to get back (indiscernible) hold up a little bit just like every other team does, and get pucks, move them out of the zone and establish the forecheck.  I think sometimes the best defense is offense.  The less the puck is in your zone, the harder it is to forecheck, and that's the success our team has had is getting pucks out.  A big part of that is Pekks and what he does back there for us, a defenseman moving the puck and help stop pucks so we can start breakouts.
Q. James, you guys have won the first two rounds without home ice advantage and looked good doing it.  How do you explain that?
JAMES NEAL: I think just being ready to play when the first game starts, whether it's at home or on the road.  Obviously we'd love to have a home ice advantage because we definitely have a great building and have great fans and you've seen that throughout the course of the Playoffs, but just being ready to go the first game and then go from there.  When you do a job away from home and then you get the chance to come back, it gives you a good chance in the series.
Q. PK, I think it was 10 years ago that you were here and played this very same team in the Cup Finals.  Can you reflect on your journey from there to here?
PK SUBBAN: Seems like a long time ago now, but that was one of the highlights of my career really, playing in the Stanley Cup Final.  Obviously disappointing, but look back on the journey and remember a lot of positive things.  We played the Ducks, I think it was the fourth time in the Playoffs, played them a lot, we know we're in tough against this team, but we all know what's at stake, too, and that's a berth in the final, which is pretty exciting to think about.  But obviously a real focus is just tomorrow night.
Q. Anaheim has had a lot of success this season with Ryan Kesler.  What are the keys to penetrating a team that has a really good defensive concept?
PK SUBBAN: Well, I think we've played against them all year long, and definitely they're a good checking line, as are many teams, and I think you look at our last series, too, and St. Louis (indiscernible) center on, but they're tight checking, strong defensively.  We're going to have to be the same and find ways.  I think you look at our last series in these Playoffs, we found a way with different guys to chip in, and it hasn't been all just one line.  Of course we've got one line that's very good, but we have other lines that can chip in, and that'll be even more important and you look at our defense, too, that adds to that scoring.  Our D are a huge part of our offense, too.
JAMES NEAL: Yeah, obviously a lot of what Fishy said, but we've got to have all lines going, and we know what's at stake here.  The more we can make Kesler play defense and get in on the offense, the harder it is for him.  He'll be looking to do the same to our guys, and the more we make him play D and wear him down as much as you can.
Q. What is unique about Coach Laviolette as a coach?  What does he really do from the standpoint of communication but also systems, as well?
MIKE FISHER: Well, I think one of his biggest assets is communication.  He's probably one of the best coaches I've had as far as communication, and the way he can motivate you and just get you ready, get your mindset ready to play in different situations.  There's a certain style that he wants us to play, and I think he's hammered down that on his teams in a good way to get the most out of his team.  He wants us to play a certain way, and the way he communicates that is is he makes it clear for us as players.  He's a passionate guy, too.  I think that rubs off on our guys, too.
PK SUBBAN: Yeah, he's a really fun guy to play for, and kind of like what Fishy said, he's an amazing communicator, and I think one of his -- like the keys for Lavi, he's been coaching for such a long time, but his ability to understand every player on his team, not as a player but a person, as well, and understand how everybody is different and use that to make the team better and allow everybody to put everybody in a position to be successful.  He's kind of done that seamlessly, and his passion is second to no one.  It's fun to play for a guy like that who just shows that passion, and it's just fun.  For me in my short career, he's probably the best coach I've had at that stuff for sure.
PEKKA RINNE: Yeah, I think the guys pretty much said it.  To me, same thing, the way he motivates you and brings his passion to the rink every day, I think that's the special quality he has, and obviously Lavi has a lot of experience with a lot of great runs.  He's had some disappointments, too, and I think you can tell he's grown a lot, and we are very fortunate to have him.
JAMES NEAL: Yeah, I definitely feed off of what those guys say, but he understands everything throughout the year and communication and motivation, you know, it goes a long way with any player, whether you're going through a slump or you're playing great.  He knows how to keep you even keel and keep you moving in the right direction.  That really helps us in the long run, and he's had some great playoff runs, and he's been a champion before, so he knows what it takes, and we see that every day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT