NBA DRAFT
June 21, 2018
Mohamed Bamba
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MOHAMED BAMBA: I can't believe this, to be honest.  Everything just came back full circle for me, because I'm sure you guys know I'm from New York.  To be able to be drafted here in New York is just -- I don't know, words can't explain.  Especially by an organization who truly values all my values.  It's going to be awesome.
Q. Being that you're drafted, your dream has come true, what important goal do you wish to accomplish in the NBA?
MOHAMED BAMBA: When it's all said and done, I want to be walking across the stage and I want to be putting on a jacket that has this little seal that says "Hall of Fame."  There's a lot to do before there, trust me, and it's a lofty goal, but that's the mindset that I'm going to have to have to do that.  It's going to be a special one.
But there's a lot of goals in between that.  I definitely want to be Defensive Player of the Year.  I truly believe I can be that caliber of a defender very early on in my career.  I'm just -- I'm sorry, I'm just excited.
Q. How many of your family members, friends are here tonight jumping on that 2 train to come here?
MOHAMED BAMBA: Yeah, for those of you who don't know, the 2 train literally takes me a block away from my house.  It was a close commute.  It wasn't really a trip, it was a commute.  But I have a lot.  I have a lot of family.  I have most of my family here.  I have all my close friends and family here.  It was like literally a 20-minute train ride.
Q. Why did you choose to represent yourself?
MOHAMED BAMBA: I choose to represent myself because of the importance of pre-draft training for me.  I wanted to be in full control of what I was doing pre-draft and the kind of approach that it took for pre-draft was the รก la carte approach where I wanted to work with Drew Hanlen but also wanted to work with Amoila Cesar in strength training, and a different nutritionist and I wanted to be in control of finding the best specialists that I could.
Q. Has it worked for you?
MOHAMED BAMBA: Absolutely, absolutely.
Q. You're obviously bringing a 7-10 wingspan to the Orlando Magic, but I also see that you've been working on your three-point range.  Why is that important and how is it going to help the Orlando Magic deep?
MOHAMED BAMBA: It's very important.  Have you seen the direction of the league?  It's very important because I want to be a guy who can stay on the floor for the last four, five minutes of the game and be able to stretch the floor and shoot and space the floor like that.  It'll open up the floor for a lot of my teammates.
Q. On the point of no agent.  Certainly now that you're going to be in the highest economic strata, investing in real estate, do you have enough knowledge in those areas?  Or are you going to be looking for some specialists for how to protect your nest egg?
MOHAMED BAMBA: Yeah, that's a great question.  That's actually an area I've explored already.  I already know what my first major is going to be and it's going to be an investment, and I just want to be smart with my money.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT