WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2014
Doug LaBelle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was the emotion like coming down the back-9?   Were you thinking about what the number might be or what you need to do?  
DOUG LABELLE, II:   I felt like I needed to shoot at least a couple under today to at least make sure I was guaranteed to be there.   I knew that I could maybe shoot even and have a chance but I didn't really want to leave it up to chance.   
I just wanted to make sure that I did it and I just didn't play very well today.   But, I knew that every shot matters.   That's the way I always play and I just grind to the end and it sounds like I'm the last guy.  
   
 Q.   What happened on the two birdies coming in?  
DOUG LABELLE, II:   Well, I mean I went for the green on 15 in 2 and just left of the green, down to a couple feet and made a good, probably, probably 15-footer for birdie from just kind of short right of the hole on 16 and then I hit a good shot into 17, about 12 feet from the hole.   
I felt like I really needed to make that and I didn't and then I coming to 18, tough hole.   I hit two good shots and needed one more club to get back there and hit a good putt.   4 is never a bad score on that hole.  
   
 Q.   Did you know you needed to 2-putt?   
DOUG LABELLE, II:   I felt like I needed to make birdie.   At the same time I didn't want to do anything stupid.   So I mean I just gave it the best chance I could and hit a good putt up there and misread it a little bit, foot and a half, two feet.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit into 16?  
DOUG LABELLE, II:   8.   Played -- I didn't play bad today, I just couple of good shots early that ran through the green and put me in some tough spots and when I had chances to make birdies I wasn't able to make them.  
   
 Q.   What was the approach shot on 18?  
DOUG LABELLE, II:   6-iron.   I had about 200 to the hole.   Tried to land it on the front third of the green and chase back there.   It didn't chase.   It landed soft.  
   
 Q.   Most tournaments you can look at the leaderboard and know what you need to do.   What is it like when you have no idea if I need birdie or eagle?  
DOUG LABELLE, II:   I'd be lying if I said I wasn't thinking about it at all because I was.   But I mean it really comes down all I can control is what I do.   I knew that if I could get to 2-under or better today that was -- it was going to be fine.   
I mean the goal was to shoot 6, 7, to have a chance to finish in the Top-10.   But after the front-9 I knew that was kind of out the window.   So after that it was just trying to salvage as many shots as I could.  
   
 Q.   How is life different from 201 to 200?  
DOUG LABELLE, II:   If you've never won on the Web.com Tour, fortunately I have, 151 to 200 is going to be the same as my past champion category.   The only difference with this, gives me a chance to get my Tour Card.   
So, in essence, I mean it's a pretty big deal.   I mean like I said, I thought about it last night.   I mean I knew I just needed to come out and play well.   If I kept playing the way that I did the last two days, then it wouldn't be a problem.   
But to answer your question, yeah, it's a big deal.   If not, you have no way of getting back here unless you go play a full year on the Web.com Tour.   After being out here four years, don't really want to do that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT