HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 17, 2013
Doug LaBelle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the round a little bit here.   And just took a look at your card, a couple of eagles, which certainly helped.   Got it feel good about that. 
DOUG LABELLE II:   I played a solid round of golf today.   And I made some saves when I needed to.   Probably three of the last four holes.   I made a couple of 6‑footers and a 10‑footer for par.   So those kind of kept that going.   But, yeah, the eagles were great. 
I kind of got off to a slow start, but I know that there's plenty of birdie chances and just kept fighting.   It's 72 holes, so. 

Q.   Can you talk me through the two eagles?
DOUG LABELLE II:   Well the first one that came at a good time, because I felt like I was ‑‑ I got off to a slow start ‑‑ but I birdied 7 and then I hit two really good shots to give me a really good look at from probably, I don't know, maybe 25, 30 feet.   And got a good read off one of the amateur partners and it was one that I could be aggressive with, so I was able to cash in on that one. 

Q.   And that was driver?
DOUG LABELLE II:   I hit driver, 3‑wood in there where most guys are probably hitting driver, iron.   I didn't hit that great of a drive, but was still able to get there. 
The other one, I think it was 16, and I hit two really good shots.   I hit driver, 5‑wood to probably, I don't know, it must have been five feet.   And was able to get that one in the hole too. 
So one eagle in the round is great, two, that's a bonus. 

Q.   We were just talking about early season momentum and trying to build up ‑‑
DOUG LABELLE II:   A big pile of cash? 
(Laughter.)

Q.   Yes, you will.   You've done this before, so you know how important it is to play well early when you're where you are, 24th in that shuffle list and all the way down that pile, right?
DOUG LABELLE II:   Yeah. 

Q.   Do you think about it, do you weigh on it, is it on your mind or what?
DOUG LABELLE II:   Well, I'm aware of how important it is.   But that's not going to allow me, if I worry about that, that's not going to allow me to do what I need to do and that's play the best golf that I can play.   Whatever that is.   If it's six missed cuts, that's what it is. 
So I'm just going to go out and play my game and whatever it adds up to, I've had the opportunity and I got no, I have nobody to blame but myself.   So I'm just thankful for the opportunity, number one, and whatever I'm able to get out of it, I'm okay with. 
Would I like it to be a million dollars?   Absolutely.   I would be lying if I told you something different.   But anything I can do to just give myself a better chance to get into the Florida swing, that's the goal. 
I was expecting maybe two out of the first six starts and it looks like I'm going to get four.   So to me that's a really big bonus.   And this being one of them.   So I'm just happy to be here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT