NHL DRAFT 2017
June 23, 2017
Nico Hischier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NICO HISCHIER: It feels unbelievable.  I was a long time speechless, and I can't believe it, so it feels just great.   
 Q.  Can you describe what you thought when you heard your name?  Did you think about someone in particular?  
NICO HISCHIER: Oh, I didn't -- I was just like -- I can't describe it.  I can't describe it.  I just was happy.  I hugged my mom first, and I think she was a little bit crying.  There was a lot of emotion.  But there are no words to describe this feeling.   
 Q.  Did you have any indication that the Devils would pick you?  
NICO HISCHIER: No, I didn't know anything, so it was -- yeah, it was from one second to the other.   
 Q.  Being ranked in second and going first is a great accomplishment?  
NICO HISCHIER: Yeah, sure, I'm really happy and I'm really enjoying this moment.   
 Q.  At what point of the year did you get a feeling that you maybe had a shot at that No. 1 spot?  
NICO HISCHIER: Well, I had a good season in Halifax, and afterwards, I knew until now I'm playing good, and, well, I just tried to keep it up and to work hard until the end of the season.  Yeah, I'm so happy that it comes like this.   
 Q.  There's a photo going around of you as a kid in a New Jersey sweater.  Can you talk a little bit about that?  
NICO HISCHIER: Yeah, for sure.  Yeah, I was really young, and there's a tournament in Switzerland where you wear an NHL team, and it's always random, and that year we were the New Jersey Devils, so yeah, it's pretty special.   
 Q.  How old would you have been?  
NICO HISCHIER: Oh, I think probably like 10, yeah.   
 Q.  What do you think it says about Swiss hockey?  
NICO HISCHIER: What it feels for --   
 Q.  For your country.  
NICO HISCHIER: Oh, good.  Swiss hockey does a really good job with their players, and I have a lot of guys who helped me through this in Switzerland.  Yeah, I'm really happy for that.   
 Q.  Let's go back to August when you first came to Halifax, don't know about the city.  Did you think something like this would be possible?  
NICO HISCHIER: No.  I would like if I said I thought it was possible.  I'm just surprised.  But I knew I had a good season, and I know what I can do.  But it's -- right now it's unbelievable, and just I'm so happy.   
 Q.  Do you worry at all that you're setting yourself up on too big of a note?  
NICO HISCHIER: I mean, it means a lot.  I already said there are a lot of guys in Switzerland supporting me in this way, and they do a great job with their players, and for me, it means a lot, as well.  I'm just happy, and yeah.   
 Q.  Halifax is a good fit for you?  
NICO HISCHIER: Yeah, 100 percent.  Halifax was a first-class organization.  I had awesome billets.  They helped me through this year, and my teammates were awesome, as well.  Yeah, just a first-class organization, and they did a lot for me there, really good.   
 Q.  Are you ready for next year?  
NICO HISCHIER: It's hard to answer right now.  I'm going to do everything I can.  I'm working hard, and then I'll see at the training camp.   
 Q.  Now that you've had a chance to talk with some members of the Devils' management, what are your thoughts about joining the Devils?  
NICO HISCHIER: Just great.  I mean, to join such an amazing team with a lot of history, it's just awesome, and I'm really happy to be part of that organization, and I'm really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  How much do you know about the organization?  
NICO HISCHIER: Yeah, well, I didn't focus on one team.  I didn't have any expectation.  But I knew Damien Brunner who's a Swiss guy that played there for a little, and Martin Brodeur and those guys, Kovalchuk.  They have a good history there, 100 percent.   
 Q.  You said you didn't know you were going to be the pick.  How were the hours leading up to that without knowing what was going to happen?  
NICO HISCHIER: Yeah, I have to say this morning it was fine, and then as soon as I stepped here in the ice rink, then my pulse went up and stayed there.   
 Q.  We saw you grab your heart and you were coming off the stage.  Is it pounding out of your chest at that point?  Can you talk us through what was going through your mind there?  
NICO HISCHIER: Yeah, 100 percent.  I think -- I have a new pulse max, so on the ice I'm not keeping that pulse so high.   
 Q.  When you woke up this morning, what would you say did you think your odds of wearing this jersey tonight?  
NICO HISCHIER: I would say I didn't want to focus on one team.  I was open for everything, but I'm so glad right now to wear this jersey and to be part of this organization.   
 Q.  There was a coin toss between you and another prospect.  What does it mean to you to go first rather than somewhere else?  
NICO HISCHIER: Well, yeah, it means a lot.  I mean, it makes it even more special, and to share that moment with my family, it's just unbelievable.  I have to see them and thank them again, so yeah.   
 Q.  When you look at what you need to do in terms of now until September, what are the things that you're going to focus on?  
NICO HISCHIER: Yeah, for sure I know I've still got to work a lot.  I mean, this game is such a high level.  I've got to improve on my skills, and in the summer, summer is coming up, so I've got to do workouts every day.  Yeah, but right now I really want to enjoy this night, and I'm really happy, and tomorrow just going to go back to work.   
 Q.  Have you heard from any of your teammates yet?  
NICO HISCHIER: No, I didn't check my phone yet, but probably going to ring a lot now.   
 Q.  Do you know Muller at all, the defenseman?  
NICO HISCHIER: Well, I know him, like I never met him, but my brother is a good friend of him, so yeah.  It's pretty cool.   
 Q.  Do you like the new jerseys?  
NICO HISCHIER: Yeah, I think it looks awesome.  I really like the design.   
 Q.  How do you feel about coming to America, and do you think you're setting a trend?  
NICO HISCHIER: Well, I think I'm not the first one who came over -- oh, in German?  I wasn't the first guy who came over, but I can say it's the right way.  There are a lot of ways, but for me it was the right way, and that's why I took this decision.  Yeah, you've just got to find out what you want and do it, and for me it was clear I wanted to do this.   
 Q.  I noticed in your jacket that you took off, the inside lining was red.  Was that on purpose?  
NICO HISCHIER: No, I wanted my billet to do a custom suit, and my dad, we all choose the same color inside.  It was just random, it wasn't on purpose.   
 Q.  Is it important to you to get into the NHL and play in the NHL right away?  
NICO HISCHIER: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, it's my goal, so it is important for sure.  I really want to achieve my goal, but I still know I have to prove a lot of things to play there, and yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT