NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
June 7, 2016
Willy Amador
Wayne Graham
Grayson Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LSU - 5, Rice - 2   
WAYNE GRAHAM: Well, I thought our guys did a good job.  Willy pitched very well.  And we competed very well.  But we forced LSU to play a good game and I thought they played an absolutely great game.   
Robertson, you know, he prevented two more runs in the second inning with that diving play, and he had to go a long way to get it and then he set up that whole thing with the hit-and-run and then drove a run in later.  He was the key player in the game.  And of course, along with Poche', who was brilliant.  He pitched better than we thought he could.  I thought they played a great game and deserved to win, but we competed and I'm proud of our guys, too.   
THE MODERATOR: Talk about your outing a little bit, please.   
WILLY AMADOR: I felt good out there.  It was a hostile environment.  I just tried minimizing the fans and just looking down at my catcher.  I never took my eyes off the catcher.  I felt like I threw great, and just one hitter hurt me, bad, three hits on me.   
THE MODERATOR: Talk about that at-bat, if you don't mind.   
WILLY AMADOR: I was supposed to get the fastball in, and I messed up and he just -- he's a great hitter.  He took advantage of it, and looked back and hit it straight over center field.  There's nothing really I can say about that.   
THE MODERATOR: You led the tournament in base hits.  Talk about your weekend here and your career at Rice.  I know you're a senior.   
GRAYSON LEWIS: It's been a great career at Rice, my second year.  I've had the pleasure of playing for some great coaching staffs, Coach Graham, Coach Van Hook, Coach Hallmark and Coach Shepperd.   
So yeah, it's been a fun two years, and this tournament, in particular, obviously it was very fun for me.  It would have been a lot more fun if we had won this game today but you have to hand it to LSU.  That was a good game.  Like Coach Graham said, they played really well.  It's been fun.  It's been a great environment to play in.  One of the most memorable probably baseball experiences that I'm ever going to have.  It's been great.   
 Q.  Grayson, what was Poche' able to do so well that gave y'all trouble?  
GRAYSON LEWIS: He was just locating his pitches and locating mainly his fastball and his curveball and keeping it down, and mixing very well, keeping us off balance, coming in when he needed to with the fastball.   
Yeah, just throwing that curveball exactly where he wanted it.  He did a great job all night.   
 Q.  You threw very well for six innings.  What did they do, did they make an adjustment in that sixth inning or did you leave a pitch up?  Was it just good swings on the baseball?  
WILLY AMADOR: They are a good-hitting team, overall, but you can't forget about that hit-and-run where the ball is up and he pokes it straight through second base because he went to cover the bag.  But that's what we're supposed to do, cover the bag and throw him out at second.   
After that, they were ready for the fastball.  I was throwing it down all day and I left it up, and that's what happens when you leave it up.  They take advantage.   
 Q.  I know y'all came up short today but just what y'all were able to do in this regional with all the rain delays and all that stuff.  How proud are you of your team for what they were able to do throughout this regional?  
WAYNE GRAHAM: I think this tournament showed that we've had a lot of growth.  We started really slow this year, and hoped that our guys would get better and they did and they competed very well in this tournament and I'm proud of them.   
WILLY AMADOR: I want to say that it was a pleasure playing with those group of seniors and I loved them and they battled their hearts out on the field.  It was great playing with them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT