SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 29, 2013
Sydnee Michaels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Delay this morning obviously weather is a little crazy.   Lift clean and place helped a little bit.   But a lot of birdies.   Were you kind of aggressive, just kind of going for pins?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   I was pretty aggressive today, but I hit it really good today.   I pretty much had a birdie opportunity on almost every hole.   I made two bogeys, but I rolled it really well and hit it really well.  
   
 Q.   How about birdies, any long putts?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   Not anything crazy.   I think my longest birdie put was probably like 15feet.  
   
 Q.   So all approach shots were ‑‑  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   Yeah, all my approach shots were pretty close.  
   
 Q.   What about the bogeys?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   I hit one, I had to punch out.   Hit it in the trees, had to punch out.   That was one of them.   
The other one was I pulled it a little left and short‑sided myself and didn't get up‑and‑down.   
   
 Q.   A lot of people said the fairways are narrow.   Was that affecting your game plan on really trying to be straight off the tee?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   That's definitely important here.   The fairways are very narrow.   The trees are pretty large.   That was definitely something that I took into consideration in the beginning of the week and was working on hitting shots on the range like I would be hitting it off the tee.   
   
 Q.   Coming into this a couple of missed cuts, were you working on anything in particular?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   It's been up an down for me this year.   I have just been trying to battle hard and work hard and get back on track.   
The last few weeks have definitely been‑‑ I'm definitely back on the rise.   It feels good.  
   
 Q.   Working with coaches or anything?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   I just started working with Dave Stockton actually on my putting.   I started with him probably a couple of months ago.   I can really see a big improvement, especially the last two or threeweeks, so I'm happy about that.  
   
 Q.   What was the biggest change he made?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   I think the great thing about his philosophy is that he just keeps it really simple.   I'm not really overthinking anything.   He just changed a couple of things in my grip, honestly.   He doesn't touch your stroke or anything.   It's just really simple.   It seems to be working well for me.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, you had like 27 putts?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   And last week I think I had three rounds under 30 putts.  
   
 Q.   Huge difference?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   Yeah, big difference.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you're heading towards the end of the season, do you re‑evaluate goals?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   Well, I didn't have the year I wanted to this year.   I had a couple of setbacks personally and professionally, so I just‑‑ I just want to finish out the season strong and get into as many Asian events as I can.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT