SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 17, 2012
Sydnee Michaels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome our current leader Sydnee Michaels into the interview room.   You birdied the first four holes today.   And you're one of the first four players to get off to a hot start.   You also carded career low 65.   
I understand you have some family here, and you're from the west coast as well, so tell us how that felt today?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   I definitely picked a good day to play well.   My family's here and my boyfriend's here, so that's nice to play well in front of all of them.   It feels great to be on the west coast.   I'm a California girl, so it definitely feels great to be over here.   I definitely got off to a great start, so I kind of went with it, and was like, okay, I'll just enjoy the ride and keep going.   
THE MODERATOR:   I understand you're one of eight children, the youngest of eight.   So tell me how it feels to have family out here watching you today and what's it like?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   It feels great.   My family's been really supportive of me, and it's so good to have them out here with me and being able to watch me.   We're on the road a lot and on my own a lot, so it feels so good to have some family here and they get to watch me play, so it feels great.   
THE MODERATOR:   Did they have any role in you taking golf up as your career?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   No, nobody in my family plays, not even my parents.   No one plays golf.   I don't even think they really know what's going on, so they're just clapping when everyone else is clapping.   But they love and support me.   That's all I could ask for.  
THE MODERATOR:   You played on the Symetra Tour last year.   You notched two victories and finished fourth in the race for the card.   How did that experience help you in your rookie season?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   It's really helped me a lot.   Playing professional golf full‑time is a lot different from amateur and junior golf.   We're out here week after week and making your own travel arrangements and dealing with travel problems, cancelled flights, whatever it is, and learning a new course every week for me as a rookie.   
But it definitely prepared me.   I got to learn how to grind, I learned how to travel, I learned how to win, and learned how to play on a professional scale.   
THE MODERATOR:   You won the Amateur Cup twice here in Oregon.   Tell us about those experiences and what it's like to be back here?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   Oh, those were great.   It's an awesome opportunity for an amateur to be able to play in an LPGA event.   I was fortunate enough to play in eight or nine professional events before I turned pro, and any kind of experience helps you.   
So it's great to be back.   It's awesome to be here, playing as an LPGA player.   I was like on part of the schedule as opposed to just being here for the week.   So there's definitely some familiarity with that.  
   
 Q.   Can you, in your mind, how do you think your rookie year is going?  
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   It's been hit or miss, I should say.   I'll be in contention and I might have a little shaky Sunday, and wind up top 30 or something like that or I'll miss the cut by one or two.   I definitely feel that every week I learn something, and I'm hoping I'll start to hit my stride here towards the end of the season.   Last year I hit my stride at the end of the season, so I'm kind of hoping I follow that pattern.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware you were leading?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   Yeah, I figured.   I'm not a leaderboard watcher.   So I try not to watch the leaderboard, but you can pretty much put two and two together, you're leading.   You have all the photographers and the cameras coming out, so, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Your second shot on your final hole here, was that a no‑brainer that you're going to try to hit the green in two or did you think about it?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   I thought about it.   I thought I had 205 yards to the front, which is pretty much a stock hybrid for me.   There is water all on the left.   So I was really trying to go right side of the green, maybe a little more to the right of it.   But it turned out okay.   I knew I hit it good and I knew I could carry the water there.   And my caddie's like good, good.   And I was like, good, good.  
   
 Q.   You had the early tee time today.   Do you think that will turn out to be an advantage of avoiding the heat?   And wind?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   Yeah, absolutely.   There are different conditions this morning and afternoon every week.   So sometimes I prefer to play in the afternoon.   This morning was very early, but it's very hot today.   So I was kind of happy that we got that first tee time, so we're done, out of the heat.   We got to play a really quick front nine.   So sure, I guess it could have worked to my advantage.  
   
 Q.   I wondered if you could talk about the first four holes and what happened on the first four holes?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   I hit some great shots.   I started on number 10, so my first hole was a par‑5, so I hit a good little pitch up there about eight feet, made a good putt.   Second hole, par‑3, I hit a 5‑iron, I had a little left to right slider about another probably ten‑footer, hit a great putt.   Third hole, put it to about three feet, made that.   
Fourth hole, I chipped in, so that was nice.   So I'm pretty much from there out it was just okay, you know, we've got it going today.   Let's just enjoy the ride.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT