JAMIE FARR TOLEDO CLASSIC PRESENTED BY KROGER, OWENS CORNING AND O-I
August 10, 2012
Sydnee Michaels
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Sydnee Michaels into the interview room.   Good round today.   Can you take me through what you did well.   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   I scrambled pretty well today.   I hit a lot of good shots, then I hit a couple drives that I had to hit some punch shots, get up and down.   
I hit the ball very well today.   I made some good putts.   Just overall I kept it together pretty good.   
THE MODERATOR:   This is your rookie year out here.   You were up there in contention for the lead at Navistar.   Can you talk about how that will help you going into this weekend.   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   Yeah, I've been in contention a few times this year.   It's been a little bit of a hit‑or‑miss year for me.   I've definitely had some practice of being a few shots off the lead, being up there on the leaderboard.   I haven't quite followed through so much on my Sundays, so I'm hoping I'll be able to take that experience and put it towards a more positive note for this Sunday.   
THE MODERATOR:   Like Kathleen, you got your start on the Symetra Tour.   Talk about how that helped you.   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   I think it really helped me.   It just gets you used to living Tour life.   You're traveling, you're on the road, you're playing every week, you're playing for money.   It really helped me a lot.   
It's completely different than junior golf, amateur golf, college golf.   You're out there on your own, making your own travel arrangements, playing week after week.   It really preps me for this year.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you give us your best scramble today, best up and down.   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   Sure.   I started on 10, so it's hard for me to remember which hole it is (laughter).   It was one of the par 4s on the front nine, which was my back nine.   Oh, I don't remember what hole it is, sorry.   
But I hit it left in the trees.   I hit a punch 5‑iron under the trees.   The green slopes really severe front to back.   I hit a good punch shot.   I just kept running.   It was all the way at the top of the hill.   The pin was in the very front.   So I had a really long, really downhill putt.   
I hit a decent putt but I left it pretty short.   I made a pretty awesome left‑to‑right slider, probably about a 10‑, 15‑footer to save par.   That was probably my best save today.   
   
 Q.   You played in the Symetra Tour event last week and you had to pull your clubs.   How does it feel to have a caddie back on your bag?   
SYDNEE MICHAELS:   It feels really good.   Another thing is I'm not the best at math, so I definitely miscalculated a couple yardages.   My pin sheet was bleeding red with my red Sharpie.   I think I lost about five pounds last week pushing my bag up and down the hill.   So it's really nice to have a caddie.   
THE MODERATOR:   Sydnee, thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT