BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2019
Harry Perretta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Georgetown - 76, Villanova - 67   
HARRY PERRETTA: I just think it was a game where they played very well and we played good.  That's what it was.  Like I said, I don't think we played that poorly.  We shot 48 percent.  We scored 67 points.  But they played better.  It was kind of like the game at Villanova, not as extreme as that, but they made -- what did they first have, 6 for 7 from three, we had made 10 threes in the first half, can only imagine a four-point lead, and I didn't know whether we could keep shooting the ball, and we needed to make 10 more threes in the second half to win.  The way that they were driving the ball, it started to be difficult for us to keep them in front without helping, and when we'd help they'd kick the ball to their other kids and their other kids made shots.   
I thought it was a game where the stars were obviously going to play well in both sides, but I thought it was the other kids who were going to determine who won or lost the game.   
 Q.  What did you see defensively in the second half?  
HARRY PERRETTA: Well, what they did was they started double teaming and forcing us to throw the ball to the non-shooter, throwing the ball to Mary, and that's why Mary had so many points.  They were not letting our three-point shooters shoot the ball in the second half, which is what I would do.  You double-team the three-pointer because Adrianna was killing them the first half.  So that's what they did the second half, they just double-teamed the ball, forced us to throw the ball back to the non-shooters, and they played from there.   
 Q.  Georgetown has now won five straight games this time of year.  Why is that?  
HARRY PERRETTA: They're playing extremely well, and they're almost unguardable on the perimeter one-on-one.  It's hard to keep them in front of you.  And if you do keep them in front of you, they can score over your head.  So they can make a shot that's contested.  There's not many players in women's basketball that can do that, score over your head.  And they have two that can do it.  And they can beat you off the dribble.   
Now their other players are stepping up and making shots.  It's kind of like when we would isolate Mary and she would drive it and kick it and we would make threes.  It's the same concept.  The only difference is they do it differently than we do.  We can't do it with speed and all that stuff.  We do it like the old-fashioned way.   
 Q.  You said last time you met them it was an aberration.  Was the first half an aberration?  
HARRY PERRETTA: I think the game was extremely well played in the first half by both teams.  I went into halftime, I said to our guys, I said, look, we're probably playing the best we can.  But Georgetown is playing really good, too.  And it was a question of who could sustain making shots in the second half.  Like I said, Jannah got some good looks at it.  I don't know what she wound up, but she got some good looks in the second half.  She wound up 3 for 13 from three.  And first half she had made a couple of those shots.  So it boils down to you've got to make the shots when they present themselves, and we didn't do that in the second half, and they did.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) took away your three-point shooting, like you said.  How viable did Mary prove she was inside where she was making buckets?  
HARRY PERRETTA: Well, she scored -- she's, what, the third leading field goal percentage shooter in the country.  So the problem was once they got the lead, you're just trading baskets.  So holding the lead was vital.  Once we lost it, then you're basically trading baskets with them.  But she can score the ball inside on a lot of kids.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT