BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2017
Harry Perretta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








St. John's - 56, Villanova - 40.
HARRY PERRETTA: Well, I just thought that St. John's defense showed up today.  In the first two games we played them, their defense did not show up.  I think we scored 55 in the first game and we scored like in the 60s in the second game.  So today their defense showed up, and when it does, it's very difficult for us to score because they take away a lot of our perimeter shots.
Q. How did you feel at halftime when it was tied 23-23?
HARRY PERRETTA: I felt like we were in trouble because we couldn't score.  You know, we couldn't get three-point shots, and we couldn't score inside, and eventually I felt like our defense would break down because they were driving the ball and we were having a hard time guarding them.  I just felt like eventually you can only hold back something so long, you've got to score the ball.  In the third quarter you saw what happened, we only scored six points.
Q. It seemed like in the first half, you talk about their defense, but they were really pressuring you, the length of the court, the on-ball pressure.  Did that then end up taking a toll in the second half on you?
HARRY PERRETTA: I think it took a little bit of a toll.  It took us out of our rhythm.  We started our offense a little farther away from the basket than we normally do.  So I just think that it didn't totally disrupt us, but it did throw us off kilter.
Q. Positives that you take away from your team going into the off-season if you go bigger picture on the season?
HARRY PERRETTA: Well, it's just a young team who's trying to learn how to play.  Sometimes they're going to fall apart and sometimes they're not.  We beat them twice in the regular season, and I'm shocked that we beat them twice in the regular season.  But that's what young teams do.  And then in a big environment like this when they get more pressure, young players tend to not step up, and then they have to learn to step up.
Q. If you look at this one in the second half, Lewis just takes control.  Coach was saying earlier, normally teams look for her to be the one shooting because her jump shot can be kind of shaky.  When she's hitting jumpers like that --
HARRY PERRETTA: Right.  Again, they came to play, and she's a senior, and she came to play, and Adrianna is a sophomore and Adrianna could not guard her.  It's like saying the difference between the three games.
Q. How much did Adrianna develop from last summer to now, and how promising is that for her final two years?
HARRY PERRETTA: I think she's developed a little bit.  She still has to develop defensively.  But the problem is she's struggled more this year because she didn't play with Caroline.  Caroline took a lot of pressure off her.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT