PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2015
Malik Golden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm wondering, if you've watched any film so far of the Northwestern offense, what have you seen from them so far?  
MALIK GOLDEN: They've got a good, solid line, a mobile quarterback, a very good running back, and some receivers that make plays when the ball is thrown to them.  So we've got a tough task.   
 Q.  What are some of the challenges with those mobile quarterbacks because you guys have seen quite a few of them this year?  
MALIK GOLDEN: They're a pain, the way they can just extend plays.  It's just tough to really handle a mobile quarterback, but I'm pretty sure we've got this one.   
 Q.  James said that he was going to be introducing or I guess throwing it -- I don't know if you guys have seen it before, Trace and Tommy, to kind of play that dual-threat role.  Has that been done in the past when you guys were preparing for Ohio State, for Maryland, or is this going to be something newer you guys have been working on?  
MALIK GOLDEN: We've talked about this.  This might be the first week we've really did it.  But Trace is a tough task, too, the way he -- like especially in the summer, the way he just extended plays against us.  Trace is pretty good.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your role in nickel and dime coverage, and is it difficult to have to always kind of be ready to run in there and contribute kind of at the spur of the moment?  
MALIK GOLDEN: I enjoy it.  Nickel and dime, it's basically about passing situations, getting more speed on the field.  Just to be ready at a moment's notice is no big deal.  I kind of enjoy it to be honest with you.   
 Q.  Malik, you've played here a while, played for a lot of different defensive coaches, I guess, over the years.  How does playing for different coaches affect your overall thoughts on football, how defenses attack, how defenses are schemed up, and maybe Coach Shoop in particular, how has he maybe caused you to think of the sport overall differently?  
MALIK GOLDEN: Playing for different coaches, you kind of learn different schemes and master different schemes, so I learned Coach Butler's scheme.  I started to learn Scrap, Coach Bradley's scheme, when I was getting recruited, and then when Coach Shoop came in, I learned his new scheme.  What I learned from Coach Shoop is just about techniques, not tactics, just being in your position and doing what you're asked to do of the defense.   
 Q.  When you're going against dual-threat quarterbacks, what specifically do you, if anything, make adjustments to?  Do you make adjustments?  And secondly, you said you're pretty sure you got this one against Northwestern.  I'm just curious where does that confidence come from and why is that?  
MALIK GOLDEN: You've got to play with confidence.  You've got to think that you're going to win every game.  Northwestern is a very good team.  This quarterback especially, along with like Maryland and Ohio State's quarterback, they can extend plays and it's pretty tough for the DBs because you have to stay on your man a little bit longer, stay in coverage, not go up and try to attack him and he throws the ball over your head.  That's what mobile quarterbacks can do.   
 Q.  You guys have probably some of the more outgoing personalities I'd say in your meeting room.  
MALIK GOLDEN: Yes.   
 Q.  Can you take me through what's that like?  
MALIK GOLDEN: You've got Jordan, who goes by "Drop," so if you ever see Jordan, just say, "what's up, Drop?"  He'll be like, "Yo, what's up."  You've got Marcus who's the class clown, too, but the younger guys like Ayron Monroe, a guy named Tomasetti, who we call "Bubba," in like the safeties room, we're always just cracking up, and then you've got Coach Shoop, who is a funny guy himself.  I'll just say that.   
 Q.  What's maybe the funniest thing that Bob has done, because he's got a pretty dry sense of humor, right?  
MALIK GOLDEN: Yeah.  Actually if you go on Twitter, you'll see his son actually posted a video of him dancing.  Coach Shoop can't dance, but the video is pretty funny.  So that's probably the funniest thing.   
 Q.  Did you guys bust him pretty hard about that video?  
MALIK GOLDEN: Yeah, we're just like amping him up, telling him he can dance, and he's just believing us.  But Coach Shoop is a great guy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT