TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2011
Tommy Tuberville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH TUBERVILLE: We're excited about this week and the Wounded Warrior game. I thought last year it was a success that we all had a chance to honor a lot of our wounded warriors here.  
 They have an opportunity to come here and be on campus and be with our players for a couple of days, talk to our players about their experiences here at home and overseas.   
 And I think this year it's called believe in heroes, the game. And so we welcome an opportunity to be around some of the same guys from last year and some new wounded warriors that are here that will come and share experiences, and then also we have, I think, the most recent Medal of Honor winner will be here on campus and talking to people and coming to the game.   
 But Under Armour does a great job of this, they have several teams each year that they represent that do something for the Wounded Warrior Project. I think last year we raised quite a bit of money and hopefully we'll do the same thing this year.  
 So this is the uniform we'll wear. Our players yesterday wore them in practice, just trying to get used to them a little bit. But they're obviously all different. But I think they've outdone themselves and even looks better than last year.  
 So hopefully people will buy one of the jerseys or the T-shirts or whatever and most of the money goes to the Wounded Warrior Project. That's how the money is raised. So we're looking forward to that this weekend.  
 We also this weekend have senior day for all of our seniors. We're excited about that and them coming and being part of their parents being part of the beginning of the football game.   
 You know, it's been an up-and-down career for all of them. But as they all will tell you, we spoke in here yesterday, spent an experience they'll never forget in terms of the friends that they've made and the things that they've had the opportunity to do here academically and on the football field. So we're looking forward to the seniors and their parents being here this weekend.   
 Talking about this weekend's game coming up Oklahoma State. I just read where this is their highest ranking ever. They have a good football team. They've struggled over the years in the past and built this football team where it's at. They had a good football team last year. They've got a much better football team this year. And they've got players that can make plays, score a lot of points, and so it will be a game plan that will probably be one of the more different game plans that we'll have to make in terms of what they do and how they do it.   
 But they've got a lot of weapons, and Mike Gundy has done an excellent job with that team, all of his coaches. And they've built it slowly, built it the right way, and, again, they've got a huge opportunity. They know that coming in and we'll get their best shot. Probably one of the good things that's happened to us this year and one of the things that we're paying the price for each week now after last few weeks is after beating Oklahoma we get everybody's A game, and we saw last week in the Texas game, I thought we knew we weren't walking into a situation that was going to be easy or overlooked.   
 But they're very talented. They made a lot of plays. We obviously didn't play as well as we would have hoped. We made a lot of mistakes. Missed tackles. It was just one of those deals that we could not play well on third down. And we did the same thing the week before.  
 So we'll go back to this week and try to improve ourselves defensively and see if we can tackle better against a team that's totally different than what we played last week.   
 So we've got to switch gears defensively and have a different type of game plan and hope to play better on all downs, not just on third down. Offensively, last week we were kind of hit and miss. We were our own worst enemy, probably the worst thing that we did was run the football. We weren't near as aggressive as we needed to be with our offensive line. That wasn't one of our better games offensive line-wise, Seth Doege, he played a very good game. No turnovers, and we just made too many mental mistakes in the red zone.  
 And there was, I think, three times we went three and out in the second quarter that has haunted us in other games. And we're just not good enough defensively to keep our offense in it; if we can't keep up by scoring points either field goals or running, being able to control the ball at times and then scoring touchdowns. So just one of those games that kind of got away from us, got away from us early.   
 Looking forward to Oklahoma State this week. 11:00 kickoff. Hopefully we'll have a good crowd. Senior Day. Wounded Warrior Believe in Heroes, and a lot of things our fans can hang their hat on other than just a football game.   
 Questions?   
  
  Q. Are you concerned about the defense's ability to force turnovers?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Yeah. We haven't forced many at all. As I said after the game Saturday, we've got to win battles on third down. You're not going to win them all. But you've got to win a few.  
 We haven't hardly won any the last two weeks. And we haven't got any turnovers. I think we have maybe one turnover, Iowa State, about the one-yard line. I remember them fumbling down there, and we happened to get that fumble.   
 All year long that has been a problem for us, causing fumbles, and luckily we haven't been that big a team in terms of turnovers in most games. Now, Kansas State was one of those we did turn it over, and it cost us.  
 And then we had some special teams problems with A&M but we've been pretty good in that category. But we just haven't been very opportunistic.   
 And we're not good enough to not get turnovers, just at least one or two, and then have -- make the other team punt, basically, get the team off the field.  
 And I can't remember the last time -- I guess Oklahoma, first half, we held Oklahoma three or four times in a row to three and out. And ever since then that has not happened.   
 So we've got to do better in those areas.   
  
  Q. Is tackling something you can approach?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: You can work on it. You can work on technique and fundamentals. A lot of times when you play an aggressive game like that -- that's a different type of team that we've played.   
 Our guys were trying to make the tackles, they overpursued, didn't break down, left their feet. But it is -- there's a lot to coaching tackling but there's a lot of athletic ability to it, too.  
 The better tacklers I've been around before you didn't have to teach them anything, because usually it's about body control, and don't leave your feet.  
 We try to teach our players don't leave your feet. Once you leave your feet, you lose all your power. The running back's still running, he's on his feet. You leave your feet, you get run over like a couple times we did on Saturday. You have to keep the power in your legs. That's where the most strength in your body is.  
 But, again, we didn't tackle very well. We didn't wrap up at times, but there's a lot of coaching to it, but there's also a lot of natural ability to it also.  
  
  Q. At this point in time where you are driving forward and the losing streak, is there something different you might do just from a motivational standpoint or when you're talking to the team to keep everybody together and keep their spirits up so they feel like they still have opportunities to win football games?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Yeah, you know, there's a fine line. Players have to be self-motivated, too. Coaches can only do so much. I think fans can be a big part of that, you know, of being positive.  
 I think that, you know, your seniors have to -- and again every Sunday we have a senior meeting. They sit on the front row here and we talk about what's happened. Because this is their team. This is what they will be remembered for.   
 And I think they have to be a big part of it. But obviously coaches do and talking about certain things. But you have to forget a win or a loss.   
 I mean, we said the same thing after Oklahoma, and we said the same thing after Iowa State. This group in this room is one that plays the game, coach the game. You have to forget, go on, go on to the next game.  
 You keep dwelling on what's happened in the past and you're not going to get any better. We've actually gotten better this year in most areas, in terms of the football team. And it might not look like it, but we've been inconsistent.  
 For instance, the two corners that played for us in the Oklahoma game didn't play Saturday. I mean, we've had to use so many different players.   
 We moved another offensive player yesterday to defense. It's just we've -- and you know it's not an excuse. We look for reasons to make changes and stuff, but there's been a lot of reasons that we've had to.   
 We've had to do it just because of necessity, to try to get more athletes on the field. We play these teams now, they're very athletic. Every team that we play. We're athletic on offense.  
 So people have to have good athletes on defense playing against us or we'll go up and down the field on you. So we're trying to match guys every week in different areas and try and make sure that they have the proper alignments, everything going their way once they kick that athletic ability in stride against some of these teams.  
 And if they're not just -- if we're just not absolutely perfect, I mean, we can't make up for some things.   
 And so that's the reason we have to play well on certain downs. We gotta get off the field. We stay out there too long, then a lot of that stuff shows up, that you can't teach or that we don't have.   
  
  Q. Just confidence?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Our guys have a lot of confidence. The great thing about it is we can score points. And our defense knows -- we're in the ballgame, we go in at halftime and we have absolutely got run over, and our players know that we can score points.  
 We can score points just like that, we just gotta get the ball back. We go out there in the second half and we couldn't get the ball back. It just didn't happen.  
 So the struggle from my point of view getting over to the players is we've got to have those breaks. But people aren't going to give you breaks. You've got to cause fumbles, you've got to get interceptions, knock the ball loose, tackle the football. You've gotta do those things to create those turnovers. And then vice versa on offense, we can't shoot ourselves in the foot.  
 When we got our opportunities, we've got to take advantage. We drive the length of the field the first drive, we get down to the two-yard line, we score a touchdown, we get a penalty, which was a penalty.  
 And you know you're not going to beat a good team on the road. We didn't do that against Oklahoma. Every time we got the ball down there we got it in the end zone. And that's how we've got to win. We're not going to win on defense. I think everybody in here that's watched us last two years, we're not going to win games very often on defense. Now, we helped win the game against Oklahoma the first half. The second half they scored 31 points.   
 And we fail to forget that sooner or later this defense is going to come around and things are going to go their way but we can't wait on them to happen, we've got to make it happen. Confidence, these kids got all the confidence in the world.  
 Sooner or later we're going to get a break. And it's going to happen soon. Hopefully it will happen this week.  
  
  Q. What do you expect -- (inaudible)?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: I thought a lot better about this defense. We're a better defense than we were last year at this point. We're playing teams that are a lot better than were last year, the teams we're going against. There's no doubt the team we played last week is head and heels above what they were. And on down the line.   
 But we get into the Texas State game and we're feeling good about, we've got a little more depth, we've got a little more size on the defensive line.  
 I think we've got a little bit more experience. And Texas State runs up and down the field on us, a team that we should beat. And I knew right then that we were going to have problems.   
 And then we played well at New Mexico after the open date. And then we played a Nevada team that quite honestly beat us everywhere but the scoreboard, other than our offense on the last, what, two or three drives, we were able to score that.   
 So we're 5 and 4. We're disappointed. But to some degree, if you go back and look at some of the games, we're behind 21-0 against Kansas. You know, there's a correlation there.  
 We're not very good on defense. But we've got guys practicing hard. And you asked me about the 4-2-5. We run every defense in the world this fall. We base it out of the 4-2-5, run an eight-man front, seven-man fronts, we do everything we can to put our guys in good positions, just sometimes we're looking for that fumble or we're looking for the interception or we're looking for a break or a penalty.   
 But it just seems like we can't get that break. But it's going to happen. As we tell our players, sooner or later it's going to happen. And you just gotta keep plugging. Can't lose your confidence. You've got to go practice hard, that's where you get better at you don't get better in the game. Our guys have busted their tails.   
 And I tell them: You can be disappointed but don't be discouraged. There's a huge, huge difference. They're all disappointed. I know our fans are disappointed.   
 A lot of them are mad and all that. But, hey, no sense in getting mad. You can be disappointed but don't get discouraged. This group will get better.  
 I made a decision when we got here that we weren't going to be a junior college team. We're going to take two or three -- not going to take 10, 15 of them, and we would have been better. But two years we would have been right back where are at. We're going to build this thing with high school kids that will be here four, five years. We're going to redshirt them. I could probably have played four or five, six other guys on defense that could have helped us. You can't do that. You have to redshirt as many as you can. We're here for the long haul. We're not in here for the short haul.  
 We knew we were going to struggle this year. This is a tough year. The 2008/2009 recruiting class, we had less than half of them still here. So we're playing with mostly young guys.   
 So I'm disappointed but I'm not discouraged because these kids are, they're playing hard. They're competing; and we probably won a couple of games we shouldn't have. And the games that we've lost, it's disappointing that obviously the Kansas State and the A&M game were very disappointing because at that point we were playing on a lot of confidence.  
  
  Q. Obviously OSU running the ball against the defense (inaudible)?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: That's one thing they've done, I've been impressed with Oklahoma State last year. They ran it some, but they weren't consistent this year. If you get into a certain type of defenses and you start doubling their wide receivers and getting people out of the box, I mean, they get in their inverted wishbone look and they can pound you and they can run. They've got running backs that can run and block. Their offensive line is physical. They don't wallow around on you. They come off the football.   
 Much improved. I think probably the most improved team in the league in terms of what they do on offense. Defensively, they're a lot like a lot of us; at times they give up points, but they're also improved. They're a team that have been very opportunistic. They struggled last week in stopping the run, as we did against Kansas State. They were just fortunate they were able to outscore them. And we didn't.   
 We had a lot of yards against them, but we just turned the ball over. And put ourselves in a bind.  
  
  Q. How do you defend them?   
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Nobody has. I mean, what you gotta do is you've got to come up with a plan formation-wise in terms of what they have in the game.   
 You've got to take your chances in terms of when you're going to -- what receiver you're going to take out in terms of doubling whether it's Blackmon or whether it's No. 82, I don't know his name, but they spread it around. Their quarterback very seldom gets touched. He's tall, big. He gets it, he's accurate. And that's the reason they're 9-0. They know what they're doing with the ball, and they keep their defense out of a bind.  
 They don't turn it over a lot. Very few turnovers. So their defense usually has a lot of feel behind them to play defense. So, again, a good team. It's a team that's going to come in here -- I thought we played pretty well other than about five or six plays, but we're a different team and they're a different team.  
 So we've got to come in with a good game plan and we've got to execute a lot better than what we have.  
  
  Q. Their defense, the turnovers, giving up yards, you're defensively not giving up turnovers; is this going to be an 85 --  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: It could be. I hope we could score 80 points. They've shown that they can score points. I don't think that -- the big deal about last week's game is Texas threw seven times. It's easy to run the football. It's not as much execution. You've got to line up and they just pounded us.  
 When you throw the football like we do, we understand the ramifications of you've got to have good protection, quarterback has to read the covers and you've got to find the right receiver and throw it and you've got to catch it.  
 There's a lot more things that happen and more complicated when you throw the football. So there's always an opportunity to get more, I think, more opportunities to either get three and outs or make the other team punt when you throw than if you've got a team that is just a running team that just lines up and runs right at you and you can't stop them.  
  
  Q. Talk about '08 and '09, the rebuilding job on defense more than you thought.   
 COACH TUBERVILLE: No. When we looked at it we knew the situation we were in. We went out. We had to find some defensive linemen. And we signed, what, two junior college defensive linemen. The rest are high school guys.   
 We'll do that. This year we're signing all high school defensive linemen. Some will probably have to play next year, the ones that we have committed. But it's a process. Again, we could probably go out again and there's some teams that I know, some in our conference that go sign 10, 15, 18 JUCO guys.   
 And I just don't think this program can be a program that can get enough high school players to have a solid program every year. And so that's the direction we decided to go. And once we get to a level, we want to stay there. We don't want to be up and down. And that's going to take a little bit longer to get to that point.   
 But I think that once you get those high school guys in here that's grown up in the system, they react a lot better in certain situations.  
  
  Q. Is there anything that you would like the fans at Jones Stadium this Saturday to be aware of, sensitivity about Senior Day and Adam?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: I think -- and I hope our fans are sympathetic to all of our seniors. Not just one or two groups. But I would think it's been a hard time not just for Adam but for his family over the last few years.  
 And so as I said, I've been proud of Adam. He's grown up. He's matured. He's been one of the best leaders that we've had on this team, not just this year but also last year.  
 So hopefully it will be a great day for, again, not just for the players but also all the families, because it's tough.   
 When you set in the stands and watch your kids play in a tough sport like this, which is very physical and then go through the ups and downs what college players go through, it's awful tough on parents. It's awfully tough.  
 So hopefully we'll have a great Senior Day.  
  
  Q. Would you talk about the Wounded Warrior game, what it means to you personally and how you feel about playing in a game like that?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: I had a chance to go over twice overseas and you see the average age is 19-, 20-year-old young men and women, the same age as the kids I have in this room every afternoon before we go out to practice. And you see what they go through. Just the environment and the climate. And then the stress.  
 They play a sport that's a little bit different than what our guys play every Saturday. There's life and death, and it's something that it makes you feel good about this country, about the volunteer Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, all that volunteer to do what they do.  
 Then to see a young man, Anthony, that was here last year, totally burned who this year the home builders of this town built him a home. Makes you feel good about the citizens and the people that support our troops.  
 So that's pretty much what this game's about. It's about raising money to help people that have done something for all of us that they won't live a normal life like the rest of us because of the sacrifice they gave.   
 And a lot of them give the ultimate sacrifice. And my dad was -- died on active duty. So it's a pretty tough situation when you look at what they go through. And we take it for granted, there's no doubt we all take it for granted.  
 We're spoiled. We live in our houses and drive nice cars and we get to holler at coaches and I get to holler at referees and all these things. And what they do is real. I mean, it's not a game.  
  
  Q. Talk about Justin Blackmon?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: He's a big time player. I was hoping he would go to the NFL last year. But he made a catch in front of me -- I've been around a lot of good players -- but directly in front of me on our sideline last year. We're in the game and he runs a fade route down the sideline, and he outjumps our defensive back three feet. Did a 360 in the air came down, ran and scored.  
 He's a special player. Very special. And he's a big guy. He can catch anything thrown at him. And he's got a guy that can throw it to him which makes a huge difference.  
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: How old is he? He's 28. He's as calm as a quarterback you'll ever see. Gets in the shotgun. Nothing bothers him. He kind of swats guys off, he's so big, and he's got a lot of confidence. And you can tell he's very mature. And he can -- he's got a rifle on him. He can throw it and he throws it on the money. Long passes. Short passes. He's got a good touch. He's got it all.   
 And it will be interesting after this year to see what he does in the NFL. I think he's going to be very good, because again he's kind of reminds me of a Ben Rothlisberger, big guy that can just nothing really bothers and he stays calm and he knows that his build, his height and everything and the arm he has, he can get any throw, anytime, anyplace.  
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Not really. The biggest thing we worry about is not sacks as much as pressure. Because you don't get the quarterbacks very often.   
 We gave up four Saturday, and I think that might be double of what we've had all year long. Maybe nine games. Quarterbacks don't get sacked in this league much because you're in the shotgun. It's a quick snap and the ball is usually out before you get a chance to get there.   
 So Scott's perfect for -- Scott Smith and Leon have been good for us just for hands up. I think they did a great job against Landry Jones. I think that was the best night we've had of not hitting a quarterback but getting in his face, hands up, making him throw, making him throw maybe sooner than he wanted to.  
 But you'd always like more. I think that the area that we probably hadn't got as much push would be the inside guys, pressure up the middle. We've tried twists and crosses and doing all kind of games with tackles and ends, but a lot of times too you worry about lose and contain. So that's an area we do need to improve.  
  
  Q. How would you rate the pass rush overall?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Pass rush? Last year we were probably nonexistent in most of our bigger conference games. We were having to play guys out of position that should be linebackers, but we're playing them at ends. Dartwan Bush had to play, true freshman. We've gotten better.  
 Again, we've got to do a lot better on third down. We haven't blitzed that much. We're not a blitzing team, because we don't -- we're not a good man coverage, just playing straight up man in the secondary.  
 So we haven't blitzed to get a lot of sacks. So pretty much most of our pressure has come out of a four-man rush.  
  
  Q. Do you build your defense with this type of thing in mind?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Did we build it?   
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: What, the offense at Oklahoma State? 4-2-5 is a built-in nickel defense. We'll probably run more of the 4-2-5 this week, because last week was a running team, Iowa State was more of a running team. Kansas State was more of a running team, where we had to going to go to more 8-man fronts. We played the 4-2-5 most of the time in the Oklahoma game.  
 In the Oklahoma game, there were some down situations, for the first time this year we ran six DBs instead of five. So we added another one.   
 We'll probably do that this week. Probably will have to do it for the rest of the year for the formations that we're going to see.  
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Yeah, they've got a very good safety. He's all over the field. He'll be an NFL-type of guy. They break on the ball well. And, again, they play better against teams like us that they see -- they see a lot of passing practice as we do.  
 I think they've gotten over the years practicing against a guy that can throw it. Receivers that can run good routes. And so that will be a challenge for us with our offense going against a team that sees a very good offense, passing offense in practice.  
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: If I told you that, I'd have to kill you. That's right, players.   
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: He's still with us. He's still in class. He's just a redshirt freshman. Lifting weights. He had an injury for a while. We put him in the weight room for about a month to try to get over that. We want to make sure academically he does the right things, as we have four, five, freshmen right now, they spend more time with tutors and those type of things than they do at practice. Big thing about freshman, you want them to become sophomores, not stats.  
  
  Q. Can you sum up everything for the fan base out here that doesn't see the effort that the kids put in and the work and the time that the coaches put in and the film, they're just looking at the result, if you could say one thing for that fan base what would you say?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: I've tried to do that all my life, Chuck. Tried to explain what these kids go through and the hours they put in. It's just hard. This is a game. It's more than a game to fans. They take it to heart, as we want our players to. I know our coaches, you know, it's business for us, and we take it to heart. But we're dealing with 18, 19-year-old kids that they come here and work out and lift weights and do all those things.  
 When they leave here, football is not on their mind as much as we would like for it to be. But it shouldn't be. It shouldn't be that way. We don't want them to get burnt out. We want them to have a good time here. We also want them to know, hey, we want them to play as well as they possibly can.  
 I think most fans realize that. I've got fans at my house, too. My wife and kids are fans that I take grief from all the time.   
 But it goes with winning. And we'll win. When it's going to happen, yet to be seen. But definitely most people have been looked at us, recruiting has been going very good. We've got to get more depth, some areas where we've got to fill in some spots to improve. No doubt about it. We all know that. We all see that. It's not just going to happen because we're out there playing. Gotta get it done. Fortunate for us I think we've got one of the better quarterbacks in the country, and if he's on, he gives us a chance. And we've seen that this year. He's played awfully well.  
  
  Q. Do you think the fans are (inaudible) than other schools, other programs?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Coaching SEC, I think you get kind of educated in that area, because it's important everywhere. Everybody wants to win every game. And then we want to win every game. But that's not going to happen. I knew going into this season, if everybody -- if somebody thought we were going to win every game, we probably would have been dreaming. I would love to say we could do that, and hopefully one day we can.  
 But we've got a lot of work to do. Lots of work. And we've got a lot of good teams in front of us. The good thing about it most of the teams we're playing, Texas is not, they're a young football, we've got a lot of older players at quarterback and a lot of older guys that are kind of in the rotation.   
 We're in that rotation right now trying to get back up on top in terms of having a lot of seniors guys on our team having experience in what we're doing and growing up in our environment and what we do and how we do it.  
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: I'd rather, if you're playing at home, you'd rather play at night. There was no doubt, we're warming up in Austin the other day, 11:00 game, I would bet there wasn't 15,000 people in there. Now we come back out 20 minutes later and they're all there. But you want the fans there really getting into it. 11:00 games, they're a necessity. Blaine told me next week's game is 2:30 in Missouri. So I think that's a good time. That's a little bit better time. But when you're on the road you want to play as early as you can, because you've got to opposite effect that you want the home team to have.  
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: Pete, he still can't practice. So we'll medical him. We won't play him. I think he played, what, Blaine, one, two games? Then he took the shot in the Nevada game, and he still doesn't have all the strength in his left arm. And we needed to play him. I mean, he was going to help us. That was a pretty tough lick for us, but we're not going to play somebody that's not ready to go.  
  
  Q. It starts to pile up, the losing, you have to as a coach deal with players quitting and is that an issue?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: No, this group is great. Last year they were very good. They liked playing. They know that -- they know -- there's probably some teams around the country that know when they go out there on Saturday, that you know you might not have a great chance no matter who you play.  
 Whoever we play, and we saw this three weeks ago, we beat one of the better teams in the country. And Oklahoma got off to a slow start.   
 But that's football. And we got off to a hot start. When you can score points, you can beat a lot of people. But you're not going to beat them very consistently. You better play defense sooner or later. Because we had an off day on offense against Iowa State. And we got beat.   
 And sooner or later we're going to be able to go out there when our offense doesn't play very well we're still going to win. That's my goal. That's my goal to have that type of defense and that type of mentality that one group doesn't control the whole football team. Right now pretty much it does. We're obvious of that.  
  
  Q. (Question about Trey)?  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: He's done for the year. Trey's done. That was a huge blow for us. He and Neboh played against Oklahoma and neither one played last week. Trey will be out. Neboh, he's out, and Derrick Mays, and that's the reason we moved Sean Corker, he played last week, practiced two days.   
  
  Q. (Question off microphone)  
 COACH TUBERVILLE: He was all right. That wasn't a great game for him. Not having to take on full backs and those things with a bad shoulder. I give it to him. He played through it. Probably most of us in this room would not have even tried to play.   
 I told him he didn't have to. He wanted to play. It's not anything he's going to hurt any worse. It's just sore. Just a bad shoulder. And he played. And he was out of practice yesterday, running around, but he's got to get treatment on it all week and he'll try, probably try to play this week. But as the -- I'm not going to put anybody out there that's got a chance to hurt themselves any worse. And the doctors said if he can handle it, just let him go. That's what type of kid he is.   
 He's been one of our better players. I was shocked. I told you in here last week, I thought he was done. And he came back and practiced probably half speed most of the week and no contact, and then played.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT