TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 3, 2012
Tommy Tuberville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








    COACH TUBERVILLE:   A lot of disappointment, obviously.   We just shot ourselves in the foot.   Made too many mistakes against a good football team.   The last two weeks we've done that, so hopefully we can correct that. 
    But we were right on the edge.   We outplayed‑‑ I thought went into the third quarter, it was huge.   We had to win in the third quarter, and we did.   We had one three‑and‑out which really killed us after the punt return.   Then we throw the ball on first down on the 1‑yard line.   We thought we had it.   It didn't work, and somehow we got a penalty on the one, and it pushed us back. 
    It's just hard to work through all those mistakes.   They're a good team, and we've just got to come back.

Q.   How tough is this for the seniors? 
    COACH TUBERVILLE:   Yeah, that's who we talked to.   We didn't talk to the rest of the team.   Seniors don't have an opportunity again to play against their in‑state rival.   That was it.   Hopefully we can play better for them the next three games and get into a good bowl game.   It's just hard to play so well at times and then play so poorly at times and have inopportune penalties.   It absolutely took us out of it.

Q.   Coach, was it being overaggressive?
    COACH TUBERVILLE:   I guess it was.   It seemed like they just came at bad times.   We work on it all the time, but today they just went against us.   Unfortunately, we couldn't recover from it.

Q.   The decision to call a timeout just before Texas kicked the field goal there at the end of the first half, what was the idea behind that? 
    COACH TUBERVILLE:   Well, we were just trying to freeze him.   He'd had problems from that distance, and we were just trying to make him think about it a little longer.

Q.   Did you think after you got Texas three and out and there was the punt return, the injury, that was almost a momentum killer for the crowd and everybody, wasn't it? 
    COACH TUBERVILLE:   Yeah, that drive killed us.   I hope he's all right.   It was some good, clean blocks and a good return by Zouzalik.   We got the momentum, we scored and everybody was going full speed.   Then we have three‑and‑out, and that was just‑‑ it wasn't the game, obviously.   But it put us in a bind of having to go down and score and having to score again.

Q.   How disappointed are you with the running game?
    COACH TUBERVILLE:   The running game was good at times.   They obviously changed some things in terms of doing a lot of twisting and getting out of their gaps.   They did a much better job this game.   We don't have a breakaway running back.   We're just kind of pluggers.   There were times when we had an opportunity to break the line of scrimmage and maybe go the distance.   But we couldn't get anything big. 
    The two post routes, absolutely.   The kid threw them perfect.   They got behind us, and that was pretty much the difference in the game.

Q.   It seemed like you had the passing game going, and then you were going into a running deal and you get behind and it put you back behind the 8 ball.   Did you ever think about giving up the run all together? 
    COACH TUBERVILLE:   No, because we hit the runs.   Had you to guess with them, and we guessed right some and sometimes we didn't. 
    I thought the three downs when we went three‑and‑out killed us.   We ran it to second down and they stuffed us and kind of put us behind the count.   It was definitely the last two series we'd like to have back in terms of the play calling.

Q.   How much is the absence of Amaro hurting you? 
    COACH TUBERVILLE:   Big time.   We lost three receivers in one game, and then we lost three defensive backs.   We had to play a couple of guys at defensive back that wouldn't have been in there had we not had injuries.   So they took advantage of it.   They saw it.   You've got to give it to them.   They took advantage of going after a corner that hadn't played much all year long, obviously, made the play.

Q.   You had numerous conversations with the officials today.   Did you ever get any satisfaction with any of those conversations? 
    COACH TUBERVILLE:   No, you never get anything out of that.   Then we get the hold on the 1‑yard line.   We got one last year about the same spot, same team, so I better not comment on those. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT