UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 5, 2013
D.J. Eliot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Your defensive line, what can the guys up front do to take pressure off?   
COACH ELIOT:   Well, Florida State, our strength at times was our defensive line, too.   So we had certain schemes that we had designed that maybe put more pressure on them and less pressure on the secondary.   
   
 Q.   What are you going to be looking out there on the field the first time‑‑ first thing you're going to be looking for right away?  
COACH ELIOT:   Well, we've only had them for 15 days.   So I still need to figure out what our strengths and weaknesses are and how we are going to adjust off of that.   So the main thing that I'm going to be looking for is what the players can do and how we can use them.   
   
 Q.   How many times have you heard the word, "the process," and what exactly does that mean in your mind?   
COACH ELIOT:   Well, the process is day‑to‑day.   It's not just the game.   So we work on‑‑ what we have to work on that day and we evaluate ourselves on that day.   
So when he says we are concentrating on the process and not the outcome, it's what did we do that day or maybe that rep or maybe that meeting to make ourselves better.   And then the outcome will fall into place.  
   
 Q.   Is that something you've been preaching since you've known him?   
COACH ELIOT:   No, he's been that way since I've known him.   He's a day‑to‑day guy.   
   
 Q.   How do guys like Kory Brown and Miles Simpson fit into your team and what do you think they can do to help?  
COACH ELIOT:   Well, you know, I think that two of those guys are certain.   One is bigger and one is a little bit smaller and more agile.   But we have got ways to use both types of backers.   We have got ways to use guys when we're playing heavy‑run teams and we have ways to use backers when we have heavy‑pass teams, and both those guys have different skill sets.   
   
 Q.   What's your impression of Avery?   
COACH ELIOT:   My first impression of Avery was I think this guy has got the measure amendments.   He's got the height and got the size and I saw him move around and said, okay, he's got some ability.  
But what really impressed me was when I saw how he interacted with the players and how seriously he took the game.   I was only on the job a few days and he was already up in my office wanting to learn the playbook.   So I've been very impressed with his intangibles.  
   
 Q.   How healthy is Donte Rumph?   
COACH ELIOT:   I think Donte is close and we are expecting big things from him, and he'll be ready to go by the game.   
   
 Q.   What's your impression of the area?   
COACH ELIOT:   Lexington?   I love it.   It's fantastic.   My wife loves the community.   You know, supposedly we have hot summers but I haven't seen them yet.   
So we love the summer, and you know, we have really enjoyed the off‑season.   We have partaked in all the Lexington and Kentucky, you know, social life.   We went to the Kentucky Derby.   We went to Keeneland.   My kids are in little league sports, and it's been fantastic.   
   
 Q.   How much do you need the ‑‑ Lewis and especially ‑‑ inaudible.   
COACH ELIOT:   I think we need everybody, and so we are going to find what we have and we are going to make our adjustments off of that, but we need everybody.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your defense level ‑‑  
COACH ELIOT:   Each level, I think the defensive line, like I've mentioned before, is the furthest along now, and we just need to continue to get better and continue to develop more depth there.   
And then at linebacker, we have got to make sure that we are not only making plays, but the linebackers, the quarterbacks, the defense, that they are making the right checks and the right adjustments, and the secondary, we need to improve fundamentally.   
   
 Q.   If you had to have one strength, is it always D‑Linemen?   
COACH ELIOT:   No, you know, I've coached on different teams where you had different strengths.   But having four good defensive linemen is important.   You don't have to cover somebody if they sack them, you know what I mean.   So it goes a long ways.   
   
 Q.   What's been the biggest change for you since becoming a position coach to a coordinator?   
COACH ELIOT:   Well, I guess instead of being responsible for eight guys, being responsible for about 30‑some guys.   So just managing and being responsible for the entire defense has been a big change.   
   
 Q.   Over the summer, the guys on the field‑‑  
COACH ELIOT:   I think Za'Darius, fortunately, was coached by Coach Brumbaugh at his junior college, so he kind of came in ahead of the rest of the group.   
So I'm hoping to see him even go to that next level.   I think you could tell in the spring that fundamentally, he was ahead of the rest of the guys, but I want to see him even go to that next level where he becomes a great player.   
   
 Q.   You talked about football a lot, coaching the way that you‑‑ what do you like about his style and what does he bring?  
COACH ELIOT:   Well, Coach Brumbaugh played at Auburn for a defensive line coach named Pete Jenkins, and he's a legendary line coach.   And Coach Stoops and I got a lot of our techniques from him.   Coach Brumbaugh not only played for him but was mentored by him.   So that philosophy from Coach Jenkins is the same one that we wanted to put in here at Kentucky.   
   
 Q.   What are some of those philosophies or what are some of the things that he does that you like or appreciate?   
COACH ELIOT:   Probably one of the biggest is that we coached our defensive linemen and had to make plays.   When we were at Florida State, one of our leading tacklers was a defensive end.   So those guys, you know, really concentrated not only executing their responsibility within the defense, but also how to get off a block and make a play.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT