MLB WORLD SERIES: DODGERS VS RED SOX
October 26, 2018
Nathan Eovaldi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've had no issues going back and forth starting and bullpen throughout the postseason.  Does it take some toll as you continue doing it?  And do you think you've opened up some teams' eyes who would want to use you in the future out of the bullpen solely?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: Yeah, I mean it depends.  I think right now the fact that I am built up as a starter, go 100 pitches, then I feel okay going back-to-back days and step out of the bullpen.  I'm sure it could take a toll, but right now I feel really good.   
 Q.  Do you think some teams would want to use you in the future solely out of the bullpen?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: It's all up to them.  It's why I've been so sure coming out of the pen.  It's all up to them.  I would prefer to start, but either way I'm happy.   
 Q.  So much has been discussed about pitch tipping, sign stealing, Machado has been in the middle of it.  What's your opinion on all of it?  And how do you keep from tipping your pitches, and Machado's part recently in this series?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: I mean, I feel like pitch tipping is part of the game.  You have so much video now, and you're able to rewatch all the plays.  The hitters are so good at picking up the little things.  I feel the biggest part is just locating your pitches.  If you locate your pitch well enough, you're still able to get them out.  But I feel like that's also the pitcher's side of it.   
I haven't really heard too much of what Machado said.   
 Q.  Did you know going into the postseason that there was the chance that you could be used out of the bullpen?  And when did Alex come to you for the first time and say that might be a possibility?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: You know, I don't really remember the first time he said it, but I feel like that's just the way it happens in postseason.  I was prepared for it.  Anytime that you can help the team win, I feel like that's the biggest part of it.  I can't think about the first time he told me to.   
But I feel like watching in the past the starters always seem to come out of the pen.  Like I said, you're built up for 100 pitches, so if you could break it down to 10, 20 pitches, I feel like it's okay.  You don't really take that much of a toll.  A lot of times the managers do a good job of not bringing you in right after a start, the day after.  It would be more so like on one of your bullpen days, that you're already going to be throwing 20, 30, 40 pitches.   
It's just in the game.   
 Q.  I know you were excited to get into the playoffs and into the World Series.  The idea of where you started the year, and then you got traded, to be starting a World Series game, can you put that into a little bit of perspective?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: Yeah, I mean, it's definitely crazy to think about, I started this year with the Rays and everything that they were able to do for me.  After the Yankees released me, they put their faith in me that I would be able to recover from Tommy John and come back and be healthy.  The Rays did a tremendous job of taking care of me and not rushing me in any way, and allowing me to get to the point where I am now.  They were able to make the big trade and send me over here for Beeks, and the things he did with the team this year, he was able to come in and help them win some big games, and they finished the year with 90 wins.   
Now for me to be over here it's a huge part to them, I've had a lot of people work on me to get me back to this point, and I'm extremely thankful for everybody.   
 Q.  Once you did come back to the Rays when you first started pitching for them, how long did it take you to actually get back into sync or the flow, whatever, where you felt like you were a hundred percent?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: You know, I definitely didn't feel a hundred percent but I felt really close.  I felt good.  There were certain pitches that it took a little bit more time to get the feel for again.  But the Rays did a tremendous job of getting me back and healthy.  They weren't going to throw me into the fire without me being ready.  We had starts down in the minors, and it definitely helped.  I felt like I was ready to go before they wanted me to.   
So it's just, again, they did a tremendous job taking good care of me.   
 Q.  As you mentioned, the Rays did win 90 games this year and some of their coaches just got hired as managers.  Their influence is kind of felt around the League.  Why do you think other teams are interested in the Rays' sort of people, and what did you learn from being there about how they do things and why it's effective?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: Yeah, when I got traded over here, that was some of the questions I was asked, why are the Rays so good?  What are they doing over there to be so successful?  And it starts with the management.  (Kevin) Cash does a really good job over there and Charlie (Montoyo) got hired with Toronto and Rocco (Baldelli) is with the Twins now.  When I was hurt in 2017, when I was rehabbing down there in the dugout, I'm picking the players' minds but I'm also picking the coaches' minds.  And I learned a lot from Rocco just about the small things.  He was working with the outfielders a lot and this year he was the infield coordinator, I think was his role -- yeah.   
So just picking his mind and learning the little things about the game from him.  I feel like a lot of the teams when you have good success, the coaches end up going somewhere else.   
 Q.  I know you're scheduled to start Game 4, but Alex Cora said you could be used out of the bullpen tonight, if the situation arises.  What has he told you about your usage tonight?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: That it would be similar to the previous nights before, so I'm assuming the eighth inning, we can bridge the gap to get to Kimbrel.  And hopefully if we can take the game and be up 3-0, we'll deal with that tomorrow when it happens.   
 Q.  Would you be able to start tomorrow if you pitched tonight?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: I mean, I feel like I would.  I don't know if they're going to.  I don't think they said, that -- they said that if I am in the game tonight, then I would not start tomorrow.   
 Q.  Going back to Ricky coming out of the pen in Game 1 of the Division Series to Chris Sale closing that out.  What has it been like to watch the way Alex has just gone for the kill in postseason games this year?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: I feel like he's really focused on one game at a time.  If there's a chance to take a win when we can, I think he's making all the right decisions.  Seems like anytime he calls on somebody out of the dugout or coming in any situation as a pitcher, I feel like he makes the right decision.  So we're with him a hundred percent.   
 Q.  After your second Tommy John surgery, was there ever a point that you thought that you would not be where you are today?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: No, again, I feel like I'm trusting the doctors and the surgeons that they're going to do their job.  And then trusting the trainers.  Our medical staff is so good nowadays, and I've had so many people work on my arm, it's hard to tell everybody that's worked with me.   
I never thought that I wouldn't be here.  I was going to trust them and trust my abilities and do what they told me, and be honest with them about being healthy and take it from there.   
 Q.  You said you'd prefer to be a starter, what do you like coming out of the bullpen?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: I like a lot of things about it.  I know I'm coming in, especially like when it's the eighth inning, I'm know I'm coming in for one inning and bridging the gap, getting the ball in Craig's hands, and trust him that he's going to do his job.  He's an outstanding pitcher and closer.  The adrenaline rush you get coming out of the pen.   
I'd say you've got to stay locked in the entire time.  That's one of toughest parts for me.  You really don't know when you're coming in exactly.  But I like coming out of the pen a lot.   
 Q.  Does it make you feel really good to be able to contribute in two different roles as opposed to most pitchers who are contributing in one role?  
NATHAN EOVALDI: Yeah, it does.  It's encouraging.  It's really reassuring for me that AC, Dana, everybody is putting their faith in me that I'll be able to get out there and get the job done, whether it's starting or coming out of the pen.  I value that in myself that I'll be able to come in in any situation, especially in the playoffs, if the team asks me to take the ball, that I need to be ready to do so.  And I feel like the preparation, again, is part of it, too.   
It's definitely helped me prepare and get ready for the Dodgers.  I mean, it's part of the game.  You've got to know who you're facing.  And you go in there and execute your pitches and try not to put too much pressure on yourself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT