TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 17, 2017
Cameron Batson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Have the coaches talked to you about last year's game against Iowa State?
CAMERON BATSON: Yeah, definitely.  During the beginning of the season, all off-season, they brought it up a lot.  That was a game that we were supposed to go out there and win.  We needed two games in order to make a bowl game last year.  We went out there, and they played a good game and beat us in every aspect of the game.
Q. Is that something -- I know they're probably not going to bring it up all week long, but is that something you've thought about personally?
CAMERON BATSON: Yeah, definitely.  Iowa State is a good team.  They've beaten Oklahoma.  We know we're going to have to come out there in the Jones and definitely play some good ball to beat those guys.  They do a lot of things good in every aspect of the game, so we know it'll be a game.
Q. Coach says that the struggles on offense are not executing at a high level; what do you attribute the lack of execution to?
CAMERON BATSON: You know, it's a little bit of us just not going out there mentally focused, coming out at halftime, we could have went for it probably on that 4th and 1, but it's a lot of things that we as players, we just have to control what we can control and let the coaches do what they do and just play our game.
Q. When you're not executing correctly, who steps up and tries to get the team going in the right direction?
CAMERON BATSON: You know, it's a little bit of everyone.  Coach Kingsbury, he's definitely fired up all the time on the sideline.  Nic is fired up, I'm fired up.  Everybody is really just trying to find a way to get the job done.
Q. How frustrating was it seeing your 11-point lead evaporate at West Virginia?
CAMERON BATSON: It was definitely frustrating.  I mean, you go out there, playing good the whole first half, you come out the second half, I think we have like 22 minutes, and it's definitely difficult and it's frustrating playing as a player whenever you do things like that.  But we just have to find a way to just get it done, finish games whenever they need to be finished, and just go out there with a killer mindset in the second half to get the job done.
Q. The missed field goals, do they affect you on offense?
CAMERON BATSON: I would definitely say that they contributed to some points that were left out on the field.  You know, you just have to really just find ways in order to get the job done.  I mean, like I said earlier, if you go for it probably sometime on that 4th and 1, we probably could have maybe got some points there instead of going into halftime with no points.  But we really can't focus on that.  That came was in the past.  We have Iowa State this week, and that's what we're focused on.
Q. We asked Coach who on y'all's team on the offensive side has the toughness or defensive mentality to play defense, and Coach says you.  Do you agree?
CAMERON BATSON: Yes, sir.  I played corner in high school.  I think I had like 19 interceptions my junior and senior year.  But I'm really not worried about that.
Q. Are you interested in that?
CAMERON BATSON: No, I'm not interested in that.  I like playing receiver.  Punt return and kickoff return is something that I enjoy doing.
Q. Who would you say on offense do you feel like might be a good defensive player for y'all?
CAMERON BATSON: Another guy, I think Keke can play some defense.  I think he played corner in high school, as well.  It's a lot of guys, a lot of guys are athletic on our team.  Probably T.J., he's a long guy.  I mean, it's a lot of guys, Doug Coleman who's on defense, he could play some offense, as well.
Q. What kind of a linebacker do you think would Nic be?
CAMERON BATSON: Linebacker?  I don't know, he'd probably be an outside linebacker.
Q. What do you expect to see from the Iowa State defense this week?
CAMERON BATSON: You know, it's a lot of things.  We've watched some film.  We expect some double cloud.  We know how their defense runs, so we really have a lot of -- Coach Kingsbury and Coach Morris, they've been getting the playbook together on what we're doing and how we're going to play these guys.
Q. There was a little bit of a let's say disagreement on the field before the game against West Virginia.  Did that fire up the team?
CAMERON BATSON: Yeah, definitely.  You know, last year they came to our field, did that, and then beat our butts on Saturday last year, and then this year they came out fired up again, so you know, it definitely intensifies the game.  You get a lot of positive energy out of guys.  A lot of guys want to go out there from the first play to the very end of the game, they want to get after them.
Q. What did Coach Kingsbury say about that?
CAMERON BATSON: You know, he really didn't say much.  You pretty much talk a lot.  If you're going to talk, you just do your talking -- we pretty much just try to let our talking go on on the field.
Q. After the game the other day, West Virginia's defensive coordinator said that (indiscernible) drop and cover.  With the success that they've had there, seemed like last year Pat struggled when teams would drop a lot of guys into coverage.  Is that the things that gives y'all the most trouble?
CAMERON BATSON: Yeah, it can definitely give us some trouble every now and then, we just have to find other ways to get out of them dropping coverage or dropping eight.  Whenever they do those things we have to run the ball effectively, which our running backs have been doing a good job of, and just find other ways to get the ball down the field, get it into those little zones outside of their coverage.  You know, that's pretty much what we try to do and how we try to attack it.
Q. Have you played so many 11:00 a.m. games now that you're comfortable with it, or would you still rather play later in the day?
CAMERON BATSON: We would definitely rather play later in the day, but we don't mind playing at 11:00 a.m.    We're used to it.  You have an early morning, you wake up early, you get there, you're fired up.  Coach always said come in there with an attitude so you're ready to play, and we come out there, we get through warm-ups pretty much every stadium we go to it's a loud stadium, so it definitely increases the intensity of the game, and we have a lot of fun out there on Saturdays.
Q. Does last year's loss to Iowa State help the team focus for next week?
CAMERON BATSON: Yeah, we just try to focus on it week by week.  We know we have Iowa State this week, and that's what we're focused on.  We're focused on what they do as an offense, what they do as a defense, special teams wise, and we're just trying to go out there and win us a game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT