U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 3, 2016
Simone Manuel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you think of the race?  
SIMONE MANUEL: Pretty happy with it.  The 50 Free has been a difficult one for me this whole year so just getting a best time and being able to get my hand on the wall to be able to go to Rio was exciting.   
 Q.  What's been difficult for you?  I think a lot of people think you just jump in and splash to the wall and that's it.  What goes on in the 50?  
SIMONE MANUEL: I think for me the difficult part is probably the start and the first 15, 20 meters, because if you watch the race I feel like I accelerate a lot more at the end of the race, so for me the hard part is the get up and go at the beginning.  I think it just depends on what kind of a swimmer you are.  Everybody has different strategies for each race, so you've gotta play your strengths and hopefully fix some of those weaknesses.   
 Q.  There is a strategy?  
SIMONE MANUEL: I guess so.  My strategy for tonight was open up my stroke a little bit more, because I feel like I've been force it go.  So it just kind of depends on the swimmer that you are.   
 Q.  What is your take on Abbey this week?  
SIMONE MANUEL: She is a great competitor, we have been back and forth with American Records in the 100 Free, and it's amazing to race against her.  She is a great competitor, just like all the other people here, so it's a good competition.   
 Q.  Are you surprised how she has won twice this week?  
SIMONE MANUEL: No, I don't think she surprised me.  It's the Olympic Trials, anybody can do anything.  Everybody has been working hard for this meet for four or eight years or longer, but anything can happen.  You've just gotta be on your "A" game and you've just got to compete.   
 Q.  What do you expect to happen now?  
SIMONE MANUEL: Just focus on my events.  (Away from mic.)  For Rio, and I can go back and practice on those two events and watch video and figure out different race strategies to get ready for Rio.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
SIMONE MANUEL: I think I settled down quickly, because I knew I had another event that I wanted to get on the team in, so my coaches let me celebrate for a coach of hours, I talked to my family, signed some autographs, and the moment I got to the team room for dinner it was time to get to bed and (Away from mic.)  So I think I did a good job of handling my emotions, and that's something that my coaches talked to me and my teammates about, it's a long meet, and you're going to have a lot of energy that you need to channel into your races.   
 Q.  What's it mean to qualify for two events?  
SIMONE MANUEL: I think it's a big deal.  I mean, just coming off 2012 I was 17th in the 100 Free, and my a goal was to make semifinals, so just coming in to know that I got 17th, and getting an individual swim has been a goal that I've dreamed of for four years, and then being able to get it in the 50 Free is exciting, and then I'll have the relay too.  I'm super excited for what's to come.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT