U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2006
Massy Kuramoto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  23 putts.
MASSY KURAMOTO:  Yes.
Q.  That's pretty good on a curse course like this.
 MASSY KURAMOTO:  Yeah.  I drove it in the fairway and I was successful 11 times, including the first cut.  But my irons, not so good this morning.  So it's a lot of chipping and putting.  So that's 23 numbers there.

So just missed the fairway or missed the green and putting up three times.

So that's about 26 putts, the usual.
Q.  Talk about your round.  It was a little bit up and down but you managed to keep it in the red numbers and stay at 2 under.  Talk about your first 18 here and Prairie Dunes.
 MASSY KURAMOTO:  I feel like I'm saving for the three days in the red numbers.  And I make a birdie just thinking about savings for bogeys.  So play all the holes    all the holes I try to hit a par, par, par.  And I'm thinking that it's one shot at a time.  But last year I played at the Q School in a lot of wind for six days.  (Lost the feed.)
MASSY KURAMOTO:  It was a chip and one putt.  And concentrate like that.
Q.  Did you feel like it was going to be a pretty good day for you?
 MASSY KURAMOTO:  Very good.  Very good.  Yeah.  I practiced Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Wednesday it's only 11 holes I played.  Because this golf course is not my type of golf course.  I have to drive it pretty long, but not good accuracy.  So Monday, the wind was kind of a north wind.  And other two day, southeast.

So a member said, normal wind is north wind.  So I don't want to play Wednesday.  Anyway, this is not my type of golf course.  So I try to keep it in the fairway.  I don't want to use the drivers.  I use 3 iron, 5 wood, 3 wood, a lot of different clubs.  And then try to keep it in the fairway.
Q.  How many times did you drive in the rough today?
 MASSY KURAMOTO:  I drove 11 times including first cut.  That's fairway.  So three times missed.
Q.  How many times did you use your driver?
MASSY KURAMOTO:  Three times.
Q.  You had five birdies on the day.  Could you walk us through the clubs and yardages for those holes?
 MASSY KURAMOTO:  For the holes?  Okay.  I had the first birdie on the first hole.  I hit 5 wood and 9 iron.

And 7th hole    oh, the putt?  That was about 30 feet.  First hole.

On the 7th hole I hit driver and 7 iron kind of over the green and chipped to like this (Indicating).

Number 8, I hit 5 wood and 8 iron, 15 feet.

No. 11, I hit 3 wood, pitching wedge, 10 feet.

14, 3 wood, gap wedge, 53 degree.  That's about a foot, a foot and a half.
Q.  Is the 2006 U.S. Senior Open a popular event in Japan?
MASSY KURAMOTO:  Oh, of course.  Of course.
Q.  You said that this wasn't your kind of course.  Were you surprised that you were able to get out and play that well?
 MASSY KURAMOTO:  Oh, yes.  But I tried to concentrate and say, yeah, I can do that.  That's all.  And also last two weeks I played the Champions Tour, the last two weeks, I finished 7th and 9th, and that's shooting pretty good.  And I was chipping and putting much better.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT