HONDA CLASSIC
March 19, 2021
Chase Koepka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How do you attack The Bear Trap and have it look like the teddy bear trap out there, that was pretty awesome?
 CHASE KOEPKA:   Couple good shots and a lot of luck.  Luckily enough, I had really good numbers into all three holes out there, 15, just a three quarter 8-iron and put it in a good spot where it was uphill, down the wind, where I could kind of be aggressive with that putt, even though didn't hit it very aggressive, but it just dripped in.
 16, we had a perfect number, it was just, it was a tough flag to get to, and I hit it right in the right spot and I hit my putt and it was moving a little quick, but it held its line nicely and went in there.
 17, it was just a, just hit it to the middle of the green and, you know, if I get it any closer it's a bonus.  And then that putt, I honestly didn't really know the read, but I knew what it was doing the last about eight feet and luckily enough it was right on line right in the dead center of the hole.
 Q. Your dad had heart surgery last week and he's out here following you around on every hole.  How much more special does that make it to play in front of him and also make the cut?  I know you want to win, but this is a good start.
 CHASE KOEPKA:   Yeah, I mean, you got to make the cut in order to have a chance to win on the weekend, so I did my job there.  But it's really nice to have my dad out here.  I honestly didn't think he was going to be able to be out here, but he's a pretty tough guy and I learned a lot from him, so...
 Q. Other friends and family out?  Is that pretty cool seeing people out there?
 CHASE KOEPKA:   Oh, yeah.  I have a ton of family and friends out here this week.  So it's very, very nice to see everybody out here.  A lot of people I haven't been able to see for awhile, a lot of people who haven't actually seen me play professional golf before.  So I think it's very cool experience for them.  A lot of my childhood friends are out here this week and I think it's -- it means a lot to me that they, that they're out here to support me.
 Q. You haven't had a lot of opportunities lately, what did you learn about your game so far?
 CHASE KOEPKA:   So far?  Just how patient I've been.  I think that is, that's what I've kind of learned -- I've been doing a really good job of that.  I tried playing enough mini-tour events kind of before this to really make sure my game was sharp and really competitive and I think the mini-tour events that I've been able to play in.  Where, if I, if I'm not really having a great day out there, I still, I'm still trying to compete and make as many birdies as I can.  I've done a good job in those and I've won a few, I'll place top-5 in most of them.  And today was like one of those days where I really battled back, I wasn't -- I felt like I was swinging it great, but I couldn't really find the green, couldn't really find the fairway and I told myself just to keep doing what I'm doing, because if I start second guessing myself out here on this golf course you're going to get beat up really quickly.  And I was just really proud of myself the way I battled through, especially I knew I had to hit some tough golf shots in order to make the cut and to play those last three holes or four holes 3-under, I mean, can't ask for anything better.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT