U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Jimmy Beck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was today like, coming off the 65 yesterday, and not that 138, there's anything wrong with it, but what was today like as compared to yesterday?JIMMY BECK: You know, it started off real well.  Second shot of the day, I hit a club too perfect, I guess you could say, and it started off well.  It was pretty smooth until it got to the back nine, and the pins were a little bit tougher.  I think the greens on the Riverside are a little bit more complex, have more tiers. Wasn't really aiming at flags.  And you know, just a few putts didn't fall just like they were yesterday.  But overall, I played well, and excited for the rest of the week.Q. Talk about you just slept on the lead at the U.S. Amateur, obviously every kid grows up thinking about that.  How did it feel to experience it?JIMMY BECK: I tried to treat it just like any other day.  Today was just like as if I was going out with my buddies and playing.  There's really no pressure.  Once you shoot a number like that, you're just trying to get to match play from and there, it's just make it to the next round.  It was kind of relaxing I guess in a sense in that I didn't have to come out here and try to shoot a low number again.  So that was good.Q. Pick up some Twitter followers?JIMMY BECK: I did.  Last night it was blowing up.  So I just had to put the phone on silent and try to relax.Q. Obviously 138 is going to give you a high seed, but say this shakes out at the end of the day; what would it mean to be a medalist or co-medalist?JIMMY BECK: It would mean the world to medal in an event like this.  It's something any guy dreams of.  It's what you hope for.  You want to win no matter match play or stroke play.  So if I end up winning, it will be a dream come true.Q. Does being a high seed mean something to you?  Is there an advantage going into match play?JIMMY BECK: You know, not necessarily.  Any guy who makes it in match play here is going to have a shot to win I think.  So I'm not really going to focus on the seed.  I'm just going to try to focus on each shot ahead of me.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT