NASCAR GANDER RV & OUTDOORS TRUCK SERIES: NEXTERA ENERGY 250
February 14, 2020
Grant Efinger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. One happy team, they have been singing and chanting, the Gatorade is flying. Grant Enfinger, a hundredth of a second there. You just won at Daytona. What does this mean to you and this team? 
GRANT ENFINGER: Unbelievable feeling. Our hundredth win for Ford in the Gander RV & Outdoors Truck Series, so unbelievable for them. More importantly, the 25th anniversary for Dick and Rhonda, how much they put into this sport. 
God has blessed us with a great opportunity to come out here and we were able to pull it off tonight. We had a great F150 all night long. I wish Ennis could be here from Champion, man; he missed it. His wife Mary is having some surgery Monday so we're thinking about her. But mom and dad are somewhere up here. My wife is right there. It's a special day for us, and just unbelievable night.

Q. Valentine's Day, but take us through that race. You drove about as flawless as you can as Daytona. How did you do it because there were wrecks throughout the night that you were able to avoid. 
GRANT ENFINGER: The biggest thing is we had a really good Ford F150 to do it with. I made a mistake there with about 20 to go. I got hung up in the sucker hole. I pulled up in front of Ben too late, and he was going to wreck me or put me in the middle, and that's what happened, and at that point I was pretty confident a wreck was going to happen, so I tried to bide my time on the bottom, and then I guess four or five laps to go and then it's time to go, and we were able to get up in the third groove and make some stuff happen and get the lead on that big wreck going into 1 and 2. 
That's what kind of sealed the deal for us. My buddy Ross gave me some good pushes at the end. I know he was trying to reach out on us and I was able to block him. But just an unbelievable night. Thank you to Jeff Hensley, Duke and Rhonda Thorson, Pop‑Tart with the pit crews, Josh Henkish (phon.), everybody that makes this possible.

Q. Third career win and it happened at Daytona. Congratulations. 
GRANT ENFINGER: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT