U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 1, 2016
Tyler Clary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (No microphone.)
TYLER CLARY: Yeah, I mean, that's it!  It was -- this last four years has been pretty tough for a number of reasons, and I'm really happy to have come into this meet and had what I would say is my best performance in the last quad.  Sadly, that wasn't enough but that being said, I couldn't be happier to be sending Team USA off with two backstrokers that I have a lot of respect for, and I know they are going to represent Team USA well in Rio.
Q. When you say, "That's it," do you mean you're going to retire?
TYLER CLARY: Yeah, I don't see a reason to continue.  It's been a great time as a professional swimmer.  I'm looking forward to turning a page in the book of my life and starting a new chapter, you know, I'm going to get to do a lot of things that I've been wanting to do for years now.  It's really not a bad thing.  That's the best time I've had in quite a while, and I told myself going into this meet that, you know what, no matter what happened this summer if I could get to the end of the meet -- or the end of my last performance and look back and legitimately not think there was anything I could have done better I would have been proud of that, and I felt that I could walk away with my head held high after something like that, and I feel like I've accomplished that here.
Q. What is your first priority?
TYLER CLARY: My first priority is to go see the rest of my family, thank them all for making the journey to be here and share this last experience with me.  It's been a long road.  I know they're all very proud of me, and I'm very proud to have the family that I have.
We're going to go Go-Kart racing tomorrow.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  Like I said, there's a lot of things going through my head as far as what I want to do when I get home, but first thing after I get done here I'm going to go thank my coach for putting up with me for the last few years and helping me achieve some things that I didn't think I was going to be able to achieve here.
Q. You think about that kid that was driving in from Riverside to Fullerton all those years, racing under Kevin Perry, what do you think about your career and how much you accomplished from when you started those early days at Fullerton?
TYLER CLARY: Yeah, I mean, honestly, the last thought I had before jumping into the water was Kevin, swimming this one more time, and I think I made him proud.
Q. That's awesome, I know you did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT