GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2019
Alec Burks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously this team has had a lot of big names, but there's so much change. How did you approach joining this team, and what do you see as your role right now?
ALEC BURKS: At first in the summer, I was going to go to OKC, but OKC went through some changes in between that time, so the management there let me reevaluate my situation, and I chose to come here after I had a talk with Bob and Steve, and it just really sold me on the culture, the players I would play with, the opportunity to play winning basketball and play for a championship, and I think that's what drove me here to this day right here.
Q. How hard was that for you personally last year moving around as much as you did, and how much would you be looking forward to finding some stability with this team and maybe proving yourself and sticking around for a while?
ALEC BURKS: It was more difficult for my family. I have a daughter and a wife so that's tough moving around like that, and just never being traded in my seven plus years in Utah, never being traded, now being traded twice is different. I really got to see the side of the NBA, the business side last season. But I wouldn't trade nothing. Stuff is supposed to happen for a reason. I believe in that, so I experienced all that for a reason. I was meant to do all that last year.
Q. How much have they talked to you about their need for you to score? I know that's something you do really well. Was that part of your decision-making process, knowing that they could use some backcourt scoring here with Klay out?
ALEC BURKS: I think that played a role. I think the opportunity of just coming here and playing with a winning team, winning franchise, I think that was the biggest thing. But Klay is out right now, and it's a lot of new players, new young players, so they said they need a play-making guard, so I think I can help out in that way. We'll just see how it unfolds when the season starts and practice starts and everybody is around. We'll just see what happens.
Q. They definitely have a spot open in the starting lineup at small forward. Do you see yourself as a candidate for that, and does it suit your game?
ALEC BURKS: I think the way I see they play in years past, it's just positionless basketball, so who knows, you know. I'm really not like a traditional small forward because I'm 6'6", 6'7", but if he wants me to start, that's Kerr's decision. I'll role with that, too.
Q. This team has been such a juggernaut over the past few years and a lot of change now. What's your response to people that say that maybe the Warriors are kind of an underdog this year?
ALEC BURKS: I don't think that. I haven't been a part of the culture. This is my first year. But I don't think that. They've still got Steph, Klay and Draymond, D'Lo. That's four All-Stars right there. So I don't see how that's an underdog. But I guess we won't know until the ball tips up in the first regular season game, and we'll just go from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT