MLB WORLD SERIES: CARDINALS v RED SOX
October 27, 2013
John Farrell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Boston Red Sox - 4
  St. Louis Cardinals - 2 
   
 Q.   Can you tell me about sort of the pregame process, how you found out about Victorino and when you're aware what it might be in question, and about what time you made your decision why you decided what you did with Gomes?  
JOHN FARRELL:     Well, during the game last night he started to tighten up little bit.   While he had a little bit of relief overnight, the work that we did early afternoon didn't free him up enough to be able to go.   He swung some in the cage, just trying to get some rotation going.   So it was during batting practice, when I met with Shane today, he said, "Yeah, put me in there.   I'll find a way to get ready to start the game." As we went through the other work, it became obvious he wasn't capable.   And you know what, it turns out that his replacement is the difference in this one tonight with a three‑run homer.  
   
 Q.   In that sixth, were you surprised that Mike didn't go with Choate against Ortiz?   Were you surprised at anything that happened, especially Maness versus Jonny and not Lynn facing him?  
JOHN FARRELL:     You know, when Choate was warming up, we fully expected that would be the matchup.   What went into his decision making, that's certainly his call.   And we know that Maness, who has got a tremendous sinker and has been their ground‑ball guy.   Jonny, fortunately, who put up good at‑bats all night long, saw a lot of pitches.   He gets a sinker up on the plate, and he runs one out of here.   And I don't know much about the decision making or the thought that went into it.  
   
 Q.   Talk about Ortiz.   He's been red hot.   He's hitting .727.   Talk about David.   
JOHN FARRELL:     Through five innings, we got two hits, and he's got both of them.   His career states what he's done.   He's a tremendous hitter at any point in time in the year.   Playing first base has certainly not affected it in any way.   He'll be back in there tomorrow at first.   And even in that fifth, after the fifth inning, after he scored on the sacrifice fly by Stephen, he pulled everybody together and had a little talk in the dugout, and it was meaningful.   He's the one guy, of the guys that we have, he's one of the guys that people look up to.   Our guys look up to him.   And kind of a timely conversation he had with everybody.  
   
 Q.   What did you see in David Ross tonight?   And could he play tomorrow?  
JOHN FARRELL:     Yeah, he's ready to go tomorrow.   And likely will be back there as he's paired up with Jon Lester.   But good game caller, as he's always been known for.   Very good at framing pitches.   And ran a very good game once again tonight.  
   
 Q.   You got some great pitching tonight from your bullpen, especially Doubront.   Can you talk about why he's been so effective.   And also the end Lackey the job he did.   
JOHN FARRELL:     I don't want to skip over Clay Buchholz.   That was four innings, so much has attention has been brought to, can he make it?   What's he going to give you?   A lot of scrutiny around his situation, but given that he might not have had his mid‑season stuff, if the ball doesn't bounce up off of some clump of grass in the outfield, Beltran might ground into a double play, and may not have given up a run through four innings.   
He gave us everything he could, but Felix after two innings last night, he comes out, a quick first inning, nine pitches, almost gave him the ability to go back out for a third, because he's so efficient.   
He doesn't panic.   He stays very poised.   In this setting he throws a lot of strikes.   It got a little hairy in the seventh, but Tazawa comes in and got a big out with Holliday.   We knew if we had to piece it together, it would be a little creative.   Lackey was going to be available for the one inning.   And fortunately he gets a ground ball to finish out the eighth.   So it kept us from having to use Koji for one plus.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on Jonny Gomes earlier, he's had some big hits for you.   What has he meant for this team overall?  
JOHN FARRELL:     Very good player.   Given the role that he's been in, which has not been an everyday role, but he's ready every day.   Ready for a given at‑bat in a pinch‑hit role.   He's been one of our leaders in the clubhouse.   His importance to this team goes above and beyond the numbers that he puts up.  
   
 Q.   The pickoff by Uehara with Wong at first and Beltran at the plate, is that something he's looking for or was that called?  
JOHN FARRELL:     That was on his own.   We're talking about some things in the dugout with positioning, because we've used the shift against Beltran.   And Butter, Torey and I were talking at the time, we didn't want to give up the potential for a bunt base hit, with Holliday swinging the bat well on deck.   In the conversation he picked him off and the game was over.   It was all on Uehara.  
   
 Q.   You said you thought this team would put last night behind you quickly and go back to work today.   How impressive was if to see your team do that and get the win today?  
JOHN FARRELL:     We've seen it many times.   Tonight's not the first.   Granted the stage might be bigger, but this is consistent with the way we've responded to a tough night the night before, and we came in today fully expecting a very good game to be put together.   That's just who these guys are, and they've shown it many times over.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT