MLB WORLD SERIES: CARDINALS v RED SOX
October 23, 2013
John Farrell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 St. Louis Cardinals - 1
  Boston Red Sox - 8 
   
 Q.   Can you relate the case you made to Dana DeMuth after that play happened at second base?  
JOHN FARRELL:     Yeah, I thought from the dugout view it was pretty clear that that ball just tipped off the fingertips of his glove.   I think we're fully accepting of the neighborhood play, but my view is that it wasn't even that.   There was really no entry into the glove with the ball.   And to their credit they did confer, and I think the one thing is we just strive to get the call correct.   And I think based on their group conversation, surprisingly, to a certain extent, they overturned it and I think got the call right.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about Jon Lester tonight?  
JOHN FARRELL:     Yeah, I think the way they came out aggressively swinging at his fastball early in the count, I thought he and David did a very good job of getting his curveball in the mix a little bit more, to create a little more separation in his pitches in terms of velocity.   Once he was able to establish that, I thought he had a very good cutter, particularly some backdoor cutters to some right‑handers.   
And the key to me was the double play in that fourth inning.   Come‑backer to him, the 1‑2‑3 double play.   And as he got deeper into the game, he got his change‑up in the mix a little more.   Just a solid, solid outing by Jon tonight.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the importance of getting this first win.   Everyone knows Game 1 does not decide the World Series, but it does sometimes set a tone.   Can you talk about the tone that you hope was set tonight and the importance of getting off to that very early lead.   
JOHN FARRELL:     I think once again we were able to go into the game with our approach.   I thought we had a lot of quality at‑bats that we were able to build some pitch counts against Wainwright.   
But, you know, whether we view this as three different series inside of one, a two‑game set, three over there and possibly two back here, always getting that first one out of the way is a good feeling to continue to try to build some momentum.   But I thought we played a very good game all around tonight.  
   
 Q.   The Lester‑Ross relationship, is that emerging in your eyes or is that something that you will continue to go with?  
JOHN FARRELL:     Yeah, I think the one thing that we've seen the last probably six times Jon has gone to the mound, David has caught him.   They've really developed I think a really good rapport.   Their ability to read swings and make some adjustments from at‑bat to at‑bat or each time through the lineup.   And we did it in the two games that Jon pitched against Detroit.   So everything right now would point to that same tandem.  
   
 Q.   As a manager have you ever had your argument over a bad call work to that degree?  
JOHN FARRELL:     There's been some conferences.   And I can't say it's too often, particularly in this setting.   I haven't been in this setting before.   But typically they're probably going to stand pat with the decision that's made in the moment.   But like I said, they got the call right.  
   
 Q.   Can you speak a little bit about the historical value of the Red Sox winning nine games in a row in the World Series going back to 2004?  
JOHN FARRELL:     I guess it says that our guys, regardless of who's on the roster, and probably David is the one that's linked everyone together, you know, we're more than prepared to play.   Our guys seemingly in this setting, through the nine games you made reference to, have gone out and executed consistently, particularly on the mound.   And that was the case again tonight.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the job that Mike Napoli did in taking advantage of that mistake in the first inning, and in the sense of what he's done the whole postseason?  
JOHN FARRELL:     Actually from the ALCS on, his extra‑base power is clear.   I think of the nine hits he's got, six have come of the extra base variety.   He got on top of a fastball in that situation, and he's come up big for us.   And particularly in Game 3 in Detroit, and every game since he's been right in the middle of a lot of our multi‑run innings.   We talked about it even coming out of the Tampa series.   
So we ride the peaks and valleys with him.   He's got some streakiness to his career path, and when he's in the good side of those streaks, he's had the ability to carry us, and he's doing that right now.  
   
 Q.   Going back to the reversal of the call one more time, after that the fans were going crazy, Napoli gets the big hit.   Can you describe the rush of momentum going through the dugout and able to carry that for the rest of the game?  
JOHN FARRELL:     It is a pretty big swing moment, even though you're not fully expecting something like that in the first inning.   Instead of it being a two‑out situation with runners on first and third, we're in a bases‑loaded situation, where there's not a whole lot of margin for error in terms of the strike zone, and the ability to possibly have Wainwright expand the zone on Napoli. Fortunately he gets into a 2‑0 count and the three‑run double, it is a big moment.   And we're able to capitalize on the mistake.   
And I think we've seen that when you give a team extra outs, as good as the teams you're going to play this late in the season, it can come back to haunt you.  
   
 Q.   Is there any change in the status of Clay Buchholz for games three or four?  
JOHN FARRELL:     No, no change.   He's going to pitch.   Likely that after we went through some work today, he did throw a little bit in the outfield, we'll probably look to give him every extra day we can, and that would point to Sunday being Game4.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT