U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2018
Bianca Pagdanganan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You took a quick lead.  Can you talk about the beginning of the match?  
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: Well, I started off pretty good.  I got it to 2-up, but I had some unfortunate putts.  I had two really painful lip-outs, which could have probably saved me, but it's all good, I'm still glad with how I played today and with how the round just finished.   
 Q.  This is your first USGA championship; coming into this week, were you expecting to be here?  
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: I mean, honestly, I usually take it day by day.  Day one, I played good, but obviously the goal is always to make it to the match play, so I pretty much expected to be here.  That was pretty much my goal.   
 Q.  And then looking ahead to tomorrow's round of 32, what's your mindset like?  
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: I guess I'm just going to keep the same mindset as today, just stick to the game plan and take it shot by shot.  That's what's important about match play because it's anyone's game and anything can happen.  So just pay close attention to that, try to stay in the present.   
 Q.  It's a long week, and it's hot and humid.  What do you think is the key to staying in the right mindset?  
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: I guess just drinking lots and lots of water, just keep hydrating.  I would say I'm pretty used to this weather because it's like this back home in the Philippines, so I guess I've just got to feel like I'm playing back at home.   
 Q.  And then you obviously had a great season at Arizona; you guys won the national championship.  Do you think that experience of national championship match play is going to help you this week?  
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: Yeah, for sure.  I guess I mentioned this before, that I didn't really have that much experience in match play, but I don't know, during the national championship, that kind of built my confidence in match play.  It made me believe that I could do it.  I guess, yeah, it did help me, or it is helping me right now, so I'm pretty excited for the rest of the week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT