THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2020
Bianca Pagdanganan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Bianca, what a great week here at Lake Oconee.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Thank you.
Q. What is your thought process right now just given that you killed it this week?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Honestly, today's round was a little bit boring.  I had 16 pars going into my last two holes, and pars are good, but they can be frustrating if you know you gave yourself a couple birdie chances.
But overall I'm really happy with how I played and I love where my game is going, so hopefully I get to keep it up and continue having this mindset throughout the rest of the year.
Q. What was that like having just that great momentum this week and all the spectators out here?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   It was so much fun.  I haven't seen spectators since I don't even remember.  I think it was a lot cooler that these guys were on boats.  Technically they're still social distancing.
But like you said, it really helps, especially when you play with great players.  You get to keep that momentum going.  Definitely benefits your game as well.  It all depends on how you take that.  There could be a little bit of pressure.
But I was also kind of nervous this week but handled that pretty well, so I am pretty proud of myself.
Q. Yes.  Definitely.  We've got three more weeks of break.  How are you going to take that time or what will you do?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I'm definitely going to take some time off again.  I took a couple days off before this event, spend it with family.  I'm turning 23 on Wednesday and I don't know what I'm going to do yet.
Q. Happy early birthday.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Thank you.  Thank you.  Probably going to take a couple days off and get back to the grind.
Q. Last question for you is:  Who was just a role model for you growing up watching LPGA, and what was it like to play with the best of the best this week, especially the last two rounds?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Well, growing up definitely Annika Sorenstam and Lorena Ochoa.  They were definitely the top players when I was growing up.  But definitely I also had some local players to look up to.  Jennifer Rosales who played on tour when I was starting to play golf.
But being at this level and just being able to compete with the greatest players, it's so much fun.  Like I say this a lot, but I really do get to live my dream.  Like I probably -- if you told me a couple years ago that I would be playing on the LPGA Tour and in this position in my rookie year I probably wouldn't believe you.
Like you said, playing with the best of best, it's such a great experience, especially as rookie.  Makes me want to be in this position even more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT