THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2020
Bianca Pagdanganan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. All right, a solid first day here.  How are you feeling after round one?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Pretty good.  I was off to a slow start and then I don't know what happened.  I birdied 18, 1, 2, and 3 - I think 3.  But I don't know.  Just felt good.  I'm loving the environment here.  I felt really calm out there and relaxed, so I wasn't too worried about anything.
I was hitting the shots I wanted, making lots of putts, so it was all in all a good round.
Q. We were talking about the course a little bit yesterday.  Talk to me about kind of your thoughts of what you think of this, especially the back nine?  I know sometimes you might not think the water comes into play, but what did you think of especially the back nine?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I stayed very, very patient on the back nine.  I wasn't too aggressive, especially off the tee.  They can kind of seem narrow.  Like you said, you can see the water on a couple holes and it can get intimidating.  Like I said, I stayed really patient.  I missed a couple putts.  Had a few lipouts, which kind of strung.
I finished strong, but I think it's just being aggressive when you can.  Maybe I did play a little conservative, but you're definitely going to need a lot of patience on this course.
Q. Did you have any expectations heading into today?  It's a brand new course for practically everyone that's here, even people that may have been here a couple years ago.  The course is drastically different.  Did you go in with any expectations?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Not really, but I knew that it was a pretty scorable course.  I knew there were going to be low scores of if you hit it in the spots you wanted to, but of course like if you missed those spots or like missed the fairway it could be a little bit tough.
So wouldn't say like any expectations.  I guess I said the mindset of keeping my ball in the fairway and honestly hitting greens on this course is already really good.
So all in all that was my thought process.
Q. With that, tomorrow you'll have an earlier tee time in the morning.  With that, a lot of people in the morning today only shot -- you know, 3-under was the low round of the day until the afternoon wave got to the plate.  What do you think the difference might be in this course in the morning?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I don't know.  Maybe the air is a little thicker.  It is pretty humid out here so think that's something you take into consideration.
I guess overall probably just have the same game plan but be more aware of what's going on around you, the wind and everything else that could affect your shot.
Q. What's there to work on?  Are you going to take the night off or more about focusing on a couple more things before hitting the road?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Probably head back.  I think I got to get up a little early tomorrow, so I need all the rest I can get.  Maybe arrive a little early tomorrow to work on some putting and get the speed off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT