KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 11, 2020
Bianca Pagdanganan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Bianca, you overall had a great week; tell us what the experience was like at your very first major.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   It's been unbelievable.  Honestly, obviously I try to aim high, but I feel like I continue to exceed my own expectations every time I play, so I feel like this whole week has just been unbelievable.
THE MODERATOR:   Likely looking at a top 10, playing alongside Inbee Park, one of the greatest players in the history of the game.  What did you take away from watching Inbee in her prime?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   That was crazy because I remember the first time seeing her was I think two years ago and I was an amateur.  This was in Singapore and it was the first time they hosted the Women's Amateur Asia Pacific, and I remember we were just walking back to our hotel and we had to pass by the driving range, and all the girls were like, oh, my gosh, it's Inbee Park.  And I look, and I'm like, it's Inbee Park.  And then I get to the first tee, and I'm like, I'm playing with Inbee Park who I just used to watch on the driving range.  I can't really explain how I feel.  It was unbelievable.  Like I would say, I don't really have the right words to express how I feel.  But it's amazing just seeing her play and it's definitely inspiring.
THE MODERATOR:   It's inspiring and you're playing alongside her because you earned that place there.  Not the final round but you wanted but a great birdie on the final hole to cap your week.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Thank you.
THE MODERATOR:   You have to feel very proud about the way you played this week.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Yeah, definitely.  The course is not the easiest, definitely challenging.  They were in great condition, though.  So yeah, I'm really proud of how I played in my first major and my first top-10 finish.  So it's definitely a memorable one for me.
Q. Bianca, just wondering what this does for your confidence for the rest of the year on the LPGA Tour.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I guess it definitely is a confidence booster knowing that I can play well in these kinds of conditions in a major event, so I'm definitely looking forward to more events this year and for years to come.
Q. To do what you did this week obviously on a major championship stage, in terms of your comfort level, do you feel more comfortable on big stages like this?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Yeah, definitely.  I'd say I was really nervous the first round, but knowing how to embrace it and just learning how to play with those nerves, I mean, it's completely normal to be nervous in a big event, so I guess I could say that I'm a little bit more comfortable.  It's nice to get those nerves out of the way.
Q. When you came into today to the tee box, were you aware that you needed a top-10 finish to qualify for the U.S. Women's Open?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I didn't even know.  I was too --
THE MODERATOR:   We're still figuring out who exactly will get it but the top three players in the top 10 who were not already qualified for the U.S. Women's Open get in.  I don't know where those line up right now.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I had no idea.  I was too in the zone.  I just really tried to focus on today's round.  I usually try to take everything hole by hole, shot by shot, so honestly I had no idea.
Q. Looking back then on this week, what lessons or experiences do you take away from it, and how do you see it preparing you for the future events?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I guess just knowing -- or just being confident with your own swing and knowing how -- just knowing more about how you play the game.  Like for me, I noticed with the first round I was overthinking and overanalyzing, and I guess just overall learning how to be comfortable and trusting your own swing throughout the week.  It worked pretty well my last few rounds.  Definitely think I could have done better today, but the course is a really challenging course, so I guess overall, like I said, being comfortable and trusting your own swing.
Q. Have you been getting any feedback from friends, family and whatnot in the Philippines following you this week?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Yes, definitely a lot of that.  After every round I check my phone and it just explodes with notifications.  I guess it's just really overwhelming with all the support I'm receiving.  It's been great.
Q. What's next for you in preparation for the next few events?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I'm not 100 percent sure what my next event is yet, but I'm definitely just going to spend my time practicing, trying to get better every day.
THE MODERATOR:   Great week, Bianca.  Enjoy every second of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT