LPGA Q-SERIES
October 31, 2019
Bianca Pagdanganan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well played.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: Thank you.
Q. So where did this come from? Long time coming.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: Yes. It's been a weird couple of days. Like last week I would say I struggled a lot with ball striking, but I would say my short game was decent.
This week I finally got my ball striking together. Putting wasn't there with me. Today was the day that putts actually dropped in the hole and felt really good.
I really do think it was a long time coming. I definitely had to stay patient out there. We started off and it was pretty windy. It was really tough and I just told myself to get my ball on the green and hopefully make some putts.
Turned out pretty good, I guess.
Q. I guess so. So you can breathe a little easier now.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: Yes, definitely. I've been kind of desperate for a good round because I've been hitting good shots but couldn't convert any of them into birdies or what I needed.
Yes, definitely I can breathe a lot better and probably sleep a little better tonight.
Q. Do you still have some class that you're finishing up?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: Yes, I do. I have one last class in Arizona.
Q. Taking it now?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: Yes.
Q. Are you working on it during these two weeks?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: Yes.
Q. What is that class?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: It's called (indiscernible - wind) of God, and I think it's a humanities requirement for my major.
But it's not that bad. I just have like three exams and one paper. The professor has been really nice about it.
I had him last semester with a different class so he kind of remembered me and said we'll figure something out. It's fine. Really thankful I had an understanding professor.
Q. Have you had an exam during this scratch?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: No. That's what I come back to.
Q. So are you finishing up at University of Arizona?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: Yes. My last class. I can't wait to be done.
Q. What's it like being able to balance everything from Q1 to Q2 to now here, putting all together?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: It's not that easy, but I think throughout college I just really learned how to manage my time wisely. That's why I didn't struggle as much, especially with this whole Q-School thing.
Pretty proud and confident with how I'm balancing stuff right now.
Q. How much is this a good preparation for you kind of in your mindset and what have you learned about your game throughout this experience?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN: I guess -- well, coming in Q-School there has just been so much pressure from myself. This is my future on the line. That's what I have in mind, which I don't think is a good thing.
At the same time, I think I feed off that pressure. If there is one thing I realized, you're with the best players in the world. One thing I probably learned is that I can actually play with them and I feel like -- I don't know. At the same time, I learned some stuff from them.
It's nice, because you go through this whole process with other golfers. So it's nice that you learn more about your game, what you can improve on, so you can be a better golfer.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT