BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 6, 2009
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MATHEW GOGGIN: It was really gusty and I didn't play particularly well, so it was kind of nice to get out of there and take advantage of a lot of the 100-yard-in shots that you get on this course. I sort of took care of the tougher holes and then just did nothing on the easy holes. I mean, 70 is not a good score but it's not a bad one.

 Q. Was it the most you could get out of it, or were you looking for something more coming out of it knowing you're playing the North Course but moving over from the South?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah, it was tough playing. It's not the end of the world, but it would have been nice to shoot a really low one. There's some guys that will shoot some low scores. But it is a bit tricky. It's very difficult to judge the wind, and the greens are very severe in parts, so you get yourself on the wrong part of the hole and you can have a putt for par that's difficult.

 Q. Taking a look at some of those elevation changes, when you're looking down at holes and all of a sudden the Pacific Ocean is in front of you, it's kind of a neat-looking vista, almost distracting to a point?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah, it's awesome. It's such a beautiful place. Pity the weather has turned ugly on us, especially on the front nine of the North where you sort of go around by 6, 7, 8 there. The wind is just gusting and it's coming up the face of the course and changing directions, and it can be quite tricky. But all the same, you still have a lot of opportunities and a lot of shots inside 100 yards that you should make birdie on.

 Q. What are you looking forward to going into the weekend?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Obviously I'm in a reasonable position. Camilo is obviously playing very well, so it's sort of on him from now on. But if I can play as well as I did yesterday, hopefully I'll be right around him on Sunday.

 Q. Your form down under was excellent, your summer, and has that given you a lot of confidence coming into this season?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah, I finished off last year pretty well here and then continued the form into Australia, so it's nice to sort of have a few weeks off and then sort of pick up where you left off, and I feel like I've done the same here. I didn't putt too well last week and played okay at the Hope and am seeing the ball quite well, so hopefully I can have a good start to the year, as well.

 Q. Is there anything you did preparation-wise before going back home that changed the way you were playing?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Not really. I just sort of feel like I'm working the last few years on becoming more consistent and sort of solidified, I guess. I feel like the wild swings and the shot patterns -- I feel like I'm in control of my game a lot more, so it makes it a bit easier.

 Q. What was the toughest thing about the conditions today, the course itself or the wind?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: I think the greens were soft on the North Course, and it was so windy, when you're hitting those 100-yard shots it's difficult to get the ball close. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT