FRYS.COM OPEN
October 26, 2008
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. There is nothing as good as keeping a clean scorecard out there, but shooting 30 on the back nine, that's pretty good, too.   
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah, I had a lot of opportunities the front nine, too, so it could have been something really crazy. It was a little disappointing because I felt like I had a good chance to win this week, and I just had two runs of about four holes on Thursday and Saturday which really cost me where I sort of missed a couple short putts and made a couple stupid bogeys, and you just can't do that. In the wash you end up just a couple short.  
  
  Q. How hard is that? When you play great golf, you always focus on the negative, don't you?  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah, it becomes a little bit -- I was really happy with the way I played, the way I closed out the round. I hit the ball close pretty much every hole. I made a nice up-and-down on 16. That was probably the only poor swing I made.   
 It was nice to be under the gun, I guess, with a chance to win a tournament and come up with the goods, but not quite enough.  
  
  Q. Did you look at the scoreboard and know where you stood before you made those two birdies on 17 and 18?  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: I looked on 16, yeah. 16 is the first time I looked all day. I knew I had to get that up-and-down and birdie the last two holes, and it worked out that way. But it's not going to be good enough, but it's still a great week.  
  
  Q. How good does it feel when you look at the scoreboard like that, because you put extra pressure on yourself when you know you've got to make birdies coming in, and to get the job done has got to feel good?  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah, it was great. I hit two good drives and two perfect iron shots. Can't ask for much more than that. It wasn't anything sort of crazy of making good putts or chipping in or anything like that. I gave myself really good opportunities and made two really nice putts, so that was really pleasing.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT