THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2008
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 4-under, Hunter Mahan is trying to run away with it, 9-under but that's why they play three more days I guess.   
 MATT GOGGIN: Yeah, when he gets hot, he does do some crazy stuff. He's shot some low rounds in the past.   
 We still have another three days to go, and the course is just beautiful. If you drive the ball well you have some birdie chances and if you don't, you struggle to break par, so it's a really good test.  
  
  Q. As far as the golf course itself, you've been out here for a couple of years now, but everybody kind of has a clean slate this week as far as knowledge of the course.   
 MATT GOGGIN: Yeah, there's nothing tricky about the course. It's not like there's anything too crazy going on. It's not like a course where if you've played it a few times you have a massive advantage.  
 There are a couple of holes, the par 5s, you've got to lay it up in the right area otherwise you'll have some tough pitch shots. But really it's right out in front of you and you have to play good quality golf, otherwise you'll struggle.  
  
  Q. What went right for you today?  
 MATT GOGGIN: Just drove the ball well. I really struck the ball really well. A lot of short birdie putts and that makes it a bit easier. It was not too taxing that way.   
  
  Q. As far as No. 5, kind of drivable par 4, potentially drivable par 4, any thoughts there?  
 MATT GOGGIN: Yeah, I mean, it's a good little hole. I mean, it's at the point where if you can fly it around the green, I think you can knock it on. Today it was slightly into the breeze so we decided to lay back and just had a pretty comfortable yardage for a pitch shot.   
 But either way, if you go for it and hit it in a bad spot, it becomes a very difficult hole. But apart from that, it should give up some fun golf, especially over the weekend.  
  
  Q. Has to be one of the smallest greens you play all year.   
 MATT GOGGIN: Oh, yeah, we have a couple out here. We have a couple small targets and makes it a little bit more interesting and a bit more premium on hitting a good quality second shot, as opposed to a putting competition.   
  
  Q. And the Playoffs are relatively new for everyone, just the second year, what's your mind-set going in? Obviously you would like to win $10 million, but any other thoughts other than trying to win one golf tournament at a time?  
 MATT GOGGIN: Yeah, exactly, I just want to play well. I've come off an injury and haven't played much the past 2 1/2 months. So just want to go in there, after having a really good start to the year and then that happened. So it would be nice to just have good finish and move on to the next round.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT