THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
June 1, 2008
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Mathew, gallant fight out there today. Just tough conditions. 
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah, I got off to a bad start. Kenny shot a great round today. I wasn't too far away, but I didn't do what I needed to do.

 Q. It's got to feel good finishing with a birdie on 18. I saw that. 
 MATHEW GOGGIN: I don't know what happened to the shot on 17. I just left it out there and I was a bit disappointed to be tied for second there. I looked up at the board there and realized it would certainly be worthwhile to make that putt, so... 

 Q. I know you didn't win and I'm sure that doesn't feel good. But you got to feel good going into the rest of the year now?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: It's a matter of experience. It's another opportunity and I'm sure there will be more. I made a couple of bogeys with good shots and didn't take advantage of a few opportunities so it wasn't as bad a day as what it seemed. 

 Q. It was fortunate to end that way, being in the mix, being in the thick of it. 
 MATHEW GOGGIN: It's another good experience. Obviously with a three-shot lead you sort of expect to win. I was disappointed to not win. But Kenny's been playing so well for the last month, he's led every tournament at some stage. He's been the best player in the world for a month. He's such a great guy. It's just one or two guys that have beat him. 
 Yesterday he was really happy for me. He said, just keep doing what you're doing. You're playing awesome. And he's just been a real supportive person. He was real excited for me. And he's a real class act. 

 Q. A round in the 60s today deserves to win. 
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Absolutely. He had to shoot 4-under par and to do that you have to play well. I played well enough the rest of the day, but the course, the first four holes were just rubbish. 

 Q. Great finish. 
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah, a great finish. I felt pretty comfortable, but I just hit a few poor iron shots. I hit a ghastly shot on 4, ended up in a terrible spot. Then made a good birdie at the next. But I felt relaxed and hit a great shot and it went over the green and made a bogey. So I just didn't do anything right to really get the round going. The birdie on 12, that was good. That was a brutal shot and I felt good after that and then hit a good shot on the next, came up short. 
 So there was a few things that when everything is going, when you're really on, those things work out. But it wasn't on today.

 Q. What's your schedule now? Are you going to catch a flight this evening?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: I'm getting a lift from Robert Allenby. Hopefully he'll wait for me.

 Q. What time is that flight?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: I think about 10 o'clock. 

 Q. You talked about sleeping on the lead and you weren't really worried about it. Did you learn something from this that you'll put in play next time?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: I learned a little bit about character. I got off to a bad start and tried to throw the thing in the toilet, but I just got to be more relaxed early. It took me three or four holes to calm down and that was the difference. 

 Q. Talk about your drive on the first. Did you just not make a full swing on the second shot?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: No, I don't know. I suppose I've been struggling turning the ball over all week. And that's usually my strongest shot. The hole called for a strong draw and I tried to hit it and it came up and blew right. I just didn't have the right shape on it. It was a very difficult bunker shot then after that and I tried to put the ball in the middle of the fairway with an 8-iron.

 Q. When did you realize it was out of reach?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Probably after not birdieing 16. Not birdieing 16. I still had a couple of chances, but after the second shot on 17 I was done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT