BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 16, 2008
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Matthew for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic.  Great start to the week with a 31 on the back side and then continued to play well and kind of had a couple hiccups there on 7 and 8, but all in all it was a great day at 7-under.  Just talk about what you did well and kind of maybe what went on on 7 and 8.   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  And what I didn't do well?  I played really well.  I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  I think that through the first, I didn't miss my first green until my 11th hole.  So I went straight out of the gate I was 6-under through 10.  None of putts were anything outside 10 feet.  So I just hit the ball really well.   
 Last couple holes, wind was getting a bit cool, had a bit of a wait on the 8th tee, but they're pretty tough holes, so it was just, I just made bogeys on tough holes.   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please?   
  
  Q.  How long was your wait at 8?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  15 minutes.  It was kind of weird because the day had gone pretty well and we just hit a brick wall there.  But it was definitely cooler.   
  
  Q.  No wait when you made the turn?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  No.  Actually no.  It was surprisingly good.   
  
  Q.  The wind obviously you teed off later, so the guys who teed off really early really didn't have any wind at all.  You had some, I guess a good part of your back nine?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  A little bit late in the day.  But I played here two years ago when we got absolutely hammered here and it was freezing cold and blowing a gale.  That's the only other time I played the course, so that was my sort of point of reference.  So it actually seemed quite pleasant today.   
 Even at the end when it got a little bit breezy it wasn't really out of control.  It might have been a one club breeze and you should be able to handle that.  But it's just when it gets around 30 miles an hour out here it can really, compared to the other golf courses, this is a lot more exposed.   
  
  Q.  So you missed last year's fun here?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, I missed last year's fun.   
  
  Q.  But you heard about it?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Well I had a similar situation two years ago where I think I had 1-over, low score of the day was 1-under.  Next day low score was 65.  So it's a six shot difference and that can hurt your chances over the four or five days.   
  
  Q.  So do you feel like maybe you dodged a bit of a bullet today?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah.  Well getting out of here 7-under, just because it can be so windy out here and still in the cove that it's just nice to get out here without any damage done.   
  
  Q.  And the temperature, I mean it did drop a little bit at the end?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, it got cool.  And of course you don't dress for it, too.  So it seems like you're freezing because you just got a polo shirt on.  It wasn't really that cold, but you're not really ready for it.   
  
  Q.  It's Palm Springs, it never gets cold here.   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  No, that's true.   
  
  Q.  What's the mentality for playing a pro-am with so many amateurs, long rounds and like that?  What do you tell yourself?  Is patience something you have to think about?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, just to be relaxed and just chill out.  You just, you can't get upset about the delays or bad amateur partners or good amateur partners or whatever's going to happen.  It's five rounds, it's like a low pressure version of Q-School.  It's a grind, it's hard to concentrate for six hours, but at least the whole next year doesn't hinge on it.   
 (Laughter.)   
  
  Q.  Could you talk a little bit about holes 13 through 16, you birdied all of them.   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  I did have four birdies in a row, you're right.  Where did I start?  I hit a good tee shot, pitched it to five feet.  A relatively short hole.   
 Next hole is a par-5.  I knocked it on in two.  2-putted.   
 Next hole is the short hole.  You can sort of drive it, but I chose not to, I laid it back.  Hit a pitching wedge to about 10 feet.  That was probably the longest putt, actually.   
 Next hole I hit a 5-iron, really good 5-iron to about two feet.  So that was a four in a row.  Was it?  Yes.   
  
  Q.  You get to go to The Classic Club, I mean SilverRock tomorrow.  You get to see the golf course or play it or?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, I played it on Tuesday.  And it looks like it could be similar to here in the fact that if you get some wind, it's very exposed.  It has lots of water and the greens can be, the greens aren't as tricky, from what I can tell.  They're quite flat, there's not really much going on.  But here if you get on the wrong side, it can be really tough.   
 I imagine still the scoring will be quite good, but it's different to years gone past where now we really have four pretty strong golf courses.   
  
  Q.  7,360 I think is what they're saying they have got it set up at?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, when the conditions are perfect.  These courses, they run out a bit, they don't really feel like they're playing 7,300 yards.  But it's not like Indian Wells or Bermuda Dunes where you're wearing our your pitching wedge and your sand wedge, it's mid irons and stuff like that.   
  
  Q.  So wear out your 7-iron instead?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, if you're playing well you hit them just as close anyways.   
  
  Q.  Did you go over your double?   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Double?  No, I had two bogeys in a row.   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Talk about your eagle and your two bogeys.   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  The eagle, I hit a 4-iron to about 10 feet.  Made the putt there.   
 Next was just hit a really poor 5-iron into the front trap.  Hit a pretty good bunker shot out to about eight feet and missed it.   
 Next one finished just a foot off the front of the green, had a long putt up-and-down the tier and just didn't judge the speed very well.  I hit it about 10 feet by and missed the next one.  I hit a poor putt.  So pretty normal, you know, bogeys.   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Matthew.   
 MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT