TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2007
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  After a 66 yesterday that ended on a sour note with a bogey, you came right out and were just kind of treading water there for a while and then got going again.   
 MATHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, I didn't play as well today.  I was a little bit scratchy.  Hit a lot of greens, didn't get particularly close.  And really didn't take advantage of the par 5 especially on the front side, which was my second nine.   
 But managed to play well enough, you know, 3 under is okay.  It's nothing great, but it was solid enough.  I was never really in any trouble.   
  
  Q.  Pretty solid round of golf though, when you only birdied one of the par 5's today, and like we said, bogeyed 18 yesterday.  To take advantage of the par 4's too, that's good work?   
 MATHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, it's sort of in my wheelhouse a little bit.  Sort of mid-irons, mid to short irons and my strengths aren't necessarily pitching so.  When you start hitting fuller shots all the time, I feel pretty comfortable hitting that shot.   
  
  Q.  You're in kind of an interesting position in that everybody's chasing you for that down at the 125.  You're not the one that has to make something happen, but you've got to because everybody else is still playing, too.  They're all chasing you.  You've had a couple of good finishes this year.  Something you can build on, the great finish at Players?   
 MATHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, I haven't really finished any tournaments that's been disappointing thing.  I've had nice weeks coming in and just haven't finished them out on Sunday.   
 So sort of the goal was to be leading after three rounds once in the next seven weeks and just put myself in the opportunity to win and knock on the door a couple times.  Because my striking's been good, and putting hasn't been so great.  But the last three weeks I've sort of worked on my putting quite a lot, and came across a few things with my coach.  So it definitely feels a lot more solid today.   
  
  Q.  I wanted to ask you what you did during the time off for three weeks?  You worked at it.  Some guys put the clubs away, you worked at it.   
 MATHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, a lot of times I would put the clubs away.  I only put them away for a week and actually practiced quite hard the last two weeks.   
 Just felt like it was important to come out swinging, you know, especially with this being the biggest tournament of the stretch.  It was important to come out, you know, so you're fresh mentally but ready to play.   
  
  Q.  It's paying off for you.  Again, good luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT