CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 9, 2006
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Runner up Matthew Goggin, thanks for joining us here.  Congratulations on a great week and a great finish for you.  You get in the British Open by finishing tied for 2nd.  A lot of good things came out of the week.  Maybe some opening comments.
MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, I was really excited about the British Open.  Obviously it would have been great to win the tournament, but Trevor hit a great putt there at the last, and that was sort of that.

But to get into the British Open, I'm really excited about that.  I've played it a couple times before and it's by far my favorite golf tournament to play in, so I'm really excited to be able to go there then.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Talk about today, an up and down round for everybody but you hung in there.  Trevor made that birdie at the last hole to kind of put things away, but I think you handled the pressure well all day.
MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, I really didn't play as well today as what I had.  It was a bit scrappy when I started and playing quite smart.  I took my opportunities really.  I played the par 5s well, drove it well on the par 5s, so that was nice.  But I was in between clubs a lot today.  It was very hard to be really aggressive, even coming into the last two holes.  They were just clubs I couldn't really fire at it and be comfortable, so I had to take my 20 feet and try and do it with the putter, but I was a little short.
Q.  Are there points in the round today where you had to play safe and other points where you knew you could go for it?
MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, I mean, the par 5s are the key.  On a tough day like today you've got to sort of limit the damage when you don't hit your shots and take a lot of pars, but if there's reachable par 5s you've got to hit good tee shots and set the holes up, and I managed to do that.  The 3rd hole I hit a really nice pitch in there from a really good tee shot, and for the next half a dozen holes there wasn't much happening.  I started driving it in the rough a bit and there were also some tough holes.  It was really just a wait for your opportunity and take it.  It wasn't a day I really felt like I was going to go low.  I just didn't play well enough.
Q.  Talk about how much different the conditions were today.  Did the course play that much different?
MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, I mean, the breeze was a little stronger than it was yesterday.  We've been sort of playing the same breeze the last two days so you had a good feel for the way the holes were playing, a little bit shorter or a little bit longer than what they had been.

The greens were a little bit soft, which was sort of a surprise because with that hot breeze blowing you expected the place to get really firm, and it stayed soft.  The first couple of holes were a bit of a shock because you think you're going to land the ball short of the hole and let it release up and you're coming up way short.
Q.  Just your thoughts as you're on 18 there when you made the birdie?
MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Yeah, sort of went from offense to defense.  I didn't really know whether he was putting from    I saw his second shot and he looked like he hung it way out to the right so I didn't know it if he hit it in the bunker or what.  Obviously I knew if I made a birdie I'd have a chance of making a playoff, but when he made that putt, it really sort of went to defense all of a sudden and tried not to do anything really stupid.  The hill is there where you can sling the ball in from right to left and really get the ball close without being stupidly aggressive, and I just hit a poor shot.
Q.  What do you know about Trevor's game or about him as a person?  Do you guys know each other very well?
MATTHEW GOGGIN:  No, he's a fair bit younger than I am.  He's obviously been a pretty good talent right from the word go.  I know he won the U.S. Public Links going into The Masters.  He was at The Masters when he was quite young.  His brother actually managed me when I was in Europe for a while.  I know Mark, and he sort of helped his little brother up coaching early off.  He told me how good he was, and he's obviously a very good player.  There's a lot of really good young kids coming around in their mid 20s now.
Q.  Mark wasn't lying.
MATTHEW GOGGIN:  No, he wasn't lying.  He is a good player.
Q.  Obviously Trevor had a lot of pressure coming down the stretch there and he handled it very well.  What does that say about him, when he looked down Tiger and Vijay and yourself and the other guys?
MATTHEW GOGGIN:  Well, obviously looking down at me was a tough thing for him to achieve (laughter), but yeah, I think he made three birdies in the last four holes, and yeah, that really put it away.  That's clutch.  I guess the last couple of 2nds he had, he probably threw the tournament away.  I think he three putted at Wachovia and hit it in the water at the last at the Byron Nelson, so I'm sure he's very satisfied to actually put one away now.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Matthew, congratulations.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT