SEI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 12, 2002
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We have Mathew Goggin, 3-under 68 one shot off the lead for the first round.  Mathew is 139 on the money list.  You missed your last 5 cuts coming to this week so it must be nice.
MATHEW GOGGIN: I haven't played really that bad.  I missed four cuts   - two by 5 and two of them by two shots, that's something terrible.  4 or 5 over through the first 5 or 6 holes the first time so I have to work my way back.  I haven't done a bad job.  I played really poorly.   The rest of the time I haven't been that far away.

Q.    Is that frustrating?
MATHEW GOGGIN: Yes, I had some bad starts, like a triple the first hole, a triple the second, so when that happens, I just sort of keep going.

Q.    Tell us about today, the course.
MATHEW GOGGIN: The course was tough.  Pretty cool this morning, very windy.  It's died down now.  It's probably getting better.  It played very tough.

Q.    Does that put a lot of pressure on you?
MATHEW GOGGIN: Yes.  You try to understand, to think about it after doing it 3 or 4 weeks in a row, you start negotiating the first nine holes thinking I might be all right.  It worked out quite well being 3-under after 9, so that got the round going, I guess. For the last month or so I was 4 over the first 9 holes.

Q.    Does that become more a mental block than anything else?
MATHEW GOGGIN: It just depends.  When you are teeing it up, you have a tough hole playing into the breeze. It's not the end of the world.  It's a tough hole. It depends where you are.  

Q.    Let's talk about the money list thing, we are getting down to the stretch and you are battling for a card for next year, what's your thoughts on that?
MATHEW GOGGIN:  Well, I guess because I was playing the 126 to 150 category, I play a limited number of tournaments.  I played well when I have.  It was disappointing playing poorly.   You can't dwell on it.   (Inaudible)  I have four weeks to get my card.  I just got to play. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Anything else?  Thank you, Matt. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT