INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 2, 2001
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MATT GOGGIN:   The greens were just perfect.  They are a little bit quicker than what they have been in practice, but true.  You can make a lot of putts  -- if you gave yourself a chance you could make it.  I played quite nicely.  
 
Q.  What's the importance of putting up a good score early Thursday, putting up an 11?
 
MATT GOGGIN:   It's always nice to get out early and have a good score.  It's tough when you turn up at the golf course and you're, say, ten shots behind and you're about to go out and play and the wind is about to pick up.  It's nice to get out there early.  If you are up five or six points after the first nine holes, you are at the top of the leaderboard, as opposed to not even getting on it.  
 
Q.  You struggled in your one other attempt out here in  '98.  What do you attribute the big turnaround?
 
MATT GOGGIN:   A little more developed and more mature, more comfortable with playing on the Tour, as opposed to just being the young guy from Australia and being in awe of playing a PGA TOUR event; seemed like such a big step up.  
 
Q.  Just to elaborate on that, is it a growing process?  Does it just take time to get from there to here?
 
MATT GOGGIN:   Absolutely, yeah.  It's difficult, because a lot of the guys, you know, the veteran players, the guys that have played well here for a few years, they know the golf course .  They know the golf courses they play well at and know where to stay and all that sort of stuff.  They are comfortable.  Even as a rookie  -- even in your second year, it is a lot easier, but as a rookie, you struggle against the golf course.  You're playing against guys that are playing better than you are.  The majority of the guys are playing  on their home course, it seems like.  They are probably a little bit more mature and better players than what you are, anyway, and you develop more. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible).
 
MATT GOGGIN:   -- inaudible -- towards the end of last year, but I really played well this year.  If you can take advantage and make a few putts, and then making the putts on the bad shots.  
 
MATT GOGGIN:   Yeah, bogey at 1.  I hit a 3-wood fat after a good drive into the short bunker.  Hit it too clean and hit it 30 yards over the green.  Managed to get the next one down just to the back edge of the green and got up-and-down for a 6.  So it really wasn't a bad start, even though in the middle of the fairway you're thinking about making birdie.   And the next, I hit a reasonable wedge about 20 feet behind the hole and made that.  Then on the par 3, which I believe was my next birdie, I think I hit a nice 6-iron to about eight feet, I guess, and holed that.  My next bogey.  I pulled it in the left rough and just got a terrible lie and just could not move it more than about 80 yards and wedged out and hit a nice wedge out to about four feet and missed it. Next hole, I hit an 8-iron on the fairway to about 15 feet behind the hole and holed it.  Next, hit an 8-iron to 12 feet, pin-high left on the next and made that.  Par 5, I fatted a 2-iron from the middle of fairway, just a few yards short of the back.  Just 2-putted up the back, it was a bit wet.  The second putt was six feet, but the first putt was about 15 yards.  14, I hit a drive and a 2-iron to about 40 feet and 2-putted.  Then I hit a drive a little heavy that came out in the front trap.  Got down and probably hit the bunker shot to about eight or nine feet behind the hole and made that.  Then the last I hit it  pin-high, left in the valley and didn't hit a very good chip and 2-putted for bogey.  And that was that.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
MATT GOGGIN:   There's a few tricky holes, too.  I think it's just making bogeys and not making doubles.  The way the format is, you feel like you can push a little bit  -- and you make a bogey, and you birdie the next, you feel like you've picked up two shots, as opposed to one.  So you feel like you can turn it around really quickly, as long as you don't have any others  -- doubles or others, just keep it.  You can have nine birdies, nine bogeys and have nine points.  You play even par and you've only got nine -- inaudible -- shots. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT