TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2010
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Mathew Goggin to the interview room. Mathew shot a 64 in the opening round. If you could talk a little bit about the course conditions this morning.  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: It was just perfect. No wind. Fairways were soft; greens are soft. Second group out, it was quite nice. You really need to take advantage of it. Just perfect.   
 And then the Back 9 it got a little bit breezy, but it's still very scorable.  
 MARK STEVENS: And they're calling for some weather this afternoon. Where do you see the score?   
 MATHEW GOGGIN: It'll be around about. I mean someone might sneak in a little low, but I don't think anyone will go crazy low. It's breezy enough now to where it's kind of tricky, where this morning staying still 6-under would be okay and someone would get really low. But it'll be around about.   
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Thank you. Questions?   
  
  Q. What's the speed of the greens like? Slower than you expected?  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: No. I mean they're just I'd say the average TOUR speed; not fast, not slow. You know, you get some putts uphill, and downhill might be a little quick or a little slow, but generally they're really nice surface. I mean they're very smooth.  
  
  Q. Did you have any shots out of the rough today?  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah. I think I hit two fairways, drove it in the bunker, drove it in the rough. My experience was that it wasn't too bad, but there are some patches, but generally watching the guys play, they didn't have too much trouble out of the rough.   
 The scoring should be good, unless it dries out. This place gets tricky when it gets fast, and then if you short side yourself, this course can get tricky, but when it's soft like this, you can -- it's not as big a deal when you miss greens.  
  
  Q. You've had a rough stretch here for a couple of months. Anything that's been a problem or was there anything particular today you did better than you have lately?  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: No. I've just been playing poorly really, up until probably five or six weeks ago. I've been doing a lot of practice and putting a lot of work in and just seeing things starting to turn around and get comfortable again and starting to rebuild some confidence. I'd say the last three or four tournaments I've been roundabout and haven't finished them off.   
 You sort of attempt to build and not just come out of nowhere. I've never really been a sort of streaky player. I've just sort of had good rounds, and hopefully I'm playing well into a nice round now through the summer because everything else feels pretty good.  
  
  Q. Anything you are particularly trying to build that's been a problem?  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: No. I think -- not really. I mean I sort of went to a slightly longer driver at the start of the year, and I just don't think that helped. Just from my technique, sort of things I worked on, I went back to a shorter driver. That's sort of made it a little bit more consistent.   
 And no, I mean I just was not swinging the club well. I just had some work to do. I had some bad habits, for whatever reason. And you lose a bit of confidence and all of a sudden it looks a lot worse than what it is. You start playing well, but then you're not scoring well, or your swing's fine and you've worked your way through it, but you're not quite out of the -- not quite seeing the results.   
  
  Q. When it's soft, this course, and no wind, how big a factor is no wind on this particular course?  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah. More so through the Back 9 because you get a lot of shots where you're hitting elevated shots down in the trees are quite large, and you can have shots that get above the trees and get really affected, and then you'll get a shot that stays below the trees.   
 When it gets really windy or swirls through that Back 9, it can make it tricky. And there's holes you feel like you should birdie up there, but if you make a mistake, they can quickly become bogeys. You can find yourself going the wrong way pretty quickly while other guys are making par. So it can get tricky for sure.   
 MARK STEVENS: Anything else? Okay. Oh, do you want to go through the scorecard? Do your birdies.  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Sure. Made a bomber first. I hit it to about 50 feet, which was a nice way to start. And then pitched it close at the next, probably about eight feet. On 5 I hit a 4-iron to about six or seven feet there and made it.   
 13, I was just green side for two and chipped it up to about three feet. 15, I drove it on the green to about 20 feet and two-putted. And 17 I hit a 9-iron to about four feet and made that.   
 MARK STEVENS: Any follow-up? Okay. Thanks a lot, Mathew.  
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT