WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2009
Mathew Goggin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously a pretty big victory in the first match. That's got to be satisfying. 
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah, I knew that he was playing well. Obviously he's a very good player and he's got a lot of experience playing match play, and his form has been pretty good all year last year, and of course it started off pretty good this year. 
 It's one of those sort of flukey things; when you look at the draw you could be playing who's not playing particularly well who's in the Top 64 or someone who's red hot and out the back.

 Q. Talk about your match because it looked like there was nothing in there one hole either way until the last hole. 
 MATHEW GOGGIN: No, there was nothing in it. He birdied 2, I birdied 3, we both birdied 4. It was one of those sort of matches. He birdied 5 to go 1-up and I birdied -- really the only two -- he sort of made the two bogeys, and the rest of it was sort of shared birdies.

 Q. Australians seem to be making a few upsets in this tournament, not just this week but in past years in the first round. 
 MATHEW GOGGIN: Yeah. I think it's just match play. I don't think you can really -- apart from one guy, you can pretty much throw it in a hat and pull out numbers, because really 2 through 64, it can be pretty even.

 Q. How is your perspective of this golf course? What do you think of it?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: If we were playing a regular tournament here, you'd hear a little bit of complaining just because the greens are quite severe. You also have situations where Kenny Perry is short and next to the green, has to get up-and-down for 6, and I'm on the green thinking two-putt for a win, but I couldn't putt it inside his chip.

 Q. Which hole was that?
 MATHEW GOGGIN: That was on 11. I ended up two-putting, but you can have those situations out here where sometimes missing a green is better than hitting it into the middle of the green. They've kept the greens relatively slow, so they're not going to be out of control, so it makes them a little bit more playable. You've got to drive the ball well. The par-5s are all reachable, but you have to hit a good tee shot because it's playing so fast. The difference between a good drive and hitting a long iron in or a mid iron in after a bad drive, you have no chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT