AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 19, 2004
Curt Schilling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You heard Terry; how much did it hurt to pitch with your ankle like that?

CURT SCHILLING:  Well, I don't know that pain was the thing.  Seven years ago I became a Christian, and tonight God did something amazing for me.  I tried to be as tough as I could, and do it my way, Game 1, and I think we all saw how that turned out.  I knew that I wasn't going to be able to do this alone.  And I prayed as hard as I could.  I didn't pray to get a win or to make great pitches.  I just prayed for the strength to go out there tonight and compete, and He gave me that.  I can't explain to you what a feeling it was to be out there and to feel what I felt.

Q.  From the time period over the last game you pitched, besides them working on the injury, did you also change your pitching style a little where you were coming more from the arm and not so much from the leg? 

CURT SCHILLING:  No, I tried not to.  My goal was to try and get this to the point that I could compete and use my normal stuff.  Dr. Morgan, Jim Rowe, this training staff was just phenomenal, the things they did for me over the last four, five, six days, I would not have gone out there.  I would not have been able to go out there had he not come up with the plan that we ended up executing.  My goal was to pitch as normal as I could pitch. 

Q.  When you arrived at the Minor League complex in spring training in Fort Myers, did you have a vision how October would play out and does this in any way approach that vision? 

CURT SCHILLING:  I had an idea of how I wanted it to play, I'm sure.  I had no idea it would play out this way.  I am so freaking proud to be a part of this team.  My teammates, Bronson Arroyo, Wakefield, Keith Foulke, Bellhorn, all of the experts in Boston and half the guys and the girls in the Boston media on the bench wins us a game tonight.  These guys are phenomenal.  I'm just so proud to be a part of this team.  We just did something that has never been done yet.  It ain't over yet.  It ain't over by any stretch against this team and this organization.  We have as much respect for them as any organization in the game.  I'm feeling pretty special about being a part of this club right now. 

Q.  Did the stitches that Terry talked about allow you to pitch without pain? 

CURT SCHILLING:  Yeah, I couldn't wear the high tops because they were putting too much pressure on the stitches around the sutured area. What they did is my tendon is out, it is subluxed or dislocated.  To avoid having it popping in and out, they sutured the skin down to something in between the two tendons to keep the tendon out.  And it worked.

Q.  Even though it was not a high-top, is that a special shoe? 

CURT SCHILLING:  No. 

Q.  Same ones you wore a week ago?

CURT SCHILLING:  Yes. 

Q.  Was that the color or blood we saw on your sock and is this a procedure that can be done again if you pitch again? 

CURT SCHILLING:  There's a little -- I think there's a little bit of blood on my sock but that's just from the area.  Yeah, we will do it again if we can find a way to pull this out tomorrow.  We'll do it again for the World Series. 

Q.  When was the suturing done, please?

CURT SCHILLING:  Yesterday.  We were going to wait till today but I felt yesterday that we needed -- I needed a day to get used to it and so we did it yesterday, Dr. Morgan and Dr. Theodore, the other guys on the training staff. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT