AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 18, 2004
Curt Schilling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  First tell us physically how you feel. 
 
CURT SCHILLING:  Ready to go.  
 
Q.  Okay.  How was it in the dugout tonight? 
 
CURT SCHILLING:  It was exciting.  It was electric.  This whole place is electric.  This series is, every night, every game, I've never seen anything like it.  
 
Q.  I was asked to ask you, did you ask for the ball or did you have to lobby to get the ball for Game 6 from Terry Francona? 
 
CURT SCHILLING:  No.  I think we just felt like we were going to exhaust all of the opportunities or all of the scenarios we could to find to make this work if it could.  And it turns out now that the way everybody is throwing it's a good thing we didn't. 
 
Q.  And would you tell us how you feel about your fellow pitchers on the Red Sox pitching staff?
 
CURT SCHILLING:  I'm just so proud to be a part of this team.  This was -- this was just a phenomenal night, phenomenal two nights.  This is like round 13 of a 15-round prize fight right now, two heavyweights, it was unbelievable.  
 
Q.  Anything else you want to tell us? 
 
CURT SCHILLING:  No.  (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  I know you don't want to make this about yourself, and the important thing is getting to New York, but what does it mean to you personally to get the ball again and to get another chance? 
 
CURT SCHILLING:  It's a chance to get us one step closer to the World Series, a chance to make up for Game 1, a chance to pick my teammates up.  They have been picking each other up for the last couple of days.  There's just so many things that go into this.  I couldn't ask for anything more.  
 
Q.  How optimistic were you that you would get another chance physically, and how do you feel about the ankle being stable enough tomorrow night for you to perform the way you want to? 
 
CURT SCHILLING:  Well, you know, I never mentally shut it down after the game.  I was incredibly disappointed, but emotionally, I was pretty spent after waiting that long for that one game.  But, the medical staff, especially Dr. Morgan and Jim and Chris exhausted every scenario we could exhaust till we found something that could work, and that was pretty much a last-gasp effort that ended up working.  So, you know, from that standpoint, we did what we could.  What was your second question?  
 
Q.  Just what sort of guarantee -- I know you don't have any guarantees, but how do you feel about the ankle being stable enough tomorrow night to allow you to do what you want to do?
 
CURT SCHILLING:  Well, I think we've done -- we've taken steps to insure that we won't have the same problem we had the first time; that much I know.  So from that standpoint I'm very confident. 
 
Q.  Can you elaborate a little bit?
 
CURT SCHILLING:  Not really, no.  
 
Q.  When you came here, you knew this was one of the reasons you came here, you knew the history between these two clubs; can you put into words what this means to you?  It's not Game 7 of the World Series, but obviously your season is on the line and you're here basically for these kind of games.  Can you put that into words; the regular season wasn't a waiting period but this is what everyone else was waiting for? 
 
CURT SCHILLING:  You answered your own question; it is.  It's been so much more than I imagined it would be.  It was everything I imagined it would be, all the same.  I've never seen anything like this.  These two teams, except for them beating the hell out of us the other night, no game is over, to use the cliche; it's never over in these series and these games until you get that last out.  It almost seems like the last team to hit, wins.  It's something special.  I just want to be a part of it and I want to be a positive part of it for this franchise.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT