AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v WHITE SOX
October 7, 2005
Curt Schilling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Curt, how difficult is it looking at tomorrow, not knowing if there is a tomorrow, as far as preparation and things like that?
 
CURT SCHILLING:  It's not difficult.  I'm getting ready.  We're playing a game.  I can't worry about how tonight goes.  I have to get ready like the game is going to be played no matter what.  I have been doing that. 
 
Q.  Curt, when you and Terry are asked about 2004, you say that was last year, but now do you see the team coming back the way you did last year?
 
CURT SCHILLING:  I think we're taking the same attitude into tonight that we did last year into Game 4 against New York.  That was we've got to win tonight.  To me, that was the key to us doing what we did last winter, last October, was focusing on the nine innings we were playing, because the 18 that we just played have nothing to do with tonight.  It doesn't mean we can't turn around and come out tonight and play the game we need to ply.  
 
Q.  Talk about how you feel going into this game as opposed to last year.  At least this time the ankle is better. 
 
CURT SCHILLING:  Well, I feel what I need to feel.  I feel the same way as what I just said about the team.  Nothing I thought up to this point has any relevance to tomorrow.  I feel like I've been given five or six days to prepare, and I don't feel like I can be beat when I can put that kind of time and effort into something, and tomorrow's going to be that situation.  This is the time of year that I think that certain players have the ability to play better than they've ever played, and I always felt like I was one of those guys.  I'm taking that mentality into my preparation and game plan into tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Last year your post-season series, you left a very big impression on those outcomes.  Do you think that if you're given the opportunity to pitch Game 4, you will leave a similar kind of impression?
 
CURT SCHILLING:  I will have to.  We'll have to win tonight and win tomorrow.  The impression I left, whatever the people saw and wrote and said, I mean, we won the game, and in October it comes down to that.  Last year we did it in a myriad of ways and we have to find that again tonight. 
 
Q.  Is there anything you can share with us about your physical preparedness for this game?
 
CURT SCHILLING:  Physically, I feel fine.  I was in the bullpen on Wednesday and felt fine, nothing outstanding, nothing bad, just continuing to try to work, and the issues that I have been dealing with from an execution standpoint aren't completely gone, aren't completely still there.  I've had to work through and continue to work through.  Physically, I feel fine, but up to this point, I have inconsistently pitched the way I can, and that can't be the case tomorrow. 
 
Q.  You faced these guys on Labor Day.  Do you think that helps you, having faced them within the last four or five weeks?
 
CURT SCHILLING:  I don't think it has any bearing other than a chance for me to see them and get a little better feel for what I want to do, especially considering how they hit me my last time out.  I feel like I'm better than I was then, but that's not going to win.  I have to go out and be exceptional.  They're swinging the bats well. 
 
Q.  Curt, just to follow up on what you said before, so far you have been outplayed, outpitched, etc.  Is that a reflection of what the White Sox have done?
 
CURT SCHILLING:  I think they played exactly how we expected them to play.  I don't think we have played the way we expected to play.  We haven't done anything as well as we like if we're down 2-0.  They've done exactly what they did all year to get to where they are, and when you get to the post-season, the teams you play in the post-season, you have to stop them all year from being successful.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT