PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 26, 1999
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You were getting frustrated with yourself out there. Was it more you making errors
or was Monica playing well?

AMANDA COETZER: I think she was playing pretty well today. I wasn't really too
frustrated with my own game. I felt like -- I felt like she put me under a lot of
pressure. She was taking time away from me which probably forced me to make a few more
errors than what I should. But actually felt like I was in the match - despite the score,
I felt like I was in the match the whole time.

Q. She was taking time away from you?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, she takes the ball really early, and she doesn't give you a lot
of time to react. It distorts your view a little bit. You think the ball is coming at you
very fast; it makes you rush a little bit, and it is actually -- it is slow off the
ground. The court is not that fast.

Q. Did the rain delay have any effect at all for you?

AMANDA COETZER: No, I don't think it had a negative effect and definitely didn't have a
positive effect either.

Q. What things do you feel you need to work on heading into the US Open?

AMANDA COETZER: I am really happy with my game. I think, if anything, just being in
control of myself and not allowing players like that - I think the top players have a way
to intimidate and take you out of your game. I think if I really stay within myself and
not allow them to dictate, I think I am playing really well. I think that is the one area
that I could really improve.

Q. Few players have commented about the court. You said it was slow.

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I mean, the court is really slow. I think just the conditions,
too, with -- I played one night match which normally it is a lot more humid and it tends
to get very slow, especially these Wilson balls fluff up a lot and they become very slow
when they are used. And conditions like today, when it has been raining, it gets very
heavy.

Q. How would you see the Venus/Monica match?

AMANDA COETZER: It is hard to make predictions. I'd rather not. I guess I have my own
opinion, but I just wait 'til the match.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT