CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 18, 1998
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened out there?   Was it just your game wasn't on or her game was too strong or combination? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  It was just, you know, over too quickly.  She started off great and I never even got a chance to get anywhere close to the match.  I didn't feel like I was playing badly.  I am hitting the ball great at the moment so I never -- I never was given a chance. 
 

Q.  Is this the best she has played against you?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, I think so, definitely. 
 

Q.  Is it a little frustrating for you that the year-end tournament is always played on this quick surface?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  No, I think I haven't had great results here in the past.  I haven't won too many matches.  But I feel like every year I am getting better and better on the faster surfaces and this is a great venue.  I am going to keep trying.  I feel like I have improved my game a lot in order to adapt to the faster surface.  So I hope to be around some more, a few more years. 
 

Q.  Is this a year you are kind of glad to put behind you? There has been so some tough tournaments for you this year.
 
AMANDA COETZER:  It has been a really interesting year for me.  I wouldn't say I am glad it is over, no.  I would have loved to have had a few more matches because I really feel like I am actually at a point in my game where I am playing well; with a bit of luck I can just -- I can almost improve my best levels that I have played.  So, no, I wish the year was still going, tell you the truth. 
 

Q.  Who is coaching you no?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Nigel Sears. 
 

Q.  There has been a lot of talk this week - some of the players have been complaining the season is too long.  You were actually quite vocal about it a few years ago.  Any thoughts on it now?   Is the season too long?   Is anyone doing anything about it?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I am the wrong person to ask -- just what I said to you, I didn't feel like I played enough matches this year, so in my opinion, my year was too short.  I really would have like today have had a few more matches going into Australia.  It all depends on how many matches you play and I think we all are in control of our schedules to some extent.  So I think this year, I don't feel like it was too long. 
 

Q.  How much of an adjustment this year was it to have that change of coaches?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  It has been quite an adjustment.  But it has been a great learning experience for me.  In retrospect I think it was a great thing to happen to me.  I think it was time  for me to move on and really assess where I want to go with my game.  I think for the next few years, for the last bit of my career, I think this was the best thing for me.  So I can actually look back and I am happy about the way things have been going. 
 

Q.  Were you not happy originally, though?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I was -- I felt like I was getting to a point where I was getting a little bit stagnant in what I was doing.  In this game, competition is too tough to be stagnant at any point.  You have to keep improving in order to even maintain your current position.  So, it was something I needed. 
 

Q.  Do you feel your physical condition was as good as it was in the past?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I am actually feeling I am getting better than I was before.  I think I am moving a lot better.  I am doing a few different things, different type of training than what I did before, so, at the moment I feel like I am moving better than I have ever had on the court. 
 

Q.  Mary is playing Martina in the next round.  What do you think will happen in the next round?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  It is hard to predict.  I think if she can continue to serve as well as she did today and if she can keep her composure and keep her confidence level up, I think she is going to be hard to beat.  But I think Martina has got a little bit more to hurt Mary and she can put a little bit more pressure obviously than what I did.  So it is going to be interesting. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT