US OPEN
September 9, 1998
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You kept saving those match points. Looked like you may do something there.

AMANDA COETZER: With a little luck, maybe I could have. With just a little more luck,
maybe I could have, you know, gotten back. 5-All would have been good.

Q. You've played her before, but this is probably the biggest physical mismatch in the
history of women's tennis. What is it like playing against her?

AMANDA COETZER: I mean, just the way -- not so much the size, but the way she hits the
ball is intimidating. She hits really hard and deep. Points are over pretty quickly. You
know, you often feel like you don't really have a say in what's going to happen at the end
of the point.

Q. Think she's playing a lot better now than when you played her in the past?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah. I mean, I've played her quite a few times. I think she's
definitely moving a little bit better. Yeah, I think she's got a lot of confidence behind
her, so she doesn't get down on herself too often. She's definitely playing well.

Q. What is it like, you're out there, probably 15,000, 16,000 people, you get bageled
in the first set? Is it an awful feeling? What do you do to pull yourself together?

AMANDA COETZER: I mean, it's not a good feeling. It's a huge challenge to try and
somehow focus on the next point, you know, not really think about the score. I mean,
obviously I realize there's not a lot of tennis going on, not a lot of good balls being
hit. There's a lot of errors in the beginning. It's tough. It's definitely a huge
challenge to try and concentrate. I think that's really a big test for your concentration.

Q. How about the weather conditions, the delays, in and out, stop and start?

AMANDA COETZER: I think, you know, if I really have to look at it, probably the wind
and the delays probably helped me a little bit. I was definitely struggling with the way
she was hitting the ball on the one side specifically. But often the wind is a little bit
of an equalizer. Just the rain delays gave me a little bit of an opportunity to slow
things down, really have a chance to speak to my coach, you know, just have some time to
think about a few things, because it was really going very fast in the beginning.

Q. Do you think that Lindsay could win this, the way she's playing?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I think -- I haven't really -- I've been -- I haven't watched too
many of Lindsay's matches. I've been watching a little bit of Venus. I think it's going to
be a big test tomorrow. I think Venus has been hitting the ball really well. I think it's
going to be a really interesting match. I think from here on, it's really hard for me to
say, to pick one winner. I think it's wide open.

Q. What do you think has been the biggest improvement in Lindsay's game, say over the
last year or so?

AMANDA COETZER: I'd say just, you know, she's gained a lot of confidence. Like I said,
she's moving pretty well. Obviously, today it wasn't -- the last time I played her was in
Tokyo. I thought she was serving really well. Obviously today with the wind, it was hard
for anybody to serve great. But I think that's probably helped her over the last few
months to do well.

Q. Is this the worst wind conditions you've ever faced at the US Open?

AMANDA COETZER: At the US Open, yeah. Australia, it gets pretty windy. But I think this
has been one of the toughest conditions.

Q. Can you in your mind, to us or somebody sitting there, you see 6-0 --

AMANDA COETZER: You don't want to let that go, Bud (laughter). You keep coming back to
it.

Q. But you lose a set 7-6, it's still a lost set. Is that how you try to put it in your
mind, It's just a set?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah. You know, that's what my coach said to me. "It's one set. It
could have been 7-6. It's over." But I think the best way to relate to it is just
putting myself in that position. I've won sets 6-Love to somebody. It's very difficult,
especially if you maybe just let your concentration, slip a little, all of a sudden you
lose the first couple games of the next set, which I did have the opportunity to do. It's
very difficult. It's not easy winning a set 6-0, because you know that your opponent all
of a sudden has nothing to lose, and they can just start going for a few shots.

Q. What do you think of Martina versus Jana?

AMANDA COETZER: It's hard to say. I think probably the way Martina played her match
last night against Monica, she would have gained a lot of confidence. But, again, Jana has
done great. It will be an interesting match.

Q. You said the field was wide open. Would you say this is Davenport's best chance to
win a Grand Slam she's had?

AMANDA COETZER: I guess, you know, last year was probably an opportunity for her. I
don't know, she lost to Jana in the quarters or semis or something. So it's hard to say
really. There are really a few tough opponents there right now. It's by no means going to
be easy, I think. But, yeah, she definitely has a chance.

Q. Do you think there's any difference in the way players regard Jana now that she's
won Wimbledon? Do you think it's changed at all?

AMANDA COETZER: It's hard for me to say really. I can't really answer that.

Q. Lindsay said, at one point, I guess it was the last game, probably the longest of
her career. Have you played one that long, that rally from the baseline?

AMANDA COETZER: I may have in my match against Conchita. I'm not sure.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT