PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 27, 1998
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. With all the success you had had with Steffi, of late is she much further --
obviously she appears to be much further along in her comeback.

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I think so. I mean, if I have to compare -- I played her in Mawah
beginning of the summer and I felt like she definitely played a lot better this evening
than she did then. So I think she is really -- yeah, she has progressed.

Q. You have had a lot more success against her than a lot of other players. What do you
think it is generally about your game that gives her a tough time?

AMANDA COETZER: It is really hard to say. I think, you know, for a time there we really
played each other a lot and I think that was probably a bit of an advantage for me because
I really rely on my reactions, so I really kind of got a good feel for her game during
that period. It is hard to really point it out to one specific thing.

Q. It seemed like in the first set when you broke her in the fifth game it got her
really fired up.

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I mean, that was a really tough game and it seemed to have been a
bit of a turning point too in the match, obviously. I get like I was playing well 'til
that point and then just played a couple of bad games after that, but that was definitely
a very competitive and tough game. I think we both really tested each other out.

Q. She said that the 15 times you have played she doesn't remember breaking you five
times in a row like that. Do you remember that happening?

AMANDA COETZER: I don't know if I have lost that many games in a row -- I mean, for a
long time. But, yeah, I mean, I think -- she definitely got a bit of a boost after that
3-2 game, she won two really quick games and she definitely lifted up her game and her
confidence definitely went to a different level.

Q. What do you feel you were unable to do in the second set that you have been able to
do against her in the previous matches?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I think probably just the one thing that stands out to me would
be the fact that I felt like she was really there on every point. In the past I felt like
she let a lot of points slip in a row and it was almost the opposite, I felt like I did
that a little bit this evening, I really felt like I lost my focus a bit and didn't really
get it back right away. I just let a few points slip in a row and really couldn't stay
with her the way she competed every point. I never felt like she laid off. She was always
there.

Q. Is she the sort of player that if you let a few points slip then she is in the door
and that is kind of it?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, you can't allow it to run away from you. You really have to stay
with it all the time. I think that was something that I was able to do the last few times
that I played her. It is hard to say whether -- it was easier for me because she did it to
me. She let a few points slip, or, you know, the other way around.

Q. Mentally was she more like the Steffi Graf of pre-injury, did you sense that sort of
caliber --

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, she really seemed pretty strong. Again I really didn't feel like
I -- that was a fair test. I have to be honest, I tested her for maybe five or six games
in the beginning, but then really kind of let it slip a bit. But I think that I was up
against -- it was a tough test for me to really stay with her mentally because she
definitely seemed strong.

Q. She said she was really pleased with her backhand. She said was giving you trouble
to the point where you were hitting to her forehand. Is that how you remember it?

AMANDA COETZER: I don't know, I think -- she didn't make that many errors. Probably --
she kept it low and was really coming through a little bit, I probably could have done a
little bit more, I don't think the fact that I went to her forehand was that bad of an
idea, tell you the truth.

Q. Could you talk about this tournament, compare it to others perhaps and talk about
whether this would be one that you'd want to come back in the future?

AMANDA COETZER: Definitely. I think obviously this tournament has really moved around a
lot and it would just be great that it will be here next year and that we can come back
and really prepare for the Open. I think it is just perfect time to have it here. The
conditions are exactly like New York and it is a great atmosphere. It is a great stadium
and I really enjoyed playing here.

Q. Would it surprise you if Steffi came all the way back and was Grand Slam winner
again? 

AMANDA COETZER: You know, I have to admit, I would really like to see her do that. I
think she could probably do with something like that and yeah, but I think there are a lot
of people out there going for it. I think it is going to be an exciting competition next
week and also the next few Grand Slams coming up next year.

Q. Why do you say you'd like to see her do it though because she is Steffi Graf?

AMANDA COETZER: Just I think, you know, because I have seen her struggle. In a lot of
the Grand Slam tournaments I actually played her and I think that she is such a
perfectionist that I think it is really tough for her to deal with losses against people
that she probably shouldn't lose to. I think it will be nice for her to win another one.

Q. Do you think that is a widely held feeling amongst other players because she is such
all-time great player?

AMANDA COETZER: I wouldn't know. I really don't know. I have really spoken to anyone
about it. I think it is just exciting to be in women's tennis at this moment where
somebody like her who is a great champion and all these young girls there are so many
different people out there competing. It is a really a big competition at the moment.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT