PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 26, 1998
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What happened in the first set? You got down and lost so quickly and what was the
difference in you turning it around and coming back of course to win the next two?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I think I was playing all right the beginning of the first set. I
had a few opportunities, a few games that I was up and just kind of played very tentative
on those points, and before I knew, I lost the first set 6-1. But, I still felt that I
wasn't, you know, I wasn't completely out of the match and that she wasn't playing that
well that I should be losing 6-1. So I just thought I should try to hang in and just give
myself a chance to get in the match.

Q. 3-Love, 5-3 in the third set - is that where it becomes a player's will to win more
than anything physical at that point, because you could have -- there were a couple of
times, obviously, at times it looked like she was pretty much on her way, where you just
wouldn't let her?

AMANDA COETZER: I think, again, it is just the belief that maybe that you can do a
little bit better and that is how I felt. I just had faith that I could hang in there, a
little bit longer and that the match was not over yet.

Q. Did you feel you got stronger as the match went on?

AMANDA COETZER: Definitely. I felt like I was starting to play better and better as the
match went on, started to feel better and better. So, you know, it was a good feeling.

Q. That has always been your strength, being able to keep your stamina?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I mean, I have been looking for this kind of match to just set me
up for the next matches and for the US Open. I have been -- I think yesterday I was saying
that I am really lacking -- I felt I was lacking a little bit of that tenacity and
self-encouragement to really pull out a tough situation. So hopefully I can build on that
and move forward.

Q. For the first set and a half you really seemed to be hitting very shallow to her.
She really was running you all over the place to capitalize on that. Did you change
markedly after that, hitting deeper? 

AMANDA COETZER: Well, I was -- that was the bit of the struggle for me, couldn't find
my range. I was either hitting too short or hitting too long. So it was just a matter of
trying to find something in-between, a little more spin, but hitting through the ball a
little bit more.

Q. Looking ahead a little bit, you have got Steffi next. She talked about you last
night. She was asked which one you rather play or would you like to play more, and you
were the one she would least like to play. She said she has a tough time kind of getting
her rhythm on you. What do you think about playing her?

AMANDA COETZER: From here on, all the matches are going to be tough - that's what I
anticipate. I am looking forward to the match. Like I said, I feel like I am slowly
setting myself up to start to play better and better. I have a lot of respect for her. I
think she is a great player, and I think she is kind of on the verge of playing really
well as well. So hopefully we can bring out the best in each other.

Q. Some of your traits are your resilience and grittiness. Can you explain how you have
this mental toughness and if you always had this even from your youth tennis days?

AMANDA COETZER: That is hard to say. I guess it is just -- it is something that I found
that it is a way for me to win since a young age, I have always been kind of small, even
in the juniors when I was ten years old. I was smaller than most of the other players. So
it is just kind of looking for a way to win when you don't have the strengths. And
luckily, I feel like I have added a little bit of strength physically over the years, and
I was able to build on that a little bit. That is still the base of my game.

Q. Take a lot of pride in your nickname: The Little Assassin?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, hopefully I can be called that more often. I think at the time
that it kind of got stuck on me, it was a good time for me. It was in Australia, and I was
really competing well at that time, so my associations are pretty good with it.

Q. Did it surprise you, despite the fact that Kournikova is so popular, it seemed like
there were a lot more people calling out support for you during the match?

AMANDA COETZER: I think I have just been really impressed with the way the people are
enjoying the tennis out here. They really seem to be into it, and I think that is one of
the things that actually pulled me through this match. There was a good atmosphere and
people really seem to be enjoying it and people picked out their player they wanted to win
and they stood behind us. So it really was a fun match in a way.

Q. At any point in your past, did anyone say to you: Are too short; that you would
never be as good as you are because of your height and everything, or did you always tell
them they were wrong?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I mean, I had all sorts of things I heard when I was younger, but
I think that is something that kind of a player has to deal with. People will always find
some kind of fault with anybody no matter what they have. So it is just a matter of
dealing with it, I guess, and trying to overcome it. A lot of times it actually encourages
people, I think, to really face the challenge and try and get over it.

Q. Do you play the way you do because of that? People were saying that you'd never be
the player you are. Is that why you refuse to give up on any point or --

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I mean, I think it is probably a bit of a personal battle too.
When you lose certain points that -- I still go through it a lot of times, I fall into
that same trap where, you know, if somebody hits a big winner on me maybe I could easily
just find an excuse, but it is something that I have to work on everyday and try and stand
up against it and find a way around it.

Q. You play better against the faster players like that hit -- like Graf and Kournikova
- hit the ball real hard? You seem to have your best matches against those type of
players. Do you feed off the pace?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I mean, I think in a way I like to play against people who go for
their shots. But at the same time I know that if they are really on, I am going to be in
trouble. But it is hard, I think even for people who do it that well to do it twelve games
in a row, so I kind of try and just build on that and maybe always look for a chance to
just stay in the match.

Q. How do you feel Anna has been playing, today or has been playing recently?

AMANDA COETZER: I haven't really -- I didn't see her play last week that much.
Obviously she hasn't played that much because of her injury that she had. So I can't
really answer that. I just felt even though in the first set even though she won it 6-1, I
didn't feel like it was the true reflection of the score. I felt like she was making a few
errors. I don't know. It is hard to answer.

Q. Once you -- you broke her at Love when she was trying to serve out the match at 5-3.
Could you sense that she was -- she got frustrated after that?

AMANDA COETZER: I think -- yeah, I mean, towards the end of the second set I saw it and
also saw it once in the third set once I started to get myself back into the match. But we
have all been in that situation. I have been in that situation and it is tough if you feel
like you have the match in your hands and, you know, the other players still kind of they
are not letting go. It is not an easy feeling, so kind of just try to relate to because I
have been in the same position. You are not feeling very good if you were up 4-1 and 5-3
and in the third set and now all of a sudden it is 5-All.

Q. Do you remember your specific thoughts and if you gave yourself a mini pep talk when
you were down 3-5 and she was serving for the match, what you thought to yourself what you
wanted to do?

AMANDA COETZER: No, I don't particularly remember. I think probably just, you know, go
back to basics, just play the ball, it is there to be played and try and do whatever I do
best and that is try and move and really stay focus.

Q. You said that you were getting stronger. Did you notice her becoming a little less
strong? It seemed in the third set that her serve didn't have as much pace and her
forehands weren't as quick. Did you notice that?

AMANDA COETZER: No, not particularly. I think from the past experiences against her she
can really -- she can play a bad point, but she can really lift herself up when she needs
to and she can really come up with a really good point or shot out of nowhere is so it is
not really -- it is not something that I have noticed before and I certainly didn't expect
it.

Q. You came back at -- from Love-40 at the 5-5 game to break her in the third set. How
big a boost was that and how did you do it?

AMANDA COETZER: You know what, I wasn't aware of that. I guess I probably just -- that
probably just shows I think probably when I concentrate my best I probably don't even
remember and I don't play the score and I am not really have anything other than just
playing the next ball.

Q. You were ranked No. 3 last year at the end of the year. Some of these other players
like Kournikova and the Williams sisters I mean, they -- you could probably walk down the
streets of New Haven and most people wouldn't recognize you. While you can't say that
about the other players who don't have the ranking that you have, how do you feel about
that? Do you resent that at all?

AMANDA COETZER: I am actually probably grateful for it. I mean, I have been in
situations where, you know, people recognize me and it is fun for a while, but it is not
always that much fun. So it is not something that bothers me.

Q. You went through a coaching change this year. Can you talk about your new coach and
how is that is working out, what have you changed in your training due to that?

AMANDA COETZER: I feel really happy with it. I feel like my new coach is a very good
coach. Obviously you have to adjust a little bit, but I am really excited, looking over
the next periods of time working with him and working on my game. So it is -- it was a
good change.

Q. Is it hard to think of the US Open with Steffi tomorrow or are you thinking of the
US Open right now?

AMANDA COETZER: I mean, I have been thinking about the US Open for a long time.
Obviously. But, you know, I know I really need these matches and I am excited to be here
an excited to play, so that is the next step.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT