CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 17, 1997
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (inaudible)?

AMANDA COETZER: Tonight was probably not one either.


Q.  What was it about Tauziat's game that gave you problems, do you think?

AMANDA COETZER: I think she -- she really -- she really served well and she came into the net quite a bit and put a lot of pressure on there.  She's been playing really well lately.  So, yeah, she definitely played well.  I think probably her serve was a big weapon tonight.


Q.  Do you think -- (inaudible.)

AMANDA COETZER: Well, I think, absolutely, no easy matches in this field.  So anybody would have been -- anybody's a tough draw for me.


Q.  Can I get the correct pronunciation of your name? I've heard it a couple ways tonight.

AMANDA COETZER: Which part?


Q.  Your last name.

AMANDA COETZER: Coetzer.


Q.  Coetzer?

AMANDA COETZER: Coetzer.


Q.  Amanda, you've had such a great year, are you disappointed to have it end in such a way here?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, it's disappointing, I think.  I think I got a little bit excited when I -- when I had a pretty good end to a season, and I really felt like the -- this probably could be one of the times I could actually come into the championships feeling good and do well here, but unfortunately it didn't go that way.  And it's definitely disappointing.  But I think it's not going to take anything away from the way I look at the whole year.


Q.  What were the highlights of the year for you?

AMANDA COETZER: Well, I think there were many, and it's hard for me to really point out one.  I think definitely I can point out the Grand Slams and probably my wins over Steffi and Martina.


Q.  How would you sum up your year looking back on it now; what's your feeling going into next year?

AMANDA COETZER: It's just been a really great year for me.  I think I've put in a lot of effort and really, you know, tried hard right from the beginning of the year.  And I think if I look back I'll really remember it as a very, very consistent year.  I didn't feel like I had many lapses there and I had quite a few good -- you know, where I really lifted my game and played really good matches.  So hopefully next year I can maintain the same consistency and maybe even lift that  level up a little bit further.


Q.  (Inaudible) -- preparation for next season?

AMANDA COETZER: Well, I think that, you know, the work never ends.  And I really feel like my game could still improve quite a bit.  I think I can -- I can still improve on all levels of my game the way I hit the ball, probably my serve and then also the way I can -- I compete and concentrate.  I think I can still improve. You know, all those different things.


Q.  Ambitions for next season?

AMANDA COETZER: No, I think not one.  I think the main thing is to really stay competitive and really, you know, have a good feel for what my competitors are doing, how they're playing and, you know, I think the rest will take care of itself.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT