US OPEN
August 31, 1997
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Very disappointing loss. Can you explain what happened at the end? 
 
 AMANDA COETZER: I think, you know, she played a good match, served pretty well, you
know. Just a few points difference here and there. Went her way. I don't think I did
anything wrong, you know. I think she just came up with some really good shots when she
had to. 
 
Q. I know it's really soon after the match. Have you had a chance to think about it? If
so, can you learn anything for the next time you're in a situation like that?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, definitely. I think you definitely learn a lot more after you
lose a match. So I'll learn quite a bit. I think tactically she played a really good
match. She didn't go for too much like she has done in the past. I definitely can learn
from it. She played me a little bit differently than she has in the past. 
 
Q. What do you bring away from this tournament in general? Was it a good experience,
the 1997 US Open?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Yeah. Nice to see the new facilities and really nice to play on center
court. So, yeah, looking forward to coming back here. 
 
Q. Made a really big point of being fit. Can you talk about, more than physically, do
you feel it gives you a mental edge over your opponent because you are more fit?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: I think under certain conditions, yeah. Not your everyday match. But
playing the top players, where you probably push a little bit harder on every point, it
really helps to know that my recovery is pretty good, you know, in between points. And a
long match, maybe hot conditions, it definitely comes into play quite a bit. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the New York crowd? How do you feel they might be different from
other places that you go?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: They're probably a little bit rowdier than other places, but I think
it's definitely a little bit different playing on this stadium than the older one. I
really enjoyed it. It seems a little bit less rowdy than before. I don't know if it's just
the way it's situated. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT