U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1996
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How does it feel, Amanda?

AMANDA COETZER: It was pretty tough for me to be out there, you know, Monica played
really well the first set. She hardly made any errors. I was just struggling to get into
the match.

Q. Is there a way to describe what that feeling is like in the first set when seemingly
everything is going right for her and nothing for you?

AMANDA COETZER: It's definitely not a nice feeling. I tried to, you know, keep a good
perspective out there, not to think too much of the score and just realize that she's
playing pretty well, you know, just concentrate on each point.

Q. Can you be anything short of perfect and even compete when she's playing like that
-- excuse me-- can you be anything short of perfect and even compete with her when she's
playing like that?

AMANDA COETZER: You know, it's really tough. I think the only way that you can really
compete is actually to just be willing to stay with her and hope that she'll somewhere in
the point make a couple errors.

Q. You certainly didn't give up. You started picking up your game in the second set. Do
you feel like you wish you could go out and start all over again?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah. You know, these are the times you wish maybe the women played
five sets, you had a little bit longer out there. I felt that I was starting to read the
ball a little bit better. I really struggled for that in the beginning, to see where she
was going to hit it. You know, just getting used to the atmosphere, playing a night match
and all that. I started to feel a lot more comfortable.

Q. What were you thinking going into the match that you had to do?

AMANDA COETZER: Well, I definitely -- I was going to try to go out there and, you know,
play aggressive. Obviously Monica's not going to give you a match. I knew I had to play
well. I think, you know, forced a little too much in the beginning.

Q. In the first set, do you think nerves played any role, nighttime featured match,
stadium court, Monica, or was that not a factor? 

AMANDA COETZER: Definitely, yeah. I felt a little anxious all day. You know, I've never
played -- in all these years I've come to the Open, I've never played a night match. It
was definitely a little overwhelming. Felt a little bit sluggish in the beginning, didn't
quite get into it. There's not much you can do when she's playing that well.

Q. What would be your advice to Monica's next opponent, Conchita?

AMANDA COETZER: Well, I think Conchita's game definitely -- you know, she's definitely
a little bit stronger probably. She could hurt Monica a little bit more, keep her behind
the baseline a little bit more than I did today. You know, I think Conchita is pretty
experienced. She can do pretty well.

Q. Does Monica have a weakness that you could exploit?

AMANDA COETZER: Tonight I didn't really feel like I found a weakness that I could
exploit. You know, I'm sure she's human. You know, if the match starts getting tougher and
tougher, I'm sure she's going to make a little bit more errors.

Q. Presuming that she gets to the final and also that Graf gets there, too, do you
think she'd have a good chance this year against Steffi?

AMANDA COETZER: Probably. I think, you know, just as last year, they had a great match.
I'm sure it will be again if they were to play each other. I can't really pick a winner
right now, but I think it will be a good match.

Q. Amanda, you guys had a pretty short hand shake there at the end. Do you feel
particularly friendly to her? Would you consider her one of the warmer players on the
Tour?

AMANDA COETZER: I think so. I think definitely since she came back, you know, I think
she's a lot more outgoing. She's probably enjoying the whole tennis scene a little bit
more than she used to. I think she's mixing a little bit more with other players.

Q. Do you take anything in particular out of your performance in the tournament this
year and what it might mean for Grand Slams next year?

AMANDA COETZER: I'm very, very excited about my game right now. You know, I feel like
I'm playing some of my best tennis. I'm really looking forward to the rest of the year.
You know, hopefully I can just get a lot of confidence from this, despite tonight's match.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT