U.S. OPEN
August 26, 1996
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. So how did you like the draw this year?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: A tough draw. Maybe not as bad as last year. You know, I just looked at
it as not a first round match; just a great challenge for me. 
 
Q. Does that change and does it take a little while to get rolling in a tournament like
this? Does a first round match change that type of thing?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: I think in this particular match, I just tried not to really -- just go
out and play the match as if it's just an individual match. I didn't really want to look
at it. I think that's something I've been working on, to be able to do it, not for only
each match, but also each point, just go out and play each point, not really look at too
much around it. 
 
Q. Amanda, there's two philosophies on playing Grand Slams. One says you want to have
an easy first week, because two weeks is a lot, especially in this heat; another
philosophy that says if you get an early test, like you had in this match, can you sustain
that level for two weeks? Do you look at it one way or the other?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Not really. I don't think I've done well enough in enough Grand Slams
to really have my own philosophy over something like that. You know, I'm battling to get
past the first week. For me, right now, it's just look at each match as one individual
match and just try to play my best for that match. I can't really pace myself through a
Grand Slam. 
 
Q. How worried were you after she won the second set? Did you feel like you were losing
your grip on the match?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Yes. It was a very similar match to what we had in Australia. I just
felt, you know, I played a couple bad points at the beginning of the second set. She
started to play really well from there on. I felt like I really gave her a chance to get
back in the match. I got a little bit agitated and really couldn't concentrate too well.
Luckily I pulled it back in the third. 
 
Q. Amanda, she's a pretty streaky player. Are there things you try to do to break her
momentum?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Not really. I was really concentrating on keeping my own momentum and
my own rhythm. She is tough to play in that way because she plays very up and down. She
played one great game and then a few errors. The challenge was just for me to keep playing
my own game. 
 
Q. Do you think it's what got you over the edge is you just concentrating?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: I think so. Especially at the most important times in the third set. I
think there was one really tough game at 3-2. I really tried to concentrate and just play
the game. 
 
Q. With the number of balls that you run down, I'm sure you've heard this before, but
do you ever get tired? Do you mentally tell yourself, "Okay, I have to make it
through this third set, so I'm not going to listen what my body is saying to me"?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: Actually, I'm feeling really good, in good shape physically. I felt
that it's not really something I was thinking about. I didn't have to think about it
because I feel in pretty good shape. 
 
Q. She was getting agitated, slammed her racquet a couple times. When you see that, do
you think, "Maybe I've got her now, she's getting upset"?
 
 AMANDA COETZER: I think with a player like that, you know, she's a top player, when she
gets agitated like that with herself. A lot of times players like that can pull themselves
together. I don't expect them to really fall apart after that. You know, you just stay
cautious. I never expected her to break down. I expected her to compete all the time. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT