THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 24, 1996
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Do you think after the second set that you had the momentum? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  No.  You know, it's always difficult when you win that many games in a row.  You are always a little bit weary.  I didn't really feel the whole momentum.  I never felt secure.  We had a few closer games towards the end of the second set.  
 

Q.  Seemed like a very streaky match.  The successful games came in bunches for both of you. 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yes, I think so.  I mean, I never felt like I played a very solid match, but I think Jennifer played a little bit streaky.  She played either really well or she made a lot of errors.  
 

Q.  Were you surprised at the number of unforced errors she had, especially that second set?  A lot of balls long? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah.  She hits the ball pretty flat.  I think when it's a little bit windy like that, you'd expect her to make quite a few errors.  
 

Q.  The first time you played her in a while, right? AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah. 


Q.  Do you see any differences or does she really play essentially the same game? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think compared to times I played her before, from what I remember, I think she's really going for her shots a little bit more now, just really hitting it.  
 

Q.  Same dimensions to her game, though, nothing been added to it? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think it's pretty much the same, yeah, from my point of view.  She plays pretty much the same game.  But, as I said, just going for a little bit more than when I played her before.  I mean, her serve is still pretty good.  I think, though, I played her before, she served a little bit better before when I played her, depending on the day.  
 

Q.  At the beginning of the first set, what happened to you there? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I just felt a little unsettled.  I started off with a double-fault.  Just not feeling really settled down.  Just felt like it really took me a while to even, you know, see the ball very well, so.  
 

Q.  What's it like walking out onto the court where you know there's this whole Capriati comeback, she's got the hometown crowd here? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think all those things add up. It could easily be a little bit distracting if you don't really concentrate and know what you're doing out there.  
 

Q.  How far do you think she is from being back to a top-level tennis player?  Is she actually fairly close or do you think she has a ways to go? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think it's all going to depend on how consistent she is.  You know, like the score indicates today she can play really well.  I think it's all going to depend on how often she can do that and how long she can hold it up because she played a good third set, but also not so good second set.  If you play top players, you really have to be able to play good points, point after point after point, tournament after tournament.  I think that's what it's going to take.  
 

Q.  Do you think that inconsistent play was pretty much due to the layoff? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I'm sure, yeah, definitely.  I'm sure as she plays a little bit more, I felt this with myself, if you haven't played for a long time, you play two good points and you play two bad points.  The more she plays, I'm sure she will do it a little bit better.  
 

Q.  Did you take a break for tennis at all for injury or anything? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Have I?  
 

Q.  Yes. 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  No, not really.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT