STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 12, 1996
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you think you have been able to follow-up your success
in Australia fairly satisfactorily?

 AMANDA COETZER:  Oh, yeah.  Definitely I felt -- I feel I am
actually playing better than I did in Australia.  I have been
working pretty hard and, unfortunately, today, I didn't quite
do what I wanted to do.

 Q.  Obviously, tight first set, up 'til 4-All and so on and
then it just seemed to run away?

 AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, I think I definitely felt like I had some
chances the first set, but didn't quite, you know, play good enough
all the way through to break her ever.  And just let it run away
from me.

 Q.  How would you assess her form given that it is her first
tournament of the year?

 AMANDA COETZER:  I think -- I don't know if it is just with the
wind out there, but I definitely felt that she didn't go for as
many shots.  She tried to come to the net a little bit which I
think was smart play, but I felt that she wasn't hurting me that
much, but I think that that had to do with the  wind and she was
playing smart and just playing a little safer than, you know,
something that I probably should have tried to do as well.

 Q.  How bad was the wind out there?

 AMANDA COETZER:  It was pretty swirly, difficult, and I think,
definitely, you think the ball is there, but it is not really
there, so you really have to move your feet well and work the
ball instead of, you know, go for big shots.

 Q.  You sort of are now setting your sights for the top 10
or --

 AMANDA COETZER:  I think I am just kind of taking it step by
step.  It is quite a battle to get back up.  It is tough with,
you know, it seems like tournaments are getting tougher and tougher,
so it is hard work.  I mean, this one, I felt like I was really
playing well, and, you know, can't get past the quarterfinal,
so it is a long way, so I really just try to take it step by step
and just, you know, match by match.

   End of FastScripts........            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT