U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1995
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you feel, Amanda, if you could have taken the first set much earlier on one of
those set points second or third even, that it would have helped you a great deal in the
final physical push?

AMANDA COETZER: I think that it might have helped me earlier in the second set, for
sure, which was a crucial stage. I was really grinding, you know, to win that first set
after I had such a comfortable lead. I started to miss a lot of first serves at that
stage, so, you know, in retrospect, yeah, I think it could have helped me, probably in the
second.

Q. What was your strategy going into the match?

AMANDA COETZER: I knew I had to concentrate really well on both serves and on my
returns, hoping that she will give me a good chance on my returns, so I could really put
pressure on her or not get, you know, into a pressured point right from the start.

Q. Is it really a completely different thing to be in a Grand Slam first round against
her, than the first round in, say, Toronto?

AMANDA COETZER: There is definitely a different atmosphere here. The people really get
into it. But I mean, in Toronto, the people were pretty lively, but it is the Grand Slam,
and she lifted her game up just a little step higher.

Q. I mean, even in your head, does it feel different? I mean, is there a different
pressure or whatever just because it is a Grand Slam?

AMANDA COETZER: For me, not that much. I have never really won a Grand Slam or
anything, so I try and take it match by match, and, you know, just concentrate on -- not
to think about too much, about the fact that it is a Grand Slam.

Q. Without taking anything away from how well you played, do you sense any change in
Steffi over the last few weeks, and the two times you have played her, either emotionally
on the court or her general focus?

AMANDA COETZER: I feel that, you know, she definitely does give you a chance to get
into the game. Compared to previous times, I really struggled with her serve. I think the
fact that she hasn't -- that she has had a back problem for a long time might have, you
know-- I don't think her serve is that strong, but I feel that -- I feel I have really
improved my game. I think that is quite a big factor too, and just the comparison of how I
used to play her before.

Q. What is it you feel about your game that gives Steffi trouble?

AMANDA COETZER: I think what we have been working on is just pretty much to get a very
solid game without many weaknesss, and I think if I can stay in the points and keep the
ball deep, she can't really hurt me that much after the first couple of shots; I think
that is her game. She really likes to put you in a -- under a lot of pressure right after
the first shot, second shot.

Q. Can you let yourself think after winning the first set, that I can win this match?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I think so. And I think -- when you go out against somebody like
that you should really play with that belief and confidence in the back of your head
without thinking about it too much. I think you really have to push towards that and not
just go out there and hope that they will give the match to you.

Q. Do you believe that, though, when you are telling yourself that? 

AMANDA COETZER: It takes a lot of convincing and repeating it over and over, but I
think, yeah, you get to a point where you think it is possible.

Q. What were your thoughts when you were trailing 1-5 in the third?

AMANDA COETZER: What was I thinking?

Q. Yes.

AMANDA COETZER: You know, I was thinking that I am still right there and even though
the score has been very one- sided at that point, and I tried to mix up my game a little
bit and she started to miss a few and from previous times that I have played her, I have
known that she does give you a chance when she is ahead. She does give you a bit of a gap
to get back into it.

Q. After a match like this, for her how vulnerable do you think she is against the
players like Arantxa or some of the other players which she will meet later on?

AMANDA COETZER: You know, I can't really predict. It is a very tough field. There is a
lot of pressure on her too, but I felt today after I won the first set, she started to
play a lot looser and she started to go for her shots. So maybe -- somehow if you know,
maybe that could take some pressure off her, the fact that she is a little bit vulnerable
and she is not expected to win every single match.

Q. Once you get into the, like, the top 10, what makes it better, is it their heads or
is it because they usually have one big shot or the serve?

AMANDA COETZER: I think it is hard to say. Definitely, I think the people in the top 10
do have one specific weapon and a certain way how they could win points against people and
-- but I think they have to be all-around pretty solid without many weaknesss and, you
know, be strong mentally.

Q. Does the victory in Toronto give you an entirely different personal outlook toward
her, making her seem more human to you?

AMANDA COETZER: Yes, I think so. I feel, you know, with the new things that I have been
doing in my game and all that, I feel that, you know, people look at me in a different way
and I have a different game, so I look at many of the top players with, you know, with
that mentality of, you know, I can hurt them a little bit and I don't feel that they can
hurt me that much. They have to play a good match to beat me.

Q. Do you sense that Steffi was a little more irritable than she normally is with calls
on the court today? 

AMANDA COETZER: I don't know. I can't really say. I didn't really concentrate on that
so much.

Q. You played Monica in Toronto and now Steffi twice in the last couple of weeks. Could
you make any type of comparison?

AMANDA COETZER: They have such different games and I really can't say. I think it is
going to be very interesting to see them play each other if they do get to play each
other. You know, Monica just has, you know, a completely different game than Steffi and I
think Steffi is one of the few people that played her a lot, so she must have a good idea
of how to play Monica.

Q. Having played both of them in the last two matches, what would your prediction be if
they reached the final?

AMANDA COETZER: I really -- I can't predict on that. I said it is going to be very
interesting for me to see the two games match up against each other.

Q. What did you think when you saw the draw and you were going to get Steffi again, was
that good, bad, any reaction to that?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, it is definitely not the first round you want to see, you know, I
-- I felt that I had a good shot at beating many people in this tournament, but to play
either Monica or Steffi, or the very top is difficult in the very first round.

Q. You were just saying that you have been working on aspects of your game recently.
What are you going to have to do more or extra, whatever, to get yourself in the top 10?

AMANDA COETZER: I have been working with a new coach since the beginning of the year
and, you know, it has taken about six months to get to this point, but I don't believe we
have reached the level that we have been wanting to reach, so we are still looking to,
really, eliminating every weakness out of my game and obviously, you know, we have been
working on my serve and I have been working on creating a weapon, so just to really make
sure that I can't get hurt.

Q. Working with Gavin Hopper, what difference has that made?

AMANDA COETZER: I think we have concentrated on specific things and I feel that I have
a simple outlook on the game and know what I have to do when I go out there, and -- yeah.

Q. Did you get tired in that second set, I mean, was that part of the problem,
conditioning? 

AMANDA COETZER: No, I don't think so. If anything, probably a little mentally tired and
just a little relief by finally winning that first set, so I do not think, you know,
physically I feel in very good shape. But I don't think physically I felt tired.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT