FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 29, 1995
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Amanda, you seemed to have a really easy time of it in the first set.  What happened -- we stopped and started the broadcast and were pulling for you and all of a sudden you had a little trouble in the second set?

AMANDA COETZER: Even though the score was 6-1 in the first set it was still pretty close.  The second set I lost a couple of games and I think I -- you know, that put me a little bit behind and that gave her a little bit more confidence and she got back into the match.


Q.  So she made less errors in the second set?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah.  Well, I think I started out playing two loose games the first two and that always puts you behind a little, and just gave her some --


Q.  You were struggling a little bit today and Arantxa is suffering from the flu but she's going to be next up for you.  Did you catch any of her match at all today?

AMANDA COETZER: No, I didn't see it.


Q.  How do you play Arantxa?

AMANDA COETZER: I'm going to go out and play my own game.  I'm going to be determined to do a few things -- I'm just going to go in and play my game.


Q.  And do you know your match record against her?

AMANDA COETZER: No.  I've beat her once out of maybe ten times.


Q.  On clay or hard courts?

AMANDA COETZER: Both.


Q.  Do you do anything different to prepare for the No. 1 player in the world?

AMANDA COETZER: No.  It's another match and that's what you have to -- that's the attitude you have to have when you go out there, and not so much that it's the No. 1 player in the world.


Q.  Seeds are dropping like flies around here.  I think there are only like seven or eight left out of the draw.  Were you conscious of all the upsets that there were going into the match and just trying to avoid that.

AMANDA COETZER: No, I'm pretty much today -- I've been around pretty much all day and it was tough hanging around and still concentrating on my match, but that's what I try to do, just block everything else out and go out and do what I have to do.


Q.  Any mention of the red car for a special price this year?

AMANDA COETZER: I haven't heard anyone say a car.


Q.  Do you like it when Dennis watches or do you care?

AMANDA COETZER: It doesn't matter to me.  You know, I'm not very aware of what's going on outside the court.


Q.  Does it help you a little bit that you sort of have a home-court advantage with people knowing that you train here and root for you?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, definitely helps.  You  know, it's very nice just to be at home and come over and play.  I have a lot of support here and I know many people and it's always nice.


Q.  You practice a lot on these courts.  I mean, you play mostly at Van Der Meer, mostly at Dennis' courts.

Q.  Beat up on the pros, don't you?

AMANDA COETZER: I play with the pros over here, but not that much.


Q.  You had a lot of vocal support today and it seemed to bother your opponent at times.  She was looking over from time to time; particularly to a gentleman who was quite vocal.

AMANDA COETZER: John.


Q.  Yeah, John.

AMANDA COETZER: It's a guy I know pretty well and he comes over to the tennis center a lot and I think he's retired and likes watching tennis.


Q.  He said he's going to take you fishing.

AMANDA COETZER: Exactly.


Q.  He got several glares.

AMANDA COETZER: I think he left after a while but he did the job.


Q.  Grand Stand Court seems really intimate as far as the people are right there.  I guess when the crowd is on your side that's -- you've got to feel that a little bit.

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I've always enjoyed playing on that court.  You have to concentrate a little harder because it is easier to get distracted because you're so close to the people.


Q.  Do you hear a lot of that out there?

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, I'm aware of it.


Q.  Amanda, what, you're five-two, five-three?

AMANDA COETZER: Not quite five-two.  I'm like five-five.


Q.  I'm an intermediate player and that high top spin seems to bother me and it doesn't seem to bother you at all.

AMANDA COETZER: I've grown up with it and, you know, it is since I was little, that's the way I played.  I also grew up on high altitudes, six, seven feet above -- in Johannesburg, it's a very high bounce.


Q.  Does the bounce bother you at all?

AMANDA COETZER: Not that much.  I think it's difficult for everybody.  You can't really do that much out there.  But on the other hand, if your opponent -- if you play to play the high balls all the time you don't hurt anybody.


Q.  Right.  Strategically if someone was going to play you and Arantxa, would they play the both you of you the same way?

AMANDA COETZER: I wish I knew.


Q.  Both of you seem to have the same kind of style; you're solid on both sides, not particularly a large serve.  What's going to be your strategy to try to penetrate her and try to dictate the match as opposed to the other way around?

AMANDA COETZER: I'm not what my strategy is. But I know how she plays and I know how she beats me. No, I definitely have to go out there and hit -- I know she's going to run down many balls.  I'll try and do the same.  I'm just going to try it out and go out for a few more shots because from the few times that I've played with her, you know, she's No. 1 in the world and she also -- she's very good at running balls down and  getting them back, so you really have to try and be a little more aggressive and take a few more chances.


Q.  Follow-up on Rogers question, are you concerned about your first serve percentage?  You really need to be as far as how Arantxa --

AMANDA COETZER: Yeah, for me in every single match that's a priority.  I'm not going to be hitting big serves, so I really need to rely on the high --


Q.  Although your second serve was very good I thought today as well.  Thanks Amanda.

AMANDA COETZER: Thank you.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT