FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 27, 1995
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  In the beginning of the first two sets you came on like gangbusters.  What was the difference between the first half of each set and then she came on?

AMANDA COETZER:  I think, you know, starting out, the balls are a little bit -- they are brand new and they are not that slow.  So you could really you can go out and go for your shots and as they get a little older, they get really heavy and, you know, you just have to work for your points a little bit longer and I think I got a little anxious and also with the score in the back of my mind, you know, both of those things, I think, I don't know, I mean, it is a possibility.


Q.  Tougher match -- this is a qualifier; tougher match than you expected?

AMANDA COETZER:  No, you always expect a tough match.  You never know what can happen.  I mean, I know she is pretty good player.  I have seen her play before and, you know, she came through qualifying. She's had a few matches on clay.  This is my first  match on clay, so I was, you know, I was a little unsure going out there.


Q.  What did she do that gave you trouble?

AMANDA COETZER:  She just really kept the ball deep and moved it well and it is a little bit difficult to see.  She hits the ball in a strange way. It is difficult to see where she is going to go.  You never know what she is going to do next.


Q.  Do you feel sort of unsettled then out there?

AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah.


Q.  How did you feel physically going into the third set?  She seemed too tiresome and you were still --

AMANDA COETZER:  I felt fine.


Q.  Do you think conditioning might have given you a little bit of an edge?

AMANDA COETZER:  I don't know.  I never thought about that in the match. You know, it could have been a factor, but I didn't think about it.


Q.  Do you think of this tournament as a home tournament for you kind of?

AMANDA COETZER:  Oh, yeah.  It is really nice playing here.  I have got an apartment here and I train here on the island, so it is really nice.


Q.  How often do you spend time on the island? 

AMANDA COETZER:  When I am in the states, you know, when I have a break between tournaments I can't exactly tell you how many weeks a year, but a fair number.


Q.  Has it been recently or has it been awhile since --

AMANDA COETZER:  I was here right before I went over to Lipton for a few days.  It is normally just a few days here and there.  I am normally not here longer than a month at a time.


Q.  Do you feel more pressure when you are here? Do you feel better when you are here, any sense of that?

AMANDA COETZER:  It is a bit of both.  It is really just really nice being here and I feel very comfortable, but there is a little bit more pressure. There is a little bit more in my mind, I know people around, but it is nice.


Q.  I know in years past you had hoped to do a little better than you have, but it seemed like you always got a pretty tough draw and this draw Arantxa is waiting for you - if all goes as expected.  Have you thought about the draw at all this year?

AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, I looked at it.  Every match today was tough, every match is tough and I am  just trying to take it one by one; hopefully, you know, if I can go through and beat Arantxa I will have a few matches behind me in and feel more confident.


Q.  This is your first competitive -- obviously first competitive match on clay this year.  Have you had a lot of matches this year?  I know you kind of struggled a little early?

AMANDA COETZER:  No, I haven't had that many matches, you know, just a few here and there and I feel like I am starting to play better.  I am hitting the ball a lot better.  I have been working on a few different things and I feel like I am on the verge and I just need a lucky break somewhere.  It will boost my confidence.


Q.  Does that play on the mental part of your game when you were not as match-tough as you were, say, a year ago?

AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, it is in the back of your mind and I think it comes out in pressure situations where you start thinking of what you are supposed to be doing, instead of just playing naturally.


Q.  She gave you a little bit of trouble in the second set - midway through the match anyway - and then later in the match, they didn't become a factor,  what -- were you doing something differently?

AMANDA COETZER:  I think I was just looking out for them a little bit more.  I was trying to, you know, I started to get my footing a little bit, you know, getting used to the clay and moving on the clay, I think that, and just I was expecting them more, prepared for it.


Q.  Did you make a conscious effort to try to get to the net a little bit more in the last two sets because I don't think anybody went in on the first set.  Then I think you went in about dozen times after that.

AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, I felt like, you know, she was dropping the ball short every once in awhile and I wasn't taking advantage of that in the first set and just with the balls real heavy, I feel like you really have to attack and try and get in.


Q.  Couple of years ago you said you were working on some driving volleys from the baseline and catching the ball on the rise.  What are you doing now to try to climb back up in the rankings?

AMANDA COETZER:  I have been working on just my serve a little and just developing a bit of a weapon from the baseline, so I can, you know, I could either utilize points or put myself on the offense a little  bit more often.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT