VIRGINIA SLIMS CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 16, 1994
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Amanda, what made the difference in the end? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think just being behind and I felt like it took a lot out of me and every time I had a chance to go ahead, I was a little too anxious to win the point and I rushed a little bit.  
 

Q.  Amanda, the first set, doublefault, lost the game and doublefault last set-- seventh game, how do you account for that? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Quite frankly, I don't remember them, but, I mean, probably just a lack of concentration, a little bit.  
 

Q.  And this last game, the last two games you just played seemed a little loose, were you getting tired out there? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think, if anything, mentally I was a little bit tired and like I said, you know, just rushing a little bit being too anxious to take a lead.  
 

Q.  When Mary was finally given the warning for the delay, there had been a lot of call -- line disputes and she seemed to be delaying alot throughout, did that throw you off or have any impact on your concentration throughout the match? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think it just, you know, delays everything and forces me to keep concentrating for a longer period of time and, because, you know, I can't just switch off every time she delays, so I have to keep my focus and I think that, you know, it's difficult to keep your focus that long.  
 

Q.  Amanda, what do you have to do with your serve to make it a weapon -- make it a real weapon in this game? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Well, from what I have seen often, you don't need that hard of a serve.  For me, if I try to hit my serve harder, often, you know, it makes it just an average serve where if I can take some pace off the ball and spin it in, sometimes people don't know how to handle it soft too.  So I think to be able to mix it up and be able to place it would be more of a weapon.  
 

Q.  When you play someone who hits that hard, is there kind of a cumulative effect as the match winds down, you get into a third set, does it wear you down at all? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think it just once again you really have be to very alert, have you to keep your eye on the ball all the time and you know that takes some out of you being so alert all the time.  
 

Q.  Amanda, you seemed far more angry after this result than any other loss; would that be a fair assumption? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Angry?  I think, you know, it is a long year and, you know, obviously you want to end the year on a good note and just being tired, I guess, takes a toll.  
 

Q.  Amanda, do you feel like you let an opportunity slip away? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, definitely, I was in the match the whole time and I felt like I had chances early in the second set, you know, once again, I just I was too anxious and I didn't take my opportunities.  
 

Q.  Amanda, does Mary bring an aura to the game, to the match when you come to play her; do you think you're going to have to play the best match of your life in order to beat her or do you feel you're on the same level; do the other girls feel -- 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think so, if she's playing well that day, she's, you know-- she's difficult to play, but also she has to keep it up and, I think the main thing is to go out there and if she is playing well, see how long she can keep playing that well.  So, I really felt today, and -- that I was in the match.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT