U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1994
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  A lot of unforced errors; you did a lot of unforced errors -- 

AMANDA COETZER:  I'm sorry? 


Q.  A lot of unforced errors. 

AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, I felt like I wasn't watching the ball very well, and I just made a lot of unforced errors. 


Q.  You played her at Indian -- finals at Indian Wells when she was like on a huge roll when she couldn't be beaten; is she playing the same as she was then? 

AMANDA COETZER:  I think she's playing pretty much the same, I think, if not better, at least against me.  I felt like she made a few more unforced errors at that point, especially -- kind of the same match, first at 6-Love and second set she really let me back into the match, after she was up, I think 5-2. 


Q.  What was your match strategy today? 

AMANDA COETZER:  I think just focusing on my game, first of all, I really tried to play her weaknesses, which is her backhand.  I really never had the chance to come in.  I felt like I was pinned behind the baseline a lot.  So I guess you really just have to concentrate on doing what you do well. 


Q.  You've had obviously a nice tournament getting this far and a rough day today; is there really that much difference once you get up to somebody like Graf?  Is she on a different level than most of the people in this tournament? 

AMANDA COETZER:  I think I've watched her play so much before, if you can just get into the match, and pressure someone, I really felt like towards the second set, I really had the chance to get in.  If she's pressured, she does make a lot more errors. And if she's winning easily, she looked unbeatable.  So I think if you can once have a tight match with her, and I've never really had it, so she really has that in the back of her mind and she comes out very confident when she plays me. 


Q.  How do you pressure her if she's hitting so deep and confident on the court? 

AMANDA COETZER:  I think you really have to counterpunch which I didn't do well today.  I felt like I was a little bit off balance in the beginning, I wasn't used to the pace that she plays at.  If you can get into a few rallies and get into the rhythm, I think you can start improving. 


Q.  Is that what makes her different, the pace; is that the main difference? 

AMANDA COETZER:  Personally, I think her serve just puts her way ahead of everybody else.  She not only hits very hard she plays it very well and she's got a high toss which is difficult to read where she's going to hit it, so I think her serve is really her strongest point. 


Q.  Does that kind of ruin the tournament for you or can you go home and say, "Boy, I've had a good tournament"? 

AMANDA COETZER:  No, this is the best I've ever done in a Grand Slam and it gives me a lot of confidence for the rest of the year and I'm sure I'll play her again. 


Q.  Is it a big change coming from the outer courts, 16, and also playing the number one seed in the Stadium? 

AMANDA COETZER:  Yes, I was actually going to put in a request that she come out and play on 16, but I didn't think it would have worked. 


Q.  Amanda, what did van der Meer tell you before you went on the court this morning, any special advice or did he -- 

AMANDA COETZER:  Just go out and -- I was trying to hit -- told me to try and hit some angles and pressure the backhand, but it's really difficult if the ball is coming so deep and really to execute good angles. 


Q.  Do you expect her and Arantxa in the finals probably like a lot of us or -- 

AMANDA COETZER:  I think it's going to be interesting. The match between Novotna and Pierce-- both have had tough matches against her, so I think the semifinals will be interesting.  But if she goes three -- yeah, I probably would say Arantxa will make it.  I don't know, it's hard to say. 


Q.  Is there any positives you could take out of today? 

AMANDA COETZER:  Not many.  I think just that I can walk away with a positive feeling of the whole tournament.  Yeah, that's it. 


Q.  Was it difficult, like, after 6-Love in the first set, is it difficult to, you know, just be comfortable and make yourself -- keep pushing and see if something happens? 

AMANDA COETZER:  It is that way until you win your first game, I think you can try and concentrate on the ball coming out there, playing her, it is a little overwhelming.  I've only been on the Stadium once before in doubles last year so I think your concentration is not as it should be, so it's difficult. 


Q.  Which was your best match here? 

AMANDA COETZER:  Probably my match against Endo. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT