FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 31, 1994
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Amanda, I am sure when you got out  there you expected a long match, but did you think  the first set would go an hour and 23 minutes or  something like that?  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Is that how long it was?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, it was very long, very close and  I guess, you know, I expected to run a lot, and  expected a long match, but that is very long.   
 

Q.  How frustrating is it, you both got  shots that probably if you were playing other  people, you know, wouldn't have come back; what is  that like for you; having her run down so many  shots?  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think the fact that I have played her  quite a few times, I am used to her running down  many balls and I also practice with guys a lot and  they are faster, so that doesn't really bother me  that much.  As long as you expect it, you know, it  doesn't bother you.   
 

Q.  What happened in the second set?  You  were really close and tight in the first set?  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, I felt a little bit disappointed  losing the first set and I decided -- I missed a  few shots early in the second by an inch.  They  were really close and I decided just to go for it  a little bit more; take the balls a little bit  earlier.   
 

Q.  I think you in one game you had three  breakpoints and she managed to hold that game.  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I can't particularly remember that, but  -- in the second?   
 

Q.  Yeah, I think so.  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  What did you think of the tiebreaker?  What was going through your mind through that  whole time, that doublefault --  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I had a bit of doubt in my mind not  concentrating that well, just wandering a little  when I -- I remember tossing up the ball for that  second serve and I wasn't really thinking what I  was doing.  So it was just a bit of a mental  lapse.   
 

Q.  Amanda, how disappointsing is this  because a lot of the fans are pulling for you;  this is kind of your hometown.  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  It is disappointing if you look at the  round you know, it is round of 16.  I felt I could  have gone a little bit better if I had a better  draw, but hopefully I can keep on trying and we  will get it next year.   
 

Q.  You and Arantxa both play sliders and  run after a lot of balls.   What separates her  from you at this time?  What do you have to do to  get up with her?  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think just be willing to go for it  and, confidence, I think that is what-- she has a  lot behind her.  She is No. 2 in the world and I  really feel that is the difference.  I feel like  my game matches up well with her game, so I think  it is more of a bit of a mental factor.   
 

Q.  Did you get frustrated out there at all  today?  
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Today, not really, no.  I really  enjoyed the match.  I felt like I did pretty well.   
 

Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT