AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2001
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Amanda.  
 
 
Q.  Do you think it was a game of missed opportunities for you? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  In a way I think so.  I mean, I think I really probably had my opportunity at 5-3.  I went for a couple shots and I missed them.  You know, I don't know if I hung in the point if it would have been different, if she would have gone for her shots and made them - who knows?  Yeah, I mean, it's always dangerous if she's going to serve at 5-4.  You know, she's going to be dangerous.  So, yeah, I had a small opportunity.  I think I missed it.  You know, it's nice to know that I set myself up like that.  You know, hopefully I get another one.  
 
Q.  Must have been a dream start for you? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah.  I felt really good starting.  You know, I felt like that the whole tournament, felt ready when I came out.  I'm often a little bit of a slow starter.  It's really nice, especially against somebody like that who can come out and serve really big early on.  She didn't, so it was nice to start off like that.  
 
Q.  Is it physically intimidating playing someone who has that size advantage on you?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  You know, I've played her a few times.  I don't really notice it that much anymore.  You know, obviously if she's coming to the net, you notice her.  I think that's a little bit intimidating.  I think that's something I can work on, you know, to stay on the ball.  I had a couple passing opportunities that I didn't make because up at the net she is intimidating.  But, yeah, it's something I think you get used to.  
 
Q.  What was your feeling at the start of the third set? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I felt really good going into the third.  You know, even though I lost the second 6-1, it went pretty quickly, I felt like I was in the match.  I felt early on in the second set I lost a lot of points.  It wasn't necessarily her just winning all of them.  So I felt really good going into the third. 
 
Q.  How do you feel she's playing compared to the previous times you've played against her?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  I think she wasn't as aggressive as I have seen her play.  You know, I don't know if you're going to come out and make a lot of errors in the first set, I think it's hard to go for your shots and have the confidence.  Obviously, she's had some tight matches here.  Yeah, I have played her where she definitely, you know, really went for shots early on in the rallies.  She didn't really do it that much today.  
 
Q.  Is there any sense of an increased disadvantage to you when the roof is closed against someone like Venus?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  You know, I didn't really want to think about it.  I didn't want to talk myself out of it.  Normally, I would say yes, but I didn't really think it today.  I think the conditions suited me very well.  I felt like I saw the ball really well inside, probably more than I would have if it was outside.  The lighting is much better.  I think it probably favored me a little bit today.  It was easier for me to pick up her serve.  She mixes the pace up a lot, so I could see.  I could see it a lot better.  
 
Q.  Third set, the crowd seemed to get really behind you, especially as the match wore on.  Do you sense that at all or is that something you kind of block out?
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, you definitely sense it.  I mean, I've always enjoyed playing here.  It's a great stadium.  Yeah, this is a nice atmosphere.  
 
Q.  Is there a sense of sort of lost opportunity, you don't get too many windows like you had against Venus? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, I mean it hurts.  This tournament has been my favorite.  It would have been great  -- I was very close to another semifinal, which is my best result in the past.  But I feel really happy about where my game is right now, and I think I'm going to give myself some more opportunities this year.  Not too many Grand Slams during the year.  You know, I really like the French and I like the US Open.  That leaves me with two.  You know, I think there are a lot of tournaments to play during the year.  Hopefully I can give myself some more opportunities like this.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT