CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF SANEX WTA TOUR
November 14, 2000
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Considering the matches between the two of you have been pretty close in the past, how surprised are you?  
 
AMANDA COETZER:   I mean, at this point, I'm not really thinking about surprise at all.  I'm just trying to enjoy the win.  You know, we've had a lot of matches in the past, a lot of tight matches.  So, yeah, I definitely didn't expect to win that easily.  But I'm not analyzing too much.  Just trying to enjoy the win. 
 
Q.  Were you comfortable with the way you're playing, coming into this tournament? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:   I have been.  I had some time off.  I played Philadelphia, and I actually felt really, really confident coming into this tournament.  I felt like I was enjoying my game and I had some  -- three really good matches in Philadelphia.  
 
Q.  Are you awake yet today? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:   I'm not a morning person.  (Laughs).  Somehow, I rose to the occasion, and I'm awake by now.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about just getting past the first round? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:   Yeah, it's been a while.  So, it's really nice to win a match here, especially being the last CHAMPIONSHIPS here in Madison Square Garden.   So, it was nice to, you know, know what it feels like to win here.  
 
Q.  Do you think that the CHAMPIONSHIPS will change from New York to Munich next year?  What do you think   --
 
AMANDA COETZER:   What do I think about it?  I think tennis in Europe has been quite strong.  At first I thought maybe it would be a good move, but when I walked in yesterday and I practiced on this court, I definitely felt sad.  It's an honor to be competing here, you know, with some of the other performers and other athletes.  So, I'm definitely sad to see it go.  I think we have a great history, but maybe you have to move on. 
 
Q.  And for you and some other players, is it better Munich, for planning, to come back from Europe again than to come to the States?
 
AMANDA COETZER:   I would say it is a little bit easier for me to be in the States.  I've been here for a long time.  I don't like to go on really long trips to Europe.  It's a little bit more intense.  Going from one country to the other, it's always different languages, different cultures to deal with.  I'd prefer to be in the States, but I'm just going to have to be over in Europe for longer at the end of the year. 
 
Q.  Do you feel that Chanda was bothered by any leg injury?
 
AMANDA COETZER:   Definitely.  She pulled out of Philadelphia last week.  The only time I could really notice it would probably be on the serve.  Being on the left knee, I can imagine it being difficult putting weight on the knee when you have to serve.  And I broke her quite a lot, which really helped me today.  
 
Q.  What is the difference today in getting past the first round? 
 
AMANDA COETZER:   I felt relaxed going into the match.  I think I felt ready.  In the past, I've just felt a little bit insecure coming into this tournament.  Again, I played  -- last year, I played Nathalie Tauziat.  I think this court suits her game really well.  I just feel comfortable on the faster surfaces somehow these last few weeks. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT