PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 24, 2000
Amanda Coetzer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Are you ready to play another match? 

AMANDA COETZER:  No, I've had enough for the day.  Thanks. 


Q.  You had struggles of late in your last four or five tournaments before coming here.  What seemed to be the turnaround?  

AMANDA COETZER:  Well, it's been strange.  I felt ever since the French Open I felt like I've been hitting the ball really well, and I was ready to do well, but just like five tournaments in a row -- 


Q.  Meanwhile, back to the question. 

AMANDA COETZER:  The turnaround, I would say, was just basically not getting discouraged by those losses and having faith in what I'm doing and how I'm practicing.  Cause, like I said, I felt all along I've been hitting the ball pretty well.  I didn't feel like there were major flaws in my games, just a matter of hanging in there mentally. 


Q.  Did you feel you had a little bit of an advantage today maybe because of the heat and your fitness maybe going two matches? 

AMANDA COETZER:  Anke been on the tour for a long time, she's pretty fit, too.  You never know.  I didn't feel great the first set, I had about an hour and I ate right before the match, and I really didn't feel great, luckily I pulled it out in the first and she probably felt a little bit tired in the second. 


Q.  In '97 you got as high as number four in the world.  Sorry, number three.  Three.  Close.  I guess back down around the top 15.  What's been reason you haven't been able to climb back up into that, I guess, elite ranking level? 

AMANDA COETZER:  I think, number one, probably (inaudible) world of tennis.  I felt in '97, when I was number three, I felt like I might never get to this ranking again in my career, but I really still felt I could improve my game and I feel like I've done that to a certain extent but, again, I've made a little bit of the comeback the clay circuit got my ranking back into the top ten and I had a little bit of a lapse my next five tournament.  So, I feel like I'm very competitive for the top ten.  With consistent results I can maintain a spot in the top ten. 


Q.  You think you could get back to the top five?  

AMANDA COETZER:  I don't know.  Like I said, the depth is very strong.  You never know, with a bit of luck. 


Q.  You think you'll see a different Venus Williams you did in Hamburg? 

AMANDA COETZER:  I saw a different -- I"m hoping I'll see a different one than what I saw in San Diego.  She played extremely well in San Diego.  So, yeah, I expect a different player when I meet her in Hamburg, but I've been watching a little bit.  It was a great challenge for me.  I feel like she lifts my game to another level.  It's like playing -- I shouldn't say that, I could get in big trouble.  She hits the ball, as hard I practice with guys on the men's.  She takes the ball so early and she hits the ball really hard.  So she really lifts your game to another level.  I have to move a lot faster than what I did against some of the -- 


Q.  Harder than some of the guys you hit against? 

AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, when I played in San Diego.  It was 6 love, it was over in maybe 15, 20 minutes and the balls were just coming at me so fast, she was playing way inside the baseline and really didn't give me much time, but I think, thanks to that match, I felt like I lifted my practices in intensity.  I tried to move faster, react faster to some balls.  I mean, I love having the opportunity to play her. 


Q.  As a counterpuncher, what's your game plan against somebody like her, somebody who hits the ball that hard? 

AMANDA COETZER:  I think my main plan is not to be too distracted by who's on the other side of the net and trying really to stick to my game, not rush myself.  You know, just try and keep the ball deep and not get hurt as much. 


Q.  A lot of people think it's Venus' tournament to lose being she's playing so well at this time.  Coming in and trying to win the tournament, do you have to avoid thinking that she's almost invincible or knowing how well she's been playing? 

AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, I mean, I felt, you know, there are very few players can work on the Court and win 12 games in a row and wipe somebody else off the court.  I felt, even in San Diego when she was playing extremely well, I felt I had a bit of an opportunity.  So it's just looking for that opportunity, whether it's early in the match, whether it's late in the second set, whenever it is, just stay positive and wait for a chance, she might make a few mistakes, you know. 


Q.  You need her to make mistake though? 

AMANDA COETZER:  I think. 


Q.  More than another player? 

AMANDA COETZER:  Yeah, I think the base of my game is trying to force errors.  I keep making my opponent play shots, and it's not easy.  Most players I try and force errors.  


Q.  You said you had an hour between matches, you try to rest as much as possible and like you said you ate right before, you didn't have a choice, you'd be starving. 

AMANDA COETZER:  That was my first priority.  Yeah, I mean I did have the option they gave us an option whether we wanted to wait a little longer and play in the grandstand, I wanted to play in the stadium, so I didn't mind that much.  You just try and rest, I think and learn from past experiences you should eat the right thing, I think I quite ate the right thing today. 


Q.  Why do you prefer the stadium? 

AMANDA COETZER:  It's nicer to play the stadium.  I played my other match on the other court maybe I would have had an advantage if I played another match on it but it's a little bit noisier out there and I always find it a little easier to concentrate, you have more space on the stadium courts.  I just enjoy it more. 


Q.  Have you seen your draw on the U.S. Open and how do you look at what's going to happen there as far as who you might face? 

AMANDA COETZER:  I took a quick glance at it.  I didn't look very far, and just while I'm still in this tournament I really don't want to focus on that.  So I haven't really given it thought. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT