U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Roberto Diaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on your round today.  
ROBERTO DIAZ: I thought it was a very good round, although I was pretty nervous at the beginning.  I held it together pretty good.   
And then I hit a couple really good shots on 4, driver and the second shot were very good and I think that's where my round started to get better and better.  And I ended up the round pretty strongly at the end.   
 Q.  When did you get here?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: I got here Sunday.   
 Q.  So how close were you looking at the weather forecast?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: Not very.  I mean, I got to start looking at the weather probably on Wednesday morning, Tuesday night.  Sunday and Monday I didn't look because it changes, it varies a lot.  So maybe Tuesday night, Wednesday morning, and then closely on Wednesday afternoon.   
 Q.  You prepared yesterday as if the forecast looks good, there's a really good chance I'm getting in or what was your mindset yesterday?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: No, I thought Phil was going to come.  I always did.  I think he was going to somehow pull it off.  But I didn't want to put my hopes up and then see my hopes go down.  But I was preparing not to play, too.  I prepared the whole week to play.  But I was prepared not to play.   
 Q.  At what point this week did you feel that it was probable that you would play?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: I think Tuesday night it was at 50 percent.  And I saw Scottie walking Wednesday and I figured he was a for sure that he was going to come.  So when I saw his caddie, I thought he was definitely coming.  So I mean my hopes were down, for sure.   
 Q.  How many practice holes did you play?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: I played nine on Monday, 18 on Tuesday.  I think I played five and a half yesterday, we got the storm.   
 Q.  Did you feel like you could play well today?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: Yeah, I mean this course, obviously it's very long and I'm not a big hitter.  But I think you have to be pretty accurate, too, the greens being as soft as they played today I thought I had a chance because I could hit long irons and stuff into the greens.  So, yeah, I thought that if I could come I would play well.   
 Q.  When did you get the official word this morning?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: Around 7:00 in the morning.   
 Q.  Did you go back to sleep?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: I went back to sleep until like 9:30, and then I worked out and got to the course around 12:00.   
 Q.  When did the nerves start?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: As soon as I walked to the first tee.   
 Q.  Obviously you were excited when you get the official word?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: Yeah, I was very excited, yeah.   
 Q.  Where would you classify this experience today?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: No. 1 in my career, for sure.  Playing with Steve Stricker was amazing.  Hometown hero, the crowds were unbelievable, the first tee was amazing.  Yeah, I think it was a good -- really good experience.   
 Q.  You get a phone call at 7:00 from the USGA?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: No, I was here.  I got here at 6:15 in the morning.   
 Q.  You said you went back to sleep.  
ROBERTO DIAZ: I went here, got the news at 7:00 and went back to bed.   
 Q.  You were able to go back to bed and go back to sleep after you got the news?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: Yes.   
 Q.  Were you eating breakfast or warming on the range at 6:15?  
ROBERTO DIAZ: Eating breakfast.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT