THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 12, 2019
Adam Scott
Byeonghun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What does it mean performing in front of the home folks?  
ADAM SCOTT: It means a lot. It's a lot of fun but there's a lot of expectation, as well. You could see that off the first tee today with my tee shot, but fortunately my partner had me covered. We played a solid match. It's tricky. Made some birdies. It's a good start.   
 Q.  Performing in it and playing with Adam here for the very first time, what was the atmosphere like for you?  
BYEONGHUN AN: It was crazy. It's my first time playing in it, and yeah, to be fair I was a little bit nervous. It was fun playing in front of a home crowd, and then playing with Adam calmed me down a lot, and that's why I was able to hit some great couple shots the first couple holes. We got in the mood and got some birdies going. Overall we played great. When he's not playing well the first couple holes, I have him covered, and when I was struggling in the middle, he got some birdies going.   
 Q.  Must be a bit of relief to get the first point under the belt?  
ADAM SCOTT: It is. It's tough. There's a lot of build up and trying not to put pressure on myself, it's almost impossible. It's important playing here in Australia, but we did a nice job today. Ben had me covered early while I was shaky. After a couple holes, I settled down and hit some shots. It was good fun.   
BYEONGHUN AN: He helped me a lot today, calming me down so I don't get too hyped up. I was able to play my golf today. I'm really glad that I was paired with him and kind of helped me guide us through today. It was a big point, definitely.   
 Q.  You've won here and played here. How much is Royal Melbourne going to be a help for the International Team?  
ADAM SCOTT: I think it is. Certainly nice for guys like me who know it well. I've been so impressed with our team the way they have taken to it the last few days and embraced the nuances of playing golf around here. We have the best guy leading us and doing that in Ernie. He's been fantastic.   
 Q.  Will we see you guys together tomorrow?  
BYEONGHUN AN: We'll see. It's up to Ernie I think. We'll see what happens tomorrow. Definitely the pairings today worked out. You can see it by the points. I think -- we'll see.   
 Q.  What's it like being in this one where he's leading you as the captain?  
ADAM SCOTT: Special for me. Certainly he's been a great mentor to me my entire career. He's put his heart and soul into this behind the scenes. Of course we are playing hard for the team. We are playing hard for Ernie. It would be really special if we could get a win in this Cup and turn this thing around with Ernie leading us.   
BYEONGHUN AN: My goal this week was to at least get a point and help the team get the trophy back. Playing alongside with Adam was a big help, playing as a rookie and I was very nervous. We both had breakfast together today and played together yesterday and he kind of calmed me down. I wasn't really that nervous on the first tee. Adam helped me a lot with that.   
It was fun. There's not a single moment where I was down or too nervous. I was excited the whole match today. We stick to our game plan and everything clicked, so it was a good day.   
 Q.  How important was this performance?  
ADAM SCOTT: Very important for us. It's something I've been thinking about for a couple of months coming in. I put a lot of focus into this first round. I'll have to reset and move on, but this is the start we needed. We haven't seen this for a while. We've got to try to keep this lead now as long as possible and hopefully the week runs out.   
 Q.  What do you think this team needs to do to shift to foursome play from a mental aspect?  
ADAM SCOTT: I think we've addressed that already. Look, I'm so impressed with the way Ernie has handled this thing. He's got it mapped out for us. We all know what our job is and what's going to happen. I think it will be a nice little afternoon and then calm down tonight and come out tomorrow can do it all again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT