THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 10, 2019
Byeonghun An
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First Presidents Cup, how does it feel to be at Royal Melbourne, especially receiving two different phone calls from Ernie?
BYEONGHUN AN: Yeah, I got a phone call twice, unfortunately and fortunately. First one was saying I'm not in. It was a tough call. Obviously I was disappointed, but I never thought about I would get a second call, and last week, they said -- well, you can tell me to get lost but we need you on the team. I was like, I'll go down and play.
I'm here and I'm looking forward to my first Presidents Cup.
Q. You guys just had a practice round early this morning. How is the golf course looking and what challenges will you guys face?
BYEONGHUN AN: The course is fun. It's not like the courses we play in the US. I played the Metropolitan last year in the World Cup, and it was very similar, but the layout is different, but conditions are playing very similar because it's very firm and fast. The weather is kind of chilly. It's going to be a tough week.
Q. How excited to play in your first Presidents Cup?
BYEONGHUN AN: Very excited. I was looking forward to this moment the last five years, and then I'm finally here and I get to play as part of an International Team. Especially playing for Ernie, we know how much he wanted this badly the last year and a half. We had loads of team meetings and we know how much he wants it, and you can see by the logos we've come out with, the International Team logos, it shows how passionate we are.
I'm very excited to be here, and play Royal Melbourne as my first Presidents Cup, it means a lot.
Q. What has Ernie been like as a captain so far, his leadership style? How would you describe it?
BYEONGHUN AN: Friendly? He's been very nice. Trying to make us feel comfortable. We have a lot of rookies and everybody seems like they are having a good time. Ernie keeps telling us you're the best players in the world and you have a chance this week to compete against the U.S. Team.
Q. Now that you've seen the golf course, how do you feel your game stacks up on this golf course and how can you help the team?
BYEONGHUN AN: You have to be patient I think. Let's say for fourballs, 18-under is not going to happen. Some holes you might need a birdie, but I think it will be very patient with it, because there's some spots that you cannot go. It's a very tricky golf course. You have to be smart and think about it before you hit it.
Obviously a good ball-striker will help because it's so hard to get close and you've got to hit good shots. If you mis-hit it, you're not going to get close and you're not going to play the next shot because it's going to be a tough third shot. You definitely have to hit it where you want to hit it. That's important.
Q. Getting off to a great start for either team is important, but for the International Team to get the momentum, the way the competition has gone over the last bunch of years?
BYEONGHUN AN: Last time when they played, you know, Internationals didn't do very well two days. Good start helps but we know our abilities. If we play our golf, it's going to be close. I know we have a great chance in singles but the record shows that, too, we have a great record in fourballs in the singles. I think Ernie has been focusing on foursomes this year and we need more points. That's our goal. We've got to get a hot start. Definitely we need some points so we can get a chance on Sunday because two years ago, that wasn't the case. Definitely needs to be points before we get into the singles.
Q. What do you think --
BYEONGHUN AN: I think the team's great, not just because I'm playing it. We have so many youngsters and young guys -- I'm a rookie. I was very surprised, I'm like the seventh-oldest guy on the team. I'm not that young, but I didn't feel this old. This team, I'm kind of one of the old ones. It's very exciting. It's a team room, because we have so many young guys we try to make them feel comfortable. I'm the first time playing in it. Ernie has been great I think.
The team, I think everyone has their own partners. We know who we're playing with. We were all excited, so we're very looking forward to Thursday, Friday, going into the weekend, so we'll see.
Q. Your practice today, seems like you have a chance of playing with Hideki, just your thought about that?
BYEONGHUN AN: We'll see. I know who I'm playing with, but you'll see by tomorrow afternoon the pairings. I might be playing with him. I might be playing with Leishman. I might be playing with Ancer. We'll see what happens.
Q. Instead of Jason Day, you're here, what do you think about this?
BYEONGHUN AN: Well, I got a call a week ago and he said he can't play. Jason, hopefully I can be as good as him and try to get as many points as he's done in the past. It could be extra pressure because you're in because Jason is not. Could be extra pressure, but I'll try my best. I know I'm playing decent golf and as long as I play my golf, I think we have a very good chance.
Q. How is your golf right now?
BYEONGHUN AN: It's okay. I had a couple weeks off which I needed because I played seven out of eight weeks in the fall. Had a practice session before I came here. Was feeling pretty good. Course is totally different than what we played in the fall and Asian Swing. These are different techniques, definitely. It's not every hole that you pitch to the flag and hit it close. Here, you have to think more and you have to be able to control your shots. I'm kind of working on those things the first few days, that's for sure.
Q. What do you think, how do you deal with the course?
BYEONGHUN AN: We have to get used to. It's different grass. I got here on Sunday to try and get used to it. There are so many bunkers around here, so it's very important to have a good short game. We need to hit it in the right places so we didn't miss in the short-side or somewhere. That's the key this week is to not miss where we can not go.
Q. What do you think about the new logo?
BYEONGHUN AN: It's good I think. This way I think it feels more like we're in the same team instead of we're representing all different countries. That's why we like it. The European teams in the Royal Melbourne, they have a European -- they are playing for Europe. Us, we're international. There are a lot of countries, but it's a new logo and we feel like we're playing for that logo and playing for Ernie. He's been doing in different ways, he wants us to be together and he wants us to be ready before we come here and get comfortable with all the players. I think it's been great. I think the new logo, it's amazing. Hopefully it will be good.
Q. Do you think the team spirit is stronger than before?
BYEONGHUN AN: It's my first time, so I don't know, but certainly, we had more team meetings than last two Presidents Cups, that's for sure. This time we had one meeting at least two or three months. I've been attending most of them. That was the difference I think. You can see how passionate Ernie was and that's how much he wants to win. I think we all know what he wants and what we want. It will be exciting.
Q. Can you shed some light on Marc Leishman's influence? Is he fun you would enjoy playing with if paired?
BYEONGHUN AN: Yeah, definitely, he's got great experience and he's one of the best players on our team, and he's from here, so he has experience. He's definitely someone would you like to play with. He's been a big help, like especially Marc and Adam and Louis, they are experienced players, so they have been talking to us a lot and giving us a lot of advice. They are the older guys -- he's still young, but we have some young guys on our team and we need help and we are getting it.
It's exciting having the veterans playing with us.
Q. Have you spoken to Jason? What are you planning to do this week?
BYEONGHUN AN: Well, I heard the news from Ernie that Jason couldn't make it with his injury, but he's obviously a good player, and I've got to try to play better, it's a little bit of pressure, but I think the team's great. I think my partner, fourball and foursomes partner will be great. I think we have a great team. Ernie has been working on it for the last couple months. He said having Jason is big, but me also on the team, I'll try to help the team, that's for sure. At least he gave me a call like a week and a half ago. It wasn't like I got the call yesterday. I think a week and a half is long enough to get ready for this Presidents Cup.
Q. Did you feel a wave of support there Australia?
BYEONGHUN AN: Yeah, all over the world, they have been commenting on my Instagrams and seems like they have a lot of Aussie guys who supports me. This is my fourth time coming to Australia. I feel tons of support. I feel like they know me. I can't wait to play in front of those fans.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT