NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 24, 2015
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   After a little time to reflect, after thinking about last night, one more is all you guys need?  
    STEPH CURRY:   This is a huge opportunity for us.   Obviously we're keeping with our routine and our preparation.   Until we get this win tomorrow, our fourth win, the mission stays the same.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel the focus of a nation on you right now, you specifically?   Is that something that you understand?   
    STEPH CURRY:   I mean, it's nice to play well and be obviously where we are as a team, one win away from The Finals.   It feels normal, really.   I feel comfortable.   I feel ready for the moment, and able to kind of just block out the extracurricular stuff that could distract you from the focus on the court.   Pretty content with where we are and just hungry to keep getting better and keep doing what we're doing.  
   
 Q.   How do you block it out?  
    STEPH CURRY:   Just not look at the avenues where you could‑‑ or the outlets where all that stuff can clog your attention.   I don't have Twitter.   I try not to watch too much TV when it comes to sports and all that stuff.   That's basically the best way I can do it.  
   
 Q.   What did you think about making the Top 10 plays for a rebound?   I don't know if you were watching TV, but you made the Top 10 for your rebounding?  
    STEPH CURRY:   It better have been No.10.   Was it No.10?   It's a stretch.   I like it, though.   It was probably an unexpected surprise for most people, but right place, right time.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're playing your best maybe of your career right now?  
    STEPH CURRY:   Yeah, because the moment is bigger, and any time you play well in games that matter, big‑time moments, it means a lot more.   Just trying to be as consistent as I've been is the most important thing for me.   Not putting up crazy numbers but consistently trying to help the team win is the biggest thing for me.  
   
 Q.   What's the key to keeping your foot on the gas now that you have such a big lead?  
    STEPH CURRY:   Like I said, it's easy for us to stay hungry because none of us have really experienced this before or accomplished really anything.   Until we‑‑ we have five more wins to accomplish our main goal, and obviously one more to get one step closer, so until that happens, there's no time to really lose focus or to change anything about how we've gotten here.   You know, we all want to experience this for the first time, and it's a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Did you get any kind of a sense of how fired up that place was and how you quieted that place down and took their heart out of it?   
    STEPH CURRY:   Yeah, I mean, it was another hostile kind of playoff environment.   The main thing for us was we wanted to start off the game on a good foot so that we could neutralize the crowd and more so just get a decent lead because they obviously play a lot better at home.   We were able to accomplish that and really never relinquished any kind of momentum.   The score kind of reflected that.   We expect the same situation tomorrow, understanding that obviously they're playing for their playoff lives and we're playing to advance, so it's going to be another intense atmosphere, and it's going to be huge to start off the game well like we did yesterday.   
   
 Q.   What are the ways that you try to set the tone for the team's poise?  
    STEPH CURRY:   Obviously bringing defensive pressure and intensity, but offensively for us to get a rhythm is‑‑ we did the best job yesterday of just not turning the ball over and finding the best shot on every possession.   Guys get comfortable in the game quicker, and you're able to deflate the other team's defense, you're able to move the ball, get good shots, be aggressive, get into the paint, making plays, and not fueling them with easy points on the other end, especially against a team like Houston that gets out and runs and they capitalize off those turnovers so well.   It's important to just have that kind of composure about you, especially starting games.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    STEPH CURRY:   There's some great names that you mentioned in that conversation and guys that I looked up to when I was coming up.   Obviously Reggie Miller, Ray Allen, Mark Price, Coach Kerr, my dad, I could name a bunch of them.   All those guys have had the longevity factor that I hope to have down the road in my career.   Just trying to have ultimate confidence every time I step foot on the floor that every shot you take is going to go in and just enjoy the moment.  
   
 Q.   You told me last night you don't fear any shot.   How important is that when you step on the floor, to know that there's no shot you're going to be afraid to take?  
    STEPH CURRY:   It's important because you don't know exactly where you're going to get your shots from, especially in our offense.   Every possession is kind of balanced, so we try to move it around.   You've got to be ready when you have an open shot and just have the ultimate confidence.   It doesn't‑‑ you can't just speak that into existence, you've got to actually work and practice in the summertime and getting your reps up so that you are ready for those moments, but that definitely prepares you for whatever shot you need to take, and even pressure situations in pressure games and pressure moments.   Most of the shots you've taken before at some point, and you've worked on them.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    STEPH CURRY:   It's just about being yourself and being ready, playing your game.   You can't change anything about how you play versus the regular season, versus the Playoffs.   You just have to do it at a high level and more intense and more aggressive.   Obviously there's some guys in the history of the league that have really stood out in playoff runs and stuff like that, and I want to be one of those guys.   
   
 Q.   Do you ever in the back of your mind wonder (inaudible)?  
    STEPH CURRY:   You just want the opportunity.   My first three years we didn't taste the Playoffs, and you're sitting at home April 15th and watching TV thinking, I wonder what it's like.   But you just want the opportunity to be in that kind of environment.   The last year has been a lot of fun kind of learning what it takes to win on this level, and now that we're here and executing the way we have been this playoff run, it definitely is worth the wait for sure, and hopefully we can finish it off.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT