NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 20, 2015
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you outraged that the league fined you $5,000?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, I don't agree with it.   I watched the play over, and it was a transition play, so obviously balance is not very good in that situation.   I take a little contact, get some space off‑‑ I didn't even see, whoever it was, Terrence, I didn't see him, and then when I shoot it, I see somebody coming and hit me in my arm, and when you're up in the air, it was obviously a reaction to that.   That play happens countless times.   
I wasn't even looking for a foul, I just reacted to the contact that was on my arm and what have you.   So I don't agree with it at all.   
   
 Q.   Did you flop on purpose?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   No, after I made the shot I got it right on the court.   I didn't expect a foul.   The ball was already gone.   It doesn't matter.  
   
 Q.   Steve said he was morally outraged that you were fined.   What do you think about that?   
STEPHEN CURRY:   It's a good way of putting it.   
   
 Q.   Were you shocked when you got the call?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, I didn't even think about that.   You never know how they determine what's a flop and what's not and all that stuff.   They didn't even talk to me about the play at all, so I figured they'd call and ask what you were doing or what you saw during the play, kind of get my side of it, not just what footage they were looking at.   But it's all right.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever been warned about that kind of play?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   No.   The refs will tell you in a game if you kick your leg out trying to get contact on the close‑out or if you argue the call in the middle of a game, they'll tell you, no, the ball was already gone or you didn't get hit or you fell without contact and stuff like that, but I've never gotten a call from the league about it.  
   
 Q.   Don't they have to warn you first?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Nope.  
   
 Q.   When you brought your daughter on the footing last night, it obviously seemed like a nice moment.   There was some general criticism on Twitter‑‑  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Criticism for what?   
   
 Q.   I actually don't know.   That's the thing.   People actually saying that you shouldn't have done it or whatever.   
STEPHEN CURRY:   Why?   
   
 Q.   They were outraged she was a little too cute.   You should probably do something about that.   
STEPHEN CURRY:   Find another daughter?   
   
 Q.   That's up to you.   How do you process something like that when people criticize you for something like that?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   I want to know what the criticism was.   I mean, until I understand what they're talking about, I won't react to it.   
   
 Q.   Down 16, you come back to win it.   Were you happy with the way the team played yesterday?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   We can play better for sure, but obviously you'd like to learn those lessons in a win.   It's interesting because they're a totally different team than Memphis, so it took us a minute to kind of get adjusted to the pace of not just where we play on the offensive end but how they play on the offensive end.   It's a totally different game plan and different personnel, so you can obviously watch film and see it, but until you get out there and remember what it was like to defend them and the talent that they have, they obviously got out to a big lead, but the way we responded was impressive and showed what we're about, and hopefully we can carry that momentum to start the game in Game 2.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel unfairly spotlighted as a flopper because of that fine?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, man.   They've got the most wanted picture of me.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   When you're getting that wide open at times last night, is that the sets or is that them leaving you or your creativity or a combination of all those things?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   I've got guys that set great screens.   We move the ball so you have to react.   Whoever is defending me, if they don't respond to how the ball is moving or where they're supposed to be helping, we're going to get wide‑open lay‑ups, so they do their job and help, and I get an open shot, and the same way vice versa, if I come off the screen, we've got two guys guarding me, move the ball, somebody is going to get an open shots, so we got plenty of open shots last night, and that's a combination of making hard cuts, setting great screens, being patient, making the next pass, and just making the defense react instead of them being able to lock in on the action.   
   
 Q.   To piggy back on that, you've been open at the arc, but have you been surprised to be open underneath the basket so many times?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, kind of when you catch it, I'm not going to rise up and like dunk it off the vert or anything, so I kind of shoot it real quick because I expect somebody to be right on my tail trying to get a block.   But when you see two guys closing out the drain line and Klay is in the corner and nobody can leave him in that situation, you obviously know you're wide open and can make a play.  
   
 Q.   How impressive was your bench last night?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   They were amazing, man.   The second quarter run, all the spark with Sean and Festus, LB all coming in, D. Lee did a great job of just picking up the tempo.   The way that Sean impacted the game on both ends, both rebounding the basketball, pushing in transition, getting easy lay‑ups for us, his spacing on the offensive end to provide some outlets, to provide some looks, it was a huge, huge boost for us.   People might be surprised about that, but in the Playoffs when you have such a deep team there are going to be contributions from all over the roster, and that's the only way you can stay consistent and continue to win games and hopefully get a championship.   
   
 Q.   Last night was small ball with you guys, which isn't really small.   They've got some pretty good‑sized people in there.   
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, with Draymond, they play bigger than they are.   With Draymond Harrison, Sean, Andre, Klay, they can guard three or four positions and they‑‑ their presence is felt.   It may look like we're a small unit, but we play bigger than we look, and you need that to be able to protect the paint when you go small against a bigger team.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT