NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: GRIZZLIES v WARRIORS
May 5, 2015
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Steph, you haven't lost very many times in this building.   What is the general feeling coming out of this game?   
STEPHEN CURRY:   Obviously, disappointed.   This is a big opportunity for us to go up 2‑0, and keep the momentum we built in the playoffs.   But after the game, you can kind of be real with yourself and know you probably won't go 16‑0 in the playoffs.   Eventually there are some great teams that you have to face.   And it's tough to beat a team four times, let alone not lose a game in a series.   
So we'll be all right.   We have to make some adjustments.   Obviously we can't play the same way we did tonight down in Memphis and take care of the basketball and try to get some easier shots and just play a more physical defense, which we're capable of doing.   We've shown that a lot of times this season.   We'll be ready to go so Saturday. 

Q.   Steph, obviously, Mike Conley made an impact.   Talk about what he does for this team, and where you think you guys fell short tonight?   
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, he's obviously a big part of their success over the last few years, not just this year.   So they're more comfortable when he's on the floor, and you can tell.   They kind of know what to expect, especially on the offensive end, he seemed very aggressive to score early, and I think they missed that from the point guard position the last game, and that was obviously his mission to start the game coming off the pick‑and‑roll and looking to score, not really looking to distribute at all.   
So we had to make an adjustment.   If he comes out the same way in Game 3, to play the pick‑and‑rolls maybe a little differently and try to force them into tougher spots on the floor.   He's going to make plays, obviously, and the whole team's going to make plays.   But it was good for us to kind of see what they're like with him back, because we'll have to face him the rest of the series. 

Q.   You guys obviously had the best road record in the NBA, and you won your first two road games in the playoffs.   You seem to be personally to like a good challenge on the road.   Why do you think you play so well on the road, and why do you think the team plays so well on the road?   
STEPHEN CURRY:   We're mature, I think, with how we let our defense travel with us and when we step foot on our opposing team's floor, we know that's going to be our main key to success:   Defending at a high level, rebounding the basketball.   And I think after the first two weeks of the regular season we did a great job of taking care of the basketball, especially on the road.   And that puts you in position to win games.   
There are going to be nights like tonight where we don't shoot well.   But if you don't shoot well, and have 16 assists to 20 turnovers, that's not going to get it done whether you're playing at home or on the road.   But I think we'll be able to bounce back like we have all season, and expect to win Game 3, because that's our confidence level. 

Q.   The last two days have been pretty emotional and pretty busy, especially for you, but also for the whole team.   I know that there was just some talk around the team that there was a concern you guys could come out a little flat or that could have an impact in this game.   Did you feel that any of that was a factor at all?   How did you feel going from that emotional pre‑game ceremony to starting out the game?   
STEPHEN CURRY:   It was weird.   I mean, that is the best way I can put it.   It's obviously my first time experiencing as well as for my teammates.   You want to stay in the moment and kind of stay focused on what the task is during the game.   But obviously with the extracurricular stuff with the MVP and all of that, the celebration, and just change of routine to lead up to a game, it's different.   I don't know if that's a huge reason why we lost or not.   But I think when we started the game, we felt like, oh, we're ready to go.   But it has been a long 48 hours.   A lot of words, a lot of pictures, a lot of celebrating the accomplishment.   Obviously, we didn't get it done tonight, but we'll be able to bounce back.   I think the rest of the next three days will be huge to kind of rejuvenate ourselves and understand what we need to do to get a win in Memphis and try to make it happen. 

Q.   Can you talk about your three‑point shots?   You know, you only had two, and that's pretty low for you? 
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, you have bad shooting nights.   It happens.   We've just got to keep our confidence, but I think make adjustments on how we get our shots.   We're not going to shoot 6 for 26 many times over this series, so we're not going to overreact to one bad shooting night, as long as we get quality shots the next game. 

Q.   You talked about you're not going to go 16‑0.   What was it like walking into that home locker room?   After a loss, it seems like it's probably been a long time since that happened?   
STEPHEN CURRY:   It was different.   I think we all kind of just were sitting around and trying to understand what happened, what we didn't do right, what we can do better for next game.   There wasn't really a lot said.   I'm okay with that, just kind of feel the (indiscernible) of the team.   We're all disappointed.   I think we let a good opportunity to go 2‑0 in the series go, but I'm very confident in our resiliency coming back and playing well for Game 3.   So I'm not worried about that at all. 

Q.   Can you talk about the job it is to kind of face Tony Allen defensively?   He seems so fierce and all over the place?   
STEPHEN CURRY:   He's good.   I mean, he finds different ways to play passing lanes.   He's very hands on the ball when he's defending, and that's what he's out there to do.   He changes games in certain situations, not just on the defensive end.   He did that a couple times tonight, you know, getting some steals and closing the space on our jump shots pretty quickly.   
So we wanted to move the ball a little bit better.   The next game we move side‑to‑side and make him have to make decisions as opposed to just being locked in on one‑on‑one defense, which is probably his strong suit.   But if you make anybody, it's a great defender has to make decisions and make multiple efforts, I think you can make them work just a little harder and we've got to do that next game. 

Q.   You referenced your guys shooting numbers tonight.   Was that a product of the defense that the Grizzlies played?   It looked like you guys missed some open looks, or was it just an off night for you guys?   
STEPHEN CURRY:   It was a little bit of both.   Normally open shots that we normally make, it forces us into some tough shots.   They're a great team.   They've been here year after year, and it's pretty much the same squad that's been through those experiences and they're a great defensive team.   So it's not going to be easy for us to do what we do.   But I feel like if we look at the film and kind of see how we can play better, we're a smart group that can make adjustments.   So that's what we expect to do going into the next game and be as aggressive as possible on the road. 

Q.   Talk about LeBron James turns off his cell phone after everything that went on the last few days.   Do you feel like wanting to go into a bubble and focus on Game 3 now?   
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yes.   Obviously it's been huge on myself and our team in the last couple of days.   You don't run from it at all.   You enjoy the process and the experiences, but it would be nice to kind of just get back to the grind of trying to win a playoff series, and that's our only focus.   We have three days, and looking forward to Saturday.   So we've got a lot of work to do in that time to get better and understand what we need to do in Game 3.   And I'm definitely going to enjoy laying low for a little bit.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT