NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2015
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Seems that your favorite word is "effectiveness".   Do you think that that word defined the kind of job that you want to give to the public, your team and your people? 
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, you want to be a potent basketball player when you're out there on the court.   And every minute that you play, you want to show something and make your impact on the game.   So if you're doing that, then you're set up for success in this   league

Q.   You received more votes than favorites than LeBron James and Kobe Bryant.   Do you see yourself as becoming the new face of the NBA? 
STEPHEN CURRY:   I hope to be.   Obviously it's nice that the fans are supportive and show out like that in the voting process for the All‑Star Game.   I never expected that.   Two years ago I wasn't here, so it's pretty special.   And I hope to continue that trend upward to doing great things in this league. 
So those guys have won championships and MVPs and are going to be legends for a long time to come.   I have more work to do that I want to accomplish.   And I'm going to stay hungry in the process. 

Q.   Steph, on Saturday night the shoes you wore honored the victims of the Chapel Hill shooting.   Have you been in contact with their families at all? 
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, I've been going back and forth.   They did a great job of reaching out to me and making me aware of the details of his life and personality.   So it was really kind of a cool deal to be able to use the platform yesterday to honor Deah and his family.   And I'm going to send them the shoes that I wore yesterday.   And hopefully they know a lot of people are thinking about them. 

Q.   You had a few dazzling plays tonight.   Which one really resonated with you, like when you were like, whoa, I did that? 
STEPHEN CURRY:   Probably the little flip lay‑up shot.   I don't get up rarely.   Those are my flashy plays that I like to do. 
It's funny, I was talking to our coaches afterwards.   We always joke I start off my workouts before games and pre‑game routine with some crazy right‑handed and left‑handed flip shots.   A lot of people look at me crazy when I do it.   Sometimes it comes out in situations like it did tonight.   And we were joking I practiced that.   So glad I was able to make it. 

Q.   Steph, you played some pretty good defense tonight.   Is an All‑Defensive Team something that you hope to achieve this year? 
STEPHEN CURRY:   I mean, that's out of my control.   I don't know how to go about auditioning for that.   I just go out and try to impact the game on the defensive end, because I'm the first line of attack, guarding the other team's point guards.   And in this league every night there's talent that's at that point guard position.   So if I'm doing my job and defending at a high level, I'm more worried about just getting wins as opposed to making All Defensive Team and things like that. 
If it happens, that would be great.   But it won't change how I play‑‑ my commitment to playing defense. 

Q.   Steph, one of the more unexpected moments of the night was when you threw an alley‑oop lob to Dirk.   Did you even know he could still get up like that? 
STEPHEN CURRY:   We were actually joking Coach was going to write up an alley‑oop play for him.   But he needed to get a couple of up‑and‑downs to get loose.   When that play happened, when I threw it, I saw him at the last second.   I didn't know who it was.   When I made my mind to throw it up, I looked to see who it was.   I already committed to throwing it.   I just hoped he could get up there, and he did. 
The celebration was even better than the dunk, pulling out the old Vince Carter celebration.   So that was pretty clever.   And both of the seasoned veterans got a dunk tonight.   I think we accomplished a lot in that Western Conference All‑Star Team. 

Q.   Steph, how do you see Russ's performance tonight? 
STEPHEN CURRY:   It was spectacular show of athleticism andhe kind of got a little hot in the second quarter, maybe it was the first quarter.   Shooting three threes in a row.   He showed a lot.   Any time you can score 40 points in an All‑Star Game, that's pretty cool. 

Q.   Steph, question is how is it to play with a teammate in Klay Thompson in the All‑Star Game and do you guys have some kind of a friendly competition against each other? 
STEPHEN CURRY:   We were egging each other along in the Three‑Point Contest.   And it was really cool to see how that unfolded with us being in the finals, and him having the opportunity at the end to top my number.   Fast forward to tonight where we're both in the starting lineup, it's pretty special.   I don't think two guys from the Warriors have been All Stars and in the starting lineup together since like '92 or something like that. 
So we're doing things that haven't been done in our franchise in a very long time.   And we're going to remember this and hopefully, like I said, be doing some great things come postseason as well. 

Q.   Steph, on that last timeout before Russ came back in the game, did you guys talk about Wilt's record at all and him being close?   It seemed like initially you guys were trying to get it to him and then it kind of went away from the rest of the game. 
STEPHEN CURRY:   No, I don't think we talked about it with him personally.   Certain guys started asking questions trying to figure out what the number was.   But more of the talkwas we wanted to win the game really bad, and however we get it done, we wanted to do that.   So that last five guys that were out there were focused on, hopefully, making a couple of shots down the stretch, making them take some tough ones on the other end and getting the win. 
Obviously Russ got that 40 piece.   So it was cool to see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT