NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about being in the All‑Star Game?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   It's amazing.   Having been close last year and now a year later to be not only here but starting is definitely a dream come true.   It's all sinking in now that I'm actually here in New Orleans and going through the whole process of the weekend.   
So I'm excited and ready to get to practice tomorrow and get on the court and have some fun.   
   
 Q.   How would you like to perform Sunday night?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Perform well.   I definitely want to play well, being my first time.   And definitely the biggest stage, and I'm excited about it.   
   
 Q.   Many people watch Sunday night in Japan?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   We appreciate the support.   Obviously hope we put on a great show for you guys.   And obviously Go Warriors back in Golden State.  
   
 Q.   Does the All‑Star Weekend come at a good time for you, or would you rather go play and keep playing?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   Yeah, we had a tough end to the break or to the first half of the season with our last game against the Heat, but any time you can get rest and get everybody healthy‑‑ we have had some guys banged up‑‑ it's definitely going to be beneficial for us.   
So we would like to work our way out of kind of a downward turn we have had since our win streak.   But if we come back healthy, I think we'll be all right and ready to finish strong and get ready for the playoffs.   
   
 Q.   Who is the most exciting team to watch would you say?  
STEPHEN CURRY:   When you play up tempo, we have a lot of threats on the court.   And I think how fast we play, we shoot a lot of 3s as well, so I'm sure that that's fun to watch.   
And definitely it's kind of an ode to our fan base, when you watch a game on TV and you see Oracle Arena and our fans and how loud and passionate they are for the game.   It shows on TV, but it's even more crazy in person.   
So all that plays a part of us being an exciting team.   And now that we're winning, it makes it even better.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT