NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2017
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Are you ever going to visit Malaysia?  
STEPHEN CURRY: I would love to.  I've been traveling a good amount the last three or four years in the summer.  I will try to make Malaysia a stop.   
 Q.  Steph, how excited are you to play in the All-Star Game?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Very excited.  This is a huge opportunity to celebrate the game of basketball and everything we've accomplished this year.  New Orleans has been a great host city.  This is my second All-Star Game here.  I started my first All-Star Game here four years ago, and it's been unbelievable.   
 Q.  Steph, if you could pick any player from any time, who would make your ultimate All-Star team?  
STEPHEN CURRY: My personal one?   
 Q.  Yeah, your personal one.  
STEPHEN CURRY: Steve Nash, Reggie Miller, Michael, Shaq -- I need a power forward.  I'll go Tim Duncan.   
 Q.  And then your Mount Rushmore of three-point shooters in the league at the moment, who would you go for?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Splash Brothers, Kyle Korver.  Right now?  I'm going to throw Eric Gordon in there.   
 Q.  What do you think the competition will be in the All-Star Game against the East?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Hopefully, we win.  That's all that matters to me right now.  It will be a lot of fun, obviously, a lot of back and forth.  We're going to win.  I don't like to lose.   
 Q.  What kind of performance can we expect from you tomorrow?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Shoot a lot.  Hopefully, a lot of those shots go in.  Be ready to play.  Just try to have fun and bring energy.   
 Q.  Steph, if you had to pick one of your West All-Star teammates to join the four Warriors to form the ultimate death lineup, who would it be?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Oh, shoot, any of them.  You give me one of those other eight guys, I'm in good shape.   
 Q.  Would you rather go like a big or small?  Do you have any preference?  
STEPHEN CURRY: It really doesn't matter with that lineup.  It's pretty versatile.   
 Q.  Steph, what about your headband?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Just trying something new.  I don't wear a headband during the year.  So this is showing a little style.   
 Q.  Something you'll go out and replicate during the regular season?  
STEPHEN CURRY: It catches all the sweat when I play real hard tomorrow.   
 Q.  What do you think of what the NBA is doing with technology like VR and eSports and things like that?  
STEPHEN CURRY: It's great to see them integrated into the game and try to make the game experience from a fan's standpoint and a player's standpoint better.  Any time you have technological advancements like that where you can just create a more immersive experience for the game, I think that's special.  So hopefully it continues.   
 Q.  Have you tried any of the VR experiences that they have?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Yes.   
 Q.  What did you think?  
STEPHEN CURRY: It's amazing how they created that new world.  It's very, very, very lifelike.   
 Q.  What do you listen to to get yourself in the flow?  
STEPHEN CURRY: I listen to Chance, Lecrae, Trip Lee, and then after that it's just a lot of random.  I have a pretty diverse playlist that goes through all genres of music.  It's hard to really pick one, but those three guys are my get-hyped, get-ready-for-the-game ones.   
 Q.  Steph, was it awkward out there at all between KD and Russ?  
STEPHEN CURRY: I'm not going to talk about that.  It's all good.  It's just basketball players having a great time.   
 Q.  Do you think your team will score 200 points in the All-Star Game?  
STEPHEN CURRY: I wouldn't doubt it.  We've pushed the limit the last couple of years.  We'll see.   
 Q.  Is DeMarcus Cousins the best big in the league?  
STEPHEN CURRY: He's definitely in that conversation.  He has all the skills necessary.  Any defender has trouble staying in front of him off the dribble.  He knocks down shots, shooting threes now.  He's a force on the rebounds.  So he's a problem.   
 Q.  Who do you got in the Three-Point Contest tonight?  
STEPHEN CURRY: This guy named Klay Thompson.  You may have heard about him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT