NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEPHEN CURRY: All-Star weekend is an unbelievable experience.  Excited to have four Warrior players, the whole Warriors coaching staff to represent our team.  It says a lot about us as an organization and having them share these experiences is going to be really amazing.  I'm looking forward to the game on Sunday and just having as much fun as possible.   
 Q.  Do you still consider the Warriors to be a jump-shooting team with the addition of Kevin Durant?  And the second question is when your shots are not falling during the game, what kind of adjustments do you usually do?  
STEPHEN CURRY: The answer to the second question is keep shooting.  Work your way out of a, quote-unquote, slump that way.  I don't know how you classify a team.  We just want to win.  Whether we shoot a lot of jumpers or find other ways to score, everybody is just focused on winning.  It doesn't matter how you characterize it.   
 Q.  Do you agree that you represent a new style of the game?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Yeah, I have a different style of playing.  It's the way I've been playing since I can remember, so it's natural to me.  But the way the league is going, you've got to be able to shoot.  You've got to have skill and be able to handle the ball and do a lot of different things, be as versatile as you can.  Yeah, I'm very comfortable with how I'm playing, and I do it at a very high level.   
 Q.  We saw during the history of the NBA lots of rivals, like Larry Bird and Magic Johnson.  How do you feel about you and LeBron James?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Competition is high right now.  Obviously, I know who's at the top of their game and who you have to -- potentially have to go through to win a championship.  We've had two good battles against Cleveland the last two years.  Who knows how this year will play out.  There's so much talent around the league.  Night in and night out, no matter what team you play, there are stars out there that are helping to push the game to new levels.  It's a fun time to be playing in the NBA right now.   
 Q.  What's your goal for the season?  What do you want to achieve?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Win a championship, man.  That's it.  That's it.  That's why we play, to realize that dream.  We know, having won before, we know exactly what it takes.  Having been on the losing side, we know how thin the line is between winning and losing.  That's what it's all about.   
 Q.  Why are you not doing the Three-Point Contest this year?.  
STEPHEN CURRY: That's a great question.  I've done it six times, I think.  I told myself I was going to do it until I won, and I won two years ago, and then I had to come back and defend my title.  But I got beat by my teammate, Klay Thompson.  So I passed the torch on to him and let him win it for the Warriors this year, tomorrow night.  So I'll be rooting him on.   
 Q.  Were you scared to take the challenge again?  
STEPHEN CURRY: Never that.  Never that.  My time was done, though.   
 Q.  How do you feel about LeBron James this year?  
STEPHEN CURRY: It's a different year.  He's playing well.  There are guys in the Western Conference that are playing well that we know we're going to have to beat to get back The Finals.  The way I approach it, worry about our team and getting back to The Finals, and whoever we play, we'll be ready for them.   
 Q.  Stephen, you've had a couple of tough battles against the Bucks the last couple of years. Talk about Giannis Antetokounmpo being an All-Star for the first time.  What have you seen from his game?  
STEPHEN CURRY: He's an unbelievable talent, a guy that's obviously gotten so much better since he's gotten into the league.  Him being an All-Star this year is obviously well deserved.  It won't be the last time he's here.  He's just an unbelievable talent that's figured it out and helping his team get to that next level.  He's going to be around for a very long time doing a lot of special things in this league.   
 Q.  What's it like for a first time All-Star?  Of course, it's been something that you've done for the first time, obviously.  Let's talk about what goes through someone's mind.  
STEPHEN CURRY: It's a whirlwind because you really don't know what to expect.  I know he's been to All-Star weekend before, playing in the Rookie-Sophomore game, but being an All-Star is a totally different vibe.  You're obviously pulled in a lot of different directions.  You want to do as much as possible.  Just have fun and enjoy the experience.  So, yeah, you just want to -- for him, hopefully, he just gets to take the time to appreciate being here as an All-Star and just take it all in because it does -- it's a lot going on, but it goes by really fast, and you want to be able to enjoy it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT