NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GOLDEN STATE VS OKLAHOMA CITY
May 30, 2016
Stephen Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Golden State 96, Oklahoma City 88
Q. You hit that last three, and you go running right to the first row there, you're shouting.  What's that about?  What was in your mind?  Was it the whole series?  What was going on in your mind as you're sitting there shouting to the crowd?
STEPHEN CURRY: It was a cool moment, just knowing we came back and with like 20 seconds left we're up 10, so a little breathing room.  Obviously there was still time on the clock, but that was a moment to kind of just take in the atmosphere.  We knew it was going to be a dogfight, and for us to overcome that early deficit and claw our way back and the way that we did it with everybody having an impact, bench guys, starters, on the defensive end, obviously we made shots.  It was just a very cool moment to enjoy that fan noise and understand we were on the brink of doing something very special and coming back from down 3-1, and that was it.
Q. What was the process like for you after the MCL injury, coming back, your struggles in the first two games in Oklahoma City and finally finding your form in these last couple games?
STEPHEN CURRY: Just sticking with it.  This whole playoff run has kind of been a roller-coaster ride for me specifically, but for our team.  We never lost confidence, and every game just played with fearlessness and that confidence that we could get back to The Finals however we had to get it done.  So it was just a roller coaster from the time I got hurt to coming back and dealing with injuries and whatnot, and now we're four wins away from our goal, and that's a pretty special accomplishment.
Q. Given all of that, given everything that you have gone through in the past couple weeks, what have you learned about yourself and your team that you didn't know before all of this?
STEPHEN CURRY: Actually nothing.  I knew we were ready for the moment.  We were a mature basketball team that tried our best not to listen to the noise outside when six, seven days ago we're down 3-1, everybody thought the wheels were falling off and it was kind of the end of our run.  But in that locker room, the talk was positive.  It was, Let's figure this out; let's go out and take it one game at a time and claw our way back into the series and see what happens.  We followed that kind of mindset these last three games.
It's just you appreciate how tough it is to get back here.  That's the one thing I've learned.  You can't take anything for granted because it's such a grind, it's such a battle against a great Thunder team that pushed us to the brink.  So you've got to be appreciative of this accomplishment, and I look forward to getting four more wins.
Q. Do you feel more joy or relief now, and what are your thoughts on facing the Cavs in the rematch?
STEPHEN CURRY: I feel joy, for sure.  I mean, like I just said, this is an unbelievable accomplishment, to go back to back to The Finals and continue this journey.  So I'm kind of just taking in the moment and enjoying it with my teammates.
I haven't really thought much about Cleveland.  Know what the challenge is going to be.  They've been playing well the whole playoff run that they've had.  We'll obviously game-plan and get our minds ready for the next challenge.  But like I told every single one of my teammates when I saw them in the locker room, embrace this accomplishment, this moment, because of how hard it is to get back here.  We have 48 hours, starting tomorrow, to get ready for Game 1 at home, and we'll have time to do that.
Q. You guys were down 3-1.  Was there a key moment in this series that represented a turning point for this team?
STEPHEN CURRY: I think that second quarter [of Game 6] in Oklahoma City.  We're down double digits, I think, and there's that same kind of moment where in Game 3 and 4 we lost control of the game and they pretty much won both those games in that six-minute stretch.  We kept it to, I think it was five going into halftime.  We understood what it was going to take to win.
Obviously, Klay [Thompson] and the shots he made down the stretch were huge, but we gave ourselves an opportunity to win that game and stay alive.  In that building it was such a hard thing to accomplish, and we found a way to stay in the game and keep our composure down the stretch.  So that last six minutes of the second quarter was huge.
Q. Andre [Iguodala] came back into the starting lineup tonight.  What did he provide for you guys and what was it like to see him play the kind of minutes that he hasn't played in a while?
STEPHEN CURRY: Oh, he's going to need some good treatment tomorrow, for sure.  I didn't realize he played 43.  He's such a Swiss Army knife kind of guy where he can do so much on the floor.  Obviously he had the challenge to guard [Kevin Durant] for all 43 minutes he was out there.  Making the three in the second half.  That kind of kept us in it.  Just his presence as a playmaker and a seasoned vet.  You kind of never know what's on his mind by looking at his face.  He always kind of has the same mannerisms and whatnot, and it keeps us just composed and at peace with whatever the situation is.
He makes plays that sometimes might go unnoticed on the stat sheet.  But if you watch our games, you know how much of an impact he has on what we do.  It was a luxury to have him and [Harrison Barnes] to kind of mix and match.  H.B. had a different role tonight and still came in and had positive minutes for 22 minutes he was out there.  It takes a committee to get back here like we did.
Q. What is the biggest challenge for the Warriors, not just you, but the entire team in going from a seven-game series where you had to play to the final minute to a pretty quick turnaround to The Finals?
STEPHEN CURRY: I don't know.  This is our first time doing it, so we'll figure it out.  We've got to just refresh and obviously get our bodies ready.  In the next two days do whatever you have to do to take care of that going into Game 1.  Know that it's going to be a totally different team, different game plan, different X's and O's.  But the mindset that we have going into each game, I think the way this series went from Game 1 to Game 7, we're ready for anything.  Knowing how important taking care of your home court is.  So that will be a high priority going into Game 1.
Q. On media day you guys were saying how coming off a championship, you guys had a [target] on your backs.  But then you just said that you also try not to listen to the chatter.  Is that really a drive for you?  You are hearing it.  People are probably texting you and telling you what people are saying.  Is that a drive for you and your guys?
STEPHEN CURRY: I think what we're referring to is when we get out on the court, we're going to get everybody's best shot.  We have all regular season, and obviously in the playoffs it's heightened even more.  I wasn't talking about the noise outside of our locker room.  It was on the court we knew if we played, every 48 minutes was going to be tough and a battle, and we were going to have to rely on our experience and our togetherness as a team.  So that hasn't changed from game 1 to tonight.  We're going to have to rely on that same kind of unity, I'll call it, going into Game 1 of The Finals and trying to just figure out a way to win four more.  That's all that matters right now for us is we've put ourselves in a great position to realize another goal and we've got to get it done.
Q. So it's the "just us" mentality?
STEPHEN CURRY: That's our saying.  It's been like that for a while now.  Really, it's not just talk.  At home, on the road, it's just us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT