BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 10, 2004
Tom Newton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIM NIX:  I'm Jim Nix, and I have a prepared speech, but I think the mission statement says it all.  I would like to present Tom with this plaque.
TOM NEWTON:  Obviously, I would like to thank the CGSA for their commitment in sports.  When it comes to golf course superintendents, they understand what it takes to maintain a golf course.

Secondly, I would like to thank my staff.  Obviously without my staff, nothing would get done out on the property.  It's not a one man show out there.  I would like to make a special thank you to Billy for his support over the last four years and for his guidance.

Finally, my wife Mary and my daughter Mya for their support.  I haven't been around very much for the last few weeks, and if it wasn't for their support outside of this, it wouldn't have made the week as special as it was.

The golf course is getting eaten up, but that's a good thing, because these are the best players in the world, and they deserve to shoot scores like they are.

Any questions?
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TOM NEWTON:  The conditions were perfect.  Going into the week, we thought three things.  Obviously, the huge fairways and huge greens.  It stayed wet all week.  The greens weren't as fast as they could have been.

Second thing, the rough, I don't think the rough even matters to these players.

Finally, the third thing is the wind, and the wind has not shown up.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TOM NEWTON:  We were asked to cut the rough, so Sunday night, my crew cut the rough inside the rope at 3 inches.  Outside the rope, it's much longer than that.  As far as greens go, the LPGA looks for consistency from day 1 in the week to day 6.  They want the greens growing from Sunday until Sunday.  Right now, they're getting a little quicker, and we may have to do something about that.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TOM NEWTON:  If you continue to get weather like this, they start growing a lot faster.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
TOM NEWTON:  I think one of the biggest things that we deal with in general is the lack of moisture throughout the summer, but this year, it's been the complete opposite, so it's tough to explain.  When you deal with Mother Nature, you really never have an idea what she's going to throw at you.
Q.  Congratulations.

A, is there anything different?  Is it standard USDA construction under the greens; and B, how did you get them so perfect.
TOM NEWTON:  Well, standard USDA construction, as far as their construction, they drain well.  We never have to worry about running equipment over them, so that's helped us out.

As far as getting them to roll so well, and I firmly believe that a good green that rolls well isn't fast.  A lot of people put emphasis on the fast green.  We try to get into them with the light verticut on a regular basis.  They are rolling, and it's amazing.

Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT