NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
September 30, 2003
Felipe Alou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Why do you think you guys are so good in close games? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  Well, experience, talent.  We brought in like four new regular -- and all of them, they have sort of playoff or World Series type of experience, so they don't panic.  We threw one guy nine inning today.  Tremendous job.  Most of the time we used our bullpen, keep us in a close game.  But today, Schmidt dominated for nine inning.  
 
Q.  Was Alfonzo's bunt your call or his? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  My call.  It was kind of tough.  I thought it was going to be a one-run game.  I saw 1-0.  They were looking at bunt.  When we finally bunted 2-1, they were playing deep, tried to rush, three threw the ball away.  Alfonzo, for me anyway, he's a guy who is batting in the middle of the line.  I can do anything with him, bunt, hit-and-run, squeeze.  The only thing that I got kind of disappointed was that Barry Bonds didn't score in that inning.  But he finally did after the walk.  That's sort of what we were talking about earlier, that we have been really taking advantage of all those walks.  
 
Q.  How much more important is it to get a good performance out of your No. 1 starter in a best-of-five series? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  Well, in the case of Schmidt, we always protecting him.  There was no way we would have pitched him nine innings in a regular season.  We didn't do that at all the second half.  Maybe once, I don't know.  But today he was healthy enough to go out and pitch a complete game with more than 100 pitches, I think.  So I (inaudible) shot that if we need a fifth game, he's the guy.  Gives our bullpen extra rest in case of any eventuality tomorrow or the third game.  
 
Q.  When they are walking Barry as much as they do, is there something different you need to see out of Alfonzo and what different do you do? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  What I did different today, I bunted my No. 5 guy, one of the best RBI guys I have the second half.  But you got to, like I said this morning, you got to manage what's out there.  For me, what was out there today was a one-run game.  Both guys -- I want to make sure that I'm not (inaudible) when I say these guys are pretty good pitchers (laughter).  But, yeah, Alfonzo is a guy, you can do things with him.  He's a real man of God who will do anything to help the club win the game.  Right now he's real hot, he's real confident, made a great play on that bunt.  Keep care of the bases.  That's another thing Schmidt did today.  He kept those two jackrabbits off the bases.  It helps a lot.  
 
Q.  Why did you think it was going to be a one-run game? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  Well, I think their selection to pitch opening guy was outstanding on Beckett.  No. 1 guy was out there.  It didn't take long to find out it's going to be a real tough game.  One-run lead with Schmidt put pressure on the other club, a younger club and everything.  
 
Q.  Did you think that Jack would walk Barry in the ninth with two outs? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  No, I didn't think he was going to.  But, yeah, I didn't think.  
 
Q.  Initially in spring training you had Edgardo slotted for the No. 5 spot.  You then moved him around.  Do you think you will keep him there now? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  Well, to use everybody I played today in the fifth spot.  I came back to Alfonzo, who I believe is the best choice.  Maybe I use Snow, I don't remember.  But I thought once I use Durham.  I don't know if I used him.  I believe I used everybody.  Coming back to the end of the season, there's no question about it, the way Alfonzo is swinging now, he's the guy.  He's done it before.  He's a good playoff hitter and all of that.  
 
Q.  Would you elaborate on Jason Schmidt's performance tonight in terms of what you've seen in other Game 1's in relation to Jason? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  Today he pitched the kind of game that he been pitching in the last several outings, and not many breaking balls.  He's mostly been a fast ball change-up guy.  When we say "fast ball change-up" we're looking at mid 90 fast ball and 88 change-up.  It is really tough to adjust to the two speeds there.  Not very many breaking balls.  He have favor his elbow.  He throws some breaking ball when he feel he needs to throw it, and he been able to get people out.  He was able to lead the National League in ERA with basically two pitches.  That's what he did today.  
 
Q.  Would you elaborate on why you selected Ponson for starting Game 2? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  We didn't really see having a shot at finds out what kind of weather they have in Florida for the third game, so we decided to go with our No. 2 guy tomorrow.  I don't know.  It was really that we didn't know which way to go.  Both guys look pretty good.  One guy is No. 2 guy that we traded for.  The other guy has an incredible record at home.  Walking back to the clubhouse after the win, (inaudible) and I started talking.  We finally decided to go ahead and use the No. 2 guy and (inaudible) the No. 3 guy.  
 
Q.  Jose Cruz had something like 10 put-outs.  What makes him so good since you played out there? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  Today he didn't really have any difficult play.  It looked like the ball is always looking for him.  I have told some people that he is one of the best I have ever seen.  I'm saying it publicly now because I've seen some pretty good guys in the National League, and he's right there with those guys when it come to making all kinds of plays.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT