NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
October 4, 2003
Felipe Alou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What were you thinking when the ball landed that last hit in left field? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  First of all, was hit softly, and I thought two out, we had a shot at scoring.  But then I saw Conine play so shallow, I thought we were in trouble.  I'm very proud of my team, the way the guys played.  To the last play of the game they show people why they were so good during the regular season.  The ball didn't bounce our way much.  The Marlins was more aggressive team.  It really made it tough on us.  
 
Q.  Why didn't Benito start today? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  I just put the other guy.  Like I don't have to have enough problem for me.  He caught last night.  The game last night turned out to be a day/night game.  Usually I give them a day off.  I was going to catch him, but Schmidt didn't pitch, so the other guy. 
 
Q.  How disappointing is this? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  I'm not disappointed.  I'm looking forward to next year.  We know we going to have another good ballclub next year.  And even at my age, it was a tremendous experience to me.  Like I said earlier, I'm proud of my guys.  They didn't give up when they were trailing by four runs.  They didn't give up when they were trailing by two runs in the ninth inning.  They made it tough for the Marlins.  It wasn't meant to be.  It looks that way.  
 
Q.  With the potential tying run on first in the ninth, you don't bunt there? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  If you bunt, why you bunt?  If you don't bunt, I mean, it is an unwritten rule in this game that when you're a visitor, you don't bunt.  Not only that, we have a runner on second base, so we got to hit.  It's the same thing.  But usually when you're home, you play -- I don't know if you knew that.  But when you're home, you play to tie.  But when you're visitor, you don't.  
 
Q.  Do you label this season a success for your team? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  I don't know.  Unless somebody else has a different opinion (laughter).  But my opinion, I believe it was a successful season.  I'm not going to let three losses in a best-of-five to deny the team and the organization and myself the fact that we had a successful season.  What is a successful season?  Sweep everybody?  We believe we saw the stadium jam-packed with people.  We saw the people having fun.  We ran away with the regular season.  A lot of guys have better seasons, including some of the younger guys like Pedro Feliz.  I believe personally that we had a successful season.  Unfortunately, stop here.  It ends now.  
 
Q.  Any consideration of a pinch runner for Snow, even though you were out of position players? 
 
FELIPE ALOU:  No consideration, no.  We  
 had no position player, it's that simple.  It was a tying run only.  I say if we probably would have been home with a winner, yes, then play Ponson third base in a tie game.  Yeah, we had no players.  We had Grissom with a quad, pull muscle.  We had Alfonzo with a calf pull.  He played three innings with it.  We took chances actually with the guys we used in that last inning.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT