SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2005
Raymond Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You have to feel good about how you played the front nine.
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Yeah.  I played well.
Q.  Was the golf course good for you?  Do you like it?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Yeah, it's good and difficult.  I love it.  It's playing golf.
Q.  Winning a Major at an advanced age as they would say, you did that at the Open, would you like to do it here?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, that would be neat.
Q.  It would be a record, you know, it would tie a record.
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Yeah, it would be pretty special.  I feel 31 today and now I feel 62.
Q.  What was the last time that you've been in contention on a Sunday?  Has it been awhile?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Oh, yeah, I don't play much.  Can't be too much    I don't play and I don't practice.  It's hard.  It's not my priority.  I don't play golf for a living any more.  I play because I enjoy being in the ropes, but I don't practice, I don't work on my game.  Those things hurt.  They    I can't.  My back won't allow it.  And I found out about five or six years ago that if I practiced, I couldn't play, because my back was so bad.  And then your skill level goes to hell when you don't practice.  I was all always a pro if I have like short game practice at this serve.  Putting, wedge, short irons.  And you give up for five or six years that side that you always prided yourself in, and you lose those skills.  It's obvious.  I mean, it's something that you don't practice.
Q.  To play this well then are you surprised?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  No, I've been striking the ball very well the last year or so.  My short game's been terrible.  I missed    I go out and hit 13 or 14 greens and be lucky to shoot par.  You know, never get a ball up and down.  Don't make a lot of putts.  But this week I putted the    the last two weeks I putted very well.  And I putted, like I said, real badly early this week and then I found out early in the week that I had lost the pressure in my putting grip.  Sometimes I have a tendency to get tight and tense.  But I had gotten so loose that I didn't have control of the putter.  And I started putting very well here on Wednesday.  So to make some putts and hit a lot of fairways and greens, it's fun.
Q.  You started walking after that one on the front and it didn't go down.  Did you think it was going to go down?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, that's difficult.  I hit three putts in a row on 10, 11, and 12 that I thought I made all three of them and I didn't make any.  But as long as I can hit it where I'm looking, you know, these greens are difficult to read, you're going to miss some.  Speed is really difficult to judge.  And after the rain and footprints get a little more prevalent, it makes it all more difficult.  But the reason the scores aren't any better are not because of the are because of the greens.  We all know that.
Q.  Because of the difficulty to read them?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Yeah, because of the slope.  You get down in the valley, they're just incredibly quick.
Q.  How long was the one on 8?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  8?
Q.  You made your birdie
RAYMOND FLOYD:  No, no, I didn't birdie 8.  I made a good bogey at 8.

9, I made probably a 55 or 60 footer.  Coming across the green.  That's one I would have taken two and gone in.
Q.  You still get into it though.
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Yeah.
Q.  You live with it a little bit, even if it isn't
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I'm competitive, I've been competing all my life.  I enjoy that.  Hell, I'm trying to compete.  I'm doing the best I can.
Q.  Can you win this?  Do you feel like you can?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I think if I can get in it and get myself close enough, yeah, there's some
Q.  You're two back now
RAYMOND FLOYD:  There's a chance.  I don't want to, you know, but, yeah, if I can keep playing well and keep hanging around and nobody shoots real low.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT