UBS CUP
November 20, 2004
Raymond Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Raymond Floyd, Fred Couples, you made 11 birdies in four-ball match and win four and two.  Fred, you made nine of the 11, which is a record for four-ball in UBS Cup.  Just a couple thoughts from each of you about your match today.
RAYMOND FLOYD:  For me, let me start, because I didn't have to do much out there, but he played obviously very, very well, and made almost every putt.  In the past we had had great success playing together, and I had always hit last off the tee.  Coming up to the first tee, I said, "What do you want to do?"

He said, "Well, if you don't mind, why don't you hit first."

I said, "I'm ready."  And fortunately, kind of got the drive in play every time so he could bomb it; and he drove beautifully, his irons were great.  You've got to do it all to make nine birdies.  And it was fun for me to watch, being on the right side of it.

FRED COUPLES:  I think for everyone that plays in these things, it's a lot easier when your partner is in every hole.  I made a lot of putts today and I made a lot of birdies, but we had -- you know, 80 percent of the time we were both putting for birdies.  I don't think we hit the ball like machines today, but as they say, we ham-and-egged it and we both kept making putts.  I think Woosie and Sandy got a little frustrated at the end.

The greens are so nice, and if you get the ball rolling, as Raymond said he drove it long and straight.  He was actually out driving -- or he was driving very close with us most of the day, which made is very comfortable for me.  And again, I did play well, but I still have a lot of things to work on.  And tomorrow by yourself, certainly I'm not going to make nine birdies, or eight birdies, whatever it was.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Anything extra special about you two playing together at Kiawah Island after the '91 Ryder Cup?  I guess you had some success there.

FRED COUPLES:  For me, as soon as we get to the tee, it's fun.  You know, it's comfortable, but it's fun.  And Raymond's wife's out there and his son is caddying for him.  When you hit bad shots, you can at least go up and nudge the guy or laugh and change the subject, and that's not easy to do.

This is an easy tournament to play.  We want to win.  But even at the Ryder Cup, Raymond was always -- it was intense, but it was easier to play with him than anyone else.  And unfortunately we didn't play every match together, but we played several and did well.
Q.  Did you guys discuss or talk about the  '91 Ryder Cup coming back here this week?

FRED COUPLES:  No.  It's a long time ago.  I thought he was 57 today.  That's what I said, "Not bad for a 57-year-old."

And I think Robert chimed in, "No, 62".  So 62, he's driving it a long way.  I mean, 1991, you were probably --
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  How old were you?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  47.

FRED COUPLES:  He played great there, too.
Q.  Any other events you were paired together or you've played together?
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  You didn't play Shark Shootout or anything before that?

FRED COUPLES:  I don't think so.  Practice rounds.  Like at Augusta I would play every Tuesday or Wednesday, but not in the tournament.  I wish they had -- they should have a junior/senior tournament, in my opinion.
Q.  What are your recollections of  '91 Ryder Cup playing with Freddie?
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, you know, really it's all about chemistry.  I think when you take teams that have great success, like the Spaniards have through the years for the European side, and you get a team that has great success, it's a chemistry.  You feed off of each other.  Like Freddie says, he can hit a bad shot, and he doesn't feel -- he knows that I'm going to be loose about it.  I know he's trying and vice versa.  There are some guys that you play with, when you miss a shot, you know that they feel that you've let them down, and that's the chemistry part.  You've got to have a little comfort when you're playing, because everybody knows that everybody is trying as hard as they can.

When you miss a shot, that's the game.  We all miss shots.  We just go ahead, and you might even joke about it.  Loosen it up.  Do the best you can.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT