U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2001
Raymond Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Your round was a little bit of black, little bit of red, little bit of green, a little bit of everything.

RAYMOND FLOYD:  I lot of everything.  I look back over the two rounds, and I made way too many bogeys, but fortunately I've been able to convert some birdies.  The thing that's giving me the bogeys is missing greens.  I've only missed two fairways for the tournament.  And one of them was literally an inch off.  So I'm doing that part.  And you must do that to play well.  And I've missed a lot of greens with short irons, and that's what I've got to get settled for the weekend.  The greens are difficult because of the undulations.  So you've got to hit greens to give yourself an opportunity to score and not make bogeys.

Q.  You probably felt really strong at one point and kind of disgusted at once?

RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, I've been pretty much even keel.  I made the three bogeys in a row.  I birdied 11.  I hit two really good shots in there.  Then at 13 I hit a real good shot that I thought was stiff.  It hit hard.  The green was a little firmer there and it bounced about 15 or 18 feet behind the hole.  And I leave it five feet short and make bogey there.  Fortunately I came back and played very well from that.  I started at the par-5 I put it on the back of the green in 2 and putted with the 5-wood down close and made it.  Then I made two really nice putts in a row.  I made it from about 22 or 23 feet at 15.  And then probably the same distance, maybe a couple feet longer at the next.  To convert like that you don't expect to, but it's sure nice if you can do it.  Then I made two good saves at the end not missing the greens.

Q.  Were scoring conditions a little bit easier today than yesterday?

RAYMOND FLOYD:  It was perfect for scoring.  If the course doesn't yield today, it's not going to.  There was no winds.  It was overcast and that kept moisture in the green.  So they didn't get baked and fast.  And you can still see that the old ladies handled themselves very well.

Q.  Do you like your shot?

RAYMOND FLOYD:  I'm in wonderful position right now.  The winning score I think is going to be very close to par.  I've got myself in position so I'm looking forward to the weekend.

Q.  You said just the major difference is basically the short irons getting onto the greens for the weekend?

RAYMOND FLOYD:  You think the way I put the ball in the fairway that I should be way under par for the event.  But what's happened is I've missed a lot of greens with my irons.  Generally speaking I will hit more greens than I will fairways.  I'm not a bad driver, but I'm not usually in the top percentage of fairways hit. But to do that here is very special.

Q.  (Inaudible.)

RAYMOND FLOYD:  Number 2 and number, what, 17, 17 are converted par-5's.  Those holes are the longest.  I know 17 is 470 something, and number 2 is very long and uphill off the tee.  So those holes will probably turn out to be your hardest holes for the tournament as relative to par because they're converted 5's.

Q.  Were you pleased with your grouping?

RAYMOND FLOYD:  Absolutely.  We had a great pairing.  Jack  is playing well, as well as is Bruce.  The three of you get going and you feed off of each other.  It's a nice pairing to have when everybody is playing fairly well.  Thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT