ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 1996
Raymond Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, '96, I am kind of glad it is coming to an end down through here.  I haven't had the kind of year that I would have expected to have had.  I don't think I really sat down and reflected very much on it, but I started fairly strong with the winning the Skins game and the Senior Slam which were, as you know, special events, but they are big money.  And it just seems looking back on the year that it seems like when my putter was working for me, I didn't play as well from tee-to-green, and it seem like any time I got it really going tee-to-green that my putter didn't work.  And it is cyclical.  I think you go through periods like that.  But to only have won one official event, that doesn't please me.  However, it was a major, so that is a positive. But overall, I don't think that you would say that I am very pleased with the year because I would have expected to have won  more than one official event.  And you did a two-part question. 
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I hope you are right.  (Knocks on wood.)  Well, I enjoy -- to me, it is like a major.  You have the top 30 players.  There is no if, ands or buts, there is no politics involved.  The top 30 guys right off the money list get into the golf tournament.  So that makes it special.  You feel like it is different.  It is a special event.  Only the best players are here.  And it is the finale, so you always want to play well.  I think last year I only lost by a stroke, maybe.  So.  And I guess because it is the final event you want to perform better, the last official event of the year, so you get yourself up a little bit.  I haven't been playing much of late, but I played last week and boy I was sure rusty over there.  I did some bad stuff all week from the greens to the driving to missing shots, to everything, so I hope last week took the edge off and I will be able to perform a little better this week. 
 

Q.  At the Vantage you said you were pain-free for the first time in a long time.  Is that still the case? 
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Absolutely.  I am now taking just my three Advil a day and that is terrific.  I had gotten up to taking a whole lot of Advil with my health, but I am now down to just taking enough to get me loose and get going.  I have played that whole while without pain and that is the thing that is somewhat amusing to me, first time I have played without pain in about three years.  And my performance hadn't reflected it, but I feel good about that physically. 
 

Q.  If you were to win here, would that change the season around?
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  You take a tournament like this, if you can win an event like this, it is almost like winning two. You have $250,000 purse and again, I mean it is not a Major, but I think it is the next tournament behind it, so you feel good about finishing the year off with a win and it would double your wins, so any time you can double a situation, it is not too bad. 
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Thanks, guys. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT