U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 1994
Raymond Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I birdied the fourth hole to par 5.  I hit a  driver and 3-wood and a sand wedge from about 45 yards.  I put it about 3 feet and made the putt for birdie.  I birdied the-- what hole did I birdie  now?   
 

Q.  14.  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  14 I hit a driver and a 6-iron about, oh, I'd  say, 18 feet and made the putt for birdie.  And at 16 I  hit a driver and a 2-iron about 22 feet and 2-putted for  birdie.   
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I will tell you what, I am very frustrated.  I  have had two days of that kind of putting that I have  played marvelously tee to green.  The only fairway I  missed was the last hole and I didn't think I had missed  that fairway.  I actually drove it too far on my line,  and was in the rough.  Only fairway I have missed in two  days, and I missed, I think, two greens today and two  yesterday, so I have played pretty good golf.  I am just  not -- and I feel like I am putting the ball pretty  well.  I have had no luck whatsoever on the greens.  I am  putting the ball where I look.  The ball is defying me to  go in.  I am a good putter.  I feel like I am putting the  ball very well and I am going to make some good ones this  weekend.   
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  It is easier this morning, no, because I  played late yesterday.  I was in the early part of the  field.  That is a tremendous advantage when you play 156  players.  Yesterday the greens were very tracked up.  I  teed off at two o'clock.  It made putting very  difficult.  This morning, I was in the first quadrant of  the field so it makes play much more-- it makes it a lot  easier playing early; you don't have all that traffic and  there are a lot of spike marks when you have that many  players.   
 

Q.  Raymond, how many putts did you have for  birdie that were 15 feet and 20 feet?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I'd have to go through the round, but  yesterday I probably had the ball closer than I did  today, but I had a lot of putts in the -- what I'd call,  15 to 22 or 3 foot range and you don't expect to make a  whole lot of those, but you like to make one every now  and then.  The eagle putt I had at the 16th hole, I don't  know to this second how it stayed out.  And then I go to  17 and hit a heck of a putt.  I am playing it to go  straight and it moves left at the hole.  But that has kind have been the nature of  the two days.  I did it all day yesterday as well.  Yesterday, I missed a couple of short birdie putts.  I  missed it from about 3 feet at 4 yesterday and I missed  another one - I forget what hole, but I missed another  short one somewhere for birdie.  You just can't do that.  You have got to -- when you are playing as well as I am,  I just feel like you-- that is a nice round when you look  at it in one sense, but the other sense, I feel like I am  just throwing strokes out the window.  You don't play  like I have played often two days in a row; especially in  a major championship.   
 

Q.  Do you ever find yourself pressing whenever --  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I think my patience has been terrific for the  way I have putted.  I have kept myself totally in  control, because the tendency is, hey, you get a little  down or you try something or you try to get your shot too  close or you do something foolish, but I think my  patience is real good.  I am very pleased with that  aspect.   
 

Q.  How do you feel about your game coming into  this week; how had you been playing the last few weeks?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I have been playing marvelous.  I have been  playing well.  There was no problem with my game tee to  green.  The problem has been getting the ball in the  hole.  But I have not been putting well.  I have been  working very diligently in trying to improve that.  The last two rounds last week I putted  well and feel good about it.  I am putting the ball good  now.  I am hitting the ball solid.  I was moving.  I was  lifting my head up just before impact that was causing me  to putt terrible.  But I have got that rectified and I am  working hard on it so I am hitting the putts good now.  It is just a matter of making them go in.   
 

Q.  Raymond, 5 under par, after 36 holes, what is  your position now?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I think I just answered that.  I think that I  feel good about being 5 under in one respect, but on the  other hand, you know, I am very frustrated because I feel  like I should be a lot more --   
 

Q.  When was the last time you had a putting  slump; you haven't had any?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I have one usually twice a year.  We all go  through it.  It is something that is there and it will  always be there.  For some reason, you have -- last year  I had a run of about two months where it would lip out  and come back at you and you'd hit it good and it doesn't  go.  You just have to work your way through it.  It  happens to all of us.  I think it is part of the game.  But if you are lucky, you might have one  a year.  But usually, you go through a couple streaks if  you play regularly, where you will go -- sometimes they  aren't as long.  I have been running through it now for a  couple of months.  It is very frustrating.  I am certain  it was caused by a mechanical problem.  I was lifting my  head up.  Now I have that rectified.  I am feeling good  about it.  I am hitting the ball solid.  I am feeling as  long as I putt the ball solid, I am going to make some  putts.   
 

Q.  After all the rain we had earlier in the week  finally had a dry day yesterday; last night; are they  firming up any?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  No, they haven't firmed up, it is so humid out  there that the greens are still moist.  I would have to  think that there was no water put on them but they are  still soft and they are still a bit slow.  We are all --  I think all the players think the greens are going to be  quicker but they aren't.  They are a little bit slow  there.  All the rain and humidity, that is keeping them  damp.   
 

Q.  Given the technological advances in the  equipment the fact that even the seniors hit the ball  further than they used to, how is it this course is being  able to stand up with the field?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, you have had two perfect days.  You have  had three days of rain in front of it.  The golf course  is as passive as you will ever see it.  And I think it is  holding up very well.  It is in marvelous condition.  You  couldn't ask for better conditions.  So I think the golf  course is outstanding and you have to think that we have  very liberal fairway widths.  I am very surprised that  the fairways are this wide.  There is a lot of room out  there to drive the ball.  So it is holding up  marvelously.  If the greens happen to get a little bit  firm, because the real character of this golf course is  firm greens.  If the greens can get a little firm and you  get some wind blowing, they are very difficult to keep a  golf ball on them.  Thank you.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT