U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 1994
Raymond Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  It was fabulous.  The golf course is in  marvelous condition.  It is set up the way I had hoped  that it would be set up.  It is out there.  They didn't  trick it up or do anything to it and it is in a pure form  and it is going to make for a great championship.  I am  excited about it.   
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I didn't find them to be real soft.  I think  they were a little bit slow, but I played -- we were 9  holes playing in a mist.  I would think as the week  progresses they should speed up a little bit.  I saw  David Eger on, I think, the third green.  He said they'd  like to get them up to up to 10, but that he didn't know  if they could accomplish that if it stayed damp and  moist, you know, with the rain.   
 

Q.  Ray, the regular Open next year, Shinnecock  will you be back there?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Most definitely, yes, barring any unforeseen  circumstance, certainly.  I am looking forward to it.   
 

Q.  How about the rest of the PGA Tour, what do  you think now, you would play next year on the regular  tour?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Basically, I am committed to the Senior Tour.  Certainly I will play The Masters.  I am going to play at  Shinnecock.  I don't know if on occasion that I may play  another event but, basically, I am a Senior Tour player.  I have made that commitment.  I would have played in the  U.S. Open.  I withdrew at the 11th hour, right before the  pairings were -- I didn't want to affect the draw, but I  had been putting very badly for about a month and a half  and I knew Oakmont.  Can you imagine going to Oakmont  putting badly?  I didn't want to embarrass myself.  And I  didn't putt well at Nashville, the tournament I played on  the Senior Tour.  So I don't think I would have putted  well there and I would have had a nightmare and that was  my reason for not playing the U.S. Open this year.  Fortunately my putting woes have come around.  I have  been practicing a lot, and I have been working, and I  putted poorly the first two rounds at the TPC but the  last two rounds I putted very well.  So I am very pleased  now that my putting is coming around.   
 

Q.  Could you talk about playing this event in  Pinehurst Number 2 and what the course -- how the course  sets up for this kind of a championship?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, I don't think anybody can take it out of  their top 5, any of the golf courses in the world.  I  think that says it all.  I mean, you can go from that  statement and talk about it.  Everything that you say is  positive it is just a marvelous, traditional golf  course.  It is a true master piece.  It is in its natural  state.  The greens allow all kinds of shots from around  them.  If you miss, it takes the skill level -- it is not  one dimension.  The same thing can be said of the golf  course.  You must think, it is not just a hit it and go  get it.  You must think your way around.  You will play  every shot that you know before a four round tournament  such as this is completed.  And to me, that is the game  of golf.  We play so many golf courses today where it is  truly one dimension.  There is one shot that you play if  you miss a green.  There is -- you hit a driver off of a  tee.  There is a lot of electives here.  You can drive  off of every hole out here.  But you can also hit 3-wood  and you can play 1-iron.  It allows you to pick and  choose what suits you, or what you feel best suits you.  And it is just truly a great golf course.  And to have a  U.S. Senior Open on it is something special and '99 to  have a regular U.S. Open on it is going to be real  special.  I think the quality of the golf course stands  when you go back to the scene.  I remember the Tour  Championship here two years ago, it was played in the  fall.  We had four absolutely perfect days, very mild  winds; very mild; nothing to affect shot making.  We had  fabulous temperatures, high '70s, low '80s, and you had,  if I am not mistaken, had five people broke par.   
 

Q.  Tour Championship, not the Senior?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I am sorry, the Tour Championship two years  ago.  That is the quality of the golf course.  You had  the best 32 players of the year.  The guys that were  playing the best were here.  That is golf course quality  right there.   
 

Q.  What is the best round you have had here?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I cannot answer that.  I am the worst about  recalling tournaments and rounds.  I can get you one of  those little media guides, maybe we can find out, but I  really couldn't say what my best round is.   
 

Q.  I thought you had said as far as playing in  the regular Open that had your son qualified, that you  might play.  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  I think I would have gone had my son  qualified, just the thing of a father to play with my son  in a U.S. Open.  But believe me, I would not have gone  knowing that I was going to be competitive or had a  chance to win the golf tournament because my putting  would not allow that.   
 

Q.  Had you switched putters?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  No.  I just been working on my putting.  I got  to putting badly and I think there is an apprehension and  I started moving.  I started lifting my head up before I  was contacting the ball and it is just something that you  have to practice and work through and now I feel pretty  steady.  The last two rounds last week I moved on one  putt and I'd say if I can move on one putt every 36 holes  I will be okay.   
 

Q.  Talk about the greens here.  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, the greens again are-- to me, they are  genius from the architectural standpoint because of the  subtleness.  They are all slightly raised.  But not  necessarily raised from the contour of the natural  contour of the ground.  They were raised by slight drag  work and bunkering to do slight mounding and natural  drainage which created an illusion of being elevated  greens, but in fact most of them-- it is pretty level  with the overall terrain.  But you can imagine when this  golf course was built you had hand labor and horse and  drag.  So the bunkers were carved to use earth to form  the green and the slight swells in front were taking also  carving of earth to kind of form green subtleties.  So  they appear to be somewhat elevated but in most cases  they aren't.  They have movement.  But it is all  natural.  The movement is for drainage.  These greens  weren't built to drain down.  They were built to run off.  That affords you so many opportunities to  play golf shots.  The skills that you develop as a  professional are developed as a player throughout your  life you can appreciate those on a golf course like this  because you can literally use all of them here.  It is  not a 60 degree sand wedge if you miss a green.  It is  not a pitch-and-run if you miss a green.  It is not a  putt from off the green.  It is not a bump-it into the  wall and let it kick up.  It is all of those.  You can  use any of those shots that you wish, that you elect.  Whatever you think is the best shot for you in a certain  situation, you can use.  It is there.  It is not saying, I am in  the high rough; I am right off the green, give me my 60  degree wedge every time you miss a green.  It is a  fabulous golf course from that respect.  Greens, you  know, that truly in my mind -- I guess when you put it in  perspective, that really makes the golf course.  But that  is tradition.  That is-- traditional architecture was  that way.  You have sand traps too.  You can't forget  that.  There is places you get in some bunkers, also some  of the front bunkers that are 30 to 50 yards out in front  of some of your greens, they were set there for  definition and of course, for more earth.  They were  carved out, out front to add earth up into some of the  green areas, but they were all there for definition.  If  you get in the rough off the tee and try to get a little  greedy and putt it in one of those, you are in for some  deep problem.  So that goes into the thinking part of the  golf course and to the mental strategy of it.   
 

Q.  That commitment to the Senior Tour was there  one point where you said I am a senior player at one  point, did that happen?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, I committed when I was about 48 years  old to the Senior Tour.  I kept playing because the  Senior Tour was out there looming and it was getting  bigger and bigger.  I think, to be quite honest, going  back and looking when I was about 45 years old, or 46, I  would have probably gravitated more to my golf course  architecture and played less and less golf.  I think the  Senior Tour kept me going.  And then when I was 49 I made  a commitment, hey, I think I have gone through here kind  of like I am just kind of trying to stay competitive for  the Senior Tour.  I caught myself in that trap and I  said, hey, I don't like that.  I am not going out with  any goals.  I am not trying to be competitive and I have  set some goals the year I was 49 to see how competitive I  could be again.  I went back to work.  I started  practicing.  I decided I wanted to see how good I can  play against these guys before I turned 50.  Well I went  out and had a fabulous year.  Had it not been for that, I would have  just went and turned 50 and been a Lee Trevino and nobody  would have ever said a word to me.  The pressure has not  been for me about coming to the Senior Tour.  The  pressure has been from the media - about why am I still  playing.  I am competitive.  I get letters from fans  everyplace I go, I don't believe why -- I don't  understand why you are playing; you can still win on the  other tour.  I have been 32 years travelling around  the world playing golf full-time.  That is enough.  You  know, I want to smell the roses.  The Senior Tour is  three days.  I am not going to play over 20 tournaments.  It doesn't matter where I play.  I pick up a day a week  on this tour playing.  It is a lot of fun being with the  guys I came in the game with.  It really is a lot of fun  to be back with guys that you haven't seen for ten or  fifteen years.  Believe it or not, there are stories in  the lockerroom on this tour.  The other tour they aren't  old enough to have stories yet.  They are still talking  about high school football games and things like that.  You got a lot of good stories over here.  It is fun.  It  is neat.  I enjoy it.  And basically, my commitment is to this  tour.  I don't need to be playing golf, to be quite  honest, but I love it.  I feel that the guys out front  that made this tour what it is and committed-- you know  committed their time and effort, we can see how  successful it has been.  Corporate America is absolutely  in love with senior golf.  Demographics, the people are  older and older and older each and every year, we have a  tremendous amount of people in this world that are over  50 years old that are big, big Senior Tour fans.  We have  a tremendous following.  And the only way it is going to  stay successful is for good players coming in to come  support it.  And I felt that I could do something to  give back to the game.  The game has been great for me.  Everything that I have done and I have is through golf.  I feel that I am -- that by playing the Senior Tour that  I am giving something back.  I am helping this game.  And  we have a great number of good players coming in here  three or four year span you have got that group of guys  that the Watson and Watkins and Kite and Crenshaw and  between -- and a bunch of really good players you got  Hale coming in here later this year, but there has been  quite been a gap between me -- Tom and-- I am talking  Americans now.  I am not talking foreigners because Aoki  and Graham Marsh -- I talking about American players;  those are the people that the American public wants to  see play or they relate with more and then after Tom and  I, there really -- top players of-- a major championship  winner, you got Hale coming in and then there is another  little gap.  So if I don't support it and Weiskopf  doesn't support it and Hale doesn't support it, this tour  can be going the other way before it got back to that  group of guys that is about 46 now.  And you know, that  is kind of my feeling about it.  I just feel strongly  that it is something that I can give back to the game.  And still enjoy playing golf.  I love to play golf.  And  it has kept me younger.  I really believe that.  I work  harder and I have two teenage boys -- one is starting  college and one will be in his second year, it kept me  more competitive with them.  It has really been neat to  be able to -- and plus I am holding a desire because when  I play, I want to win.  I am not out here just to be  playing.  So it has kept me more competitive and I think  even when I flip back over on the other tour, that I am  still pretty competitive over there because of this  tour.   
 

Q.  Has Raymond beaten you yet, Raymond junior?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  They have both beaten me.  I start -- I get  now where I find excuses not to play with them when I am  home.  They can both beat me.   
 

Q.  Did you take a look at the field here?  Obviously you, Lee and Dave Stockton has been playing  well lately; how do you see the field going into this  one?  
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Dave certainly in the last three, four weeks  has been on fire.  Lee has played beautifully all year.  I have kind have gone through a period of bad putting but  if my putting comes back, I feel that certainly I should  be very competitive this week.  Tom Weiskopf had a nice  tournament last week; the first time he has played in  awhile so I would see-- and I played this morning with  him, he is hitting the ball beautifully and you know, the  Bear is here.  Can't never forget him.  He had a good  couple of rounds at the Open and then last week he played  fairly well.  I don't see how you could ever leave him  out.  He seems to rise to the occasion when you say major  or put major next to the title.  So I couldn't discount  him.   
 
RAYMOND FLOYD:  Thank you.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT