MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Raymond Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Have a little fun today?  
 RAYMOND FLOYD: It was a long walk. No, it's always fun to play here.   
  
  Q. You played well.   
 RAYMOND FLOYD: Yeah, I played pretty good. Played a little better than yesterday. I got rid of some 7s.   
  
  Q. What was the difference?  
 RAYMOND FLOYD: Well yesterday I made two doubles and a triple, I made three 7s. Other than those three holes I played pretty much like I did today.   
 The wind got gusty at the end there, I bogeyed two of the last three with the wind gusting around, so that was the part toward the end. I played a little better actually today than my score.   
  
  Q. When you play with a kid like Drew Weaver an amateur here for the first time, do you kind of give him advice, do you talk to him or does he ask for that?  
 RAYMOND FLOYD: No, you're playing golf, you can't give advice. He and his caddie are the only people that can do that. It breaks the rules if you say anything.   
  
  Q. How about afterwards?  
 RAYMOND FLOYD: Well, if he were to ask me, certainly, I would be happy to.   
  
  Q. Obviously you don't play as much as you used to, have you given any thought to how much longer you're going to continue to do this?  
 RAYMOND FLOYD: Well, it's a game I love, so as long as I can stay healthy and not embarrass myself, you know, I'll continue to try to play a little.   
  
  Q. If you had to summarize how much the greens have changed since the first time you laid eyes on this course, how would you do it?  
 RAYMOND FLOYD: Well, relatively they haven't changed. We always played, they were more or less the firmest or the fastest greens that we played in the early '60s, so when you put that into perspective they're still almost that way.   
 So the evolution of the game, same thing with this, the agronomy, making this golf course longer because the kids hit it longer, they're hitting clubs into these holes that I used to hit in the '70s. So the golf course is staying kind of with the curve, if you would, but relatively, it's about the same.   
  
  Q. Do these greens almost get mythologized in a way the way people talk about them before they even get here to play?  
 RAYMOND FLOYD: Well, they're difficult. When they dry up you get some pins now that when they dry out and get a little crusty, I mean it's tough to, if you're on the wrong side of the hole, I 3-putted a hole yesterday from three feet. You can do it.   
 The second hole, the pin was a new pin, it was kind of down, I thought I hit a good firm first putt and I went through the hole and then I missed the second one. You see that on these greens. But that's what makes it what it is.  
  
  Q. Crenshaw always played a lot of break on his putts, you were the same way.   
 RAYMOND FLOYD: Ben and I kind of were the same type. We were always dying the ball in the hole, I think that's why we probably, overall we probably -- of course I'm not in Ben's category -- but I putted these greens at times very well. But I was always dying the ball.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT