U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2005
Raymond Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Apparently you think it's 1969.
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  No, I don't.  I don't feel that good.
Q.  314 yard drive within one of those holes.
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, the fairways are getting hard.  Mark Rolfing just asked me, being aggressive.  I didn't dream I could drive the ball there, but the fairways are getting hard and dry as the greens are.  I'm used to the golf course playing soft, so tomorrow I'm going to have to pay attention a little bit more.  I got away with three or four clubs today that I hit the ball too far, but I had enough angle on it that I could still play.

So tomorrow we'll all take that into effect.
Q.  It seems like major championship setups have always brought out the best in your game and still do.
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, starting the week, I'd have never thought that you'd have had to shoot as low as you're going to have to shoot to win here.  But we played darts for 36 holes, shooting into soft fairways and soft conditions, so this is more championship conditions.  I don't think there were nearly as many under par rounds today.  So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I've put myself in position, and that's all I can ask.  I hope I can go out there and enjoy it.
Q.  Raymond, as you look around here more one day after another, does anything else flash back from '69 or do you start to remember stuff?
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  No, not really.  I guess what was going to come back came back on Monday.  Of course now I've played a different golf course.  I've played two practice rounds and two tournament rounds all kind of the same and now today I've played a different golf course.  So I guess all of us are on the same wavelength there.
Q.  Do you know what kind of score it might take to win?
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  No.  It's going to    you know, I can't go out there and shoot par and win.  Everybody is playing well, and I think you'll have to go out tomorrow and have 4 , 5 , 6 under par probably.
Q.  It always comes down to the putter?
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, the putter is what's got me so far behind.  I'm two putting, but my speed, I've left 20 putts short dead in the middle of the hole.  I keep thinking they're faster.  Even today when they got purple I kept thinking they were faster.  I could not get the ball to the hole.  I've got to get the ball there to do any good.

Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT