U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Raymond Floyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  I did have a good round but I could have had an unbelievable round if I made some putts.
Q.  What's the difference in this golf course in a day?  Is it noticeably different?
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  I think yesterday earlier in the morning the wind was negligible.  I think now the wind    yesterday the wind when we played was blowing like it is now on this back nine.  But I think the golf course is susceptible now because of soft greens.  You're literally shooting darts.  I guess the rains on Wednesday morning softened the greens up.  That's why the scores are low.
Q.  I don't believe you remember too much of this golf course.  It's changed so much.  But I think the subconscious is doing you well.
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  I've got good vibes.  I don't remember the golf course at all, but things are kind of positive going through this, so it's fun.
Q.  You look at all these of young guys that are at the top of the leaderboard.  You're soon to be 63, you're not supposed to be doing that.
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, I'm healthy right now.  I feel very, very good.  You know, I'm swinging, I'm hitting the ball with some length because I can let it go and I'm hitting fairways and greens.

I think I missed three greens today, the first was kind of bad but the other two greens I missed was in the very short fringe.  And yesterday I missed one green.  If I can hit fairways and greens obviously you can play.
Q.  How does it feel going into the weekend?
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  Kind of fun.  I'd rather be doing that than going to the airport.
Q.  Does it make you wish it hasn't been 36 years since you came back?
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  Well, 36 years is a long time.  But nothing ever happened.

Again, about the memory on the golf course, there are no other events that kind of    I don't remember the golf course.
Q.  They are honoring you a bit with the membership to the golf course.
 RAYMOND FLOYD:  Oh, you let the cat out.  They asked me to come down.  I didn't know what I was getting.  That would be fabulous.  As long as I don't have to pay dues.
Q.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT