SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 12, 2021
Xavier Pinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Arkansas 70, Missouri 64
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Xavier.
 Q. Xavier, how are you feeling?  It seemed pretty bad when you went down on your back there.
 XAVIER PINSON:   I'm feeling good.  I mean, we got a long, good, nice break into the NCAA tournament.  I feel like that's enough time to get back healthy.
 Q. Coach talked a lot about wanting you all to attack the basket.  When those shots aren't falling, offensive fouls resulting in turnovers, how difficult is it to find a flow on offense?
 XAVIER PINSON:   It's pretty difficult, of course, for anybody.  I mean, as a team, we just got to see things like that coming, see things like that.  We're a good team.  We're an experienced team.  I feel like we got to do a better job with, I would say, reacting to stuff like that, or how are we going to come out after that.
 That's just something we need to work on and we will get better at.
 Q. They made their runs with a smaller lineup.  Did you feel like maybe you didn't take advantage of your size?
 XAVIER PINSON:   No, I don't.  I feel like every time any team goes small in the country, we just got to -- I mean, it might get annoying throwing the ball into Tilley.  Seriously, every time I feel like whenever any team goes small, Tilley is in the game, I feel like we just have to 100% get him the ball no matter what.  We got to play through him.
 If they don't double, it's a bucket.  If they do double, someone else is open.  It's all about Tilley taking care of the ball, being poised.  We'll get that Tilley back next game.
 Q. Where is your personal focus going to be the next couple days until you find out who you're playing next?
 XAVIER PINSON:   I mean, I'm pissed off at that loss.  The next couple days I'm I guess working on whatever I can, watch film, work out, do whatever I can to get better.  Get some ice, of course, on my lower back.
 I mean, I can't say too much.  Honestly, these guys have worked so hard.  We all have worked so hard.  I feel like, I mean, we just got to shake this one off, look at what's bigger, and that's the national tournament.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thanks.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT