NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 20, 2015
Mitchell Port
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We welcome 141 pound finalist, Mitchell Port from Edinboro.   Mitchell, an opening statement talking about your match tonight? 
MITCHELL PORT:   Going into it I just knew how to score more points, be aggressive and stuff.   I've wrestled him a couple times in the past.   He's hard to get to the legs.   Backs up for me to try to rush into him and then he dives in or attacks something like that. 
I go back to last year.   Learned a lesson that just because you beat someone a couple times before it doesn't necessarily mean that this day here today that you're going to beat them.   So those were my thoughts going into it.

Q.   Mitchell, you wrestled him earlier this year.   What did you learn about wrestling him at that time? 
MITCHELL PORT:   I've just got to get on my attacks and stuff.   He scored from just about every position he was able to score from.   I didn't put myself into scoring positions to score from.   I think if I get to more scoring positions, hopefully I can score out of them.

Q.   I'm not sure if you were asked this question or not, but you're in a sense the road block to someone making history.   Have you thought about going into this since you were in at the weight that Logan is? 
MITCHELL PORT:   I knew he was at my weight, but I have a goal of being a national champion.   That's my first thought.   Second thought, he's won three.   I mean, I don't think anyone else has the opportunity to stop him or stop someone like that, so I think I'm in a great position.   Really blessed to be in the position that I am and have the opportunity to be there.

Q.   Edinboro was stiff after this morning's session.   I think a lot of people didn't realize how good your team is.   Could you talk a little bit about the fact that you're in the finals and your team maybe has a chance to get a trophy? 
MITCHELL PORT:   Yeah, I think we're underlooked a little bit, especially in a tournament like this with a lot of different teams in it.   Whenever we get a good group of guys like we have, we really can power ourselves to the top with a couple guys doing really well, and maybe a couple guys like overachieving what they're supposed to do with their seeds or something like that. 
But our team is really tough.   We're mentally strong, I think, and we have the same goals, we want to win.

Q.   As a Centre County guy who grew up in a wrestling hub, but it's also a small town, a small area, when did you fall in love with this sport?   What are your first memories of wanting to wrestle?   It stands out from yesterday when you said you had that injury default and you were bummed out by it because you only had so many handful of matches left. 
MITCHELL PORT:   I've been doing it my whole life.   My first match was a Belmont tournament when I was like three years old and started practicing shortly after that.   I've been in the sport my whole life, so I was kind of pushed into it.   Maybe not pushed, but I was put into it, just grew up in it and fell in love with it.   It's just really what I like to do.

Q.   Mitchell, you and the rest of the seniors coming up here, A.J. still working in the consolation bracket, Dave wrestling right now, that's going to be coming to an end here.   Talk about that ride that you seniors have had that's really brought Edinboro to a team title as was alluded to earlier? 
MITCHELL PORT:   Yeah, we have a great team, and the guys that we're all surrounded with have the same goals in mind.   We all want to win national titles.   It's a tough thing to do.   It's tough to get to the finals.   I was here once, and last year I kind of lost sight on the whole thing of winning the matches to get to the finals.   Fell short. 
So this year I had to really focus on that, and I think that's what a lot of our team is really doing well.

Q.   Obviously everyone here is very interested in Siebert's attempt at history and he's getting a lot of attention, whereas you might be a little more under the radar.   Does that put a little more chip on your shoulder at all or is it anything that drives you a little bit? 
MITCHELL PORT:   No, I still just want to win.   That's what I'm here for.

Q.   Tim said he wants to wear a kilt one day in the finals.   Is he close to buying one? 
MITCHELL PORT:   If we can get him one then, yeah.   That would be awesome. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT