NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
Mitchell Port
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   To my left, Mitchell Port, Edinboro, 35‑3 on the year, No. 4 seed.   He beat the No. 1 seed to advance to the final.   Mitchell, you're going to have to describe quick on the phone to somebody how you won that match.   How would you describe it?   
MITCHELL PORT:   Basically, I went into it knowing that it was going to be rough.   It was going to be tough on my feet.   Last time we wrestled, he took me down multiple times.   The score was‑‑ he beat me by 5.   
But he took me down more times than that.   This time I knew I couldn't give up many takedowns, and I needed to get some myself.   
   
 Q.   When you signed with Edinboro, you were part of a talented freshman group.   Can you talk about that group together and the fact that one of you had to be a finalist to take the program to a new level?   
MITCHELL PORT:   I wish all of us were finalists.   I love every one of my teammates; they're here for the same reason I am.   I'm lucky enough to be in the position to win the championship like everyone else on my team wants to do.   We have a good class.   
   
 Q.   Growing up‑‑ (No microphone.)  
MITCHELL PORT:   Toward the beginning.   A little bit.   I was a little upset, didn't really contact me too much.   Wasn't too interested in me, but found Edinboro.   It's a great place.   Coaching staff is unbelievable.   I wouldn't trade it for anything.   
I don't think I would be where I am now if it wasn't for being at Edinboro and the coaching staff that I have.   
   
 Q.   Any thoughts about your finals opponent tomorrow night?   
MITCHELL PORT:   He beat me earlier in the year.   Same kind of thing.   I got taken down a whole bunch of times early on in the match, ended up coming back and lost by, I want to say 3, but I'm not positive.   
I have to protect my legs, move my feet, get takedowns of my own, and I think one of the biggest things that I need to do is hold him down, get riding time, stuff like that.   As you see, it won that match there, 9 seconds was the difference.   Don't want to go into overtime and get my hand raised in the end.   
   
 Q.   Seemed like earlier in the year you had some takedowns on you.   What have you done differently here?   
MITCHELL PORT:   Coach has been getting me to move my feet, approaching the guy, pulling, stuff like that, more me creating the action rather than having to sprawl and defend my legs and stuff like that.   
THE MODERATOR:   Mitchell, congratulations and good luck in the finals.     
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT