MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 18, 1997
Chad Ogea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Chad, did you make starts in this state at least when you pitched for LSU?

CHAD OGEA: Yes, I did. Against the Gators.

Q. Even based on how well you pitched in the ALCS, were you surprised at being named
the No. 2 starter -- the Game 2 starter in the World Series?

CHAD OGEA: Sure, Orel was ready to go in the first game. Definitely you're going to go
with him in the first game, because he's been there before, he's pitched in the World
Series a couple of times, so definitely you want to go with him. I wasn't surprised I was
named the No. 2 starter. Wherever they want to stick me in there I'll pitch. 

Q. You didn't get a chance to pitch in '95, can you talk about -- in the World Series,
do you get any jitters?

CHAD OGEA: No, there's no pregame jitters, just go out there and have fun. I did that
in ALCS, I didn't pitch in the ALCS before, I think I threw one inning in '95, but that
was two years ago, so there's no jitters, just go out there and have fun and trust
yourself. 

Q. Have you stopped wearing your knee brace completely?

CHAD OGEA: Yes. I only wear it in between starts for the reason that it doesn't get
banged around or get sore.

Q. Were there no jitters at all before the Yankees or second round?

CHAD OGEA: No, I think the biggest thing is the fear of failure is out the window.
There's no fear of failure with me because I just pray a lot about it and ask God to help
me with that.

Q. Chad, how tough has it been, as well as you've pitched in the playoffs, not having
one run scored while you were out there, and how do you block that out of your mind?

CHAD OGEA: You don't think about that when you're on the mound. You might think about
it before and after the game, but it's the situation where baseball is that way. You may
go out there and get ten runs one night. And hopefully I do. But you just try to keep them
down and give your team a chance to win, and hopefully we score some runs.

Q. Chad, after the last game it was one of the best games Sandy Alomar. Can you talk
about that?

CHAD OGEA: He's a big target, and he's caught all of us all year long, and he knows
each one of us, I think that's the reason he can call good games for us, and we trust
Sandy throughout the game because of that. He pretty much knows each guy on the staff
backwards and forward.

Q. Chad, were you somewhat disappointed in the sense of humor of your listeners or are
you going to try to work on your comedy routine, when you try and make a joke and remark
about Orel?

CHAD OGEA: No, I wasn't disappointed. I said he cheated and everybody else does, it was
a joke. But there's guys out there that cheat, but I'm not one of them, and I don't think
Orel is. I threw with Orel a year and a half, a throwing partner during stretch and before
BP, and he actually has a sinker that moves that much. And because he's hit me in the shin
quite a few times (laughter.) He naturally throws the ball that way.

Q. Chad, how confident does it make you guys being on the mound when you have five Gold
Glovers behind you, your defense is superior?

CHAD OGEA: It's nice. You know you can throw strikes and make them hit the ball. You
know you don't have to make the perfect pitch. It makes it a lot easier when you know you
have good defense behind you.

Q. The fact that you had the injuries during the regular season obviously made -- how
did you feel about the season?

CHAD OGEA: It's satisfying to get this far and be able to come back off an injury. As I
said before, in the ALCS, is that I learned a lot of things during the DL, during the two
months I was on the DL, so it's sweet to be here after a frustrating year, and it's done a
lot for me personally as a pitcher and it's made me realize what I need to do to become
better.

Q. What would you have learned on the DL, looking at yourself and them?

CHAD OGEA: I think the biggest thing was that I was able to step away from the game two
months, as far as being on the field and being there every day, and being able to see how
hitters hit, how pitchers pitch. And try to pattern -- not pattern myself after guys, but
pick up little things as far as watching guys on TV, watching tapes and learning about the
game a little more.

Q. Chad, working as a team in another League, were you not as familiar as you might
have been with Baltimore and the Yankees, you're not trying to really memorize all the
tendencies and all the advice about each of their hitters, just go back more to going out
there and doing your best?

CHAD OGEA: I think -- I've seen these guys one time, I saw them in Spring Training, and
I saw the same line-up they're going to have out on the field pretty much. My memory is
pretty good as far as seeing hitters. But I think the biggest thing is to go from pitch to
pitch. Not to get ahead of myself and saying this guy is on deck, and this guy does this
and this guy does that. I think the biggest thing is to watch their reactions. You can't
sit there and think all night on the mound. If you think long you're going to think wrong.


Q. Have you talked to Orel much about what it's like to be in the World Series game and
just the pressure, just all the outside things that go into it?

CHAD OGEA: Yeah, what's funny is the last ALCS game I pitched at home in Jacob's Field,
the first three innings I pitched on adrenaline. When I gave up the two runs, I said I
don't have to be perfect, just go out there and do what you do best. I think that's where
you find guys not doing well in the playoffs or in the World Series is they try too hard.
The biggest thing is to have fun and let your natural abilities come out. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT