AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 4, 2019
Kaylee Benton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Welcome Kaitlyn Papp to the interview room.
Kaitlyn goes to the University of Texas.  She's currently tied for the low round of the day today with a 69.  She had five birdies and she currently stands tied for third at 3-under.
Kaitlyn, we'd love to start off with some general comments about your round today.
KAYLEE BENTON: :  Overall, I feel like I continued my good ball-striking from yesterday.  I think I dropped a few more putts today, which was really the main difference.  I just tried to improve upon the holes that I made mistakes on yesterday.
THE MODERATOR: Maybe talk to us about some of your highlights during the round today.
KAYLEE BENTON: :  I made a couple long putts in my round today on 15, 16.  I drove a couple long ones, 25 feet, 35 feet off the fringe, so I feel like that kind of got my round going and I just kind of continued that momentum into my back nine.
THE MODERATOR: Maybe touch on some of your excitement for your round at Augusta National.
KAYLEE BENTON: :  I'm so excited.  I mean, it's my main goal coming here was to make the cut, and at the turn, I think I turned at 2-under, and I saw the leaderboard and I knew I was in a good position to make the cut.
So I just tried to focus on doing the best I can and just get closer to the lead.
Q. You had a little bit of a hiccup to start with a bogey on 11, but you had that nice run you already touched on through 15 and 16 and birdied 18, also.  Just talk about how you felt during that stretch and how that kind of gave you momentum at the turn.
KAYLEE BENTON: :  I was definitely really excited to make those long putts.  My bogey on 11, I mean, wasn't the best way to start, but I knew that I had opportunities coming up, especially on the back nine where I could get a couple birdies finishing up.
But it was nice to close my front nine with three birdies, so that really gave me a lot of confidence going into my final back nine.
Q. With everything that you know, what to expect or what's going to happen on Saturday, the biggest crowd you've ever played in front of, it's Augusta National, national television, do those things get you excited, or do they only serve to distract you from concentrating on what you have to do?
KAYLEE BENTON: :  I feel like depending on your approach, it can be a distraction, but I think in my case, I'm just going to focus on my game and not focus about the number of people who are out there.
I mean, it's great for golf.  I'm happy so many people are out here watching us, and I have a lot of my family members, too, but I think I'm just going to keep continuing to play my own game.
Q. Have you previously or coming into this experience tried to gain any knowledge from anybody about Augusta National or is that something that you've not been able to do?
KAYLEE BENTON: :  Prior to this tournament, about a month ago, me and my two teammates from UT made a practice trip out here.  We played Champion's Retreat, and then we got on Augusta National, which was truly amazing.
And in addition to that, my instructor, Chuck Cook, kind of sat down with a couple of us girls and just shared his knowledge about the course, about where and where not to hit the ball.
Q. Having played the golf course, do you think you have a lot of knowledge, a little bit that others don't?
KAYLEE BENTON: :  Yes and no.  I feel like it takes a lot of rounds to figure out that course.  But I am definitely happy that I got one look before this tournament.  Really grateful for that.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much, Kaitlyn.  Good luck.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT