AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 4, 2019
Kaylee Benton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You knew what you had to do on 9, I guess?  
KAYLEE BENTON: I did.  I just knew in my head that probably 4 would be a playoff, going into the round, I knew that, probably double the scores from today.  I was 5-over on 9, after an unfortunate bogey on 8.  I tried to get a little too aggressive only lay-up and just caused an unforced error and a bogey.   
I don't even think par would have gotten me in.   
 Q.  8, just short and left?  
KAYLEE BENTON: A foot further and honestly I think I'm like five feet and the wind just knocked it, put it on the fringe and it came all the way back down on the rough.   
 Q.  Are you looking at -- there's not very many leaderboards out there.  Are you just kind of guessing?  Or you looking, when you get the chance, how do you keep in your mind --  
KAYLEE BENTON: I only look at the 30th spot on the last hole when I kind of knew I already missed it and didn't make my chip.  Yeah, I kind of looked at what was winning.  I know that doesn't matter for me but I went out there today, I was flagging it.  I was hitting it really well.  I was just trying to play free and I didn't get enough putts to fall but I was just trying to go out there and not worry about scores, and just play.   
 Q.  How close did the chip on the last come?  It looked like it missed by that much.  
KAYLEE BENTON: Yeah, it did.  I got a little aggressive with, it otherwise it might have gone in.  I knew I had to make it, so I gave it a run and it went right over the right edge.  Unfortunate.  Thought I might have had a chance.   
 Q.  How long have you known that you were in the field?  Did you find out Thursday?  
KAYLEE BENTON: I did.  I found out Thursday afternoon, and then they did the press release Friday morning.   
 Q.  What was your reaction?  
KAYLEE BENTON: I don't know how to put it into words.  It's just an honor to be here and considered for this tournament.  I'm surrounded by such incredible and just to be in the same field as them is an honor, and just excited.   
 Q.  Did you know you were an alternate?  Was there any indication, like a phone call out of the blue?  
KAYLEE BENTON: Out of the blue.  I knew I missed it by about a person when they had the cut-off and I knew I got within that top 30 after they had already cut off.  I knew I was inside at that point, but I didn't even think somebody would turn down Augusta.  I didn't even think about injury or anything.  No, it definitely took me off guard.   
 Q.  How do you view tomorrow?  
KAYLEE BENTON: The weather looks so bad and I'm so upset because I knew that might be my only chance to play Augusta.  I'm just going to have the time of my life going out there, no pressure.  I won't have to be like grinding trying to learn the course now.  Just have some fun, lay back playing Augusta National.  Not many people can say that they have done that.   
 Q.  I know you joked yesterday you got to touch Tiger's locker.  You seem to have come here with a good attitude and this is a real bonus for you.  Still, do you feel disappointed now?  
KAYLEE BENTON: Hundred percent.  I had it going today, and I knew going into the round, that I was going to play well.  It was one of those things that I like believed in my heart, I had it going, had my swing in yesterday's round -- that was an anomaly 78.  I've been playing well and I hit the ball terrible yesterday.   
So worked on it, and I mean, started off out of the gate hot.  I mean, I had a lot of like putts inside seven feet for birdie.  I just couldn't get a couple of them to drop but definitely disappointed.  But I mean, like I said, just that would have been a bonus to play on Saturday.   
 Q.  Will you cheer Maria?  
KAYLEE BENTON: I'm going out there and watch.  100 percent.  That's exciting.  Wish I was playing with them.   
 Q.  When you found out, were you with the team?  
KAYLEE BENTON: I was alone at practice, and then I went with one of my coaches -- I was actually with one of the guys on the team on the phone in the locker room.  I was like, I just got in?  It was crazy.  They were so supportive, hugging me, cheering me.  It was so cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT