U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Kaylee Benton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're in the semifinals of the U.S. Women's Amateur.  Just give us your first thoughts about making it this far.  
KAYLEE BENTON: You know, I don't know.  I haven't really thought about it, haven't let it sit in.  But played well all week and just hopefully keep it going.   
 Q.  You said you don't really think about it; is that your mindset on the course?  Does that help you to not really think about it?  
KAYLEE BENTON: Well, definitely sometimes a situation will creep in, but I'm just trying to really stay present in the shot and not really think about maybe what the match stands at or what's going on, so I'm just really trying to hit every shot one at a time and just stay in the moment.   
 Q.  I read a story about you this week about your family's athletic legacy.  How does it feel to add a new chapter to that with this?  
KAYLEE BENTON: It's pretty cool because I get asked a lot about my great grandfather, and he's a great man, and it's just kind of cool to actually do something myself, to have people maybe ask about me one day, and hopefully I just keep it going.   
 Q.  Talk about the support you're getting from friends, family, additional support you're getting.  What does that mean to you?  
KAYLEE BENTON: You know, it's so cool.  I can't even put into words the amount of support I've gotten from the state of Arkansas, from my team and from my family and all my friends back home.  It's just so cool to have that, and to have just everybody behind my back, it's really neat.   
 Q.  It's kind of fitting you're going to be playing Kristen Gillman in the semifinals tomorrow.  So we've got Alabama, Arkansas in Tennessee.  Talk about the SEC ties to this match.  
KAYLEE BENTON: Yeah, for sure.  We played Alabama in the semifinals of SEC's, and just kind of maybe a little rematch here.  I'm looking forward to it.  I feel the weight of Arkansas kind of on my shoulders a little bit, but I love it, and I love the pressure, and I want to go in and have a nice little SEC match.   
 Q.  For you to beat Kristen Gillman tomorrow, what do you need to do to get to the final?  
KAYLEE BENTON: You know, it honestly just depends.  Match play is very dependent upon the day.  I'm going to go in with the mindset of I'm going to have to birdie almost every hole because she's an incredible player, and she doesn't mess up.  I've played with her, and she putts well, she drives it well, she irons it well.  I'm just going to have to go out, I'm going to have to not make any mistakes and lag it close to the hole and make some putts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT