U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2018
Kaylee Benton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you got down early, first few holes.  Can you just talk about your mindset there and then coming back and taking the lead?
KAYLEE BENTON: I knew going into the match that Emily was going to be a tough opponent.  I knew I was going to have to bring my A Game.  When I got down early I wasn't too shocked.
I just stayed patient and tried to make some birdies and play good, and eventually it happened.
Q. Talk about the stretch of 9-12 where you took the lead.
KAYLEE BENTON: Yeah, so on 9 I finally got a putt to go in.  I think it was around like 25 feet.  That kind of got my momentum going.
Then I hit it close on 10 and I missed it, but it was all right.  It was a good shot.
And I think I made three birdies in a row.  I hit them all to five feet, and I felt really good with my swing.  Over the ball I felt like I was going to hit it close.  It was nice confidence.
Q. This is your third Women's Am.  What do you think the biggest difference is between those years and this year?
KAYLEE BENTON: I think I've just matured a lot.  I had just started going to Arkansas my first U.S. Women's Am, and the three years that I've been there, or the two and now this third, has just really matured me and my game.  I've gotten stronger, I'm a better ball-striker, and my putting is way better.
Overall just my mental game is a lot better.
Q. Where does this rank among your career athletic achievements, making the quarterfinals here?
KAYLEE BENTON: That's tough to do.  I don't know.  You know, I would say it's definitely a top achievement.  I don't know if I could rank it, but, yeah, just pretty cool to make the quarterfinals at the Women's Am.  One of the best ones I guess I could say.
Q. Now you don't have to qualify for this next year if you remain and amateur.
KAYLEE BENTON: No, I don't.  Yeah, that's the thing.  I don't know if I'll be amateur or pro by then.  Might stay amateur through the summer.  We'll see.
Q. Coming into this championship were you expecting this?  Were you expecting to be here as a quarterfinalist?
KAYLEE BENTON: You know, my game felt good coming in and I knew I had my mom on the bag and I like bent greens and I really like this course, so I had a good feeling about it.
Obviously you can never think too far ahead.  I was just trying to take it day by day, and I've done that so far.  Just tackle tomorrow and see if I move on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT