NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 5, 2016
Bianka Bell
Carley Hoover
Constance Quinn
Beth Torina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LSU - 4, Georgia - 1   
THE MODERATOR: Right now we have LSU on the dais.   
BETH TORINA: Congratulations to Georgia on a great season and an outstanding senior class.  Those guys have just been record setting for that program, some of my favorite players in this conference to watch.  Congratulations to them on a great season and a great run here at the end.   
Proud of my team and their effort.  I think we have three athletes sitting up here that were huge difference makers in the game, each in their own right.  I thought our team started the day by playing really solid defense and keeping their slappers off base, being a non-factor in the game.  I thought that was huge, and then a great performance by Carley.  Obviously a good effort by Bianka Bell.  She's pretty good.  And then Constance stepped up at some great times and had some big moments for us, too.   
 Q.  Beth, you've seen Carley throw a lot of gems over the last two years.  All things considered, has she ever been better than today?  
BETH TORINA: Honestly it is one of her best performances.  I've seen some great ones.  I still think Tennessee at the SEC Tournament was pretty phenomenal, but she threw a great game today and a gem is pretty much what I was thinking in my head, too, that she just kept them off balance.  They are a great offense, maybe the best offense in the SEC and she kept them off balance all day, did such a good job keeping us in it and just commanded the zone, commanded her pitches.  I was really proud of her effort.   
 Q.  Bianka, what can you say about hitting a couple home runs?  Were you surprised that she threw you that one upstairs again on the second home run?  
BIANKA BELL: I don't think it was as high as the first one, but I was just looking more down in the zone because she struck me out at-bat before on three inside low pitches, so I was just thinking get my barrel head up to the ball and just see it down and just make contact.   
 Q.  How have you guys been able to rally here, back-to-back wins and now you're back in the winner's bracket?  
BIANKA BELL: I think it starts in the circle.  When Carley and any of the pitchers are just doing a great job, we just know we have to find a way to get runs and score runs for them, find a way on base and just pass as much as we can and I think it will really help us out if we continue to do that.   
 Q.  Beth, with such a quick turnaround against such a good opponent, what are you going to spend the next few hours doing?  
BETH TORINA: We'll get the team off their feet, take them back to the hotel.  The staff did some prep work on Oklahoma last night.  There was no other way to do it.  It wasn't that we were looking past Georgia.  But tried to do them both last night just so we could be prepared on a quick turnaround.  I've been here before on a quick turnaround, and honestly was completely unprepared for the second game.  I think we're in a decent spot.  We've reviewed the film.  We're ready to go.  It's nice to know who the next opponent would have been.  We'll be as prepared as we can.   
 Q.  Bianka, kind of going off of that, you had two home runs in this game.  What kind of momentum can that create for the next game, and what do you have to do to prepare for Paige Parker?  
BIANKA BELL: She's a great pitcher.  We saw her last year and a little bit this year just watching her throw.  I know Coach is going to have a good plan for us and what we're going to go when we get up to the plate and just try and get on base and rally for my team, same thing I've been doing this whole season.   
 Q.  Beth, you don't ask Carley to just give up one run.  You don't ask Bianka to hit two home runs.  But when they do that, are you not surprised?  What do you think of their ability to rise to the occasion?  
BETH TORINA: Well, they're both experienced players.  They've been in big spots, and they've had these big moments before, so it's not that we're surprised by it or expect it.  But we've seen them do it before, and it's still huge moments for them.  I mean, to hit two home runs in the same game of the College World Series, that's an unbelievable experience I think for her.  Am I surprised?  No, because I know capable of doing it, but it's a huge moment, and to see Carley pitch like that, we've seen her pitch well for two years now in an LSU uniform, so I'm not surprised to see her pitch well, but I'm really happy that she did it here on such a big stage.   
 Q.  Connie, given where you were a couple of days ago after these last two performances, how do you feel about where the team is at going into tonight?  
CONSTANCE QUINN: I'm pretty confident.  We're confident, as well, as a team, and I'm not necessarily worried about whether we won't fall -- whether we'll fall to the occasion, but I think that we're building each other up, we're encouraging one another, and we're playing our best softball right now.   
 Q.  Beth, what kind of momentum can this create playing two games in one day, especially after winning the way that you did yesterday and then into today?  
BETH TORINA: Well, I've continued to say that our team thrives in these situations, and there's just something about it when the pressure is on them, they have performed, and they have come through.  So this is some place they've been before, they understand what it takes.  I mean, at this point they get to play to win, I think, and Oklahoma has to play not to lose because they don't want to play that second game with us.  I think we get to go out, play LSU softball, play confidently, play big, and let the cards fall where they do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT