140TH BELMONT STAKES
June 7, 2008
Larry Bramlage
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We have Dr. Larry Bramlage, and he's here to provide us an update on the status of Big Brown. 
 DR. LARRY BRAMLAGE: Well, I think we are going to have to get until we get the thorough veterinarian examination. When he pulled up, the veterinarian's doctor on the racetrack looked at him and there was obviously nothing wrong. I was watching him when he came down the stretch. He was not showing any lameness, so whatever was bothering, whatever made him not have his race today was not outwardly apparent.
 Of course, you are limited to seeing if they are shifting their weight from one direction to the other or looking to see if there's any evidence of blood or external trauma, none of which was apparent on Big Brown when he stopped. 
 So we don't have the answer at this point. 

 Q. Any way of knowing whether, A, the heat, or B, the quarter crack played a role?
 DR. LARRY BRAMLAGE: I would have thought if the quarter crack played any role, he would have shown some tenderness, although I guess it could be minor enough, he's a smart horse, might have decided it wasn't his day and he was not going to try. And you could say the same thing about the heat but I think we have to wait for his veterinary examination. The two minutes that he was on the track coming back, he looked fine, and there was not anything outwardly apparent. 

 Q. What about what we just heard on TV, speculation about him being withdrawn from the steroids, and actually withdrawn from his vitamins, too, if that would have affected him. 
 DR. LARRY BRAMLAGE: I doubt if that comes up to be the answer, because it's not that kind of situation where it's going to be a stimulant for him. The anabolic steroids keeps him eating and keeps him happy and keeps him aggressive, all of which he showed all week long. So, I kind of doubt it. 

 Q. How long does that test, the thorough examination, how long will that take?
 DR. LARRY BRAMLAGE: Depends, if they come up with something obvious, they might find something tonight.
 If they don't find anything obvious it might take blood work, tameness exam, or some diagnostic testing and I'm sure that will include X-rays. There's a lot of things that you can do to investigate musculoskeletal problems, like bone scans and MRIs, but I can't tell you which way that will go until the veterinarians who are his primary care veterinarians see which way he will lead them.

 Q. Did he go right back to the testing barn?
 DR. LARRY BRAMLAGE: I would assume. They walked him out through the tunnel and that's the last that I saw of him, so someone else will have to give you confirmation on where he went. 

 Q. Was there any evidence whatsoever of any breathing or pulmonary problem?
 DR. LARRY BRAMLAGE: I couldn't see anything abnormal. He's blowing at the end of the race like any horse but not abnormally so that I could see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT