NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 22, 2017
Mark Streit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
MARK STREIT: I think especially on breakouts, we've been supporting each other and talking to each other.  It makes things easier, especially if some guys have to play left or right, change it up.  So it's important that you're sharp on the bench, know who's going next, and then just lots of talk out there.   
 Q.  With a chance to eliminate Ottawa tomorrow, what is important to remember as a team, or what do you guys need to focus on?  
MARK STREIT: Well, the same things like yesterday, you know.  Need to have it (inaudible) obviously (inaudible).  That's what you expect them to do, and just work well together and be ready and have good breakouts.  I think it starts with the offense, and just keep it simple and play a fast game.   
 Q.  Does it help at all, Mark, that you guys have been on the other end of one of those type of games to kind of remind yourselves what they're going to bring tomorrow night?  
MARK STREIT: Well, you know, it was a big win yesterday.  But it's a win, it's nothing more.  We score a lot of goals, but it's going to be a totally different game tomorrow.  We've just got to leave that behind us and be really sharp tomorrow because it's going to be -- it's one of those games.  We need to get that forced win and need to be at our best, even better than yesterday.   
A road game is different.  You want to initiate the play.  You don't want to be passive out there.  You want to initiate the play and play our hockey.  Quick ups and get it in and go to work.   
 Q.  Since joining this team, how have you seen Olli Maatta step up, in the last few games especially?  
MARK STREIT: Yeah, before the playoffs, he was out for almost two months.  He really gets going, and he's a great player.  Got a few goals in a row, great to see.  He's been playing really well for us.   
 Q.  You connected with Cullen for a goal yesterday.  What's the last time a 39-year-old set up a 40-year-old?  
MARK STREIT: I don't know.  We talked about that after the game, two old goats connecting.  I think that's probably one of the oldest goals scored in the history of the NHL.   
 Q.  Do you appreciate this more now with the opportunity you have than maybe you did when you see some of the other young guys in the room when you were that age?  
MARK STREIT: It's one of those things, if you're maybe in your 20s here, last year, great run, won the Cup.  But this year going for it as well, you think, oh, man, this is great, but if you're in the league for a long time, you realize it's the best time of year.  There's no guarantee.  You never know what's in the future, so you want to live in the moment.  You want to enjoy it as much as possible.  Just go out there, have fun, work hard, and win hockey games.   
But I really do appreciate it.  It's a great organization, a great team, and a lot of fun to play here.  So at this time of the year, it's just -- it's incredible.  Just the atmosphere in the building, the games, the intensity, and everything.  It doesn't get any better than that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT