NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 17, 2017
Mark Streit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel about the reps you got out there on the last power play?
MARK STREIT: Feel pretty good.  Obviously, it's exciting to practice with that unit.  You know, I've done it before.  So, yeah, I'm (indiscernible).
Q. Is it difficult (indiscernible) in the middle of the series with a different mindset?  Are you excited?
MARK STREIT: I don't know what the lineup is tonight, but if I play, I'm obviously really excited.  It's a big challenge, obviously, you know, haven't played in a while.  But I'm just thrilled and I'm excited if I get to play.  I'm looking forward to it.
Q. When you have a prolonged period of not seeing action, how long is it to get your legs under you, get the timing and stuff?  Is it different every time?
MARK STREIT: I don't know.  I'll tell you after the game, I guess.  You know, it's one of those things, went through it a few times, and I was hurt coming back.  Obviously, you want to keep things simple out there.  Just need a few shifts, a period to get into it.  But it's playoff hockey, so it's going to be fast out there.  But I'm looking forward to it, a lot of adrenaline, a lot of excitement.  Obviously, if I get to play, I'll be thrilled.
Q. Do you think you'll be running on pure adrenaline for the start of the game?
MARK STREIT: Oh, for sure.  It's the best time of the year.  You wait for quite a long time to get an opportunity to play, and if that's the case tonight, I'm thrilled about it.  I'm really happy.  And I want to help the team.
Q. How hard is it when you see a guy like Schultz go down and you know that they're playing with five, to watch that, knowing that the next game it might be you?  But that game, there's nothing you can do about it.
MARK STREIT: Yeah, first of all, you're worried about the guy because he fell really awkward into the boards, and you hope he's okay.  It's tough to watch that as a teammate.  Hopefully, he's going to feel better soon.
But it's a tough sport.  It's physical.  Things happen.  Just hopefully he's going to be okay.
Q. Mark, is there anything different about running this power play as opposed to some of the other ones you've seen, Philly or the Islanders or anything?
MARK STREIT: It's a whole lot of skill.  Fortunately, I got the chance a few times during the regular season to be out there with them and have a few reps during the regular season games.  So I kind of know a little bit what their goal is and what they want to achieve.  Obviously, they're high end skill guys that can score, shoot.  They can do it all.
It's just a matter of like getting them the pucks, and for me maybe get a few pucks on that and help them out this way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT