THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
ADAM HADWIN: 15, I think. 15 or 16. Jim was, Jim came up and followed Christiaan. He said something, I think in between 15 and 16 green and tee. Kind of had it in my mind that it was only a matter of time before it happened but still kind of crazy to see it happen.   
 Q.  So this morning did you focus on golf or this thing?  
ADAM HADWIN: I mean I've taken the attitude from the very beginning that if we're playing, we're playing. I feel a little fortunate that I fall into the group that really doesn't get it that bad and if I do get it I am probably not going to be much more than a flu and I'll recover in a couple days. I'm certainly less concerned from the health risk side of things, so if they have a golf tournament I'll go play.   
 Q.  When you heard the news last night that NBA was stopping the season were you thinking that this tournament could be in jeopardy?  
ADAM HADWIN: No, I really didn't think the tournament was going to be in jeopardy. I think that if anything they, in my mind, they probably would have went to no fans, which is kind of the end situation here. I don't see them cancelling their flagship event. I was kind of thinking this morning that after the NBA and NHL obviously looking at things, that if anything they're going to play through this week if they have to and get through and cancel it after that. There's no way that the TOUR would cancel their flagship event at this point.   
 Q.  Is it the right thing to do?  
ADAM HADWIN: I don't know. That's not my call.   
 Q.  You accept it?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, like I said, I'm, if I was, if I was more at risk I might be, have a different mindset of things, and I might be a little bit more worried, but because I'm -- I mean let's face it, I'm really not at risk. If I get it, I get it, I'm not going to die, I'm not -- more than likely, I should say, percentages say I'm not going to, I guess there's always a chance -- but I'll let the powers that be decide what we do and what we don't do and like I said I'll play until they tell me I can't play.   
 Q.  Is your state of mind different because you have a baby?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yes, a hundred percent. And my state of mind would be a lot different if this was really affecting kids too. And based on data, based on the numbers, it really hasn't shown to be that much of an issue for kids, especially younger kids. Our little baby is nine weeks old now, so I think, I think from what I understand like the youngest person has been 11, so there's no way that other kids haven't, younger than that, haven't been exposed, so that gives me some sort of positivity, a little bit about it as well. Because if that -- that's where my concern would be.   
 Q.  You're coming off a three-week break where you were at home but your golf game seems to be in shape. Talk about your round today and how much more you like this course in March than in May.  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it was a bit of a weird start. I hit some pretty nasty tee shots off the first couple and kind of scrambled my way around. But settled in nicely, I made a lot of really good swings today. It was just kind of a comfortable round. Obviously Christiaan beside me was playing really well and KH was playing -- we had a pretty good group going. So disappointing to kind of have that tee shot creep in again on 18, but it was a bit of a rebound and a really good bogey to walk off.   
 Q.  Your long approach game from 175 to over 200 yards you're Top-5 on TOUR. There's a lot of those shots out here with the softer fairways, do you find yourself with a lot of those?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yes and no. The one thing with soft fairways is you just hit more club off the tee. That's the biggest thing. So I wouldn't necessarily say that the approach distance changes anything here, holes you might have hit 3-wood or iron to run it up there you just hit driver. That's all.   
 Q.  Valspar next week. Are you going to play?  
ADAM HADWIN: Of course. Yeah, no, I'm going to play through Match Play and unless they tell me something different then, yeah.   
 Q.  Can you imagine this place without any fans?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, we were, Jim was talking about that on we were talking on 16 like how crazy this will be on 17 with no fans and he even said like imagine making an ace and just going, "yeah, oooh no", you know, so we'll have to do some extra celebration with the group or something to make it louder.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT