SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 6, 2019
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two good weeks back-to-back. You got to be feeling pretty good about your golf game.  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, no, absolutely. Some of the best I've hit it in years now, so to put two good weeks back to back, made some nice putts today. Basically hit almost every line off the tee and into the green.   
It was nice way to finish.   
 Q.  Was the key for you, really controlling the golf ball well?  
ADAM HADWIN: Absolutely. Distance control has been off the charts the last couple weeks. Finally was able to this final round kind of put the sightlines matched -- you know, hit it where I was trying to see the ball going, which hadn't happened the first couple days. Got away with some stuff.   
Today was about a pure as it gets.   
 Q.  Obviously you want make your way back onto the Presidents Cup team. Got something for Captain Ernie Els to think about now.  
ADAM HADWIN: That was definitely the goal to start the year. I wanted to make a good impression anyway, and, Hey, I'm here, Ernie.   
 Q.  How was today?  
ADAM HADWIN: Today was great. Was talking with Joe coming down the last couple holes there and I -- outside of one cut hybrid there going into the 9th green, I don't think I missed a line all day with my irons. Well, besides the last shot into 18.   
But no, it was great. I hit the ball well all day? Had a bunch of looks again. Made a few more today and was able to walk off with a good finishing round.   
 Q.  So you had a plan the start of the season to try and make some noise early, get Ernie's attention. Basically was a perfect plan.  
ADAM HADWIN: Well, it's not -- plans don't always come together like that. But I ended last season feeling still pretty fresh, so having a month off I felt really fresh and I was excited to get back into it. Did some good work in the off-season.   
It's all the kind of come together a little bit the first few events. I'm hitting the ball really well. Hitting a ton of greens, giving myself chances.   
Today I just got it up and down a couple times that I hadn't the previous few days start.   
 Q.  From the last half of the last season, what has all come together? Seems like it's sort of been working towards this.  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it's hard to say. I think my iron play has really improved dramatically I think in the last little bit.   
I think just the biggest thing, you know, these past two weeks over the end of last season was I just stayed out of my own way. I just kept thinking targets and hitting golf shots. The one thing that Joe and I talked about on the greens is I've been using a line these last two events, and one of the things we say is, This has got to be close. It should give us a chance to make a putt.   
We're never leaving there saying, This is in or this is the perfect line or anything like that. It's almost giving myself a little bit of room for error on the greens. I think it takes some of pressure off, especially when you get around that 15-foot range where you expect to make it, but odds are -- they're slightly in your favor from that range, right?   
We're just picking out lines trying to hit them. Dialing in the speed and hopefully they go in.   
 Q.  You said before the season you're not really a goal kind of guy. You might do it this year. Did you and...  
ADAM HADWIN: You know, I thought about it for a while and kind of the season started and I didn't write anything down. Presidents Cup is obviously still a big circle. Always has been.   
I thought that if I could come out -- I finished a bit back in the points of that top eight. I felt as though having played a couple years ago, having had a decent season on tour, that if I could come out and play some decent golf I would at least get myself in the running.   
It's nice to start the year here with two good events. Obviously we still got three or four weeks until he has to make a decision, but I feel like I've put myself in good spot right now.   
 Q.  (Regarding China.)  
ADAM HADWIN: Well, yeah, that's where schedule kind of gets a little difficult here. The plan was always just to go Korea, Japan, just do two weeks in Asia.   
So depending on where we finish up, depending on how many world ranking points, if it looks as though I'm going to be pretty much guaranteed into China, I might skip Korea and just go Japan-China.   
Joe and I were talking about that almost the whole way around the golf course today trying to make a decision.   
Had a ton the fun in Korea. Played well there. But it's hard to pass up a WGC at the same time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT