RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 8, 2019
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is this one of those rounds that even though it wasn't as low as yesterday, maybe equally as proud of it because of the way you battled after a tough start?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, probably more so.  I think I played -- well, I shouldn't say I played worse than I did the first two days, but certainly got a lot more out of this round.
Really struggled with that left-to-right wind off the tee.  Couldn't really figure it out.  But, you know, maybe got a few lucky bounces.  Kind of battled through some stuff and made a couple birdies there on the back.
Q. How were you able to recover after that adventure on 2?
ADAM HADWIN: It's only the 2nd hole.  There are still 16 holes to go.  I've played good golf all week.  Sometimes getting bogey like that out of the way early settles you in a little bit and makes you refocus a little more.
There was lots of golf left.  Certainly wasn't too worried about it.
Q. You been saying for about a month now that things are close to coming together.  A lot of work left to do, but how satisfying is it so far?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it's been great.  I've done a lot of really good things.  Today my short game held me in there nicely.  Chipped in on 13.  Made a lot of good chips.
Still feel like I'm missing a couple putts out there, but, yeah, just when something is not -- like I said, I didn't drive it that well today but hit some really good iron shots on the back.
Just proud of the way I battled today.  You know, got to go out and shoot a low one tomorrow.
Q. What kind of number do you think you have to shoot tomorrow?
ADAM HADWIN: Who knows?  We'll see what happens by the time 2:00 rolls around tomorrow afternoon with what the wind is doing and how firm everything has gotten.
The nice thing about this place, because it's a little bit shorter, if you hit it well you can post a 5-, 6-under pretty solidly, like Rory today, or it can get you.
A lot of firepower ahead of me; I got to play a good round tomorrow.
Q. I was going to say, a really star-studded leaderboard.  In a way do you relish the challenge tomorrow and like the fact that you're going to have to really, really go and earn it tomorrow?
ADAM HADWIN: Certainly make it a lot sweeter at the end, absolutely.  It's a big time leaderboard for a big time championship, and I know Golf Canada, RBC, couldn't be happier with that outcome.
Got a bunch of Canadians playing well, so I'm excited about tomorrow.  I've got an opportunity to win a golf tournament first and foremost, and see what happens tomorrow.
Q. With four Canadian pairings in a row, was there a sense of momentum from the fan base as you played a round?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it was awesome.  I'm sure you guys can look it up if that's ever happened before or not, but that's pretty incredible.  I think it goes to show how much progress we're making as a country in the game and as players individually.
It's exciting.  It's exciting to be a part of it.  Certainly the crowd is helping us along the way for sure.
Q. I don't know if you caught this, but after you chipped in on 13, maybe within 30 seconds Nick Taylor was coming up to the 13th tee and the crows started chanting his name.  Did you have the sense that Mack was ahead of you and Taylor was behind you...
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it's pretty incredible.  The chant that they had going before I hit there off on 13, I would imagine it wasn't much different for Ben, Nick, or Mack.  It's pretty electric.  That hole is wild.  They're enjoying themselves for sure and it's a really cool atmosphere.
Q. How proud have you been of the Canadian contingents this week and just trending in the upward direction?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it's been amazing.  We're all so proud to represent Canada wherever we play around the world.  Each one of us loves coming back home and playing in front of the home crowd.
To play well is another thing on top of that.  So like I say, such a great group to be part of and play alongside.  We all want each other to do well.  Hopefully we all have good rounds tomorrow.
Q. On that note, is there satisfaction letting everyone else know, this is how good we are, these are the fans we offer?
ADAM HADWIN: I think so.  We're very prideful.  We love golf up here and the fans love it.  I think anybody that comes up and plays can see how passionate we are about it, and, you know, to a certain respect how respectful our fans can be as well.  Sometimes some of the cities we get to the U.S. it gets a little rowdy, so they're certainly rowdy and enjoying themselves, but in a respectful way I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT