ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2019
Adam Hadwin
Jim Knous
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your initial partner goes down and y'all meet for the first time, what was expected to be the first time on Thursday.  How crazy was that?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, certainly I didn't expect it, but it is what it is.  Obviously we're all good players out here, we can all get the ball around pretty good, and it was nice having a best ball format first.  I think we could kind of get used to each other a little bit and maybe see how our games were fitting the course and see what we could do for the alternate shot.
Q. You've had an insane week.  What has it been like?
JIM KNOUS: Yeah, it's been crazy.  We got into San Antonio at 1:00 a.m., found out I was first alternate Tuesday morning, we just decided to drive over, nine and a half hours later we were here.  Wednesday I come out to the range, I'm not in the tournament Wednesday afternoon.  They tell me Badds had to pull out because of his back, and then I just went out and joined Adam for the last 10 holes of the pro-am, so it was just a blast.  I'm just happy to be playing to be honest.
Q. What has it been like getting to know each other on the golf course for the first time in this format?
ADAM HADWIN: It's been fun.  I think it might take a little pressure off the actual golf itself.  We're just trying to figure out where each other went to school, where we live, family, all that stuff.  So we're just enjoying each other's company and trying to make a few putts at the same time.
Q. It's pretty impressive that you don't know anything about each other's game and then you get through foursomes to make it to the weekend.  What did you kind of learn about his game in that process?
JIM KNOUS: Well, I learned that he hits it straight every single time and he makes just about every putt.  It was pretty easy playing with Adam, knowing that.
Q. Were there any times where you were like, ooh, maybe we should have talked about that?
ADAM HADWIN: No, you know what, that first day was great.  I think we both thought we probably could have been a few shots lower in the best ball, but we both played so solid that I actually felt really comfortable going in alternate shot.  We had to keep it in play and had a chance of posting a score, and we did just that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT