DESERT CLASSIC
January 17, 2019
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Some comments on your round today.  Pretty solid finish there.  5-under the last six.  What was going on there?
ADAM HADWIN: A couple putts went in.  You don't often hole out from 60 yards, probably my longest hole out in like three years.  So that happened and then, yeah, that was it.  I hit it pretty well all day, left -- I don't want to say I left shots out there, but I had some good looks that just kind of rolled by the cup.  But they dropped the last few.
Q. You have a wonderful record here and are you feeling like this is the year that you're going to get across the line or is it just too early to even think about that?
ADAM HADWIN: It's too early to even think about that.  I mean, I'm five back after shooting 7-under.  So I was actually watching the board thinking he's going to try and pass my course record over there, that would be a Phil Mickelson thing to do, but...
Q. Were you kind of relieved to see that it was a 60 and not a 59?
ADAM HADWIN: Well, I mean simply because it's one shot closer that I am to him now.  So, you know, you expect it at these courses, they're softer than they normally usually are and scores are going to be that much lower.  So you've got three rounds, I basically have to shoot probably another three 7-unders to even have a chance.  So keep doing that.
Q. Do you feel like you're pretty rested, you had a pretty good off season and you're back into it?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, I felt ready to play.  I was energized, ready to get out there and play.  I got a lot of work to do this part of season, kind of a lot of things that I need to play my way into.  And probably the biggest is the Presidents Cup spot at the end of the year.  So I got a come out of the gates firing, play some good golf and I always seem to kind of turn it on here, so.
Q. You always get a lot of local support with a lot of Canadians here.  Was that the same today?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, I don't know how local they are, they're snowbird local, I guess, right?  But, no, it's always great to play here, fans are great, I got a bit of a traveling circus with me all the time coming down here, so it's nice to play in front of familiar faces.  And I don't know if it helps but I seem to play well here, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT