RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2018
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us the story of your round.
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it was just kind of a boring round.  I did a lot of good things, didn't take advantage of some good shots early, didn't take advantage of some good shots late, a couple nice saves in between.  Not unhappy, not happy.  Just kind of one of those -- just kind of an average round of golf.
Q. You're playing with big hitters like Bubba and Dustin; do you have to make any particular effort to not pay attention to what they're doing?
ADAM HADWIN: I mean, I drove it by Dustin by like 15 yards on No. 8 today, but I don't want to mention that.  (Laughter.)
No, they have their games, I have my game.  You know, I've played with both of them before.  I know how far they hit it.  Obviously I stand back and watch in awe, as well, just like everybody else.  I knew I'd be hitting first into greens all day today, and it is what it is.  I just have to be -- I can't make as many mistakes.  I have to make a couple extra putts, but there's no pictures on the scorecard.
Q. David Hearn mentioned earlier today that he always gets butterflies playing the Canadian Open.  Any nerves for you out there today?
ADAM HADWIN: No, because nobody was paying attention to me, they were all paying attention to Bubba and Dustin.  We had a good time.  It was a fun group.  It was nice to kind of get into a rhythm.  We were all playing pretty decent there.  Dustin finished off his round a little bit better than Bubba and I did.  It was just a lot of fun.  It's a great tournament to be at.
I'd say more excitement than nerves.
Q. How different is the golf course playing versus the last two years?
ADAM HADWIN: Well, I think last year was probably fairly similar to this if I remember correctly.  I know a couple years before that was super firm, super dry.  It's an adjustment.  You know, I like the way Glen Abbey plays right now.  If we can dodge storms the few days, it'll firm up, and it was during our round, until we kind of got that tremendous downpour there.  But certainly you can go lower.  It's an easier golf course that way.  It makes it a longer golf course, but you can be more aggressive into greens and hit it closer.
Q. You're totally comfortable now, it's a Canadian Open, you don't think of it as a super stressful week?
ADAM HADWIN: No, it still is a stressful week.  I mean, no doubt it's right up there with majors for Canadians.  But I certainly have grown more comfortable being in the position that I'm in.  I sort of relish the opportunity to be that guy and hopefully be the one that breaks through one of these years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT