MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 3‑under par today, how would you assess that very nice round today?
ADAM HADWIN: It was a great round. Off the tee, I mean I wasn't perfect off the tee, but I was always in a position to get to the green, which I think is key out here. And I put myself in a lot of good spots on the greens. Speed control was really good kind of throughout the day. The gun kind of went off in the hand there on 18, but other than that it was just a really good solid day, made a few good putts when I needed to and here I am under par.

Q. Talk about putting yourself into positions. You birdied some of the tougher holes out there. Was that some of the positions you put yourself on those?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, I hit some really good iron shots today. I was in really good control of the distance as well, which is quite key out here. So I felt really comfortable out there as well. All the shots that I was seeing I was pulling off. 

Q. The 18th hole kind of snake bit you a little bit, but it has other people as well today. It seems to be playing pretty difficult today. Is there a reason possibly why?
ADAM HADWIN: Well it's tough to judge ‑‑ I mean you're coming off quite a bit of an up slope there in the fairway and you can't really go long. So I hit a good shot, I hit a perfect shot, just kind of got caught up in the wind a little bit, a little short. And we have hit that putt a lot in practice rounds and I've left it short almost every time, so I told myself to give it a hit and I just kind of gave it too much. 

Q. Is there a reason why you feel comfortable on this golf course?
ADAM HADWIN: Well I think it just suits my eye. I love working the ball both ways, it's something that I work on and practice on the range a lot and so it really doesn't matter the hole, I feel like I can hit the shot that's required. And then some of the, some of those recovery shots as well. Growing up in BC, tree lined golf courses, I'm used to kind of hitting the punch hooks and cuts when you need to. So I don't know what it is, but obviously a very special golf course and I feel at home here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT