RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2018
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ADAM HADWIN: I just want to be the first Canadian to break through and get the trophy.   
 Q.  Have you thought about when that happens, what that would mean to you, what that moment looks like?  
ADAM HADWIN: I don't know, I really don't.  It would probably be indescribable.  I mean, it would be right up there with winning a major, I think, in importance.  You know, we're reminded every year of how long it's been since a Canadian has won, and yeah, I was close a number of years ago now at Shaughnessy, and I've tasted a little bit.  I'm looking forward to playing a good week here.   
 Q.  21 Canadians in this field; can you talk about the depth of talent in this country?  As a veteran of sorts, do you take on a mentorship role?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it sounds weird to say that at 30 years ago, but certainly the amount of -- I use the term kids, literally now, with how young they are, but there's so many of them coming up.  There's so many of them playing such good golf.  We're seeing more and more guys every year consistently getting to the TOUR and keeping their cards and that.  It's great.  I try and lend an ear or maybe a word of advice as much as possible.  I know golf is an extremely individual sport, and everybody goes about their business differently and handles things differently.  For me, you know, I try and be as friendly as possible.  I try and be as approachable as possible, so if anyone does have any questions, as simple as where to stay or maybe to eat or whatever the question could be, I can do my best to answer it and just, like I said, kind of provide a helping ear whenever possible.   
 Q.  Any specific memories of the Abbey, holes or shots?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, certainly Mike Weir and Vijay Singh dueling it out and unfortunately losing in a playoff.  Tiger's shot out of the bunker on 18.  But I think what Glen Abbey provides is an exciting finish.  It's usually close.  You've got the par-5 18th, and anything can happen.  It's a great spectating golf course, as well.  So it provides a legitimate challenge for us playing the tournament but also enough birdies and enough excitement for the fans, and it's just an enjoyable week.   
 Q.  Last week being the Open, guys talk about ramping up to a major; what's the mindset after a major?  
ADAM HADWIN: Everything is just a little bit heightened.  Everything is just a little bit more on edge.  You recognize the importance of the event.  That's probably the biggest thing.  Winning at Valspar last year was life-changing, but winning a major is just a little bit more than life-changing, I guess.  I'm not even sure what's above life-changing.  But certainly winning a Canadian Open for a Canadian would be right up there, I think, with winning a major.  Just the level of importance for it.   
And then coming into a Canadian Open, it is, it's prepping for a major for any Canadian.  I think it's right on the top of the list of an event that they'd want to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT