MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2018
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How can you sum up this week?  
ADAM HADWIN: Just kind of a, it was a good week, but I wouldn't say it anything better than good. I hit it a little, a lot of great shots, putts didn't fall, way too many 3‑putts, and just some missed opportunities. But I certainly, I grinded it out, I stayed in every round, and I had a chance to do some great things.   
   
 Q. How did you hear about the Broncos tragedy on Friday night?  
ADAM HADWIN: Just on Twitter. Yeah, just a news feed.  
   
 Q. What did you think about it?  
ADAM HADWIN: Oh, it's sad. Yeah, I mean any time something like that happens, especially that many people ‑‑ and hockey's such a big part of the Canadian culture, so something like that happens, it kind of sends shock waves through the entire country.  
   
 Q. Did that disturb you a little bit yesterday or today?  
ADAM HADWIN: No, I don't think so. I mean, it is sad, and it is unfortunate what happened, but I mean, personally, I'm not affected. I didn't know anybody involved, I've never played hockey, so I really don't have that ‑‑ I don't have any sense of what that's like, of being in the bus with the guys and traveling. So personally, no, I mean, I've got, you know, we all deal with our own personal issues from day‑to‑day and I had a golf course that I had to go play and get focused with.   
   
 Q. Any bad memories about roads or planes in your careers before, maybe in college when you were on the roads or anything?  
ADAM HADWIN: No, you know what, no, I've been very fortunate. I haven't had anything happen. I mean the worst that's happened to me is a broken wrist, so in 30 years that's pretty good.   
   
 Q. No flat tires?  
ADAM HADWIN: Well, you know what, I did have one blow out, but it wasn't too bad. Compared to what, obviously, what others are going through, I've had nothing. No plane scares, no car accidents, none of that.   
   
 Q. Are you afraid of the plane or no, not at all?  
ADAM HADWIN: Used to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT