DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2017
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If we can get some comments on your round, please?
ADAM HADWIN: Today was a great day.  Yesterday I kind of scrambled to the finish.  I actually got it in the house 1-under, which I probably shouldn't have.  I knew if I could get some rest and come out and if I can get some momentum with the swing, start seeing a few shots; the putter has been rolling all week, and I was able to do that.  Made a couple early and started hitting better shots in there.  It adds up to a 65 today.
Q. What is the goal getting there today?
ADAM HADWIN: What was the goal?
Q. For the tournament --
ADAM HADWIN: To win.  We enter every week to win.  If we're not, I think there's something wrong.  You know, like I said, I wasn't -- I haven't been feeling the best with my swing lately.  But I started to see some shots out there that I started to hit a little bit more solid.  So I'm pleased with that.
But the putter has been rolling.  It saved me a bunch.  Made a ton of putts.  You know, anything can happen on the weekend now, so I'm in a good position for the event.
Q. What are you most happy with?
ADAM HADWIN: I mean, if I really thought about it, I could probably pick like 15 putts in these last two days I've been really happy with.
Honestly yesterday, I made a great, like a 15-footer for bogey on 15.  Made like an 18-footer for birdie on 16 right after that.
Today, I made a bunch of putts early.  Four or five holes, I missed every green, first four or five holes, got up-and-down and scrambled really well.  So there's probably too many to pick just one.
Q. Where is Presidents Cup in your mind-set right now?  How much are you thinking about it on the course and off?
ADAM HADWIN: If there was an area in front of the frontal lobe, I would say that; I don't know.  I mean, I'm being reminded daily of where I am, where I'm at, what I need to do.
It's a lot of fun.  Just to be -- you know, to be in the running to be considered is fantastic.  I mean, I've had to play an incredible year this year just to get into that position.  I'm having fun with it.  I'm enjoying it.  I think we're going to have a great team -- I guess I shouldn't say that.  I'm not on it just yet.  I've been playing some great golf and another good tournament this week will take care of everything.
Q. Did you feel like if you made the cut this week --
ADAM HADWIN: I don't want to say yes, but I felt like I haven't been playing great lately.  But I feel like the body of work this year and kind of jumping up and the way I've played, at least maybe in comparison to a few guys that are close, as well, I felt like my chances were good.  But I also wanted to go out and play well and show Captain Price that I can play; that I'm ready to compete on that level.
Obviously it's a long weekend ahead but the game's kind of rounding into form when I need it.
Q. How often have you heard from Nick this week, how many times?
ADAM HADWIN: Just once this week.  He was asking guys what they thought of for captain's picks.  Obviously they are coming up shortly.
You know, he's always sending e-mails out weekly at the end of the week.  You know, maybe not updating on stuff, but just congratulating good play and trying to bring us together as a team.  I think it would be an incredible experience and something we don't often get in golf.
Q. Have you met?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, we met at the WGC Bridgestone.  Everybody got together and went over a few logistics.  Just trying to get everybody accustomed with each other.  I think more than anything with the International Team, I think that's the difficulty.  You know, so many countries and so many different circles, and only playing once every two years; we might not have the camaraderie that the U.S. Team might have.  But you know, that doesn't matter.  Good golf and come together as a team and have some fun, and who knows what happens.
Q. How many times have you played Liberty National?
ADAM HADWIN: I got out there on Sunday after I missed the cut last week at Northern Trust.  Just once, but it's quite the place.
Q. What did you say for your captain's picks?
ADAM HADWIN: Ha.  I'm going to leave that in the e-mail for Captain Price.  (Laughter).
Q. When would you say you first started zeroing in on The Presidents Cup standings?
ADAM HADWIN: I'd say probably after Bay Hill in March when I actually had a chance.  Those two weeks obviously put me -- skyrocketed me up the rankings there.  You know, it was on the radar.  So it's been on the radar the entire year.  You know, it's been a little up-and-down.  Had a great finish at the Bridgestone.
Just finish these Playoffs off strong, give myself a chance to win the FedExCup and go win a Presidents Cup with the International Team.
Q. How gettable is this golf course when the wind dies down a bit?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it was at least a couple shots easier today I think.  You know, you're still guessing on the wind to be honest with you.  But because it's only a couple miles an hour here or there, it just doesn't move it as much.  Yesterday was a complete guess almost the entire way around.
There will be some low scores, for sure, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT