ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 18, 2017
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Still a solid round today.  Great start.  Is it fair to say they all went in the first few holes and then someone put the seal on?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, maybe.  Again, I hit it well all day.  I hit a lot of good putts today as well, they just didn't seem to go in.  Even on the 3-putts I hit good second putts, I really hit them where I wanted to.  And it's not often you misread a 4-footer.  I haven't done that in a long time.  But I walked off the 9th and I was 2-under and, yeah, I might have been a little disappointed, but I'm still 2-under, I'm moving up the leaderboard, I'm playing well, so focus on the back nine, maybe see if I can get a couple and I was only able to get one.
Q. I mentioned on the broadcast you've had a large bucket of putts that looked great and you didn't get anything out of them.  But you're driving the ball beautiful.  That has to give you confidence heading into tomorrow.
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, absolutely.  I've hit it beautifully now for seven rounds in a row and I hit a lot of good putts today.  Those putts I hit on 17 and 18 could have just as easily gone in as they missed.  So, I'm still swinging it well, still hitting good putts, and I'm right there.
Q. Do you think chasing tomorrow, because you got the win under your belt, is chasing a little easier in a sense or any different?
ADAM HADWIN: Honestly, I don't think it's going to change a thing.  We have had such a good game plan and been able to stick to it now for seven rounds in a row, I just don't think it would matter what position I'm in, whether I'm five up or five back.  But certainly the way Kevin is playing right now you're going to have to go out and make some birdies, but I'm still going to just focus on my game plan, just going to hit solid shots and hopefully make a couple more putts tomorrow.
Q. Is there anything different about this Sunday than last time as far as the confidence?
ADAM HADWIN: Every round I play, every tournament I play, each year, I'm starting to feel more comfortable out here, so that certainly helps.  But still kind of rolling from last week, still on a bit of a high, and obviously it's kind of showing through the game.  I'm playing extremely good golf right now, so just need to keep it going for one more week or sorry, one more day.
Q. Did you get the refund?
ADAM HADWIN: We're still working.  Yeah.  We still, you know, it's tough, when you go that far away, you kind of understand their cancellation policies.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT