ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2017
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk about your round today.  You're in pretty good shape right now.  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, obviously I've been playing pretty solid golf here for awhile and again nothing too crazy out there.  Didn't hit it quite as well as yesterday, but kept it in play, made a few birdies.  I had two great shots on 4, made eagle.  Kind of stealing one there.  But just a lot of really good solid golf right now.   
 Q.  How are conditions on the course today compared to yesterday?  
ADAM HADWIN: We had pretty good conditions yesterday afternoon.  The guys were a little chilli in the morning and it was a little chilly again, I don't think nearly as chilly though.  Wind was pretty dead when we started.  It's kind of off and on a little bit coming out of kind of changing directions a little bit here and there as well.  So it made it a little trickier.  But the course is in great shape, greens are rolling pure right now.  Never really truly felt comfortable with the speed on the greens and I think that's holding me back just a little bit right now.   
 Q.  Last couple years winning score was in the teens.  High teens.  It may not get to double digits this year.  What's the difference?  
ADAM HADWIN: Well, I think that the firmness, the speed of the greens, the ground staff can do what they want with this golf course and I think clearly they want a good test of golf.  The rough's up, you miss the fairway, you're going to struggle to get it to some of the greens and it's right now I truly think it's a pure ball-striker's golf course right now.   
 Q.  What was Sunday night to Wednesday morning like for you?  
ADAM HADWIN: A blur.  It all happened so fast I'm still trying to kind of figure everything out.  But a lot of fun.  I enjoyed it.  It was busy.  Something that I haven't experienced, something new that I can learn from moving forward, hopefully get to do a lot more.   
 Q.  I heard Russell Knox say when he won his HSBC he just wanted to go home and get drunk and celebrate and the next thing you know he was in a playoff the next week?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it would be great to be able to do that, but I was playing this week and, yeah, I had a tournament to get ready for.  So, part of it was to try and soak it in and enjoy some of the things that came with it, but also try and refocus and get ready for this week and I've done a pretty good job of that so far.   
 Q.  Did you expect this?  My point with Russell was he wasn't really thinking about it, but obviously the good form just kept running for him.  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, again, it's just one of those things where you kind of have to go back and drop your expectations back to zero again at the start of the week.  It's a new week, it's a new challenge.  And I've done such a good job of it this year, just staying in the moment and hitting shot after shot and coming out for last week, just kind of got back into -- I knew it wasn't out of the realm, obviously I'm playing really good golf, but it was a matter of controlling everything and just going back into it.   
 Q.  But this drop your expectations things.  I got to think you're coming to every tournament now and I think you think just to yourself, give your self a chance there coming into the end.  Did you, like dropping your expectations, did you come here thinking maybe this is my week or I just had my week?  
ADAM HADWIN: No, obviously we go, I go into every week wanting to win.  I guess what I mean by that is to just, I used to go out and just put so much pressure on myself to do well right off the bat.  And what's been good for me is to just kind of ease into rounds, hit some good shots, make some easy pars and just get settled into rounds.  I've had a few events where I've just reeled off birdies in a five, six hole stretch, no problem.  So I know it can come and it doesn't matter whether it's a difficult hole or an easy hole, I mean they can come.  So, just going back out and kind of hitting the reset button and hitting golf shots again and just enjoying the walk again I think is more than anything.   
 Q.  It's only been four days and your answer's allowed to change over time, but No. 1 perk from winning last week right now?  
ADAM HADWIN: Masters.   
 Q.  Second?  
ADAM HADWIN: Two years.  Job security for two years.  It's a huge deal.   
 Q.  Did you get through all your texts you received?  
ADAM HADWIN: I got through it.  I got through it by Wednesday night.  But I think I hit like 160 at some point.   
 Q.  Did you get to everyone?  
ADAM HADWIN: Not everyone.  I would say probably close to a hundred though at least.   
 Q.  I know they're all special.  Any extra special ones?  
ADAM HADWIN: I had some guys from the Canucks reach out.  I had obviously the Prime Minister sent a tweet, which is pretty cool.  A few other guys in hockey, Wayne Gretzky reached out as well.  So being a Canadian you get lots of hockey players.   
 Q.  12 of 14 fairways yesterday, 12 of 14 again today has that been the key, just playing from the short grass?  
ADAM HADWIN: Absolutely.  The rough's up this week and I've given myself plenty of opportunities, I did the same thing last week, doing it again this week, real solid golf, tee to green.  Lots of opportunities, hopefully find the speed of the greens a little bit better on this weekend and maybe make a couple more putts, but it's nice that I'm not relying on my putter to stay in tournaments.   
 Q.  You're coming off a big week, obviously last week, I told a little story on the air you spoke to my co-host in Canada and, you told them you ate Big Mac and nuggets on the way home last week.  If you win back-to-back I think Big Mac sales are going to go through the roof north of the border?  
ADAM HADWIN: Oh, yeah, Big Macs and nuggets again, if I can pull off two in a row.  You got to stick with it, right?   
 Q.  We're asking the players to share a story memory or even a lasting memory of Arnold Palmer.  As Canadians, neither one of us were alive, but we think of the 1955 Canadian Open, his first victory.  Do you have a memory or even just an image as a kid following golf you would like to share?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, I really do wish that I had some better stories or anything, unfortunately, I've only been out here for a few years and I met him a few times, but his health had deteriorated.  And I think the lasting image of me for Arnold will just be how he was with everybody, how he was with the fans, the volunteers, everybody that he came across, he just seemed like kind of that upstanding gentleman that treated everybody with respect and gave everybody the time of day and if everyone of us can have half of that, I think we'll be pretty good people.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT