VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2017
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sum up what this means, picking up for you your first title on the PGA TOUR.  
ADAM HADWIN: It was incredible.  You know, I was a bit in cruise control kind of all day, felt really good.  Hit a lot of good shots.  Obviously Patrick was playing well and put a lot of pressure on me and I just kind of kept doing my thing and kind of one bad swing and it was a whole new ballgame there walking down 16.   
You know, I didn't think that I could go par, par and win the last two, but I hit some great shots.  You know, I'm standing here the champion at the end of it.   
 Q.  How does it feel knowing you're going to tee it up at the Masters, on the plus side, and on the negative, you have to postpone a honeymoon?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it's almost one of those things where you just don't really think it's going to happen.  You talk about it and you sort of plan for it kind of on the outside of hoping to get into the Masters, and to have it happen, I can't wait to take that first trip down Magnolia Lane and join Mackenzie (Hughes) and soak it all in.   
 Q.  When the day started, you and I were both probably thinking 18 pars and get the heck out of there.  But what an incredible back and forth battle that was.  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, that was the game plan, to make the round as simple as possible, and I really did that for the most part.  You know, the early bogey; got it back on 8.  Nice birdie putt on 11.   
But he just hung around and he kept making some putts.  I figured I was going to have to play some good golf and kind of let one slide there on 16, opened up the whole ballgame but pulled through.   
 Q.  Those shots happen but I want to talk about the putt.  That one at 13 was something special.  
ADAM HADWIN: Again, it's kind of the same thing as yesterday.  You're picking a line, hope to get the speed right, and you know at the time, he stiffed it.  That was to maintain a two-shot lead I think -- yeah, two-shot lead at the time, and I mean, that was huge.  So it certainly kind of kept me around.  I mean, who knows what could have happened.   
 Q.  I think you were building to this; the success you had in the desert and the way you hit the golf ball this week.  But now fourth in the FedExCup points, Masters, Presidents Cup points, kind of a surreal moment.  
ADAM HADWIN: This is incredible.  I'm keeping it in pretty good right now.  I don't know how well I'm going to hold it together much longer, but this is pretty cool.  I hope to have this a lot more often, I know that.   
 Q.  A tough stretch to finish, but how do you feel right now knowing you have this victory secured?  
ADAM HADWIN: A huge sigh of relief; I think that's the biggest thing.  You know, I certainly didn't knock myself out of the tournament with 16 but I made it a lot closer than I was liking it to be, and you know, I knew I just need to keep battling and keep hitting some good shots and who knows what can happen.  17 and 18 are no bargains.  I hit some good shots there and luckily had a tap-in on 18.  I don't know if I would have made it if it was much further.   
 Q.  16, not the tee shot you wanted.  Unusual for you to hit that given the rest of your week.  
ADAM HADWIN: That came out of nowhere.  I had really striped it all day and all week.  I stuck with the same shot I've been hitting the first three days, just a little cut off the left tree, and up and out of it a little thin.  Just didn't have enough to carry.   
But proud of myself the way I kind of hung in there on that hole, and I just missed the bogey putt, too.  You know, this course was going to be a grind the whole way through and I'm very fortunate to be standing here with you.   
 Q.  What did it take to grind through the end there?  You mentioned that your fiancée has helped your cool, calm and collected demeanor.  How did that factor into today?  
ADAM HADWIN: I was never out of it.  I was right there.  Despite making double, I was still tied for the lead with two to go.  I just needed to focus and try to get the job done.  Really thought that I was going to have to make a birdie in one of those last two holes, but you know, just kind of kept the head down and made a couple putts when I needed to.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT