VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2017
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  28 on the back, I don't know that was possible at the Copperhead Course?  
ADAM HADWIN: Certainly something you don't think is going to happen but I hit a lot of good shots today, especially five in a row there, 10 through 14.  Honestly that putt on 18 was a lay up.  No chance I was running that thing by.  Could probably have putted off the green if I hit it a little too hard.  But it's nice to see the ball-striking kind of come around and the putter stay where it has all year.   
 Q.  It felt like the wind laid back; did it give you an opportunity to attack?  
ADAM HADWIN: You know what, it never really got that strong today.  It was swirling a little bit, bouncing between west, northwest, kind of north at times.  But just a lot of good quality golf shots.  I put myself in position off the tee, hit a lot of fairways, and again, the putter was hot and I just gave myself a lot of looks at it.   
 Q.  To have that round at La Quinta at the beginning of the year, when you're on a birdie run like that today, is that something you lean on?  
ADAM HADWIN: A little bit, for sure.  I think the biggest thing taken away from La Quinta is I stayed in the process that whole time.  I wasn't, you know, again I was thinking about the score, but at the same time, it was just about committing to the shots and doing all that.  You know, I hit a couple loose shots there on 15 and 16, but got up-and-down and hit a great shot on 17 again and two good shots on 18.  So real happy with the position that I'm in going into the weekend.   
 Q.  With all those great putts you made today, is the one on 15 the one you look back on and say that was the key to the round?  
ADAM HADWIN: I think so.  That kept every bit of momentum going.  Bad shot, just misread the lie a little bit and was able to roll that one in to save par and like I said, keep every bit of momentum I had built up with the five in a row.  Got through the Snake Pit alive and got through 1-under.   
 Q.  68 yesterday, pretty much benign conditions, and today the wind swirling a bit, and you shot 64.  What was the difference?  
ADAM HADWIN: I hit more quality golf shots today.  I gave myself a ton of looks out there.  I hit a lot of fairways, as well, which makes it a lot easier to attack some of these flags.  Putter stayed hot and I made a few more putts than I did yesterday.   
 Q.  Your second shot at 10, you made the turn, you were 4-under overall through nine and then you really turned it on.  What did you see here?  
ADAM HADWIN: 114 yards, little gap wedge, pin on the right, wind coming off the right a little bit.  You could be aggressive.  Hit the number.  I had about two feet going down the hill.   
 Q.  Started a great run, the par 5,11, how tricky was it?  
ADAM HADWIN: Not too bad.  It was sitting down a bit but I had ton of green, so I just kind of had to chop the lob-wedge down on it and get it running up the hill and luckily it rolled out to about four feet, kind of straight up the hill.   
 Q.  Your birdie on 12?  
ADAM HADWIN: I hit a great shot in there, a little short and left of the pin.  Just trickled in on the very last roll but the kind of put you don't want to get rolling too far past the hole.   
13, same thing, straight down the hill.  I tugged the tee shot a little.  Got a little lucky, hit the pin.  Stopped about eight, nine feet past and trickled it down the hill there and made another one.   
14, third shot, perfect little 95-yard sand wedge back into it a little.  Going into the upslope, you know it's going to stop and again hit the number perfectly and gave myself a chance for it.   
17, the par 3, it was 226 today.  Almost a little into the breeze and I smoked a 5-iron.  It was probably the best shot I hit all day.  If it had not hit that ball mark right there, it would have had a chance.  It was probably the best shot of the day.  I pulled it a little bit, but when you give yourself a little bit of room to the right, you can get away with some.   
 Q.  What were you thinking knowing the Snake Pit was ahead?  
ADAM HADWIN: That's the thing, it's always there.  You've got to finish strong on this golf course and it was just a matter of keeping the momentum going.  Just keep hitting good shots and giving yourself chances.   
 Q.  Playing the Snake Pit 1-under, wonderful iron off the tee?  
ADAM HADWIN: I was saying earlier, probably the best shot I hit all day, a 5-iron I struck as well as I could.  Again, a little bit left of probably where I was looking, but it worked out perfectly.  Rolled, what, ten feet past the pin and was able to make that and finish off with a nice par on 18.   
 Q.  You've had a good season and you've had a good finish at La Quinta, California, formerly Bob Hope Classic, Humana Challenge.  You've won on the Web.com and Canada.  What's it going to take to make the next step on the PGA TOUR?  
ADAM HADWIN: I've put myself in position the last couple years; I feel like the finishes have gotten stronger and I keep kind of putting myself going into the weekends.  I was there at Torrey and played the final group with Justin Rose.  Just getting more comfortable out there.  Really learning my game a little bit more.  Learning how I feel under pressure a little bit more, and figuring out how to deal with that.  I'm excited for this weekend, what it will bring, and hope to keep some of these scores coming.   
 Q.  Judge your performance today.   What do you think was working for you?  
ADAM HADWIN: Everything.  Like you said, can't go out and shoot 7-under on the Copperhead Course without doing everything right.  I put myself in position off the tee box.  Hit a ton of fairways.  Then just really hit the irons solidly today.  Maybe miss-hit a couple coming down the stretch on 15, 16, but got up-and-down, made a bunch of putts and here I am going into the weekend.   
 Q.  How do you sleep on a Friday night like this knowing you're in the catbird's seat?  
ADAM HADWIN: I'll sleep well.  This humidity kills me out here in Florida.  I live in Phoenix and I grew up in Vancouver.  It wears me out.   
But it's exciting.  It's a lot of fun to be in this position, and you know, get some rest and go out and see if I can't shoot another 64 tomorrow.   
 Q.  How are the nerves now, knowing you have a chance to pick up your first PGA TOUR win?  
ADAM HADWIN: I mean, right now, nothing.  It's really easy at the end of the round.  During a stretch there and on the back nine, I mean, I knew I was doing something well and I was nervous.  But I've been there before.  I've made a bunch of birdies before and it's just a matter of going through the routine and just trusting what you can do and you know, it kind of all came together today.   
 Q.  You follow-up a 68 with a 64, five birdies in a row.  How are you able to handle that wind that was swirling around out there?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, it swirled a little bit but luckily I think for us it didn't get up too high.  I don't know how the guys found it in the afternoon yesterday, but you know, you just kind of have to guess the best you can with what's going on.  I just hit a lot of quality iron shots.  I hit it really solid today, which is the key when that wind picks up.  You know, if I can continue to do that this weekend, I think I'll have a chance.   
 Q.  25 putts this afternoon.  Can you explain the conditions and how they were rolling this afternoon?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, they rolled great, certainly compared to yesterday morning when we played, they were a lot shinier.  I think they got a little quicker.  The wind kind of burnt them out a little bit and dried them out.  So there was a few puts you certainly had to be a little bit more defensive on.  But you know, I've been putting so well these last couple years.  I've got a lot of confidence on the greens and I was able to hit my lines and luckily they went in.   
 Q.  You performed so well in strokes-gained approach.  What's your take away from the 64 today?  
ADAM HADWIN: That's been a real key this week and something that's kind of lacked all season.  I've got a little bit better over last season, but I was walking down the fairway thinking to myself, like man, it's been nice to hit a bunch of greens in kind of stress-free pars and birdies, instead of the scrambling that I have been doing.  It's just about trying to keep hitting that ball solid over this weekend.  I think that's the key.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT