RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2016
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty solid day, one blip on the card, but how did you feel about the round?
ADAM HADWIN: It was much better than yesterday.  I hit it more solid.  A little scrambly though, despite hitting it more solid.  Kind of over shot some greens.   Short game is really good. Chipped in once.  Got up-and-down pretty much every other time except for 12 there; was kind of like you said, a little blip on the scorecard.  Other than the other 3-putt on 17, a pretty good round.
Q. How tough is it to hit the shots out here with the wind and the firmness of the golf course?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, I mean, it's swirling all around.  You know the ball is going to bounce on green, so you try to pick a number, and then from there, it's really just a guess and a hope that you get it right.
Coming downbreeze on 6, I mean, I flew 9-iron almost 180 yards and bounced over the green.  My stock 9-iron is about 150.  I mean, we're guessing that it's going to fly 165; it flies close to 180 and it's over the green.  When you're doing that kind of stuff, it can be difficult.
Q. What's the plan now for the weekend?
ADAM HADWIN: Grind away.  Make some pars.  I hit some good shots and made a couple putts.  But keep the ball in play.  Give myself some looks and hopefully the short game stays sharp.
Q. You were a pro when you competed and you came very close here, but you were fairly raw as a player in a professional tournament.  Can you relate to what Jared du Toit is doing out there right now?
ADAM HADWIN: A little bit.  I think he's still an Am, so I think he's feeling even less pressure than I was as a pro at Shaughnessy.
But there's really sort of a just kind of go-get-it type of attitude.  He doesn't have a card on the line.  He's not trying to keep a job.  But it's still nervous.  It's still nerve-wracking.  He's obviously playing some incredible golf right now.  Tied for the lead I think right now as I walk by the scoreboard.  Good for him.  It's good to see.
I'd really love to be the Canadian that ends the drought, but any Canadian ending it would be great.
Q. What changed between yesterday and today for you?
ADAM HADWIN: I think the short game might have been just a little bit sharper today.  I got it up-and-down I think pretty much every time on the front nine when I needed to.  And it wasn't grinding over pars.  I had tap-ins, which was nice.  It makes it a lot easier.  I kept the ball in play.  I hit the fairway -- I didn't hit the fairway on 14, but almost.  Close enough, which has been a bit of my nemesis the last few years here.
It's just about keeping the ball in play, keep it in front of you and making a couple putts out here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT