THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2016
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the round a little bit out there.
ADAM HADWIN: It was a very good round.  Front nine was very good.  I bogeyed the 2nd hole, bad drive, had to chip out.
After that, birdied the 4th, eagled the 5th, birdied 7 and 8.  Had a lot of momentum coming through.  Played very well.  Little up and down around the back.  Hit a couple shots -- short on 11 with a wedge, ended up making bogey.  Bounced right back, hit a great 9 iron to three feet on 12.  Birdie on 14.
You'd like to get one on the par 5s, but kind of had to chip out, hit a wedge in, but all in all, another very good day.
Q. What's been kind of working so well for you this week, especially in the third round?
ADAM HADWIN: I think the biggest thing for me is I've stayed patient the entire time.  Like I said, I bogeyed the 2nd, so I could have -- with all the birdies, guys shooting 8 under ahead of us, posting numbers, I could have started to press.  So my mood was a really good mood, just kind of out there being patient, just giving myself a lot of opportunities.  I made a lot of good putts today.  I'll just have to try and keep that same rhythm tomorrow.
Q. What's your mindset going into tomorrow, early start, being in contention, looking for that first PGA Tour win?
ADAM HADWIN: It's going to be a lot of fun.  I got in contention in the Career Builder earlier this year, played in the final group, tied for the lead going into the back nine.  I haven't been that close yet again this year.  I've been playing really well as of late.  I don't think I've been outside the top 15 going into the last two rounds, either at the AT&T or Colonial.  It's just a matter of going out, staying patient, keeping the same mindset that I've had today and hopefully making a few putts again.
Q. Did you learn anything from Career Builder?
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, absolutely.  My mindset got off on that back nine, I started to push.  I can look back, and I think Jason made about a 30-footer for birdie on 10, and I sort of looked at my caddie and said, okay, we're going to have to make a few birdies on this back nine if we're going to win.  And maybe pushed a little too hard instead of staying patient and just playing my game and letting it come.
I've done a really good job of that for three days.  I keep telling myself that I can make three bogeys in a row just as easy as I can make three birdies in a row out here.  Just get myself in every shot, and then from there just try and execute.
Q. Is this course suited to your game?
ADAM HADWIN: I think so.  I mean, honestly, I go into every golf course thinking that I can play a certain way to make it suit my game.  I've been a very good putter of the golf ball all year, and I think that can get you out of a lot of situations.
So on a week like this, where I'm starting to feel it, starting to hit a little better, this course is a little bit easier off the tee than some of the ones we play, a little bit more wide open, so it allows me to hit a few more fairways than I have this year, which is -- I can attack some more pins.  It's certainly suiting the way I've played all year.
Q. How have the conditions been for you?  Today I think most golfers say it was pretty good.  Is there anything that comes to mind that makes tomorrow sort of a question mark?
ADAM HADWIN: No, I'm not thinking anything differently.  We've all got to play the same golf course, especially going 8:30 to 10:30, threesomes tomorrow.  We're all going to have the same weather.  So if it's raining, it's raining, we deal with it.  If it's sunny, we deal with it as well.  So we just go out and play.
That's one thing I've learned over the last couple of years is to not really prepare too hard for what's about to come.  I always think too hard about the weather and how to play.  You know, I just -- I've learned to just let it come as it is and just go get it.
Q. You mentioned the weather.  What about having so many guys within just a couple of shots of you, does that change your mindset being among those guys?
ADAM HADWIN: No, I think, if anything, it just makes you focus more.  You know that one shot means so much.  It can be the difference of first and seventh right now.  So it's just a matter of getting into every shot, knowing every shot matters.  You know, if you hit a bad shot, recover.  Don't hit two bad shots in a row.  I've made plenty of birdies this week.  I know that birdies are going to come.  So it's just about getting into that rhythm again and making a few putts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT