CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 21, 2016
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You feel comfortable out here.  You even won a Canadian TOUR event up the road.  
ADAM HADWIN: I did, yeah, up the road kind of up the valley at Desert Dunes.  Got my first Canadian TOUR win out there.  But there's, I think you doubled the population coming here in wintertime with Canadians.  So it's nice to have that support.  I heard them out there today and great to play well in front of them.   
 Q.  What is it about the difference in the golf courses now, moving across the street, everybody says they're really not that much different.  They really aren't in that sense, but still you got to try and figure out where the Salton Sea is.  We say Indio, but it's really the Salton Sea?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, I know.  I think adding the Stadium Course is going to add a little bit more difficulty to it.  I think the Nicklaus Course is fairly similar to the two private courses, but the Stadium can be a test.  Standing on 16 green, you don't really feel the wind, you get on that 17 tee box and all of a sudden it starts coming into you at 15 miles an hour.  So I was happy they moved us up a box today and I could chip a little 9-iron in the center.  But, I played Q-School here so I got a pretty good feeling the way the golf courses play and how they will be played.  So a great start to the week anyway.   
 Q.  If I told you you could shoot 66, would you have slept in?  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, you give me 68 I probably would have walked away and not played today.  So 66 bogey-free is a fantastic start.   
 Q.  You shots the best score right now the 66 on that course.  The wind came up on your back nine a little bit.  Did that make it a lot tougher?  
ADAM HADWIN: Not a lot.  We really only saw wind I would say for 17, 18, to be honest with you.  It was still pretty light and variable until then.   
 Q.  Do you change your approach on this golf course as opposed to saying the Nicklaus Course or La Quinta, do you say, I got to do this today, as opposed to the others?  
ADAM HADWIN: I think on Stadium you have to get your self around without making some big mistakes.  I think some big mistakes lie out there.  You got par-5s with water that you try and be too aggressive you can easily make a six or seven and that's going to throw you pretty far back, instead of kind of making maybe laying up and taking easy par or something.   
 Q.  If I told you that the Stadium was playing about two shots tougher than the other two courses, you won be surprised?  
ADAM HADWIN: No, not at all.  It's just a tougher golf course in general.  I think it's a little bit more demanding off the tee and even if the fairways are, there's some spots where they are definitely as wide, but I think visually it's a much more intimidating golf course off the tee.  You're staring at a lot of bunkers and a lot of run outs and stuff, so.   
 Q.  You don't have to worry about it until Sunday now.  
ADAM HADWIN: We played the tough course first and everything was kind of working today.  I only needed to scramble a couple times.  I made a great up-and-down here on 9 to save myself after a bad iron shot.  But couple long putts, I hit a couple close, and then all in all it adds up to a 66, so.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT