SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 2015
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Quotes from:   
ADAM HADWIN   
 Q.  Adam, I'm guessing you've gotta be thrilled with today's round, even though the last few holes you were missing some fairways, things were struggling a little bit, but all in all 65 is pretty good.  
ADAM HADWIN: Well, when you make nine birdies in a round of golf, it's always pretty good.  Got off to a great start, birdied the first two, three -- yeah, birdied the first three.  And then when I did make a bogey I was able to bounce back with a birdie right after.  So you know, the qui tam for me today was just getting into play.  Real simple.  You know, I had kind of a swing thought of some good rhythm, good tempo out there.  I was swinging pretty smooth, like you said, hit a lot of fairways there until the very end.  So go on the range and clean it up a little bit and be ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  A little blip there on 3, on the par-3 and got a little aggressive with your birdie putt.  Like to have that one back, I guess.  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah.  That one surprised me, actually big time.  For whatever reason I probably should have taken a look at it from the side.  It was downhill and I was playing a little uphill even.  So it raced by and then didn't hit a good putt coming back.  So unfortunate 3-putt.  You never like to do that kind of in the middle of the round when you're feeling well, but again, like you said, I bounced back straightaway with a birdie.   
 Q.  How about the conditions?  Everybody's talking about those.  Certainly very, very wet, but no rain, just a little misty at places here and there, but very mucky out there in certain places.  
ADAM HADWIN: Yeah.  It's a little wet, but I played pro am yesterday and talking with the guys they've received like nine inches of rain the last week, so wet's to be expected.  I think the grounds crew has done a great job of getting us out there, getting us playable.   
It's drying up as we go, so hopefully these storms aren't as bad as they're predicting for the next couple of days, and it's leading to some low scores, though.  You got ball in hand in the fairways and you got soft greens.  So guys are making putts from everywhere.   
 Q.  Do you keep an eye on the leaderboard at all?  I mean you're hunting right there, and Aaron shot 8-under and you were right there behind him most of the day.  Do you keep an eye on that at all, even though it's early, it's first round?  
ADAM HADWIN: Oh, yeah.  No, I watch every day.  I'll watch when I get up in the morning just to see what guys are doing.  I knew what Aaron was at.  I really wanted to make that last putt, too, to tie him.  I didn't want to be one back today after the way I played.   
Yeah, short and simple, yes, I do.   
 Q.  I know you're from Canadian, but I gotta ask you, you're in SEC country.  You're black and white and burgundy.  Is that Texas A&M?  Is that Mississippi State?  What colors you got going here?  
ADAM HADWIN: I feel like I got a little bit of Louisville here where I went to college.  You notice red and black a little bit.  And red's not quite the color, but I'll say it's Louisville.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT