RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2015
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What was working well for you out there?  ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, I got off to a good start with 3-under through four, and was only able to get a couple more after that, couple kind of scrambling par saves.  An unfortunate bogey on 8.  Hopefully, that doesn't cost me a made cut today.  Hopefully, I can get two more rounds this weekend.   Q.  It looks like the cut line could be around 2 or 3.  Is that course playing pretty well?  ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, we faced much softer conditions, much better conditions this morning.  There was no breeze.  Greens were holding quite nicely, so it was a much different golf course than we faced in the afternoon yesterday.  I don't see much wind picking up right now just yet, so we'll see what happens.  But I'm going to go back and not watch the cut line and hope I get a text message with my tee time.   Q.  With Graham withdrawing, fans were hoping to have someone to pull for.  David's having a nice round.  Did you kind of feel the fan support out there?  ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, we always feel the fan support.  They're great any time we come to Canada. I'm sure Graham's extremely disappointed with having to withdraw.  It's great to see David playing well again.  I wanted to make a couple more out there and kind of get into that top 20 going into the weekend.  But at 3-under, I've got to, if I do play two more rounds, I've got a lot of time to move up.   Q.  What was your mindset when you came to the course today after yesterday?  ADAM HADWIN: Well, I needed to make birdies.  I needed to move up the leaderboard.  I think getting off to a good start in the back nine was imperative.  The three par-5s on that side, so I had to take advantage of them.  I hit a close one on 10, made a long putt on 11, and then stiffed it on 13.  So I just had to keep the pedal down and keep grinding away and keep making birdies today, and that's kind of what I did for the most part.   Q.  What is the game plan for tomorrow?  Be a little more aggressive?  ADAM HADWIN: Same thing.  Just keep firing at pins, trying to make putts.  Be a little bit more committed to some of the shots that I've been hitting, but just keep going and trying to move up as far up the leaderboard as possible.   Q.  This is a new thing, the red and white day.  What do you think of it?  ADAM HADWIN: I wish I had an actual red.  I have more of a fuchsia.   Q.  Is that pink?  ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, yeah, dark salmon or something.  I don't know.  Yeah, it's nice.  It was great.  I think the fans did a great job.  You see a lot of red and white out there.  We have a lot of Canadian pride, and they showed it today for sure.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT