RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2011
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ADAM HADWIN: That was not the way I wanted to end my round, obviously. Played some unbelievable golf today, made a lot of good shots on the greens, made a lot of good putts. Just hit a couple bad shots coming in and that was it.

 Q. How does it feel being in contention going into the weekend? 
 ADAM HADWIN: Feels great. I kind of proved it today. I felt really good out there, felt really calm, especially the putter with the short game. Those two things held me in there a little bit. Just got to continue what I'm doing.

 Q. You take much away from the U.S. Open appearance, especially given the conditions in this one? 
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah, for sure. Any time you can compete at a U.S. Open and actually play well, and play like I did the final day, it's a lot of a confidence building there. I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing, and hopefully be there Sunday.

 Q. (Indiscernible)? 
 ADAM HADWIN: For sure, yeah. It's been awesome. You know, I think three quarters of the crowd have already gone. I still had some cheers out there. It was a lot of fun.

 Q. Did you expect to be here earlier in the week? 
 ADAM HADWIN: Can I say yes without sounding arrogant (laughing)? You know, I felt like my game was good coming in. 
 I had a good final round in Winnipeg last week on the Canadian Tour. I prepared good, and I have a great caddie on the bag. He's doing his thing and giving me a lot of good clubs.

 Q. Who is caddying for you? 
 ADAM HADWIN: (Indiscernible).

 Q. You talked about the U.S. Open helping you, but what about last year's Canadian Open where you got a lot more crowd attention and media attention. That should help as well. 
 ADAM HADWIN: Absolutely. Every event like that is a building block. The U.S. Open and Canadian Open last year, not so much golfwise, but how to handle everything else, how to handle you guys. You know, it's a lot different than the Canadian Tour. It's a lot of fun.

 Q. Do you have football tickets tonight? 
 ADAM HADWIN: No, I'm on top so I've got to play well. You put the ball on the fairway, put the ball on the green and make putts.

 Q. What does it mean to have your brother out here today? 
 ADAM HADWIN: Oh, it's good. It's great that he's able to get out here and enjoy this with me because I know he wanted to be at the U.S. Open as much as I did. 
 Very fortunate to have 25 minutes on the road here for him, so it's good.

 Q. How much golf has he watched of yours in the last couple of years? 
 ADAM HADWIN: None. Yeah, I think he made it out -- actually, he flew out in the final round of the Canadian Open last year him and my dad. But besides that, maybe a little bit in Victoria last year.

 Q. Did you know he was coming or was it a surprise? 
 ADAM HADWIN: No, no, we talk. We always talk. We talked throughout the week, and he was here on Tuesday. He walked 18 with me on the practice round on Tuesday. So he's pretty good, and I'm glad he made it out.

 Q. Do you get anything extra out of that? What does it mean? 
 ADAM HADWIN: I don't know. He's a tough kid. He's been battling hard for a while. I don't know. I'm sure he doesn't want the focus put on him and take off me. But hopefully he'll be here this weekend as well.

 Q. Do you feel there will be any extra pressure on yourself? I guess David Hearn also at 2-under, and now that Mike and Stephen, some of the faces we've seen in Canadian golf for a while aren't around. 
 ADAM HADWIN: I wouldn't say there is any added pressure. I think me and David are not trying to get low Canadian, but trying to win the thing. We both have a job to do this weekend. We're both going to prepare like we're going to win a championship. 
 I don't think if either one of us is holding the cup at the end, I don't doubt there will be a little disappointment either of us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT