RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2010
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Adam Hadwin, third round even par 70, ties you I guess currently for low Canadian with Mr. Mills. Just a few comments. Obviously you're glad to have gotten it in with the weather and so forth. Just a few comments as you're heading into the final day.
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. It's getting kind of nasty out there. Those last couple holes coming down, I guess it was probably 12, 13, 14, it was getting pretty -- it was coming down pretty hard. But then we get through it and it kind of opened up a little bit 15, 16 and then it just down poured on us on 18 there to finish. 
 I don't think it's going to be fun for those guys out there right now. 
 My round today was a little up and down, got off -- obviously birdied the first hole, got off to a great start, couldn't ask for anything more than that. But struggled a little bit for the final and then closing with that eagle on 9 kind of pumped me up. 
 That crowd roar at 9 for my eagle was -- I was shaking. I could feel it all the way in my innermost bones. So it was really cool.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. With that we'll take some questions.

 Q. Adam, how did you go into today's round? I mean obviously you were happy you made the cut, you had a good round yesterday.
 ADAM HADWIN: Yep.

 Q. Did you come in with the idea of I just want to hold it together or did you come in with the idea that you gotta be as aggressive as you were the other days?
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. I was confident coming into today's round. I really felt good, especially the way I got started there. I hit a really good tee shot, which I thought was really important for me given the way my nerves were, getting off the first tee hitting a good solid tee shot was key; and then obviously standing to about five feet making that putt was even better. 
 I was trying to be aggressive, maybe too aggressive on a couple of shots, but I really felt like I could have played well and maybe pushed it to double digits today.

 Q. What's the goal for tomorrow? Get in the Top 10 for next week or be low Canadian, or what are you looking at?
 ADAM HADWIN: Have fun, play well. I can't really control what the Top 10 number is going to be. I can only do what I gotta do. I'd like to par 4 if I could. I haven't parred that hole yet, so I'd like to par that one. That's a goal. 
 I've enjoyed my experience so much being out there. I think I'm still top 30 right now, so I'm still right there. I know that probably eight back or now the lead is probably a little bit too far out of sight. But Pettersson put up a 60 today, so obviously it's out there, and I don't see why I can't shoot a 60 out there either. I'm hitting it well, just a few more putts go in and it could be lights out. 

 Q. Adam, talk about the nerves. Were you surprised by how nervous you were?
 ADAM HADWIN: I actually thought I was going to be more nervous. I actually felt pretty calm all day today. I think it was -- I just kind of got into a groove, and I was seeing shots. I had good lines all day. I just wasn't able to hit the shots when I needed to at times and maybe a few of the putts at times as well. 
 But I really actually felt really confident out there today. 

 Q. Are you happy? I mean you know some people would look at even, this is however many five, six tournaments. Are you happy with where you stand?
 ADAM HADWIN: I'm never happy. I'm never satisfied. I think -- I put the most pressure on myself to do well, but every day, even if I shoot, you know, starting off the Nationwide I shot 64. I wasn't satisfied. I felt like I could get more. But I think that's golf. I think everybody comes in not satisfied with the way they played, but I am happy. I'm content. But I am looking to play well tomorrow and get back up there. 

 Q. A day ago the fans may not have known you, now you're all over the papers and the TV and everything. Did you get the rock star treatment out there?
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. It was awesome. I tell you, I was having so much fun out there today. That cheer on 1 when they announced my name at the tee was big; and the birdie on 1, and that eagle on 9 was -- I've never had so many people following me before. And to hit three really good shots on 9 and make that -- I think it was about a 25-footer on 9 for eagle or something like that, it sent shivers down my back. I mean it was -- it's unexplainable. You know, hopefully I'll be able to have that a lot more coming these next few years.

 Q. I know the rest of us if we stood on a tee and had that many people watching us, we'd shank it. Do you have to remind yourself not to think about that or are you just trying to soak it in?
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. I mean obviously I'm not thinking shank when I walk up to a tee. That might not be a good swing thought. 
 But I just think once -- you know, I've played it for so long. I've played so many tournaments that it just becomes no different even though the crowd's there. I really thought that I'd be affected by the crowd more. But it just becomes -- you see the fairway; you don't really see the crowd, even around the tee boxes. So you just see your line and the shot that you want to hit.

 Q. Yesterday we were talking about the Canadian Tour and how it prepared you for not only inside the ropes, but all the things that go on and occur outside the ropes, hotels, that kind of thing. Is that what this experience is doing for you, too? Talk about the big crowds that are now following you, kind of giving you the rock star treatment, having to deal with all that as well as your game. How important is that to you?
 ADAM HADWIN: Oh, it's huge. You only play with so many people watching you on the Canadian Tour, and it's usually only the last couple groups, four or five groups back from the leader, maybe 20, 30 people, mostly family and friends, that kind of stuff. But to be out here with hundreds of people or thousands of people; and 18, coming up on 18, the stadium is full. I wish it was a little nicer day, actually. It would be more people out there. It's a lot of fun, and I hope that I never lose that perspective because I think some guys can. But it's a lot of fun being out there, even if I play bad. 

 Q. What have you been hearing from the folks back in Abbotsford?
 ADAM HADWIN: They're loving it. I think they're having more fun than I am. I checked my email yesterday. I had 59 emails after the round. Not everybody got responded to. 
 I couldn't ask for anything more. The support I'm getting from back home, I talked to my dad for 20, 25 minutes last night. He said he got no work done yesterday, and he was just at the computer and like refresh, refresh, refresh, refresh, that kind of thing when I wasn't on the TV. So it's been a lot of fun. I hope they're enjoying it as much as I am because this is as much theirs as it is mine. All my support is back home.

 Q. You just mentioned about how you never want to lose that and forget about it. Jon Mills was talking, normally he plays on the Nationwide Tour, he wouldn't play the Canadian Open because he's trying to get in through the Money List. He said he changed that this year because he just wanted to get that feeling back about playing on TOUR. Is that the same sort of thing that you're talking about, just to get that feeling? Can you understand where he's coming from?
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. Yeah, I can. Yeah. I mean those guys on the Nationwide obviously are chasing a huge prize to get in the Top-25 and get on TOUR. And it's a hard decision. 
 I know Justin Rose this year decided to go to the Nationwide instead of coming here to try and bolster his Money List standing and stuff like that. 
 But being Canadian and playing in this championship now is the greatest feeling I think there is besides winning it. I think the fan support for every Canadian out there is huge, and I think that'll put fun back in your game pretty quickly. 

 Q. If you were going to update your blog post after three rounds at the Canadian Open, how would you sum it up? 
 ADAM HADWIN: Probably smiley face, smiley face, smiley face. That's about it. I'm still on cloud 9. I know I shot 8-under. I'm disappointed in that, missing that shot on 16. But I mean I'm surprised you guys wanted to talk to me again. But it's so much fun for me right now. I'm having a blast. 
 DOUG MILNE: All right. Adam, we appreciate your time. Good luck tomorrow.
 ADAM HADWIN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT