RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
Adam Hadwin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURY LIVSEY: We'd like to welcome Adam Hadwin into the interview room. You followed up your 68 yesterday with a very fine 66 today. Can you talk about your round? 
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. It was a great round. It was nice to get off to a good start, birdied 1, rolled in about a 15-footer to kind of get it started and then played real solid golf on that front nine. 
 No mistakes; hit it in the middle of the green. I tossed in a three-putt, unfortunately, but I had five other birdies on the front, I think. Four other birdies. Sorry. 
 LAURY LIVSEY: And you're the low Canadian right now. 
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. Yeah. So that's pretty exciting for me. I knew coming up to that putt on 18 I looked at the scoreboard and I saw Ames at 5, and I knew I was at 6, so I wanted to make that putt to stay low Canadian. That was a huge momentum boost for me for the weekend.
 LAURY LIVSEY: Let's take some questions. 

 Q. This is your first PGA TOUR event; correct?
 ADAM HADWIN: Correct, yeah.

 Q. So why weren't you more nervous on the course the first two days?
 ADAM HADWIN: Oh, I was. You just couldn't tell. 
 Oh, no. I was. That putt on 17 I missed for par, I was shaking. For some reason I get nervous over par putts, but that putt on 18 I was real nervous in front of the crowd. But was able to put together a good aggressive stroke for it.

 Q. Your playing partners both suggested that they didn't notice any degree of nervousness, said you played quite -- I think Jon Mills said quite fearlessly, like you had no concerns at all. He said you were really aggressive throughout. How did you maintain -- if that wasn't the actual internal feeling, how did you maintain that?
 ADAM HADWIN: I just tried to keep the same routine every shot to try and take that pressure off of it and not try and do anything different from a normal course. 
 My caddy's been really good. I'm an aggressive player as it is, so I don't like to take kind of casual lines. I want to stay aggressive. That way the swing will stay tight and I'll be able to hit some good shots.

 Q. Adam, how would you attribute your success as a rookie on the Canadian Tour, coming out of San Diego with an exemption for the year? Couple of -- I think three Top 10s, and you had a T13 last week in Winnipeg. How do you attribute your success?
 ADAM HADWIN: Consistency. I've been hitting the ball for probably almost two months now. Even down in Mexico, I've been -- I haven't gotten into any trouble. I think I've only lost two golf balls in two months. 
 So that, and, you know, obviously I've been working with my coach, Brett Saunders, on making sure that the swing stays tight and stays consistent. 
 And then I work hard on the putting. I want to make sure that those like putts on 18 go in for me. But I really think it's the ball striking. I just don't get into any trouble. 

 Q. What's the biggest check you've cashed so far?
 ADAM HADWIN: 24,000. 

 Q. And how much help is having a local guy -- where does he help you specifically?
 ADAM HADWIN: He helps me with the lines. I have played this course now four times, so I have a pretty good feel of where I'm going, but it's just that reassurance that you don't get from a caddy on the Canadian Tour. I can look to him and I can say, this line with this shot, and he goes, yeah, absolutely. It's a great target. 

 Q. You've got the club champion on the bag; right?
 ADAM HADWIN: I do, yeah.

 Q. How did that come together?
 ADAM HADWIN: A member from my home golf course at Morgan Creek is also a member here, and I guess he made a phone call and asked him if he's like to caddy and he jumped on it, and it's been a good fit.

 Q. What's his name?
 ADAM HADWIN: Craig Sinclair. I just heard that he might even be a seven-time club champion.

 Q. So he knows this place?
 ADAM HADWIN: I think he knows this place a bit better than I do, yeah.

 Q. So aside from just reading the lines, he probably doesn't have a lot of caddy experience. I mean what's he helped you out and how does that relationship work when you didn't know him until this week?
 ADAM HADWIN: Well, he's a great player in his own right, so he's able to, maybe not so much with the clubs, but distances. He's very good at telling me, okay, I got 155, it's going to play 160, so we need to hit it 160. And then I got a better idea of what I can take that club. 

 Q. When you get inside the ropes, and throw away the crowd, the fans, all that kind of stuff, what's the biggest difference between here and the Canadian Tour?
 ADAM HADWIN: Short game. I think every level you kind of go up, the short game just gets a little bit better every time.

 Q. Course setup wise. 
 ADAM HADWIN: Oh, course setup? Longer rough. But really, these past few weeks on the Canadian Tour the greens have been really good for us. They've been quite fast, too. 
 But these greens at St. George's definitely have a lot of slope. I've heard some guys saying that this is a lot of slope compared to some events that they play as well.

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. Well, I've been able to keep that out of my mind so far. And I think that's the reason why I've been playing so well. 

 Q. For those of us that maybe aren't that familiar with you, can you tell us how you got involved in the game and kind of a brief history of how you got here?
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. My dad's a golf pro. He's a teaching pro back home at Morgan Creek. I think, from what I remember, he'd go teach and I'd go hit balls on the far end of the range as a two-year-old. But really, those middle years I played every other sport, played basketball, soccer, baseball. I was a big baseball player. And didn't really pick it up until I was like 13 or 14, and I decided that winter, I think I got injured from basketball, and I decided to just hit balls and practice golf and see how that summer went; and then if I enjoyed it and loved it, then I'll play golf. And that's kind of how it happened. 

 Q. Adam, in your wildest dreams, given what you've been through to get here, would you have imagined that after the second round you'd just be four off the lead and be the low Canadian?
 ADAM HADWIN: No. Absolutely not. Even this right here is my dream. This is -- I mean I'll sit here all day if you want with me. Literally. 
 No, this is an absolute -- the way my year has progressed so far is just I couldn't ask for anything more. And you know, when I get out on the golf course, it's all business, but off the course, I kind of have to pinch myself and think is this really real? Am I really doing this right now? So it's been a lot of fun, I can say that.

 Q. Looking at your blog online --
 ADAM HADWIN: The non-updated one? 

 Q. Yeah. What's wrong with that?
 ADAM HADWIN: (Laughs). Oh, God. I'm bad with those things. Yeah, I do update my results at least. 
 But you know, honestly, it's just laziness. I'm actually a pretty lazy guy. It's just -- I really didn't -- sorry. 

 Q. Why did you start it?
 ADAM HADWIN: Well, I originally started it to, I guess, give the guys back home that invested some money in me a little bit of, I guess, inside-the-ropes action to kind of what's going through my mind as I'm traveling and kind of going through the paces, help them better understand kind of what I'm going through. Unfortunately I haven't updated to, so they don't know. 
 But I talk to them. I do talk to the members when I'm back home. 

 Q. You got a little consortium together?
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. I got one company sponsor, Belfor Restoration Services. They help out big time. I have them on my bag. 
 And then I got six guys from my home golf course to throw in some money for me to just kind of get me started. And then that money has obviously gotta be repaid. 

 Q. How much?
 ADAM HADWIN: I got 60. 60,000 to start. 

 Q. What's their return? Do they get 10 percent back?
 ADAM HADWIN: Well, they get -- after all my expenses are paid for the year, they get 75 percent of the earnings up to after the first year, I think it's 13 percent. So I made them a deal they couldn't refuse. 
 I'm hoping they're watching this and I can only give them the 10 back and they'll be happy with that. So I hope you're watching. 

 Q. Do you think you can win this week?
 ADAM HADWIN: Absolutely. I don't go into any tournament without trying to win. If I can control my nerves and continue to hit the ball like I have, then I have a chance. And I'm only four shots off the lead. Three? Three shots. Oh, even better then. 
 And it's only getting tougher out there right now with the wind coming up. I don't know how many guys are going to go lower than 9. 
 I got the pleasure of playing with Brent the first two rounds. He played unbelievable that first round, and a really solid round of golf today. So it was a pleasure, but I think I'm right there anyway.

 Q. Are you going to play the rest of the Canadian Tour this year and then Q-School in the fall?
 ADAM HADWIN: As of right now, that's the plan, yeah. Obviously I'm looking to play well this weekend and get in next week. But if that doesn't pan out, yeah, that's the plan.

 Q. You said your father is an instructor? 
 ADAM HADWIN: He is, yeah.

 Q. What's his name?
 ADAM HADWIN: Jerry Hadwin.

 Q. And is he your instructor?
 ADAM HADWIN: No. No. He worked with me when I first started out, and then we kind of butted heads a little bit, so he had to pass me off to his name is Brett Saunders.

 Q. And would your dad be here this week?
 ADAM HADWIN: Unfortunately my dad's not. I wish my whole family could have came up. He works in the golf shop at Morgan Creek as well, and I think they're understaffed this week. There's only -- I think he should do something about it and fly out on the red eye tonight, but no. My mom couldn't make it out, unfortunately, either. 

 Q. Would your dad ever give you tips when he sees you on TV and call you up?
 ADAM HADWIN: Oh, yeah. Absolutely. He wouldn't -- I mean now that we've gotten past my younger years, I've kind of matured a little bit, so I see where he's coming from a little bit more. But he's been great. 
 You know, I couldn't ask for any more support from him. He's my eye when Brett isn't here. So absolutely. 

 Q. Adam, what things have you taken from your brief experience on the Canadian Tour to the Canadian Open?
 ADAM HADWIN: Well, really to not waste a shot is one of the biggest ones. Once you get even to the Canadian Tour level, every shot matters. 
 You know, even in junior golf I used to kind of walk up, tap in three or four-footers and I'd have almost one of those a tournament. I mean you just can't do that out here. 
 That, and I'm just having too much fun. I'm enjoying this way too much.

 Q. You're going to probably have a later tee time tomorrow. 
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah.

 Q. Obviously some of the guys are going to have to come back and finish tomorrow morning. What are you going to do with yourself now?
 ADAM HADWIN: I'm going to the Argos game tonight. 

 Q. Are you?
 ADAM HADWIN: Oh, yeah. Lions are in town. I gotta go cheer for my Lions. I talked to player services. I got tickets, and I'm going to the game tonight.

 Q. So a couple of beers?
 ADAM HADWIN: Might have a couple, yeah. I am legal age here right? Okay. I just want to make sure. 

 Q. You were able to get tickets?
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. I got an extra one if you want to come. (Laughs). No, I'm just going to enjoy my night.

 Q. Are you staying in town?
 ADAM HADWIN: Yeah. I'm actually staying with a very nice family, the Durans. They're just down the straight, and a member from my golf course back home, it's his brother, so they invited me in their home, and I can't thank them enough for that.

 Q. Will you sleep easily on this?
 ADAM HADWIN: I've slept well the last two nights. That's one thing I've really never had an issue with is sleeping. 
 As I mentioned earlier, I'm pretty lazy, and it's a pretty comfortable bed, so once I hit the pillow, I'm usually out.
 LAURY LIVSEY: Anything else? Adam, we appreciate your time. Thanks for coming in. 
 ADAM HADWIN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT