BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 3, 2005
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH:  Jose Maria, thank you for stopping by the media center.  Nice playing out there today.  If you would comment on your round, please.
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Well, it's been kind of a special one or a strange one, call it whatever you want.  The front nine I shot 40 with two shots penalty on No. 8.  Then the back nine, I had a great back nine.  I mean, I made birdies on 10, 11.  I chipped it in on 14 and I think that was the turning point on the back nine.  It kept things going my way, and three straight birdies, obviously very pleased with the round.
JOHN BUSH:  What was the key to keeping it together after a disappointing front nine.
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Well, actually, you know, I was trying to be patient.  When I finished the front nine with 40, I thought, okay, 10 is a reachable par 5, if I can make birdie there; then 11, with the tee being on the right-hand side, it was a short iron on to the green.  So I thought, okay, see if we can take advantage of that and then play golf from then on.  That's what happened.  And then as I said, I think the chip-in on 14, it was very good.
Q.  Would you just describe what happened on No. 8?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Yeah, on No. 8, I missed my tee shot in the right bunker.  I hit my second shot from the bunker, the ball pitched outside the bunker and then came back in.  And then by then I already hit the sand with my club, so it was two strokes penalty.
Q.  Was the ball outside?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Yes, already on the way in.
Q.  So you knew instantly what it meant?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Yeah, when my club hit the sand, I knew it was a penalty.
Q.  Frustration with the -- inaudible?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Let's put it this way, the club fell from my hands --
Q.  Inaudible?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Not really, I think more a reflex than anything else, you know.
JOHN BUSH:  Take us through your round starting with the bogey on 1.
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Well, it's going to be a long chat.  On No. 1, driver, 7-iron short of the green, chipped it about nine feet, 2-putted.

3, 5-wood, sand wedge, holed it from 15 feet.

6, driver, 5-iron, 9-iron, sand wedge about six feet, 2-putted.

8, bunker, bunker, hit the third shot about two inches from the hole.

10, driver, 5-wood, chipped it about a foot.

11, 9-iron about 12 feet, made it.

14, driver, chipped it in from 15 yards from the hole more or less.

16, 7-iron, chipped it in from eight yards.

17, driver, 5-iron, holed it from 18, 20 feet.

18, driver, 3-wood, 2-putted from 25, 30 feet, something like that.
JOHN BUSH:  We appreciate you coming by.  Play well tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT