WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 1999
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I hit the first with driver, 8-iron, one-and-a-half-meters putt.
Bogeyed the 7th, driver, 1-iron, sand iron, 10 meters for two-putt. 8, birdie, one iron,
wedge, 15-meters putt. On the 10th, I went into the water with a 3-wood and then I holed
an 8-meter putt to save par. Birdied 12 with 7-iron and 2-meters putt. I'm obviously happy
with the round, 2-under par. And it's a pretty good score taking into consideration the
weather conditions with the wind and the direction of the wind was just completely the
opposite to the previous days. But I'm a little disappointed with the way I drove the
ball. I missed like four or five drives, and it cost me a couple of shots and but it could
have been a couple more. That might affect the chances for my week towards winning. I
played here quite a few times and even in the best of my physical condition I've been able
to score much worse than 2-over par, so that didn't affect that much. Obviously tomorrow,
depending on how the leaders finish today, there is a chance of winning the tournament if
there is like two or three shots, no more, because it's a golf course that's very
difficult to score more, and that's the reason why it's very difficult to really give up
more than two or three shots on this golf course. As far as Miguel, Miguel's chances are
really good. He is really playing well, especially the second part of the season, he's
playing very, very steady. He knows the golf course really well. And I think it is a golf
course that suits his game, because he's very straight off the tee, and that is something
you really need around here. And obviously he lives close by, and every time we play a
tournament near where he lives he does well, so we better watch out. As far as the birdie
chances, I had one on the 5th, from 9 feet. 12, I missed from four or five feet -- sorry,
on 11, I missed from four or five feet. On 13, about 15 feet. On 15, from 9 feet, those
are the birdie chances that didn't make it.

Q. Two things, what do you think was the key to your round today? And the other thing
was, you played with Monte, can you talk a bit about his game today?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I played with Monte also last week, and he's playing really well.
He's striking the ball well, let's put it that way. He's starting to score -- he didn't
make one putt until 15 today. And the other one, it was 18. So with that kind of average
there is no way you're going to score low. But he's really striking the ball very, very
well.

Q. What was the key to your round?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I think it was those two or three long putts that I made. The long
putt I made on No. 8 and the long putt I made on No. 10. I think that putt I made on 10 I
kept the momentum going. I think those two putts were the key today.

Q. (Question in Spanish.)

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I was asked about -- he thought I was upset with the round today.
But I said that that was not the situation. I was serious, but I was never upset. I even
joked before hitting my tee shot on the first, because I was playing with Monte,
obviously, and one of the cork trees near the tee, one branch fall down, I don't know how,
but it fall down, and I said to Monte, Monte, even before I tee off the trees are scared
of me. So it might have looked like I was upset, but I wasn't.

Q. (Question in Spanish.)

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: She asked who I think is going to win the tournament, and I said
before the round is finished it's very difficult to say or to guess who might be the
players that are going to be in contention tomorrow. But obviously, as I said before,
Miguel has a good chance, if he doesn't make any mistakes at the end of the round, I think
he has a great chance of winning tomorrow. And I believe they will have to score well
tomorrow to win.

Q. You said you weren't upset at the start of the round, do you think perhaps Colin
was?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: No, he wasn't.

Q. It certainly looked as if he was.

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I think Monte -- we don't smile a lot, let's put it that way. I
don't think he was upset. It's just something that develops during the round. You start
playing well, striking the ball well, he had his birdie chances, never made one. You see
the holes are going by, you know you need a pretty good round to have a chance the
following day. That's what happened today. I didn't see Monte upset at the start of the
round, at all. But that's my point of view, obviously. You might be right, I don't know.

Q. Do you think his temper helps him on the course or hinders him?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, he hasn't done bad, has he? Difficult to say, when you win
seven times in a row. But obviously I think sometimes he's a little bit tough on himself,
like some of us are. But nobody is perfect. We know that accuracy on the golf course is
very important, to help to go through the round in a way that might help our score a
little more. But Monte is the way he is. He has done really very, very well. I would love
to see him do better, but it's not happening at the moment.

Q. Where do you rank this tournament, personally, and what would it mean to you to win
it?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I think it's very difficult to -- a tournament to consider it one
of the most important tournaments. You need to have some history. It's very difficult when
a tournament is starting, when it's born, anyway, it's very difficult to say it's a great
tournament. But obviously when you look at the field, to me it's one of the most important
tournaments we play in the year, without a doubt. What would it mean to me to win it? I
would be thrilled. I would love to win, especially because we have a strong field. I would
love to win it.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT