WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 1999
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I played okay today on the front 9. I didn't manage to make any
putts, but I did play well from the 14 on, and managed to make 3-putts on the last three
holes to score 2-under par, which I think is a pretty good number. 
 
Q. For those of us who knew Payne Stewart well, it's been a pretty tough couple of
weeks. How have you been able to compartmentalize and focus on your golf, and what are
some of your favorite memories of Payne now that he's gone?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, memories, you cannot pick just one, because there are many.
I played with him at the Ryder Cup quite a few times. Every one was special, even once he
came and joined us for the practice. That tells you quite a bit about the kind of
character he was. How much of a good person he was and a good sportsman he was. He was
always a gentleman on the golf course. Every time I played with him I really did enjoy it
a lot, playing with him. It has been really tough this week, especially last week. Last
week was quite awful, to be honest. Obviously as time goes by everything seems to ease up
a bit. But we will never forget him, anyway. It's a big loss. It's sad, really sad. 
 
Q. Have you found it tough to focus on your golf or are you able to get that back now?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Sometimes when you're on the golf course and things are not going
your way or you just missed a couple of shots or whatever, it seems like, you know, it
clicks. And making those mistakes, they're not all that important anymore. 
 
Q. (Question in Spanish).
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Yesterday was -- I was just trying to play 18 holes. Yesterday I
was not so much worried about the scoring, but obviously after today's round and the way
I'm feeling at the moment, if I finish 4- or 5-under par, the weekend would be more
interesting. If I manage to play two solid rounds on the last two and score well, I might
have a chance to win the tournament, especially around here, if the wind blows a little
bit. 
 
Q. (Question in Spanish).
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I was asked about the missed chances on the front 9. Yes, I was
really upset on the front 9 because those birdie chances, you know that if you miss those
chances or you don't take advantage of those chances on this golf course early in the
round you're going to struggle later in the round to have a good round, so in that sense,
I was really upset, yes. 
 
Q. (Question in Spanish).
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I was asked about my game, if it was better than last week. And I
said, yes, it is much better than last week. The golf course was much wider, much easier
than this one; in that sense, the game was better than it was, last week, obviously. 
 
Q. (Question in Spanish).
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: The approach after the front nine, how was it? Obviously I was
1-over par after 9 holes and I was really upset, because I was not scoring well. But all
you can do is just try to hold on and what you need is to make a couple of putts here and
there, and that's when you need to be more positive and to try your best again. That's
what happened. I made a good putt on 11 and it seemed to turn things around. 
 
Q. (Question in Spanish).
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I was asked about the physical condition. Today it was perfect. I
was a little sore because of all the therapy I got, but the flexibility and mobility was a
hundred percent. 
 
Q. (Question in Spanish). 
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I was asked about if I'm thinking positively about the weekend,
especially after today's round, 2-under par, because I have been -- all year long I have
been pretty inconsistent during the tournaments. I've had a good round here and there, but
all of a sudden I spoiled it with two bad ones on the weekend or whatever. But at the
moment I'm thinking positively, looking at the weekend and whatever happens on the
weekend, I don't know. But right now I'm looking forward to it. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT