WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 24, 1999
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Almost every one. What I really don't understand is how the hell I
shot 61. But yeah, I will never forget that day. It was a very special day and a very
special week. The first round was a 61, but then I have three 67s to go with it, which
around here is very good. It's par 70. A score that is under par is a great score. 
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: When I played that day, the start was fantastic. I was 5-under par
after four holes. Half of the job was done already. When I shot the 9-under par, actually
I missed a couple of short putts. Obviously, I made a few good ones before then. But I
missed a 4-footer on 15, and then a birdie chance on 16 and 17. It didn't look to me like,
you know, it was all that difficult that day. Everything seemed to be in place. Driving
was good, irons were fantastic, and I made a few good putts. You know, if felt really easy
that day. It's one of those things that are very difficult to explain. But, you know, when
you go through a feeling like that, when you are standing on the tee, and pretty much you
know that the ball is going to go where you want to hit it. It seems to be very easy. 
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: It's as tough as hell. My goodness, I've gone through a bunch of
tournaments here, I've been struggling since the U.S. Open. I had a good last round at the
Memphis tournament. But since then, when I hurt my right hand, silly, silly mistake from
my part. But, you know, I haven't been driving the ball well. And, you know, somehow it
gets onto me on the course. You know, yesterday I really had a lovely round and drove the
ball best ever, I think, yesterday. And then today I was, you know, really happy and stand
on the first tee. I miss the 1st one; I miss the 3rd one; and I make the 4th one. And all
of the sudden we're going back to usual stuff again. And it was a tough day again today.
Somehow the last few holes, it gets onto me. I can't keep on fighting and fighting and
trying to save pars. Today, I was having a decent round; and then, all of the sudden, I
shot like 5- or 6-over par on the last six holes. It's very difficult. I think, you know,
when you go through a period like the one I'm going through, I think I have to enjoy the
game a little bit more, but it's definitely hard when you don't hit the ball like you want
to. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.) -- in the Ryder Cup. By your own admission, and I've seen you the last
few weeks, you're not playing very well. Are you concerned about that, because there's
going to be such pressure on you to perform?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Every year is the same. It doesn't matter how I am playing
everybody is expecting me to do well at the Ryder Cup. That is not going to change this
year. Obviously, I am not hitting the ball well, as I said. But there is three more weeks
before the tournament starts, and hopefully I'm going to take a couple weeks off after
this week. And that, hopefully, will rest my mind. And, at the same time, I will work on
my game. And hopefully, I will get some positive things from here before the Ryder Cup
starts. And hopefully I'll do well there. But for me, it's not going to change anything. I
think I'm going to have pretty much the same amount of pressure as the last few Ryder
Cups. Everybody was expecting me to do well before, and it's going to be pretty much the
same situation this year. 
 
Q. Will you go back to Spain for the two weeks?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Yes, that's my intention anyway. 
 
Q. I asked David Duval if he thought that this tournament -- I asked him to compare the
World Series of Golf to the NEC Invitational. I asked him if he thought, with the new
eligibility format, this tournament has a chance to be any better, and he said no, he
didn't think it could have gotten any better with the new format. For someone who has won
twice, do you think that this tournament has a chance to elevate the tournament status?
I'm not talking about money, but I'm talking about stature.
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Stature of the tournament, I think the field is really strong.
Look at the field this week. I don't know any other years if you had a stronger field than
this one. I don't know, there were good players, plus some others that are not that great.
But they prove they are really good and consistent. You know, every year, we play around
45 players, 47 players here. And I don't think this field has gotten any weaker. 
 
Q. You've gone in what seems like a few short years from being one of the youngest
players on the Ryder Cup to being a senior player. Are there additional responsibilities
associated with that? Are you going to have to be kind of a father figure to these guys
and show these guys the ropes?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I hope they know their way well enough anyway. Well, the situation
has changed in that sense, obviously, but that's a matter of life. Time goes by, and
nobody gets any younger. Some players will give them for the new players, and that's the
situation. But the way -- the amount of pressure that there is in all the tournaments
nowadays, I think everybody that -- it doesn't matter how young you are. I think once
you've reached this level, I think you are really prepared mentally to face a situation
like that. You can give some advice to the newcomers. But at the end of the day, they are
the only ones that have to face the situations. They will have to be prepared for that. 
 
Q. Jose, you said in May at Wentworth that we shouldn't be too expectant of Sergio and
to let him go along on his own way. Has what he achieved actually surprised you?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: It surprised me in a way. Not completely. What surprised me in a
way was how quickly he did things and how good those things were. You don't expect a
player to play tournaments and win one of them and finish second on the PGA. You know,
virtually has his card here; has his card in Europe. You know, that is -- that is
impressive. I knew he had the potential. I think nobody had any doubts about that. But,
you know, to be honest, I was maybe thinking, you know, next year would be a great year
for him. This year would be good enough just to play a few tournaments, do well enough to
have the card in Europe, and then really concentrate on the game next year. But, well, he
moved quick. 
 
Q. Have you talked to him about the Ryder Cup?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: No, not really. No. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, it's up to Mark James. I've always played with Seve and
Nacho (Ignacio Garrido) and Constantino. I feel more comfortable with a player that speaks
my own language. But I don't think that should be any problem if I had to play with
somebody else on the team. 
 
Q. Did you think he wouldn't make the Ryder Cup?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: In a way, I was saying that to take as much pressure out of him as
possible. I knew that all you guys would -- you know, eager to write things about him. I
don't think that was the right situation for him. The main reason was just that one,
obviously. But he proved me wrong, anyway. 
 
Q. You said that took some of the pressure off. Does he handle things much differently
than a regular 19-year-old?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I don't think so. I think when you're a 19-year-old, you have no
fear, have you? You don't have anything to lose; nothing to lose. 19 years old, what you
achieve is going to be good. There is no pressure at all. No responsibility. And I think
he's taken advantage of it. The picture might change in a couple years' time -- three,
four years time. Maybe he keeps on doing that, and shows and everybody will expect him to
win every tournament that he tees off. And, you know, sometimes you don't feel that
comfortable in that situation. But I think, you know, as I said, when you are 19 years
old, I think that's the right attitude. That's the one that you have to have. 
 
Q. Have you talked to him since the PGA? Have you given him any advice on how to follow
up and deal with the success that he's had?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: What kind of advice can you give a guy that just finished second
at the PGA? (Laughter.) Well, I saw him at the International, obviously. I never gave him
any advice. He knows very well what he wants. I think he has that very clear in his mind.
In that sense, I don't think I can give him any advice. 
 
Q. Is no fear, no responsibility, no pressure, is that a good combination to play on
the Ryder Cup? Is that an effective combination? 
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, it is, obviously. If you can achieve that attitude and have
those feelings, of course, that is good, not just for the Ryder Cup, for any tournament. 
 
Q. Jose, when you get ready for the Ryder Cup or any match play tournament, do you find
that you allocate more practice time to your short game because of the fact that there are
a lot of momentum swings with chip-ins, long putts holed? Do you find that in your case?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Not in my case. I've won -- my short game's pretty much the same
during all the tournaments. Obviously, because of the situation right now with my driving,
I've spent more time on the driving range, and I think that might affect my short game a
little bit. I know that. I will try to practice the short game like it should be
practiced. But at the same time, I cannot. Somehow, I have to improve my driving. If you
don't put the ball on the fairway, it's very difficult to attack the greens or attack the
flags. You are always playing defensive for a par. It doesn't matter at that time if your
short game is really good, you might save a par. But at the end of the day, that's the
best score you're going to have if you keep on hitting roughs and not fairways. So, you
know, I have to work both parts of the game, because both of them are really important.
Before, driving obviously was important. But the fairways were wider. The rough was not
all that tough. Nowadays you have fairways which are 18 yards wide and the rough is really
thick. As soon as you miss the fairway, you virtually have to break your hand just to chip
it out. Obviously, chipping and putting is a very important part of the game, obviously.
But they go together. 
 
Q. Have you found in past Ryder Cups and match-play scenarios that a chip-in or a
long-putt holed is for yourself the most conducive for adrenaline, and on the flipside for
the opponent, is the most devastating?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Of course. You will have a situation where you're 12 feet from the
hole and you might be 20 feet away and make that putt, and it's a whole different ball
game. Obviously, you know that chips-in and making long putts, that's going to be the key.
If you look at the Ryder Cup which Nick Faldo and Jim Furyk played together, look at those
14 or 15 holes. Faldo hit both holes -- shots about a couple feet from the hole and Jim
made a chip shot from the bunker. Look at that swinging there. Instead of being 1-up, he
was 1-down. Short game is always important. Without a doubt. But obviously, as I said, you
need to have the rest of the game, too. 
 
Q. I'm trying to remember, did you play in the 88 U.S. Open at Brookline?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: No, I didn't. I've never played Brookline before. 
 
Q. Have you ever seen the course?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: No, never. I'm not going to go before. 
 
Q. Have you ever seen -- how old was Sergio when you first heard of him, and how
important is he to the future of golf in Spain?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: He's going to be important. I think, you know, with Seve and other
players before myself, I think one of the reasons Sergio is there is because of what we
achieved before. And I think if Sergio -- it's a great thing to see a young kid, 19 years
old, doing so well, because they are going to show that on TV back home, and that is going
to encourage some other young boys to catch up with the game and practice harder. Because
they know if Sergio has done it, why, I can do it, too. I think that's going to be great
for the game back home. 
 
Q. Is that a burden for him at all?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I don't think so. As I said, he has his mind where he wants, and I
don't think that's going to put any extra pressure on him at all. 
 
Q. Before we started, we kidding you about going to Baker's and maybe I'm reading too
much into it. Your weeks here seem to be very comfortable for you. Is this one of the
better places from frame of mind point of view that you have on the TOUR every year, Akron
area, and does that make -- do you think that translates on the course?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I really don't think so. I mean, every time I come here, game, I
have a lot of good things going for my game, and I think that's the reason why I've been
able to do well here in Akron. Obviously, I feel comfortable because I do have one place
where I can eat really nice. I like the golf course, too. I think it's a very demanding
golf course. You have to be straight off the tee. Greens are really small. The angles have
to be very precise, and you need to have a great short game at the same time. So when I go
here -- when I won in 1990, I didn't play all that well the week before at the
International, but I had a lot of good things that I took with me from that week. Driving
was not that good, but I managed to drive the ball well that week and that's why I managed
to score very well. The same thing happened when I won in '94. At the International, I was
feeling really comfortable. I hit the ball pretty well during that week, even though I
didn't manage to put some great scores there. But I was bringing some confidence with me
to this week. Right now is not the same situation. It's not the same feeling. But, you
know, I'll try to do the best I can this week. Hopefully, you know, I do have another day
and this whole afternoon to practice my game and see if I can manage to get some of that
feeling that I need. 
 
Q. Quick follow-up: How old was Sergio when you first heard of him, and how popular is
golf becoming in Spain compared to the United States?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: When I first heard of him he was 15 years old, four years ago. He
was playing on the International Team, and everybody was talking about him: How good he
was, how long he was. I think, you know, how popular is he going to be for the game of
golf -- 
 
Q. How popular is golf in Spain?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Not very popular. It's getting much better now, obviously. But if
I can answer you -- to that question, maybe at the PGA, the ratings for PGA for TV one day
showed that golf, it was really very, very high, even as big as when they show a soccer
match back home, which is a very popular sport there. You know, that is a great sign. 
 
Q. You said that you haven't driven well since the U.S. Open. Do you feel that your own
miscalculation, shall we say, is a part of that?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: No, not at all. I didn't drive the ball well before the Masters,
or even just after the Masters. There was nothing to do with the miscalculation.
(Laughing.) 
 
Q. With the Ryder Cup, we're 7 rookies to their 1; we are playing on their ground and
you are one of the senior players, and not feeling as strong as you like. What positives
could you offer to counter those negatives?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: You know, I've played a few Ryder Cups already, and I've seen
newcomers, quite a few newcomers on the team, different years, different players. And most
of them, they have done really very, very well. Look at Peter Baker. Peter Baker, when he
played at the Belfry, that was amazing. He played with Woosi, and Woosi said: Well, I did
nothing at all. Everything was done by Peter Baker. It was the first time he was playing
the Ryder Cup, 21 years old. As I said, sometimes being so young and being the first time
you play the Ryder Cup, you don't have the responsibility of doing well. You might be
playing against the best players in the world on paper, without a doubt, and that somehow
might take a lot of pressure off the new players. As I said, they have nothing to lose.
They have nothing to prove to anybody. I think that might be a point on their side -- on
our side. Hopefully, I'm right. Knock on wood. (Knocks on wood.) 
 
Q. We have six Europeans playing against American Ryder Cup players, is that a chance
to make a point or not?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Not really because tomorrow is strokeplay. Ryder Cup is match
play, and we are going to be playing foursomes. I think virtually there is nothing to do
with the tournament itself. It's a completely different format. Now we're going to be
facing completely different situation when we tee off the at Ryder Cup.  
 
Q. Given the two makeups of the two Ryder Cup teams: You have seven rookies, they have
one, and that rookie is Duval. Since you've been playing Ryder Cups, will this be the
hardest time Europe will have in winning the Ryder Cup?
 
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: If you look at the last few Ryder Cups, the U.S. team has been a
very strong team, if you look at the players that were on the team. I mean, very, very
strong players. Strong team. Without a doubt. This time, I think we are leaving a
transition here in our side. We're not going to see the Faldos, the Woosnams, the Langers,
the Seves. In that sense, it might be tougher for us, because before, pretty much, we knew
how the pairings were going to be or what the pairings were going to be. This year, Mark
James I think is going to have quite a job trying to figure that out. But as I said
before, there is no responsibility for the newcomers. Hopefully, they will feel no fear
when they have to face their opponents. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT