U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 1998
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  It was a long day.  The starting time was delayed 20 minutes and playing the U.S. Open, we know, more or less, that it is going to be a day like this.  The golf course is playing very difficult, and we are going to find ourselves in a very difficult situation sometimes.  So it will take more than the usual time anyway.  But I am pleased the way I played today.  I drove the ball well; which is a rare thing for me.  I am really pleased with the score.

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  I birdied No. 1.  I hit driver, 3-iron, sand wedge; holed a par from five feet.  Then birdied No. 5.  Hit a driver and 9-iron and holed it from a couple of feet.  Bogeyed 17.  Driver, 3-iron, sand wedge, and 2-putt from 5, 6 feet.  18, 1-iron, sand wedge, and holed a putt from 9 feet.

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Well, not spectacular saves, but I made a couple of saves anyway.  I made a pretty good save on 10.  I hit a second shot just over the green and chipped it back and holed the putt from twelve feet more or less.  That was it, mainly.


Q.  It has been an eventful couple of years for you health-wise and game-wise.  How satisfying is it to play this well in the U.S. Open on this good of a course given everything that has happened to you?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  It is very gratifying.  There is no doubt about that.  I like to play these kinds of tournaments like the U.S. Open and the PGA even though they don't suit me because I like the challenge.  I like to put myself in a situation like this and see if I am -- I can overcome a situation like this.  And today I did play well. It was a nice thing.  A great feeling.  Hopefully, I will keep on doing that the next few days.


Q.  When did you last feel this comfortable with a driver in your hand?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  It has been awhile.  At the start of the season this year, I really drove the ball well for three or four weeks.  But, it seems then virtually this  has been the only day.


Q.  A couple of years ago it looked like your career, with the foot problem, like your career, if not over, might be in real jeopardy.  You couldn't play because you couldn't walk.  You know, in the last six months we have had this situation with Casey Martin.  I am just curious from your perspective, as being someone who was literally in his shoes, what you think about that ruling, and do you wish you asked two years ago?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  If I have to be honest with myself and with you guys, I had a chance of playing a tournament back in Europe that didn't count for the Order of Merit.  I was told that I would be able to use a buggy.  I declined the invitation.  I think that walking is part of the game.  Obviously, we all feel sympathy for Casey Martin.  I don't think that anybody would like to see himself in a situation like this anyway.  So it is a very delicate matter, but we will have to wait and see how things develop and what the final result is.


Q.  As you were talking about how well you drove the ball, did you drive it into the rough at all or did you stay in the fairway all day?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  I saw the short grass quite often during the day.  I only missed the fairways just by two, three feet, the fairways -- holes like No. 4 by a couple of feet and 5 pretty much just by two, three yards, no more.


Q.  Are you still bothered at all physically by the condition or are you totally in the clear now?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Well, I am not 100% but I am getting there.  I saw the doctor a few weeks ago and it was all good news.  I was very pleased with the news.  I still have to exercise a little bit, but he reckons that with a little bit more time and more exercise I will get back to 100%.

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  No.  No, just normal.

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT