SEVE TROPHY BY GOLF+
October 6, 2013
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Describe how it feels to take your team to victory.   
JOSÉ MARIA OLAZÁBAL:   Very emotional.   It's been a tough day.   Everything went to the last match.   Well, the boys really played well today and I'm really, really very, very happy to have won the Seve Trophy this time.  
   
 Q.   Talk about how your emotions unfolded, such an exciting day coming down to the final match?  
JOSÉ MARIA OLAZÁBAL:   Well, starting from square, it was going to go down to the last three matches at least.   We had a pretty good start, then Great Britain and Ireland took over and we started to see some reds on the board.   But the boys kept their composure and played really well, especially these last few matches, they played really great golf.   We managed to win it.   I think the first two matches were crucial, No. 1 and 2, to get a point and a half out of those two, it was big.   
   
 Q.   Very much a team situation, bringing this trophy home, but Grégory Bourdy history, five points out of five, special mention for him.   
JOSÉ MARIA OLAZÁBAL:   Yes, special mention for him, especially at his home crowd in front of his people; the way he played, being a rookie, he did extraordinary well.   And as you said, this is a team event.   Everyone contributed, and obviously Greg did it in a big way.   
   
 Q.   What was your best decision of the week?   
JOSÉ MARIA OLAZÁBAL:   It's hard to say.   It's hard to say.   Just I think trying to keep the team spirit, trying to get the players together, play for each other, and maybe today, just putting those two up front.   I knew Sam was going to bring the full artillery up front, and they knew they had a huge task ahead of them.   They did very well.   
   
 Q.   How valuable is this experience for the guys that go onto play Ryder Cup?   
JOSÉ MARIA OLAZÁBAL:   I think you should talk to them, but I think it's huge, it's very important.   You talk to players like Joost or Thorbjørn or Greg, they get a lot of information out of this week, a huge experience, and I think it's always a positive thing.   
   
 Q.   If Paul McGinley asked you to be a vice captain at the next Ryder Cup, would you accept?   
JOSÉ MARIA OLAZÁBAL:   I've always said that we will have to wait and see how everything unfolds next year.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT