SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2011
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: We'd like to welcome Jose Maria Olazabal. Thanks for joining us for a few minutes here prior to the start of the 2011 Shell Houston Open. Why don't we just start off with kind of the obvious question of kind of give us, bring us up to speed on the state of your game and how you're feeling as you're about to start the week off here in Houston.
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: The game is not always that sharp. I missed the cut last week. That doesn't say many good things about it. I'm obviously working on my game. I'm been, as you know, off for quite awhile. I'm trying to, you know, play a few events, try to regain, you know, feel, confidence on the golf course, and apart from that, I'm feeling fairly okay. I'm feeling much better than I was a few months back. So that's a positive sign, and all I'm trying to do, as I said, try to stay competitive and do the best I can.
 DOUG MILNE: Health-wise you're in good condition?
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, not a hundred percent. Still the right arm hurts a little bit, but the rest of the body is feeling better.
 DOUG MILNE: Good. With that we'll go ahead and take a few questions.

 Q. Is it a matter now of just getting in some tournaments and getting the feel back and things like that at this point?
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Well, I think so, yeah. At this point it's more down to, you know, practice a little bit and play a few events, you know, to, again get the feel of competition, playing in tournament conditions which are completely different to what we practice on, obviously tougher conditions being in a tournament. Just get back to the playing rhythm of competition. I think that will help as well, first of all, to know where my game is and to improve from there.

 Q. Is there anything specific, one area of the game that really needs more work than others?
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I would say pretty much everything needs a little bit tuning up. Kind of really, you know, one day could be the driver, next day could be the putting. That's how it's been last three, four weeks. It's not one particular area that is really weak. I think overall it's everything is a little bit off.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay.

 Q. Have you played a practice round?
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I played yesterday, I played 18 holes yesterday, and the golf course is in great shape, I have to say. Conditions are great. Obviously, usually the wind blows around here and looks like the weather is going to be warm from tomorrow on. And I think as I said, just, you know, congratulate the staff for having the golf course in such great shape. And there is no excuses that regard.

 Q. A lot has been made to try to set it up with to simulate Augusta conditions.
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: It's true. The greens are fast, they can be really firm. Last night we had a little bit of rain and that softened the course a little bit. I think by the weekend the golf course will be playing fast and hard. As I said, the greens are quick and they are similar to Augusta, which I think is a great idea to have players come here to -- I don't think saying this, don't get it wrong, to tune-up for next week. I think this tournament is important enough to try to do your best and win this event, but it's true that at the same time, it can be useful in that regard.

 Q. With that being said, can you -- you can't really simulate the undulations and the roll that Augusta has, right?
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: No. The greens at Augusta are more severe than the ones we have here. Chipping around the area, all those runoffs, they're shaved. If you miss the green, you have to either bump and run it or those shots are very, very similar to the ones you can get at Augusta next week.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Jose, we appreciate your time. Best of luck this week.
 JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT