BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2007
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You said in Paris it would be touch and go for this week. What have you done since then? 
 JOSÉ MARIA OLAZÁBAL:  I got blood tests and MRIs done. I've seen  doctors and they gave me anti-infmallatory tablets to take. That's pretty much it. I played 9 holes last Saturday at home and it was fairly okay then on Sunday it started to swell a bit and they had to take off some fluid. I played 18 holes here on Tuesday and actually it was all right. The (left) knee was holding up but when I woke up on Wednesday morning it was the same scenario. The knee swelled up and I went to the Physio Unit and there was some fluid on the knee and they treated it. I didn't play in the Pro-Am. I managed to hit a few balls. That's not the problem. It's the walking. In the afternoon I got more treatment. Went to bed and didn't sleep well and this morning it was the same again, so there was no point in trying to play. The walking in the problem. 

 Q. So what are you doing now? 
 JOSÉ MARIA OLAZÁBAL: I am going back home and getting and MRI on my back tomorrow. I am trying everything because the MRI on the knee came back clean, so something is causing it. We need to know it is. 

 Q. The obvious question now is: have you ruled yourself out of The Open? 
 JOSÉ MARIA OLAZÁBAL: There is a  question mark obviously. I will know by Tuesday next week. I am going to wait as late as possible to see if there is enough improvement. I will give it a try at home first. I will play 18 holes at home and if the knee stands up the following day I will probably travel. Otherwise I won't. I am seeing the doctor tomorrow. I spoke to the physio guys here and the father of Julian Pargade in the Unit is a doctor in France and he reckons he has an MRI machine for sports people which is more precise and they are experts and might pinpoint something that otherwise goes unnoticed. I go home first and have the MRI but depending on the scenario I might fly to France to get the MRI done there. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT