U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2007
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What do you think of the golf course and how did you get it done?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: The golf course is there, it's really tough, first day the weather conditions are good, the greens are softer than they were after the rain we got yesterday and you can see this course, imagine if we don't get any rain and the greens get firmer and firmer by the weekend, it's going to be difficult out there.   



 How I got it done?  I had a good day on the greens, I chipped well, I think those two things just really helped today.   
  
  Q.  That's always been your strength and in that respect is this a good set-up for you?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: I wouldn't say so, I would say you need to hit woods here, I hit shots on the high rough and I couldn't reach the fairway, I couldn't see the ball in two of them so if you hit too many roughs, you're going to struggle, no matter how good you are with your short game, no matter how good you are, because you're not going to give yourself a chance to chip because you're going to have a long fair shot to the green.   
  
  Q.  Was 17 one of those?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: Yeah, I just tried to hit it and get it on to the fairway but I couldn't achieve that and I was -- you know, 10 yards from the fairway.   
  
  Q.  So are you just guessing then?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: Yeah, you don't see the ball, it's all fake, high, take a sand wedge, try to hack it out there and couldn't reach the fairway.   
  
  Q.  The fact that you're at even par, even those three holes, that makes the score more impressive?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: Obviously I'm happy with the score today, don't get my wrong, anything around par here is going to be fantastic. You have to take every day as it comes, to be honest. Try to do the best you can, put yourself in the best possible position and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  Do you remember a round in the States where you were able to converse in Spanish only?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: No, not really. This is the first time ever that I had a group of all Spaniards, yeah.   
  
  Q.  What about Pablo?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: He played really well, I have to say it's the first time I've seen him play under this conditions, and he did very well. He played really solid. His short game is good, so, you know, really good.   
  
  Q.  How much more receptive were the greens?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: They were more receptive, obviously, I played 9 holes yesterday afternoon and they were solid rock. It's a big difference from yesterday afternoon to today. But if the breeze blows a little bit and they don't water the greens and we don't get any more rain, those greens will dry quickly.   
  
  Q.  Is Sergio a victim of the course or struggling himself?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: Well, he didn't play well. He told me he's struggling a little bit at the moment, but, you know, I know he can turn things around. He has the talent, the skill. I'm pretty sure we will see him up there soon.   
  
  Q.  Did Martin ask you at all at any moment, before or after the round about life on tour and maybe some advice?   
   JOSE MARIA OLAZÁBAL: No, we were all trying to concentrate on the task at hand, and we didn't chat much.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT