THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2006
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Well, it was quite bad.  I left a lot of shots on the greens today.  Actually I played really well, especially until I missed that second shot on 11.  And after that it was on and off.  But the putter let me down today, to be honest.
Q.  Jose, the conditions in the afternoon, with the wind blowing a little bit, you really have to keep your mind about you, because you know things might go bad, but you have to forget about it if it does?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Especially on a golf course like this that is so demanding.  You know sooner or later you're going to make mistakes and put yourself in tough positions and make bogeys.

But as you said, we know how this golf course is, we have to be prepared for it and try to deal with it the best we can.
Q.  Even though you did leave shots out there, going into the weekend you're right there.
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Yeah, but I would rather have those shots back.
Q.  Even though you didn't play the way you wanted to and you didn't putt the way you wanted to, you still    you didn't kill yourself out there?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  No, it's true.  All through the years this is a golf course that hasn't suited my game, because it demands a lot of accuracy off the tee.  The greens are very small.  But as you said, there is quite a few positive things.  But at the end of the day it doesn't matter how good you hit the ball from tee to green; if you don't make putts you're not going to score, especially on a golf course like this where you know you're going to miss greens.
Q.  The conditions are tough this weekend, it will take somebody who has their wits about them.
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Their wits, but at the same time, solid play, to be honest.  The guy that wins here is, I think, is going to be the guy that hits most of the fairways and most of the greens.  Otherwise it's going to be a struggle, for sure.
Q.  The putter thing, is it a simple fix, is it something
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  I wish it was simple, I would have fixed it during the round.
Q.  Is it something you're going to work with a lot?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  I can't work today, it's pretty dark now.  I've been working pretty hard last week and this week, and I haven't figured it out.  So, you know, I'll do the same thing tomorrow, come early tomorrow and spend some time on the putting green and see if I can find something.
Q.  Any saves out there, any
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Not really.  Not really.  I played solid.  I didn't make any saves, to be honest.  The only one I made was on 14.  That was from two feet.  As I said, I left a lot of shots on the greens today.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT