VOLVO MASTERS
October 27, 2005
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARIA ACACIA:  How did it go?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Obviously I had a nice day out there.  Shooting 3 under par, it was obviously a good score and a good start for the tournament.  Happy with the way I hit the ball and how I played.  Well, you know, it was a good, solid day.
Q.  Did last Sunday give you impetus coming into here?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  No, it gave me I think more of a relaxed mode than anything else.  I think that's what the victory gave me last week.
Q.  And less pressure this week because you won last week?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Not so much pressure, more of the relaxed mode.  Pressure is still there.  It's a great event.  This is our final event of the year, strong field, and a tough golf course.

So there is no    you know, there is no moments on the golf course where you can really relax.  You have to really stay focused and really give your best, because otherwise, this golf course will eat you alive.
Q.  Or last week just made you feel better about yourself, perhaps?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Yes.
Q.  Do you look forward to playing this course?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Maybe from Monday to Wednesday, necessary.  Let's put it that way.
Q.  Because it is so demanding?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Yes, yes.  I've said it all along, all through the years, this is a very, very difficult golf course.  Very small greens, undulating greens.  There is no any room whatsoever for a bad shot.  You really pay the price.
Q.  Most difficult in Europe?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  It's hard to say.  There are other golf courses that are really tough, but the thing with this golf course is that length wise, it's not so long.  Fairways are very, very tight.  I don't think we play on golf courses with tighter fairways than these ones, and so many cork trees around the edges of the fairways.  So you might even be on the fairway, just on the fairway like two or three meters on the fairway, and you might get blocked by trees.  That makes it more punishing, too.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT