SEVE BALLESTEROS TROPHY
September 25, 2005
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thanks very much for coming in, Jose Maria.  Perhaps you can start with your comments, an unlucky day.
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Unlucky, I don't think it has nothing to do with luck.  I think the British, the Great Britain and Ireland team played really well.  They made a lot of putts.  I talked to some of my boys, for instance, I even talked to Maarten, he said that he has never putt like that in his life before, so he has made everything all day long.  I said yesterday that I like how the matches came out.  I thought they were competitive players in each match.  I think it could go either way.  At the end of the day, it's been Great Britain and Ireland's day.

No apologies, no excuses, no nothing, they beat us, simple as that.  Next time, I'm pretty sure that these boys, whenever they get in the team, they are going to try their socks off and try to beat the opponents.

I'm proud of them, I have to say.  They tried really hard.  Hopefully we'll be in the same situation next time so we can take a sweet revenge.
Q.  Inaudible?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Yes, when he woke up this morning, he was feeling very, very sick.  He has really severe throat pain.  He has an ear infection, too.  He was feeling like a dog this morning.  Still is, yeah.  As soon as he finish, he went in the players room and he was freezing to death.  He wasn't really feeling well at all.
Q.  When he pulled out two years ago
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  No, no.  Two years ago was a neck problem.  It was a muscle problem.  I mean, you might be feeling sick with headache or whatever, but as long as you can walk and swing the club, you have to go out there and play.
Q.  Inaudible?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  I guess so.  The tough part of being captain this week is that you have to play, too.  So, you know, there's two things going on all at the same time.  And sometimes you have to rush things in the sense that you're on the golf course, especially the third day when you're playing morning and afternoon, for instance.  If you play in the morning, you have to leave your matches in the afternoon so you don't have enough time to talk to your players and have your plan and so on.  So it's a tough decision to make what players to put in the afternoon.

There are a lot of things that go with the job, you have to talk to the media, you have to keep an eye on what your opponents are doing, who is playing well, who is not and so on.  You know, it's been a good week.  I think the atmosphere in the team room has been really nice and relaxed.  Hopefully, you know, the boys have felt comfortable being members of the team.  I try not to put any extra pressure on them.  You know, it's up to them to say if I did a good job or not.  Obviously the result, if look at the result, I guess I didn't do a good job.  You know, sometimes you win, sometimes you lose, and I think it was our time to lose this time.
Q.  The singles winning    does that show that European golf is strong at the moment?
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  I think so.  We have proved it so, not just this week but pretty much every week.  You look at Harrington winning twice in America; the Ryder Cup, we've won the last two Ryder Cups.  We do have a million players coming that you know they are proving that they can play very well anywhere in the world and they can beat any player at any given time.

So, you know, I think European golf is very healthy to be honest.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you very much.
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:  Thank you very much, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT