THE OPEN  CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2005
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEWART McDOUGALL:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have Seve Ballesteros and Jose Maria Olazabal.  You must feel disappointed being at St. Andrews and not being able to play in the championship.

SEVE BALLESTEROS:  First of all, thank you all for being here.  And I'd just like to say that my heart is with all the victims and all their families from the London bombing.  I know exactly how the British people must feel, because we have a similar situation in Madrid and I'm very sorry about that.  And it's one of those things that happens.  And I hope it just never happens again anywhere.

And obviously I'm here in this press conference to just say that I feel sorry not being able to compete in The British Open here at St. Andrews, home of golf, because I think this is the best tournament in the world and I didn't feel that I reached the level of the game in a competitive way to be here because I have so much respect for this place and so much respect for The Open that I really thought it was better to allow somebody else more competitive than myself.

And by coincide it happens to be Jose Maria Olazabal, a great friend and a great champion.  And I'm very happy that he's playing, and I'm wishing him good luck.   Also because all what I explain, I also made the decision to name Jose Maria Olazabal the captain to the Seve Trophy in 2005 at Wynyard in northeast of England.  And I think I made the right decision, I hope.  And I don't really believe there could be any better player and any better champion than Jose Maria, and I think    and I'm sure that it will be a great experience for him for perhaps in the near future to be named the captain of the Ryder Cup, which I think he really deserves.  And that's it.  Now I pass the work to Jose Maria, and I'm sure he has something to say.

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:   Obviously two things, first of all I want to thank Seve for choosing me as captain of the Seve Trophy.  It's going to be a new experience for me.  It's an honor to be captain, too.  I've never done that before, so I'll try to learn as much as possible from that new experience and hopefully I will do    let's say like 40 percent of the good job that Seve did, and I think that would be good enough for us to win the trophy back.

And obviously I want to thank also, Seve, even though he didn't realize it at the time that he withdrew from the tournament and that I was going to be the next in line to play The Open.  It means a lot.  I know it means a lot to Seve, not to be able to play here, I know how much it means, The Open, to him.  He has always told me that this tournament is The tournament, is The Open, period, that's it, you know.

Being played in St. Andrews, it's the first time I played The Open it was in '84.  I'll never forget that.  I was an amateur.  I played the first hole, put it in the creek with the second shot.  And I saw Seve winning that year.  So it brings me a lot of great memories, and I already said this before, I was really sad when I didn't make the qualifying at Sunnydale for The Open, but I'm really very, very happy just for the fact that I have the chance to play The Open at St. Andrews.
Q.  Seve, how close a call was it on you actually playing this week?  And give us an update on your health.

SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, it was difficult.  I've been practicing.  I've been taking care of my back.  I've been doing anything possible to be ready for The Open.  But obviously having been competing for a year and a half or so, and just to come over here to St. Andrews and play here without playing any competitive golf it was too difficult and I just thought it was better just to    because I didn't really feel comfortable and my back is on and off, and I didn't want to come over here.

And maybe like I was telling Jose Maria before I come over here, maybe if I come and play this week, and maybe on Wednesday, or perhaps in the first round my back didn't feel good, and I have to withdraw, and I just don't want that.  So I didn't want to take any risk.  And I will be back as soon as I feel I'm ready, and hopefully soon.
Q.  Seve, if the weather conditions stay very calm this week, do you think this will be the lowest scoring open ever?

SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Well, I saw the golf course a little bit.  I think it's in excellent condition.  It surprised me a little bit that I saw    I only walked the 17th and 18th, but it seems to me like the fairways are quite soft.  Probably Jose Maria play on the course and he find that all the way.  But it's just    I don't know, obviously St. Andrews really challenges one with a breeze.  Without the breeze it becomes    I won't say easy, but much more playable, you know.  And obviously it's been added 150 yards or so, if I'm right, and a few bunkers.

But, you know, again, St. Andrews, the key is to avoid all the bunkers, and just obviously to have a good short game is very important.
Q.  If we don't get the wind this week, the breeze, can you see someone shooting a 59?

SEVE BALLESTEROS:  I shoot myself 59 a few times, but dreaming, but I always wake up on 17, you know.  So the players are great, super players, great champions, but they are human beings, and I don't believe they can shoot 59, especially at The Open.  It always gives you a little bit of extra pressure and it's difficult.
Q.  Seve, do you think more players should follow your example and give up their place if they're not feeling competitive?

SEVE BALLESTEROS:  I can only think about myself.  I have a hard enough time with that.  Everybody thinks different, so I just want to let you know that also the other reason I'm here is because this afternoon Callaway is going to launch a new product and I'm going to be alongside Michael Campbell, the U.S. Open champion, and also I will be at the dinner tomorrow, and it will be nice to say good bye to Jack Nicklaus and to say thank you very much for all what he has done for the game of golf, which I think has been a lot.  And obviously I'm here to say hi to all of you.  It's been a long time, and meet some of the people that I know and also the gallery has always been fantastic to me, and I'm very grateful for that.  I'm walking the 18th hole of St. Andrews, and just to be on the ground I feel is a great honor.  It's a pity that I'm not playing, but that's the way it is.  You have to take things as they come and just wait for a better times.
Q.  Seve, it's obviously Jack's last time here.  Do you believe in your heart of hearts that you will be playing an Open again?

SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Sure.  I'm only 48, you know, so I just want to make sure I don't want any of you writing tomorrow and reading in the paper tomorrow that is the goodbye of Seve Ballesteros.  I'll be back.  I will be back, but when, I don't know, but I will be back.  And I will let you know as soon as I'm ready.  Just to make sure.
Q.  Jose Maria, you played with Monty I think in '84.  Are you looking forward to playing again?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:   I'm hoping for him he's a much straight hitter of the ball off the tee.  It's going to be kind of a friendly match.  He will have to give me three or four second services off the tee when we play together.  I think that would be fair for him.  But seriously, I will have to play with Monty.  I haven't played with him a lot.  To tell you the truth, as professionals we haven't

SEVE BALLESTEROS:  I'll caddie for you.

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:   All right.  Well, I'm looking forward to it, sure, yes.  He's a great competitor, and I'm sure that he wants to keep my back rear well, but I'll try to play my game and try to win the match, yes.
Q.  Seve, will you actually have a role at the Seve Trophy?  Will you be there as host or in some other capacity?

SEVE BALLESTEROS:  Of course I'll be there.  I'm looking forward to seeing all the matches, and especially the one that Jose and Monty will play in.

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL:   He'll be beside Monty all the time.  Just your presence will be enough.

SEVE BALLESTEROS:  I probably will be there playing in the Pro Am.  I'm becoming a good Pro Am player, lately (laughter).
STEWART McDOUGALL:  Seve, and Jose Maria, thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT