UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 6, 2008
Ryan Van Bergen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ryan Van Bergen. 

 Q. Ryan, Coach said you're playing pretty well. 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: I'm glad he said that. I feel like I'm playing well. Just trying to make the most opportunities behind Brandon and Tim some of the best we have. 
 So I'm happy he said that, and just trying to make the most of the opportunity that's been given to me.

 Q. What did you learn watching Brandon and Tim? 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: Learning watching Brandon and Tim, it's kind of different. Tim is a really smart player. He's taken me into the film room and showed me how to watch film, study weaknesses of opponents. 
 Brandon has just taught me like on-field stuff. As far as how explosive he is and stuff, sometimes he doesn't need to use all the technique that a lot of other guys need to. But drills and stuff, he sits right behind me, monitors me and shows me take this step, do this with your hands and it's really helped me.

 Q. Linemen seem like a pretty tight group of guys. How much fun is it to spend time with that group and watch film? 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: It's a lot of fun. We probably have the most fun in the D-line room with Terrence and Will and Tim, even Banks and Patterson, we all just have a good time. We're a lot alike, so we get along really well. 
 It's fun with Brandon, too, because Brandon. To hear Brandon Graham laugh, you'll know what I'm talking about.

 Q. You said you can play inside or outside, he said he plays you both spots. What do you like about inside versus outside and do you have a preference? 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: I prefer outside. Just in high school I played outside linebacker. I wasn't really inside all that much. I'm just more familiar with it. But inside is not a big adjustment. It's just something that I would need to work on more. So in practice before I played it in the game. 

 Q. Coach said that the team played soft at times on Saturday. Do you guys notice it while it's happening? 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: Well, especially against Illinois, everybody's playing their assignment. You have your own assignment. 
 So, individually, I think you know if you're soft. But when it came to a team, you can't get that perspective until you go back into the film room and watch film. After watching film, he was right. I mean, it's a horrible thing to call your team soft, but it's the only word you can use to describe it.

 Q. How hard was it to cover Juice, and how do you use that for your future? 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: The thing about Juice, especially for me being the new guy, was seeing his ability to hold on to the ball in the option. I mean, we see the spread every day in practice, but it's a little different because Juice can actually hold the ball in there a lot longer than a lot of quarterbacks can. 
 It will help me in the future because I've seen exactly how patient you have to be. The ball's not going anywhere, he's holding it in the same spot. You've got to be patient in your assignment and trust your teammate will be the guy when the ball comes his way.

 Q. How was practice yesterday? 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: Practice yesterday, everybody understood what we did Saturday wasn't good enough. I think the message was get better every day with every opportunity. I think a lot of the guys took it to heart. 
 I think practice yesterday was really focused. Really fast, and I feel like hopefully we can carry that into Tuesday and Wednesday practices. 

 Q. Who were the guys that you noticed were the leaders? 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: Stepping up as leaders would be probably Tim Jamison, Obi takes a lot of leadership. Terrence Morgan, defensively. 
 Offensively we have a hard time seeing that. But I know Steve Schilling has taken a big role on the offensive line, and Steve Threet tries really hard to lead by example. Not exactly a talker, but he leads by example.

 Q. Coach said you had a really good performance, what are your guys attitudes right now? 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: We're a good defense. Obviously numbers wouldn't show that Saturday. But the reason the numbers were bad is was because we blew assignments. Assignments are mental things that we can feel it quickly and just as easily have done correctly. 
 But we had guys that wanted to make a play that wasn't necessarily theirs, or guys that saw a play and left their gap, and the play came back to their gap. Those are mistakes that kill you. They split you for 50 yards on a quarterback draw and stuff like that. So if we can get those filled up, there's a lot of plays that don't happen there. 

 Q. Coach said you might get more snaps this weekend depending on how Brandon's feeling. How ready are you to take on a bigger role? 
 RYAN VAN BERGEN: I'm always prepared to take on a bigger role. I mean, even if it is just on special teams. I know we had some special teams errors and stuff. So if Brandon needs to take a couple plays off, I'm ready to play. 
 But I know Brandon's a tough guy. Unless he's got a serious injury he's not going to come out. So either way I'm ready to go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT