TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CONNECTICUT v OKLAHOMA
December 29, 2010
DeMarco Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You mentioned personally this is a big game for you. This is a big game for the OU program because it has been a while since you got a BCS game. Do you feel like that's something you need to shake and get off your back?
 DEMARCO MURRAY: You can say that. Those past two teams were guys that played, but we have a different team and different mentality. We have been working tremendously hard. We are not going to let that affect us come January 1st. We need to stay physical and stay mentally ready and fresh.

 Q. Have you found opponents struggling to stop your offense this year as you look at the numbers, the passing numbers, the running numbers? There is a nice balance. But those passing numbers are eye-popping. 
 DEMARCO MURRAY: Definitely. We have a really good offense. Our tempo is tremendously fast. Once we get the run game going and the passing game going, we are a pretty hard offense to stop. We have to complement each other in the rushing game. It all starts with our lock scrimmage.

 Q. Who is the best running back in this game? 
 DEMARCO MURRAY: Obviously I have to say myself. 23 on their side. But I can't say another guy is better than me.

 Q. From your position and what you have seen of him on film, what have you seen of his game? 
 DEMARCO MURRAY: It is a power game. He is a small guy, but he is an old-fashioned running back, running between the tackles. He makes a lot of guys miss as well. 

 Q. You watched a lot of the national attention of this game. It is OU against UConn. Do you guys feel that -- I don't see disrespect for them, but how do you feel about UConn? 
 DEMARCO MURRAY: It is 100 percent attention. You don't get to this game not being a very good team in all three phases of the game. UConn, I think they have won their last five games. I know the Big East is a darn good conference. You don't get here by winning a couple of games. They have our 100 percent of attention and respect.
 We are not worrying about what people are saying about being the underdog. That's not us. They have our full attention. They are a really good team.

 Q. How much did you know about them a couple weeks ago? 
 DEMARCO MURRAY: I don't think I knew about any other teams besides Oklahoma, really the Big 12. I don't really pay attention to too many other teams.

 Q. (Question about work ethic.) 
 DEMARCO MURRAY: I have worked hard all season. My O line doesn't get a lot of credit. When things go bad, they get all the blame. When things go good, they don't get the attention they deserve. They have their good days and bad days, just like any other position.

 Q. What do you think of Jones? 
 DEMARCO MURRAY: We have to do preparation during the week. He is vocal. He has stepped up huge.
 He is a guy we know he is working hard. You don't let him down by not working hard and not doing all you can for the team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT