NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 14, 2000
Bobby Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was the aftermath of the great pitching performance in the last series? Did you hear from a lot of people?
 
BOBBY JONES: Yeah.  I had more phone calls than normal.  But, again, I got another game to worry about, and that's the way I approached it, just start focusing on the St. Louis Cardinals now and put that one behind me.  
 

Q.  You seemed very relaxed last week before the start.  Did you sense you'd be really zoned in, really focused for that start on Sunday against the Giants?
 
BOBBY JONES: Well, I think a week ago today, when I was here last, I said that that would be my nervous day and that would be the day that, you know, preparing yourself with a game plan on what you want to go out and do.  But game time is when you forget about all that and you go out there and you do what you have to do.  I didn't feel any differently than any other game.  You knew it was an important game, but I think that's the kind of approach you have to have, as if it's a game that you got to go out there and pitch in, no matter what the circumstances.  
 

Q.  Do you watch Rick's start today even more closely than you would in the first two games against the Cardinals because of the right-handed similarities?
 
BOBBY JONES: Yeah, and I watch Rick's starts, every single one that I'm pitching behind him because I chart him, I chart from inside most of the game, and I can  -- me and Rick are, in a way, similar pitchers.  As far as control-wise, and as far as spotting and locating our pitches.  So I'll sit there and I'll watch how he's throwing to guys and what their reactions are to certain pitches, of course.  
 

Q.  Did you mean you charted off television? You say inside, is that what you mean? Or you're in the dugout?
 
BOBBY JONES: Both.  We chart  -- if it was a left-hander, obviously I would not need to pay that close attention to the reaction of hitters.  But since it is Rick and I've followed him for some time now, that's how most of our pitchers chart, from inside and watching the reaction on TV.  
 

Q.  Do you find that's a disadvantage at times, that you're similar to Rick? He throws something and it doesn't work, you then throw that?
 
BOBBY JONES: Well, you also have to take that into consideration.  If Rick's getting a certain guy out on all fastballs inside, they're professional hitters, they're going to make adjustments.  I have to remember that and I have to go out and not find myself doing the same things as Rick's gonna do because we do throw similar.  You have to mix it up both ways, I think.  
 

Q.  Going back to last week real quick again, your performance is being called as one of the two greatest performances in Mets history, along with Tom Seaver's imperfect game.  What's it like to be held in such special company?
 
BOBBY JONES: It's great to be mentioned, my name with a lot of these other great players who have played the game and who have been a part of New York.  To be honest with you, I've said it all along, that once my game is over, the next day I focus on my next job.  And I just don't think it would be right if I was up in a cloud right now worrying about my last start, I put that behind me good or bad, and worry about my next start.  That is a good feeling, and that's for all of you people to say that it was one of the best or the best, whatever it may be.  I'm just happy that I'm here in the post-season and I gave my team a chance to win.  It was special to have a good game like that in such an important time.  
 

Q.  Al Leiter has often talked about how he's able to mental reference a good game he pitched in the past, say like the '97 World Series game.  Do you do that ever, do you go back in your mind when you're on the mind and think about other successful pitches you've had.  Or do you look straight ahead at the future?
 
BOBBY JONES: There's occasions where I do go back and think about games, but there will be games that, for instance, I'm facing the Cardinals tomorrow, I'll go back and look at video of my previous games this year against the Cardinals.  The whole reason I do that is just so I try not to fall into patterns.  I mean, they remember just as I would what I got them out on, what they got hits on.  There may be situations where, very important situations out there, where I don't want to fall into that same pattern.  I don't go back and look at great games versus bad games unless I'm really struggling and I'll look at some tapes just to analyze mechanics, but not results.  
 

Q.  Al was talking about not really watching tapes, just it's all up in the mind. 
 
BOBBY JONES: No, I really don't do that.  I mean, once the game is over, then it's time to look on to the next one.  
 

Q.  Kile's had three days' rest, you're going to go on six days.  Do you like having that much rest?
 
BOBBY JONES: Not normally, but I think this time of the year, you have to work with that.  You just have to alter your work habits, make sure that  -- you're used to throwing on the fifth day and you have to prepare yourself like it's a fifth day.  Obviously, I'd probably rather have six than three, but it's a little bit of a change.  It's just something that you have to prepare yourself  with your work in between on the mound, your work sessions in between to be ready to start for that.  
 

Q.  Just wondering if your wife has any predictions on how you will pitch tomorrow?
 
BOBBY JONES: I haven't heard anything about that yet, no.  
 

Q.  Obviously if the Mets win today, tomorrow you'll have a chance to pitch the Mets into the World Series with a sweep.  Can you comment on how exciting that will be for you?
 
BOBBY JONES: It would be real exciting.  I mean, just to be  -- I think pitching us into the NLCS was a little bit of a shock for me.  I mean, like I said, to a lot of you, I didn't really know how to react.  It was a weird feeling.  I don't know how to explain it.  But to do it again possibly and to get us in the World Series, it would be  -- I would welcome the feeling because it was a great feeling.  
 

Q.  Kind of a follow-up to that, I know you said you approach every game the same.  Is there a difference in your mindset going into tomorrow's game with possibly a 3-0 lead or possibly only a 2-1 lead?
 
BOBBY JONES: Not at all.  I think, when you start to worry about other things other than your game plan and what you have to do when you're out there, then you're getting yourself into trouble.  I'm going out there, whether it's whatever it is, whatever the circumstances are, whatever the weather is, you got to worry about those guys that you're facing and approach it that way.  
 

Q.  You threw five perfect innings against the Cardinals last time out.  Does that make your task tomorrow even tougher? They're watching tapes of you, they're refreshing their memory and working on how to hit you?
 
BOBBY JONES: Well, I think nowadays everybody watches videos and everyone is prepared, as others.  Just because it's the playoffs, I mean we watch videos all year long, and try to figure out pitchers, try to figure out opposing hitters.  So it's just a matter of, like I said, me trying to not fall into any patterns and going back and remembering what I did last time.  
 

Q.  Before the series began, Chipper Jones came out and publicly said he wanted the Cardinals to win.  Did that quote make the rounds in the clubhouse, and how did you or maybe the team feel about somebody supporting somebody from another division?
 
BOBBY JONES: I heard a little bit about it, just from guys saying,  "Chipper was rooting for the Cardinals," or whatnot.  That kind of stuff doesn't really bother us.  We're rooting for the Mets.  As a team, we're going to go out there and do the best we can and not worry about what people think about you or who's rooting for who.  We know what we have to do and that's the way we approach it.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT