CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2016
De'Veon Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This could be a game where you could prove a lot for yourself.  You've had a long road, and especially this past year, probably your best year at Michigan.  Do you look at this as a game where you can prove something to yourself personally?
DE'VEON SMITH: You know, any game you can prove something to yourself when the game is important, but this being my last game, I definitely want to go out with a bang.  I know me and my teammates want to get the win.  It's not really about me or my personal goals.  As long as we get that win, that's all that matters.
Q. How much do you think about it, the final game for a lot of you guys, final collegiate game, maybe final high-level football game for some other guys.
DE'VEON SMITH: It's kind of scary to think about.  Not scary, but it's kind of bittersweet in a way because you don't know what's going to happen next.  You'll never play with the same guys ever again.  You basically grew up with them.  They're basically your best friends for life.  It's really going to be an emotional day.  I don't know how I'm going to take it.  You know, I'm just going to enjoy it while it's here and enjoy each other's company.
Q. What makes Khalid Hill so effective down at the goal line?
DE'VEON SMITH: You know, I don't know.  Khalid is a very explosive guy.  A lot of people don't know that.  And he's really fast.  Khalid is very fast for his size.  I think a lot of teams don't expect that initial burst from him coming out of the stance when he gets the ball in his hand, so that's why I think he's really effective.
Q. Do you ever give him any grief for stealing your touchdowns?
DE'VEON SMITH: Oh, we talk about it all the time.  We actually were competing in the running back room who can get the most touchdowns.  He beat me from the last Ohio State game, but hopefully I can get a couple touchdowns this game.
Q. What's behind the new look?
DE'VEON SMITH: No, it's just a ponytail.  It was down in my eyes now.  The hair is growing, so I just had to pull it up.
Q. Is that your beach look?
DE'VEON SMITH: Yeah.  It's just a beach look.  I mean, I like to be different with my hair anyway.  Whatever helps me stick out, I guess.
Q. The bowl game last year you felt the healthiest of the year --
DE'VEON SMITH: Same way.  For sure the same way.  No bumps or bruises.
Q. Are there raised expectations when you're feeling this good?
DE'VEON SMITH: No, there's no expectations other than get the win basically.
Q. In the backfield, yourself and Khalid and obviously they have Dalvin and Jacques.  What are your thoughts on that?
DE'VEON SMITH: Those are great running backs.  I know -- I mean, I know our running back room doesn't want to get out-rushed by any other running back room.  We're going to come and compete because we know Cook is a talented guy in my opinion.  You know, we're just going to compete and do what we can do.
Q. Is that something that -- how much do you guys focus on that?
DE'VEON SMITH: You don't really focus on it.  It's more so of kind of like our own little secret.  Coach Wheatley probably doesn't even know about it, we just don't want to get out-rushed by any other room.  It's just something guys within just the running backs, it's just us, the players.
Q. How much have you talked to the younger guys, especially a guy like Chris who might end up being a bigger part next season?  How much have you talked to the younger players as far as how to approach this game, what they need to get out of this and that sort of thing, what they need to retain from it?
DE'VEON SMITH: These practices are basically the beginning of their spring ball next year.  So I just tell them stay in your playbook, and you've got to -- you have to just understand how fast this is going to go.  You don't understand -- this game is very important, like very, very important, but if you want to put your name in the NCAA, you want to make a household name, this is the game to do it, and this is the game to know what you can actually do.  Every tool in the bag, you've got a year under your belt now basically being on the field, so that's exactly what I have told Chris, and I think he's doing it right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT