UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2015
Larry Coker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Old Dominion - 36 UTSA - 31   
LARRY COKER: Hard-fought football game.  Certainly had an opportunity to win it, and I felt we were going to win it all along and just had a lot of chances. Just didn't get it done in the end. 
Again, give them credit.  They made some big plays in the passing game.  They made big plays with their quarterback running the football, made some big passes, so give them credit.  They won the football game.  They found a way to do it.  We had our opportunities and just didn't get it done in the end.
Q. Can you just walk us through that final play there on 4th-and-1, 28 seconds left, you guys go for the end zone there?  Was that what you saw, what you wanted to do?
LARRY COKER: Well, honestly if we didn't -- it wasn't going to work -- wanted to get the ball up to David (Morgan).  David does such a great job going up and getting the ball.  The thing we didn't want to do was throw it out of bounds, you know.  Got to give him a chance, give him a chance, give him a chance.
Q. Multiple 20-plus yard plays.  Did you expect that from their offense?
LARRY COKER: We knew they were really good at receiver, and their quarterback has done well.  Did I expect it?  No, I didn't expect it, but again, they made plays and did a nice job -- quarterback made a lot of good throws that were catchable, and he made some scrambles that hurt us.  Again, too many big plays.  There's no doubt about it.  You can't give up the big plays and win, and we did.
Q. Can you talk about the resiliency of your team, kind of gave up a lead early only to come back in that fourth quarter?
LARRY COKER: Well, I think we have a lot of character on this team.  We have really good kids.  I've said that all along.  And again, I think that's why this is a gut-check for me and all of our coaches, because we want these kids to have an opportunity to win.
You know, I want good things to happen for them, and it didn't happen tonight.  But no, we have really good kids.  They are tough.  I think you've got to give the parents credit.  They've got some really good parents that they don't know how to give up.  I know the questions I was asked this week, well, are the guys going to play hard and those type things, and I think that was answered tonight.  They did play hard.  We've got to play better, but we did play hard.
Q. Were you concerned that you would be able to get back in the game with the way their offense was moving the ball?
LARRY COKER: Well, I was concerned about that a little bit when we got down by two scores.  We were ahead for most of the half and got down by two scores, and I said, well, what are we going to do.  We've lost the close games, but the guys fought back and they were able to actually get ahead and give ourselves a chance to win. But no, we've lost the close, tough games, and you've just got to win some of those for sure.
And I will tell you, the thing that you have, too, sometimes when you've got your rabbit's foot or your four-leaf clover or whatever it is, sometimes the ball just bounces your way.  I really felt we were going to win this game.  All along, even when we got down two scores, I felt like we were going to win the game because I didn't think they could stop us.
Q. You had some off-the-field issues this week.  Can you talk about the mentality of the team?  It seemed like they were able to put those issues aside and just come out here and really --
LARRY COKER: Well, they did.  They had no issues.  They just played through, so that was not a factor.  That was not a factor at all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT