UNIVERSITY OF IOWA BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 31, 2016
Fran McCaffery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Inaudible.  
Northwestern - 71, Iowa - 85   
COACH McCAFFERY: But then the activity level was really good with him.  I wasn't pleased with some of the shots we gave Vince and some of our recognition of where he is, but you know, you take 15 threes, and you're going to probably get a bunch of points.  He's tough.  He's a handful.   
 Q.  What do you think of your team's ability to always bounce back?  
COACH McCAFFERY: You know, again, I think it's a confidence.  You have to have confidence in yourself and confidence in the guy that lines up next to you, and confidence to overcome mistakes.   
In the beginning, they were really doing a terrific job, I thought, executing their offense against us.  We were down 18-16, they were moving the ball, they got great looks at it.  Demps had ten quick.  We marked him and already he's got ten.  So there was no panic there.  I think that's the maturity side of it.   
 Q.  That one stretch, I think Uthoff was actually on the bench and you guys went on the big run.  
COACH McCAFFERY: That's not the first time that that's happened, and I think that's the beauty of this team.  I was able to rest him and extend the lead, and that's a beautiful thing, because now when he comes back in, he's fresh and he impacted the rest of that half.   
 Q.  Coach Collins was just saying, he used to call you "White Magic."  Where does that come from?  
COACH McCAFFERY: Well, the thing you've got to remember, Doug Collins' first coaching job, he was an assistant coach at the University of Pennsylvania my senior year.  Now, Chris was one of our ball boys, so I've known Chris and his dad for a very long time.  We got operated on at the same time at the same place by the same doctor, so we saw each other every day.  So I was in Chris's home when he was a kid, and I was a college student.   
So he remembers the league that I played in at that time.  I've told this story before, but Lewis Lloyd, the former Drake great, we both played the same year with the same group, and he was Black Magic.  So I got White Magic, but I used to throw the ball a lot behind my back and stuff.  He was an easy target.  He was great.  Man, he was great.   
 Q.  Uthoff had a big first half, Jok got it going in the second half; how big of a luxury is it to have two great scorers like that on the wing?  
COACH McCAFFERY: It stretches the defense.  So you see Clemmons drive to the hole and Gessell driving to the hole, Baer driving to the hole, screens slipping to the basket, that's because you've got to go out and guard those guys and No. 4 at the same time.   
 Q.  Are you surprised Clemmons?  
COACH McCAFFERY: Yeah, I was.  Seemed like whoever was throwing the ball to Pete would have had ten assists (laughter) but he did get fouled a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT