ROSE BOWL GAME: OHIO STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 29, 2018
Michael Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Switching positions this year, how did that all come about?  When did you start to know?
MICHAEL JORDAN: So camp is when I really found out I was going to be starting center.
Q. Did you dabble with it in the spring?
MICHAEL JORDAN: In the summer I practiced a lot just in case.
Q. When they finally said they needed you at center, what did you think?
MICHAEL JORDAN: I was, Sure, I'll do it.
Q. What was the adjustment really like?  Very different position.
MICHAEL JORDAN: Moving a lot quicker than you had to before because even though it's like a little bit more space, it's a little less space between you and the defensive lineman so you have to move a lot quicker.
Q. Had you ever played center before?
MICHAEL JORDAN: No.
Q. How hard was that, to snap accurately every time?
MICHAEL JORDAN: It was pretty hard at first, but then once you kind of got through the season, started feeling it more so.
Q. How many snaps did you take on a day of practice over the summer?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Anywhere between 60 and 100.
Q. It's a different angle.  Your head is down, all that stuff.  Were there times (indiscernible)?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Most definitely.  When you try something new, the thing is to persevere and overcome it.  Our coaches wouldn't put us in a position if they didn't think we could do it.  You just got to trust the coaches and follow through.
Q. You're 6'7".  Not many centers are 6'7".  What are the advantages and disadvantages?
MICHAEL JORDAN: The advantages are is that you got long arms.  It's really nice, it saves me a lot of the time.  Disadvantage would be how low I have to get in my stance.  If I'm going against a quick defensive lineman, that could be a problem.
Q. When did you finally start to feel like a natural center?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Halfway through the season, I started to feel natural again.
Q. How do you think you played overall?
MICHAEL JORDAN: I think I did pretty well this season.  There's always room for improvement, continuously working on yourself.  One thing I've been taught since I was a kid, constant improvement on yourself.
I've played pretty well, but there's definitely things I could fix if I look back on the season.
Q. Have you thought about what is next for you?
MICHAEL JORDAN: I haven't really thought about it.  My focus so far is just winning the Rose Bowl game.
Q. You're a 20-year-old guy.  You have to have thought about it.
MICHAEL JORDAN: Of course, you know, those thoughts seep into your head.  But to expand it, make an informed decision, I haven't gone into taking the process in order to do that.
Q. If you come back, if I were you, would you say (indiscernible) play center, I would like to play guard.
MICHAEL JORDAN: Most definitely play guard.
Q. I'm sure they're, Yeah, we prefer that, too, right?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Yeah.
Q. How much will that impact your decision, that if you come back, you can show a pro scout probably the position you're going to play in the pros?
MICHAEL JORDAN: I got two years at guard, so I think anything I do coming back another year is just to build upon that, start where I left off, continue to build.  It will only add value to me as a player.  I could be useful to some coaches in the NFL.
Q. I'm sure that has to weigh into your decision.
MICHAEL JORDAN: Yes, most definitely.
Q. They're going to grade you on a position this year that you won't play in the pros.
MICHAEL JORDAN: Yeah.
Q. In terms of your process, making a decision on the NFL, what goes into that process for you?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Like I said, I haven't really thought about the process of me leaving this year or not.  In order for me to make a decision, I'll have to gather a bunch of information to make an informed decision, where I would go in the draft, what position I can play next year if I come back to Ohio State.  I haven't really given it much thought.
My main focus right now is just to win the Rose Bowl game.
Q. How do you feel like this season as a whole has gone for you playing center?
MICHAEL JORDAN: I thought this season went well for me playing center.  One thing that my parents always taught me is which continuously improve yourself.  There's definitely things I could definitely fix in order to get better.
Q. How much have you talked to Billy and Pat making that transition from guard to center, then going forward and playing at the next level?
MICHAEL JORDAN: In the beginning of the season I talked to Billy and Pat all the time.  This is a different feeling, it's weird.  You just got to get in the groove of things and trust yourself.  One thing at center, you got to trust yourself.
Q. How much do you think it benefited you to play the position?  How much will the experience help you?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Playing at center definitely helps at guard or any position you play on the offensive line.  One, you have to know everyone's assignments.  I guess if I were to play guard next year, it would be more my body reacting to things instead of me thinking about things.
Q. How hard is that for a lineman to do?
MICHAEL JORDAN: I would say it's pretty difficult.  That's why most people don't play offensive line.  After a while, you just get used to it.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
MICHAEL JORDAN: Yes.  Because it's another skill set I have in my pocket I can carry with me to the next level.  You only carry seven positions in the NFL.  If they need a center, they need a guard, any position, I'll be that guy that can play those positions.
Q. Could you play tackle?
MICHAEL JORDAN: If I had to, yes.
Q. It seems like when you came in, you had that flexibility.  Some guys can play guard and center.  Do you feel you have as much flexibility as any offensive lineman?  Do you feel you can play any of the five?
MICHAEL JORDAN: True.
Q. What is it about your skill set that would allow you to do that?
MICHAEL JORDAN: It's really my ability to put my mind to do anything I tell it to do.
Q. On the line, is that a mental part of it as much as anything?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Yes.
Q. In changing positions?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Most definitely, yes.
Q. We didn't know if you are tall for a center.
MICHAEL JORDAN: I can tell you, I'm tall for a center (laughter).
Q. But your mind overcame it?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Yes.
Q. As you consider your future, what are the things that matter to you, are in your thought process about what comes next?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Like I said before, there's a lot of things that go into making that decision.  I haven't really thought about it.  My focus is on the Rose Bowl game.
But, you know, there's many factors that play into that.  Staying another year will allow me to get another year of maturity.  Leaving, you got to worry about where you're going to be drafted, what team is going to pick you.
Overall I'm just not sure in the whole process because I haven't really thought about it that much.
Q. When you were talking about you came from the suburbs of Detroit, but you had the Ohio roots, you wanted to be a Buckeye, does that factor in?  You're at the place you always wanted to be.  I don't know how that factors into a decision like this.
MICHAEL JORDAN: Sure, sure.  It will have a huge effect on me staying because I grew up watching Ohio State and I love Buckeye Nation.  The energy in there is ridiculous.  Our fans, they got all these chants.  It's fun to be a part of and fun to play for.
Q. Both these teams two years ago were the two teams that lost the semifinals in the playoffs.  When you think about the 31-0 loss to Clemson, were there any positives in that, in showing you what it takes, having that playoff experience?  Or when you look back, is that just a bad game and a negative?
MICHAEL JORDAN: I think there's always some good with the bad.  The only positive thing I took away from that experience is to learn from your mistakes, don't let it happen again.
Q. There's a debate with fans of if you go and you get in the playoffs, it's a great thing, but if you don't play well...  Are you glad you went through that?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Me going through that definitely helped me grow as a player because in the off-season, it made me work a lot more harder to get better at my position, so...
Q. When you're at Ohio State, you win so often.  There's not many times where you have that feeling coming off the field.  Is there something in that feeling that is part of your growth process?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Yes.
Q. Some teams have that more often than others.
MICHAEL JORDAN: Yeah.
Q. When you look at the Washington defense, you know what you did against Michigan, but we also know Washington is a respected defense, when you break them down, is there anything that's similar at all to a defense like Michigan?  What is it that Washington does well?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Washington, they're really good with their D-linemen and their linebackers.  Their D-linemen I would say are really good.  Especially their linebacker, Ben, I can't pronounce his last name, No. 25, he is an absolute beast.  He's a great player.
I look forward to playing against him because whenever you get a guy like that, you kind of get up for it.
Q. Has that season turned out the way you thought transitioning to center?
MICHAEL JORDAN: I had my ups and downs this year at center.  But it did turn out I wouldn't say to what I wanted but I am satisfied with it.
Q. What was the biggest thing you learned as far as a leadership standpoint, knowing how important your role is in that line?
MICHAEL JORDAN: The biggest thing I learned is how to bring up the young guys.  Whether it's this year or next year, I'm going to leave, there is going to be someone that has to play my position.  If they're not ready to play or if they're not going to hold their standard, then I haven't done my job as a leader, as an offensive lineman.
Q. How have you grown in that role?
MICHAEL JORDAN: I think I developed that role in a way by leading by example.  Center behind me, Josh, is going to be a great center.  Beginning of the season, wasn't really sure if he was ready yet.  As the season went on and on, I found out he's going to be a great center for Ohio State.  He's going to be just as good or better than me, even better than me.
Q. Do you have the vocal leader on offense?
MICHAEL JORDAN: It's mostly been Isaiah Prince, Parris Campbell, Terry McLaurin, Johnnie Dixon.
Q. Do you have a preference of guard or center?
MICHAEL JORDAN: Guard.
Q. What is the reason behind that?
MICHAEL JORDAN: So when you play center, there's less space between you and a defensive lineman.  He's right there.  Guard, I feel like I can get off, I can really accelerate.  I think I have a lot more knockdowns as guard.  That's always fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT