AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 2, 2021
Linn Grant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. How was it out there today?
 LINN GRANT:   Pretty tough.  I mean, the wind makes it hard.  The greens were firm and super fast so I think we got a touch of it.  I heard that they were going to speed them up a little bit and try to make them a little bit firmer.  Exciting but scary.
 Q. How different was the practice round this time?
 LINN GRANT:   Way more fun this time.  I think last time it was a little -- I had not given up but kind of.  I wasn't really focusing on how I was playing or the lines from the tees.  Just kind of walking it in and taking it in then.  I think I got more information now but a different experience and way more fun and I appreciate it more.
 Q. What were some of the scariest holes?
 LINN GRANT:   I think every tee shot is probably a little scary.  But I would probably say, I mean, 12 is always scary because I feel like you hit it and you don't know if it's actually over everything or if it's too far.  I tried to hit into the par 5s today and I realized that I'm not going to do that tomorrow.  I'm just going to kind of let the course come to me and push it too far.
 Q. What did you have into the par 5s?
 LINN GRANT:   I hit 3-wood on 13.  Like a lot of wind there and then on 15, I hit a hybrid but the wind just turned when I hit it, so it was in the water and I realized it's probably going to turn tomorrow when I hit it again so I'm not going to do that.
 Q. Like Zach Johnson, laying up on all the par 5s?
 LINN GRANT:   Yeah, probably.
 Q. Compared to two years ago --
 LINN GRANT:   I missed the cut two years ago.  I can't even remember.  I was just out there just hitting shots and I didn't really focus on it.
 Q. What kind of low number do you think might be out there tomorrow?
 LINN GRANT:   I don't know.  My goal is to like score under 70.  Whatever that is, if it's 65 when I go out there and have a great day, maybe it is.  But I can also see that it will be a struggle to get it under 70.  So it kind of depends on my form tomorrow and how I feel about it and if I hit the putts right and everything.
 Q. How does this tournament rate on the Amateur calendar?
 LINN GRANT:   I think it's for sure top three.  I mean, I would argue it's one of the best in the field for sure and the course and everything.  So for sure top three if not No. 1.  I would say the players that are here are the best in the world for sure.  The venue, of course.  Just how it's all -- how it's all managed.  It's a major event so I think it's good.
 Q. Tough when they have amateurs in Palm Springs --
 LINN GRANT:   I think it's difficult if you start talking about ranking.  As an amateur in a pro event, you get a lot of points.  It's a big thing and it's important especially if you're going to turn pro you and need those points kind of.  But experience-wise I think it's a tough decision to make.  I know a couple of players last year chose ANA and a couple chose to play here.  Most of us are going to turn pro and play major events, but we're not going to be able to come back probably and play here.
 Q. You used an Augusta National caddie but is it overwhelm to go try and learn this golf course and win this tournament just playing in five hours?
 LINN GRANT:   Yeah, I think so.  It's a lot of information.  But I also think that you kind of have to put them aside.  Like you have to take the information that you really want and focus on it and today we put out tees for the pins from two years ago and tried to focus on them for tomorrow -- hopefully they are there tomorrow otherwise we're going to be so off.  That would be terrible.
 It's a lot of information but I like it, too.  It's like a puzzle kind of.  You put your pieces together and sometimes they fit and sometimes they don't and hopefully they fit.
 Q. Your dad has been on your bag at so many big events.  Was it automatic that he was going to do it again?
 LINN GRANT:   I was actually thinking, so after the U.S. Open, I was pretty set on that he wasn't going to caddie for me because we had a little dispute kind of.  He just put a wrong yardage like he does sometimes, and again -- and I was just kind of fed up at the moment.
 When the closer we get to the tournament I kind of just -- I know he wants to caddie and I know we do a good job together as long as he gets the yardages right.  But I mean, it's fun and I think it's an experience for both of us that I would feel a little bad to take that away from him.  So yeah.
 Q. Which round?
 LINN GRANT:   It was the third round after I made my ten or eight or whatever it was on 10.  It was on 11, yeah.  Hole No. 11.  It was a wedge because I hit it out of the woods and I had to do a good save and it was probably 50 meters off and I hit it in the bunker.  But yeah, I'm over it, kind of.
 Q. Did you have to double-check everything now?
 LINN GRANT:   I double-check, everything, yes.  That was the only yardage I didn't check at that tournament, so I'm going to check everything this time.  Yeah, he does his best for sure.
 Q. Do you feel like you have an advantage?
 LINN GRANT:   Both yes and no.  I feel like I have an advantage because not mainly over the other players, but like over myself if that makes sense.  Because I feel like every time I play in those events, I learn so much and I feel like when I play my best I just focus on how I can beat myself sort of.  So I feel like every time I play in them I get better at beating myself instead of beating everyone else and that kind of does it for me.
 Q. What did you learn from that?
 LINN GRANT:   Kind of just what -- how I want it, like what I want, like what shots.  Kind of be patient with playing and like I said before, kind of let the course do the job.  Like for example, your tee shots on this course are not going to make you win.  It's going to be the putting.  So kind of be patient with that instead of going off tough lines off the tees, I'll just play them safe and hit them on the greens and if the putts rolls in, they roll in.  Otherwise I'll have a par.
 Q. You have to chase a little bit tomorrow.  Does that change your game plan?
 LINN GRANT:   I do have to but I also feel like if it's kind of meant to be, it's meant to be, and I expect myself like if I will have a chance to win tomorrow, I will have to play good, and -- but I can also see that people can lose some shots out here.  So I just think that I, once again, have to focus on my own game and not hope that anyone messes up but kind of do my best and then we'll see how far that goes.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT