CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
June 30, 2016
Demi Runas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Six birdies, one bogey.  
DEMI RUNAS: Yeah, it was a great day.  It was actually a lot of fun.  I actually didn't feel so great going into today.  It was one of those days where, Eh, this day could go either way.  We'll see what the first tee has.   
 Q.  What was going on?  
DEMI RUNAS: I'm actually just -- like I get really nervous, anxious.  But I've always had that.  I've just been a nervous player.  The way that my sports psychologist and I have talked about it, it's a good thing if you're nervous.  It means you care.  All right.  Today I care extra, so here we go.   
 Q.  When does that go away?  Soon as you make your first birdie?  
DEMI RUNAS: You know, the first birdie helps.  Kind of levels.  But they kind of hang out.  They come up and down at like different points in the round.  So it was just managing the emotions today, and I think I did that pretty well.   
 Q.  Are you more comfortable now like second year on tour?  
DEMI RUNAS: Definitely.  I won't say I'm completely comfortable, but actually Sukapan and I were just talking about it coming down the fairway because she's a rookie this year.  You know, she was asking how it is the second time around.  I was like, it's a little less stressful because you've seen the golf courses at least once and you don't feel like you have to be out there all the time.   
Yeah, it definitely helps the second time around.  It was a rough year last year, but I am enjoying it a little bit more this year.   
 Q.  (Question regarding her host.)  
DEMI RUNAS: I did.  Their daughter is my college teammate.   
 Q.  Amy, right?  
DEMI RUNAS: Yeah, we're still really close.  It was nice of them to come out and watch.   
 Q.  You feel a little at home?  
DEMI RUNAS: Definitely.  It's nice to have people that you know wherever you go.  It's a sense of comfort.  Especially for us being on the road as much as we are, it's always good to have people you know around you.   
 Q.  Past couple starts have been pretty solid, T32 and T like 25 maybe or something like that.  
DEMI RUNAS: Yeah.   
 Q.  What's been different for you?  
DEMI RUNAS: You know, I worked with my sports psychologist leading into Grand Rapids, and it's just like a perspective change a little bit going into the tournament days.   
I think I just put so much pressure into the first round to get off to a good start that I was almost counterproductive.   
So started working on more just doing things that would loosen me up on the first tee.  Like not being super precise with my targets, which sounds a little weird.  Like I would give myself a little bit of some leeway and it would actually calm me down.   
So just going into these three events just trying to be very present, centered, when I hit each shot; not getting too far ahead of myself.  It's helped.   
 Q.  Remind yourself a little bit that a lot of it's mental going into each week?  
DEMI RUNAS: Oh, yeah.  I mean, definitely.  It's a grind out there.  Different place every week and you got to -- if you're playing every single day, that's like four, five six days in a row of playing.  So definitely managing your time and your thoughts, I think it's been really helpful for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT