SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 2, 2017
Bill Horschel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Billy, I know you wanted to be a little lower than how you finished.  How was today's round for you?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: It was good.  I've taken seven weeks off, and I've worked really hard on my game.  Todd Anderson and I have done some really good work.  You're always a little apprehensive coming out to your first event, and also on top of the work, seeing how is it going to translate over from practicing.  It's been really nice all week.  Is it exactly where I want?  No.  But it's a lot better than it's been for the last year and a half.   
 Q.  You mentioned Todd Anderson who moved from Sea Island down to head the PGA TOUR performance center in Jacksonville, in Ponte Vedra Beach, I should say.  I know Sea Island wasn't that far, but how much more does that help you now that Todd's a lot closer?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: It helps me a lot.  Sometimes he doesn't want me to see him.  No.  But it's been great.  We go to lunch on a regular basis, pretty much every day.  So I can always show him some swings and talk to him about what I'm feeling.  It's not like we're working more than what we have in the past, but the work is just a lot better, I feel like.  Just something with being at home and being at ease and not having to worry about getting back in the car and driving home.   
 Q.  I think your personality kind of reflects you as a Vegas guy.  Do you like coming to Vegas?  
BILLY HORSCHEL: I do.  There is a lot of energy out here, and I struggle for that.  But I love it out here.  It's been great.  Shriners does a great job.  I missed this event early in my career, and I came back out last year because I was like, you know, I wanted to play a little bit.  I love it.  Obviously, you've got to go low, so you have to have your wedges in play and got to be putting well.   
But just a great place.  The food is good.  People are nice.  You know, maybe if you win some on the blackjack table and you lose some.  But it's just a good week to be out here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT