BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2000
Malik Allen
Steve Lappas
Jermaine Medley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







STEVE LAPPAS: I was extremely happy with the way our guys -- we challenged our big guys
for this game and I thought they came up extremely big, Malik and Brooks, what they did
rebounding-wise and interior defense. I thought Jermaine played a tremendous floor game
tonight.

Q. What was behind the decision to go zone the second half?

STEVE LAPPAS: I thought they started driving it a little bit too much and it was a
tough decision because they go and make six threes in the first half out of eight or nine
shots and they made four in a row. So it was one of those things, all right, let's try it
for a couple of possessions and see how it goes. It helped us especially because we had
foul problems at the same time. Gary got his third and Aaron and Brian Lynch and Andrew.
It helped us a little bit.

Q. Seemed like you guys were tight out there after that opening flurry?

STEVE LAPPAS: I thought it was more they played great defense. You have to give them
credit. I thought defensively they were very tough tonight. In that, like, ten minutes,
the last eight minutes whatever the first half, we weren't scoring, but it was really
their defense was tremendous I thought at that point.

Q. You guys played St. John's well here, particularly in the second half. The press
bothered you a little early, then you settled down. Your thoughts about facing them again.

STEVE LAPPAS: First thing is that, yes, we did play them tough the first time around.
Tomorrow's a whole different day, a whole new thing. We played tonight a pretty
hard-fought game. They're home resting right now. So that's another factor. But our guys
know they can win. We were down one, 30 seconds to go in that game and they got an
offensive rebound which ended up being the deciding thing in that game with three seconds
to go, took the ball out of bounds and we still had a shot with the ball down three. Yeah,
we were in it. I don't know what that honestly has to do with tomorrow. Tomorrow's a whole
new day.

Q. Is it getting redundant to say Allen is your clutch player? He has been the last --

STEVE LAPPAS: He's kind of been for two years really, you know. He's been tremendous
for us. That's Malik. That's what I've come to expect. So he raises the bar with me
because he spoils me, so when he's not like this, I'm like what's going on here? You know
what I'm saying? Which is good and bad. It's good and bad for him because he's got me on
his neck a little bit more when he's only playing good and not playing great.

Q. Steve, you've been around this long enough to know what a win tomorrow could mean
for you in terms of the big picture. Do you think it puts you in?

STEVE LAPPAS: Tomorrow?

Q. If you win tomorrow.

STEVE LAPPAS: I don't know, maybe we're in today. I mean... We won 19 -- I think, and
so I don't know how our schedule gets looked at. We're 33rd, toughest schedule in the
country. Our schedule doesn't get talked about, playing the people that we play, playing
Georgia, scheduling Georgia, playing Temple, playing Penn State, playing -- beating Wake
Forest when they were 19th in the country. Nobody says anything about our schedule. If you
look in the computer, I don't make it up, it had us 32 or 33 today. We got 19 wins, the
33rd toughest schedule in the country and there's some question as to whether we have 20
wins or not by some people. So... Why -- maybe we're in. Maybe we're not. But we're going
to play tomorrow. We're in the Big East tournament and our goal is to win the Big East
tournament. That's a whole other ball game.

Q. Could you talk about the challenge the coach presented to you and how you responded?

MALIK ALLEN: The last two days, you know, we didn't know -- we didn't play well in BC.
A big part of that was us, the big guys. And, you know, I knew that. I think Coach knew
that. But I mean he still really challenged us. And, you know, I think that we responded
to that. I mean today's just one day. We have -- tomorrow's a new day. We're playing
against a real tough team. But, you know, I think -- I mean the last two days, like I
said, I mean he really put it to us, and, you know, see how we were going to respond, if
we were going to put our heads down or if we were going to come and play today. I think we
came to play today. I think those first few minutes, I think we really tried to make a
statement of how the game was going to go. We tried to carry that the rest of the game.

Q. Malik, St. John's doesn't have a prototype big man. It seemed like you were able to
take advantage of that last time. Did you feel like you got comfortable shooting the ball
against them?

MALIK ALLEN: I think so. I got in a groove. My teammates got me the ball in positions
where I'm comfortable. I just started feeling good. You know, hopefully I can carry that
over to tomorrow. But I mean just because they don't have a big man -- they play hard.
Every game they play, they play hard for 40 minutes. I got to give it to them, they leave
everything out on the court every game I watch. We got to match that. We got to match that
intensity. That's what this tournament is about. The level -- you try to raise your level
of play in a tournament like this. That's what we want to do. We want to match their
intensity plus ten. That's what we're here for.

Q. Steve, your thoughts on the way they played today, down 14-5 early. Hung in there --

STEVE LAPPAS: They hung in there. Ben has done a great job with that team, I think.
They were just very tough defensively. That's all a coach can ask for. Offensively, some
days you have it. Some days you don't. I was happy with our defensive efforts and
rebounding. Offensively I know we missed some shots, we can play better. When you coach,
you want to see rebounds and defense. That's what you want to say.

Q. Jermaine, they got close within a point, came down and shot about a 40-foot
three-pointer. Do you even know where you are?

JERMAINE MEDLEY: I thought I told you in Philadelphia, I have no-- (inaudible.) I
wanted to open it up. It was about time we put on a run at that time of the game and I
just wanted to be the person to start it off.

Q. Jermaine, what did you learn about playing St. John's the first time in terms of
attacking their track?

JERMAINE MEDLEY: The track wasn't the big problem. I think it was just us on defense. I
don't think I contested them as hard as I could have. The pressure wasn't the thing that
really bothered us.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT