U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2017
Noah Norton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just kind of walk me through your play today.  
NOAH NORTON: It was a grind.  I mean, Min is a phenomenal player.  He won last year, obviously.  Unbelievable in all aspects.  He came out and made two birdies early on the first four.  I was 2-down, and I knew I had to get going at that point.  I think I won the next four.  So it got me back up to a 2-up lead.   
Just kind of was grinding that 1-up, 2-up.  I mean, Match Play takes a lot out of you, no matter who you play, and especially if you play such a good player.  I know Min's bummed to go home.  I was kind of bummed when we had to play each other, because it's a match that you don't want to have in the first round, because he's a great player.  But, I mean, it was a lot of fun out there for sure.   
 Q.  So walk me through some of those, like you said, you went down 2 the first two holes, but then you came back through four.  Walk me through some of those and kind of your mindset?  Maybe just walk me through some of the holes, the club you used, so forth, where you landed on the green, if you made the putt right away.  
NOAH NORTON: I guess, start on the hole that he won, he won 3.  I drove the hole, which is a long hole.  I hit a pretty good one.  I was still like 50 yards short, and then he had to two-putt, so that was pretty easy.  He made a good 15-footer.   
 Q.  You don't have to do his, just yours?  
NOAH NORTON: Well, I was just walking through the holes he won.  Then he made a 15-footer.  The next hole I had about 50 yards in, and I had to bump it in the slope, went to three feet.  He gave me it.  He failed to get up and down.  It was kind of just playing each other a lot of the time.   
Then, 6 we both didn't play too well.  We both hit it right, which you can't go.  Then it was kind of just playing each other to see who got the lowest score on the hole, obviously.  Then 7 I hit it to like five feet.  8 I made about a 15-footer.   
 Q.  Great.  So tell me a little about the heat?  Do you feel like it's starting to affect you out there?  
NOAH NORTON: It takes a lot out of you.  A lot of hydrating.  I'd probably drink a water bottle a hole, or every other hole.  But you have to find a way to concentrate on your match.   
 Q.  How are you going to use this momentum coming off today going into tomorrow?  
NOAH NORTON: I mean, when you play good players, it gives you a lot of confidence.  So just use the confidence that I had today.  How I played today, I played pretty solid.  Just carried over into whoever I play next.  Yeah, we'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT