NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2015
Trey Burke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is this your first time in Brooklyn? 
TREY BURKE:   No.   I've been here a few times.   We played here at Michigan my sophomore year, and then last year.   So about two or three times. 

Q.   Okay.     Talk a little bit about this experience, about today, your thoughts on it. 
TREY BURKE:   It was a great experience for me.   It was my first time doing something like this.   Last year we didn't do as much like this, engaging with the fans.   But I had a great time.   I'm looking forward to tomorrow. 

Q.   Trey, I want to ask you about DeMarcus Cousins.   What was your impression of him? 
TREY BURKE:   His play?   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   I think he's a great player.   He catches a lot of flak from the media, probably because of the way he expresses himself sometimes, but he's just being himself.   At the same time, he's a great player.   I feel like he's going to make a big impact in this league, like he already has. 

Q.   He's an All‑Star this season.   What do you expect to see from him? 
TREY BURKE:   I think he's going to do a good job.   All‑Star Game is kind of like‑‑ it's free.   You're just playing.   I think that's his type of style.   I got an opportunity to play with him out in L.A. this past summer.   That was like an open‑gym‑type game.   He's good in those type of environments, situations.   

Q.   Where was that you played? 
TREY BURKE:   Out in L.A. 360 I think it's called.   I think that's what the facility is called.   It was just an open gym.   It was the summer time. 

Q.   Did he dominate in those games? 
TREY BURKE:   He was.   There was a few pros in there and then some local guys in there.   It was a good one. 

Q.   Did you get a chance to play against Schroder? 
TREY BURKE:   I played against Schroder twice, I believe.   Both last year and then this year.   He's a good player.   Good defender.   Really good point guard.   Obviously he's a young guy like me.   Every time we play against each other we compete on a high level.   I'm looking forward to playing with him more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT