NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2014
Trey Burke
Damian Lillard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   As part of this year's Taco Bell Skills Challenge, four teams were paired with NBA participants.   
Anna‑Marie Spears was paired with Trey Burke and Damian Lillard and will receive a $30,000 educational scholarship from the Taco Bell Foundation For Teens.   
The foundation will also donate a total of $60,000 to Boys and Girls Clubs of America locations nationwide presented in the names of the NBA players who competed in tonight's Taco Bell Skills Challenge.   
With that, we'll take questions for all participants and Anna.   
   
 Q.   Damian, to defend, how nice was it?   Trey, how nice was it to play with Damian?   
DAMIAN LILLARD:   It was an exciting for me all day, but to be able to do it again and be the skills champ again along with Trey, it was a great feeling.   
But the bigger thing was that we could help her out.   I remember last year being able to do it for another kid and how I felt about that.   
So going into it I took a lot pride in being able to do it for her, because I told her I would.  
TREY BURKE:   He basically said it all.   We had a good time out there, and that's what it's about.   We went out there to have fun with it, and it was kind of close at the end, but like he said, it was good that we were able to do it for her and help her out.   
   
 Q.   Trey, did you realize how close it was and how much time was there when you finished that?  
TREY BURKE:   I started to hear the crowd, and you continue to glance up at the clock to see how much time you got.   
I just tried to get there as quick as possible.   I looked up and I thought it was tied.   I thought we tied.   And Damian told me that we ended up winning, so it was a good experience.   
   
 Q.   The more interesting question, who keeps the trophy?   
DAMIAN LILLARD:   Since I already got one, I guess I have to‑‑ I guess I let him keep it.   If we can't decide, then maybe she should keep it.   
   
 Q.   Damian, two out of four, are you happy?   
DAMIAN LILLARD:   I was happy to just be invited to all of them and be able to compete in them.   And I wanted to win at least one.   And I won the first one, and then I thought that there would be some momentum to continue to try and win all three of them.   
But I fell short in the Three‑Point Contest, and, as you all saw in the dunk contest, they kind of just outclassed us.   
So I'm just happy that I was able to compete in all of them.  
   
 Q.   Still have enough energy for tomorrow?   
DAMIAN LILLARD:   Definitely.   That's the ultimate goal, to become an All‑Star when you come into the NBA and win championships, but being able to play in that big game is big to me and I'm excited about it.   
   
 Q.   Damian, how did you feel about your dunks in the dunk contest and just your thoughts on the general format of the contest?   
DAMIAN LILLARD:   I actually liked the new format.   I think it creates more excitement and brings a little bit more creativity to it instead of a guy being out there and having all the pressure on him to perform by himself.   
And I thought my dunks were good.   I think that we came out rusty to start.   We missed a few dunks, we didn't execute how we did in practice.   And we just stuck with it.   
I think we kind of freestyled it a little bit towards the end just because what we went over didn't work right away.   But those guys, they came out ready and they put down some nice dunks.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about where you decided to put the money balls in the Three‑Point Contest.   
DAMIAN LILLARD:   I decided to put it on the left wing, because that's just the spot that I'm most comfortable shooting from.   And I kept telling myself I need to make at least four out of five of them, and I think I made three or four, and it came down to the last shot, the one that I missed, that could have put me in the final, but I missed it.   
   
 Q.   Trey, can you talk about playing, your experience with Damian and your overall All‑Star Weekend experience.   
TREY BURKE:   It was a great experience overall, to be able to experience it with my family.   And not too many people could say they were a part of All‑Star Weekend, obviously.   I got bigger goals and some day I want to become an All‑Star.   Seeing Damian, as young as he is, become an All‑Star, it motivates me.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, guys.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT