NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Trey Burke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How tough was it for you to kind of sit and wait there for a little while before you got your chance?  
TREY BURKE:   As far as‑‑ what do you mean?   
   
 Q.   Just as far as waiting to kind of get into the NBA and stuff.   
TREY BURKE:   It's tough, because it was my rookie year and I was excited with all the other rookies to get out there and play.   
Obviously with me having the opportunity to come right in and make an impact right away and then the injured happened, it was a bummer.   But I have to find ways to learn from the side to continue to develop while I wasn't on the court.  
   
 Q.   You had summer league, obviously, and then what was the biggest difference when you first got into an NBA game?   Once you got back.   Did you notice like a big uptick in the physicality?  
TREY BURKE:   I think it was a big difference.   I think it was a big difference from summer league to the actual NBA game as well.   
I think the actual NBA game is faster, guys are stronger.   It's not really as much natural talent anymore.   You got to have some type of IQ out there.   You got to be able to think.   So because everybody at this level is talented, everybody has natural ability.   
So for me it was just adjusting to the speed of the game, continuing to learn how to read guys that's been in this league for years and me coming in as a rookie, I'm still adjusting and growing in that area.  
   
 Q.   This team has put a lot of faith in you.   Do you feel like you're starting to become that leader that you were at Michigan with this group of guys?  
TREY BURKE:   I think so, because I'm developing that bond and that relationship with them more and more.   I've been with them probably for about four or five months now every day.   
And the veterans, they let me lead; coaches let me lead.   I still think I can do a better job of leading, but the bright part about it is that they let me.   They hear me out, they allow my voice to be heard.   That's the good thing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT