EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
March 28, 2014
Anirban Lahiri
Siddikur Rahman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on a hard‑earned victory?   
SIDDIKUR RAHMAN:   Well, it was like from the beginning, we were really positive because I really like my partner, he's one of my best friends on the Tour.   So it was a great day for us and I really enjoyed our golf.   
   
 Q.   Lovely to win in this fashion?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: Yeah, I think we played really well and hats off to the other team, they played really, really good.   Yeah, it's nice to get a full point for the team and after yesterday, both of us were really psyched and focused on recovering from yesterday and I'm glad that we have contributed to our teams.  
   
 Q.   You told us yesterday about how this could be a fair he teal finish, certainly give yourself that opportunity?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   Yeah, at one point we were up in all the matches.   It would have been great if we got a another point and a half but yes, the day definitely does belong to us.   
   
 Q.   And you look at the board with more positivity?   
SIDDIKUR RAHMAN:   Yes, why not, because the way we played today, really I'm hoping for something tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You say that you play as friends, how is it playing foursomes instead of fourballs, different sort of scenario?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI: I think he is probably the easiest partner to play with because he doesn't miss.   He's hit every single fairway, and I'm used to hacking it out after my tee shots.   It was easy and he's such a great friend of mine over the years, it was awesome.   I think we did really well together.   
   
 Q.   You missed a few putts out there, how big was the last putt?   
ANIRBAN LAHIRI:   That putt was pretty much the putt for the day‑‑ I don't think I putted badly but between the two of us, we misread a few lines and gelled really well.   On the last hole, TJ came in and he told us that Pablo also hit a hit putt from there.   I want to thank my coach, he's worked really hard on my putting, so I'm glad I pulled it off.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT