DAVIS CUP SEMIFINALS: USA v SWEDEN
September 21, 2007
Joachim Johansson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Were you pleased how you played physically?  Did you feel well out there?   
 JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  I mean, my body felt really well and I'm happy with the shoulder and the rest of the body.  But it's tough to get a good feeling when there's not too much rallies and the quick surface and the ball doesn't bounce too high.   
 It's tough to have a good feeling during a match like this, but he was the better one today when it was the big points.   
  
  Q.  Wasn't that how you wanted to play the points, to keep them short?   
 JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah, I mean, that's my game.  But still I prefer to get a better feeling and a little bit more balls than I was able to do on Andy's serve today.   
  
  Q.  What was your strategy going into the match?   
 JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Probably the same strategy as always:  Try to play my game and try to dictate the points and hold my serve, especially when I played Andy with a huge serve and just to try to get as many balls back as possible.   
 But today was really tough.  I think he had a really high percentage.  But during the match I think I got better and then third set I started to return a little bit better and started to see the ball a little bit better.   
  
  Q.  What, then in the third set went down a little bit?   
 JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  I mean, just a few points different.  When I was broken I missed a few easy points and easy volleys, and against a player like Andy you can't really afford that.  I got better and better during the match and got a better feeling.   
 I've been out for a long time and it's really tough to get back on court and play a match for a first time in eight months on a court like this.   
  
  Q.  Do you anticipate any problem if you would be called on Sunday, or do you think you're fit enough?   
 JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  No.  I feel good today and still there's another day tomorrow and I got to see how I feel tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that that was the right strategy by your captain, to choose the fast surface?  Obviously it helps your game.  But overall for the weekend?   
 JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah.  I mean, it's not too many points different during this match.  I think it could have gone either way.  I mean, I wasn't really sure if I was going to play and Jonas and Thomas are really good on this surface, so I think it's the right choice from us.   
  
  Q.  Do you expect to play on Sunday?   
 JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  It's tough to say.  I think you got to ask Mats that.  I feel good in my body right now and it's not up to me to pick.  I can't answer that.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT