AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2005
Joachim Johansson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  In which physical condition are you just now? 

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  I haven't really felt too much after the match, but obviously I'm a little bit tired in my legs.  But hopefully it's going to be fine.

Q.  During that last set you didn't seem to be moving too well.  Were the legs hurting?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah, I think it looked like it felt for me (smiling).  Yeah, I was struggling.  Something happened in my right hamstring in the fourth set, but probably it was only that I was fatigued in my muscle.  Then I was moving a little bit different, so I got cramps in both legs.

Q.  Have you had a match like it before?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  No, this was only my second five-setter and it was a little bit different, this one, compared to the one I played against Roddick in the US Open last year.

Q.  It's a bit of an unknown factor as to how you'll recover?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah.

Q.  How do you think you'll go?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  No, I think I should be fine.  I mean, I played last week in Sydney and then I got injured so I had like five days I didn't hardly do anything.  So it feels like maybe I worked my muscles up a little bit today.  But I think they should be fine.  I haven't done too much work for the last week and a half, it feels like.

Q.  What got you through today?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Felt like I was serving well in the fifth.  And then, I mean, had one good returning game in the fifth set.  I was very lucky to break him there when he ended off with a double-fault. 

Q.  Do you feel like you know Feliciano better now after that?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah, I mean, I never played him before.  It was a pretty good first match for me against him. 

Q.  Do you think that your connection to the Hewitt family has endeared the Aussie crowd?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  I'm not sure.  What it felt like with all the Swedish support I had today, maybe that was also the reason.

Q.  Do you feel the Australian crowd like getting behind you?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah, I felt like they were cheering for me today and in some other matches.  I don't know the reason, but it's always nice when a country, a lot of people are supporting you.

Q.  What's going to happen if you and Lleyton are in the final?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  I don't know.  You have to ask the crowd about that.

Q.  I'm talking about your girlfriend. 

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Oh, you have to ask her about that one.

Q.  You got Andre coming up.  How do you feel about that?  How do you think you'll match up with him?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  I haven't really been thinking too much about that match yet.  I never played him before, so I'll probably have to speak to my coach a little bit what we're going to try to work out for the next match.  The main thing for me is that my body is going to feel good.  I know if it feels good, I have a good shot at winning on Sunday.

Q.  Is he one of the guys you always wanted to play?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah, I mean, he's one of the best players of all times.  I'm not sure if you really want to play someone like that, but it's a great opportunity for me before he's going to quit.  I mean, you never know how many more years he's going to play for, and I think it's going to be nice to play him. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT