US OPEN
September 7, 2004
Joachim Johansson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  We sort of say you're "coming in under the radar."  You're winning matches.  Right now is about the first time you're getting noticed and doing so.  Is that a comfortable position for you?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah, I think almost every match I've been playing well.  Apart from the match against Koubek, I didn't play too good in the first set.  Apart from that, I won almost every set pretty comfortable.  I'm pretty pleased with the way I'm playing here.

Q.  We know you have a big serve.  Has the rest of your game been up to your serve as well?  You had a lot of winners in this match?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Today, I didn't serve well at all.  I had less than 50 percent on my first serve.  But I think I played well, I returned well and I did what I needed to do today.  Hopefully, I can step up my serve much more than I did today.

Q.  Can you give me a little history of yourself and how you've come out of Swedish tennis.  Was Stefan Edberg, for instance, your idol?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Actually, my father played Davis Cup with Bjorn Borg, and Bjorn Borg was from the same city as me.  I mean, it was before I was born, but I've been looking up to him a bit.  I practiced with him when I was young.  I think it's him.  Then I been watching guys like Sampras, Philippoussis, Krajicek, that's the way I'm trying to play the game.  I was first stage No. 2 Juniors, then I was injured for a half year on my wrist 2001.  Then I started to play futures, and last year I started to play better and better.  I think I improved myself a lot the last year.

Q.  Did you have wrist injury?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  No, I didn't, but I had a cast on for four month, actually.  I played one tournament in 11 months. 

Q.  Assuming you play Roddick, can you look ahead to that?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah, we played a few times.  I lost in San Jose 4 and 6.  Juniors, we had a few tight matches, 7-6 in the third.  I believe it was 6-4 in the third at the Australian Open.  It was 6-6.  We had very tight matches. In San Jose, I think I played well.  Tried to dictate the points when I played him, but couldn't really, really serve.  But hopefully I can do that tomorrow if I get to play him.  Robredo I always lost to, as well.  Hopefully I can get a win under my belt next match.

Q.  Do you have as much confidence now as you did at this point in Wimbledon, with maybe the chance of even going farther?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  I think I got more confidence now.  I mean, I was in the fourth round there.  Then I was quarterfinal in Toronto.  At Wimbledon I played two matches in a row.  I played Sunday and Monday.  So I was little bit tired after that match.   But now I feel like I got all the energy I need to do well this week.  So far my match has been pretty comfortable.  Hopefully that's going to help me in the next one. 

Q.  What are you feeling most improved in the last year or so?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  I think I improved everything a little bit.  I think especially after my serve, I think I dictate the points a little bit more.  Apart from today, I didn't serve well, but apart from that I think I've been serving well, high percent first serves.  Also I been returning much better. I mean, if I win my service game pretty easy, I can put more energy when they serving.  So I been breaking them more and today I think I broke him seven times or something. So that's where I improved.  I think I'm moving much better on the court, even though I can move better than I do.  Those things I'm working on the whole time, so...

Q.  Did you play Juniors in the US Open?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yes, I did.  Twice. 

Q.  So you've been here, this is your third time. 

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Twice junior, and last year I qualified and lost to Fish first round.  So twice Juniors and twice senior. 

Q.  So you have some familiarity with how things happen here, what the atmosphere is like.  Do you like the atmosphere?

JOACHIM JOHANSSON:  Yeah, I do.  It's a little bit different when I'm playing on the big courts.  But that's what I like, and I like to play night matches like I did today.  The big courts, that's what you're going for.  I guess we're going to play on center court next match (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT