BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 15, 2016
Ira Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Kansas - 7, Baylor - 49   
IRA LEWIS: It's all the whole defensive staff.  Coach Buckels, all of them, all the guys were motivated out there ready to go because we knew we had a to make a statement game today.   
 Q.  Why is that?  
IRA LEWIS: Because that last week wasn't us and that's not how we play.  This week that's not what we wanted to show everybody.  That's not us.  So we wanted to go out there and play who we are.   
 Q.  For y'all to continue the stretch on the back of the Big 12 schedule when it gets tougher, what's it going to take for y'all to play this well?  
IRA LEWIS: We've got to keep coming out with high energy and motivation.  We've got to come out and get three and outs, we've got to keep it going, keep it rolling.   
 Q.  Coach Grobe has talked about how this schedule was a little different.  Baylor had this early in the year.  But as a player, do you like the bye week game?  Does it give you a chance to have fresher legs for the onslaught coming up?  
IRA LEWIS: I think the bye week is definitely going to help, especially how we prepare and get more preparation and rest for the bye week and then coming out we'll have five games, and I think that's going to help.   
 Q.  You forced five turnovers.  How important was that?  
IRA LEWIS: It was very important, very important for defense to cause turnovers.  We're always getting turnovers and that's great.  That's really great.   
 Q.  You had a fumble recovery and a sack.  One of your more disruptive games and you've really played well, quite frankly.  This is a position that lost a lot of people because of graduation, moving to the NFL, and then guys that are just not here anymore.  What do you feel as far as maybe the responsibility on your shoulders?  
IRA LEWIS: It's not necessarily on just my shoulders.  The D-line, the coaches prepare us, the knowledge of the game, and then coming in knowing what we're going to do, that sets how the defense schemes.  So we come in and just run it like they tell us to do, so that's how we play it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT