UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Case as the starter this week, tell us how proud you are of that guy and how he's earned and deserves this starting position. 
DAVID SNOW:   You know, through last week, that was a really tough game, and seeing him come through at the very end for us and to be poised and to make the plays, it's just amazing.   I've blocked for both brothers now, and to see him just take off on the run and get us into field goal position, it's something words can't describe. 

Q.   You've had your 50th game now, too, with the team.   As an offensive lineman do you feel every 50 at some point, and how does that happen because you have played so much?
DAVID SNOW:   I mean, I love playing.   I've been really lucky to see as much action as I have.   I mean, to be in all these games, I just love every minute of it, so it doesn't bother me. 

Q.   The emotion of the A&M game, are you the kind of person that tries to play off that emotion going into this week?   Will you kind of carry that high?
DAVID SNOW:   Every game has its own emotional ties that go along with it, and you've got to be ready to play every single week, especially this week, because anybody can beat you.   You look at the Big 12 now, anybody can beat you, and it's happened this year.   You have to bring your emotion to every game.   You can't just think because you did good one week that you're going to turn around and do good the other.   You can't feed off that.   You have to create your own excitement.
It's a great test for us this week, so it creates its own excitement and its own emotional stuff to feed off of for the entire game. 

Q.   You guys obviously won the game, but when you went back and watched the film, was there some disappointment offensively that you didn't move the ball better than you did?
DAVID SNOW:   You know, there's a lot of things we can do better, especially this being a young offense.   You know, it's coming along, though.   You can see strides.   It's getting better, and that's the main thing.   I mean, that's the problem when you play young players and you have a new offense; you just have to get everything right and the details just right, and especially with the offense we're running now, a lot of formations.   But you know, we're getting better at it and people are getting in sync with it, so it's getting better each and every week.

Q.   What are some of those things you need to get better?
DAVID SNOW:   I mean, it's all over the place, just details, knowing your exact role and stuff.   You know, and that just comes with time, knowing the scheme, getting familiar with the scheme, being comfortable with the scheme, and that's the tough thing about offense is you have to get all 11 guys doing the same exact thing, doing their own job to make a play work, and if one guy messes up then the play is not going to work a lot of the times.   So that's kind of the difficulty with an offense. 

Q.   How important is getting this final regular season game as you head into Bowl season?
DAVID SNOW:   You know, it's very important for us.   It's the last in‑state game that we have, so it's basically for the state championship, and it means a lot.   Their offense is really good.   They have RG III, which is going to be a Heisman candidate, so it's going to be a really good game.   It's up in Baylor, a hostile environment, so we're excited to go play.

Q.   They shut out Stephen F. Austin.   Is their defense that good? 
DAVID SNOW:   Their defense is good.   They have a lot of good players, so we expect their best.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT