UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. Are the running backs, quarterbacks, back together in the whole line, donuts and cookies, or is that job well done on Saturday?  
 DAVID SNOW: Not yet, but I'm looking forward to that day, maybe soon. Maybe I should tell Garrett that.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
 DAVID SNOW: You know, I'm sure he'll be okay with it, we'll just have to run a couple more hundreds. But we're already tired, what's a couple more, right?   
  
  Q. Coach Brown was talking about this will be a physical game. Is that something you look forward to?  
 DAVID SNOW: Yes. BYU is a very good team. They're very big up front. They're very good. I'm really excited to see what this game is going to hold.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
 DAVID SNOW: I mean, that can be answered by the crowd, I believe, when they score. You know, Shipley had a tremendous game. I mean, the one in the end zone when he took the ball away from the defender, you know, even a defender pushed him out of bounds and he kept on going. That says a lot about the kid. But whenever you get the crowd into it and they're yelling and stuff, it pretty much answers your question out there.   
  
  Q. How proud are you of your crew on the offensive line, the 200 yards rushing?  
 DAVID SNOW: Well, any time you can run the ball really well -- we've been working all summer at this, pushing sleds, running up the stadiums, all the protect the houses. I'm sure you've heard of it. It was just a really special time for us that we could go ahead and dominate the game and the running game and have over 200, which we haven't done in the past.   
  
  Q. How did Coach Searels evaluate you after the game?  
 DAVID SNOW: He was very pleased. There's a lot of stuff that we can correct here. I'm not going to sit here and say we had a perfect game. But the great thing that we came out of it because all the mistakes that we had, they weren't something there that can't be corrected, it was all just taking the wrong step here or something like that.  
  
  Q. How does all the motion and laterals and things affect what you guys do up front, or does it at all?   
 DAVID SNOW: You know, it doesn't really -- I don't believe it really affects us at all. It throws the defense off because they don't know what the heck we're going to do. I don't think it affects us at all. We're still going to run the ball straight up the field.  
  
  Q. Have you said, Coach, I can throw a pass or run with it?  
 DAVID SNOW: If I could run the ball, I'd be doing so. If I could pass the ball, I'd be doing so. I'm kind of a little bit overweight for all that stuff. I think I'm good right where I am. I'm not going to have dreams of grandeur. I'm good where I am.  
  
  Q. No trick plays for David?  
 DAVID SNOW: You know, that would be nice, but I don't know. I'm not going to sit here and say that.   
  
  Q. Talk about Garrett's demeanor. What kind of player is he? What's he like?  
 DAVID SNOW: You know, Garrett has been working -- it takes a while for quarterbacks to develop, and he has developed into a very good leader. You know, he's very poised in the huddle, commanding us, just tells us what we needed to do and gave us pep talks. He's come a long, long way, and it's really exciting to see him that way.  
  
  Q. Give me an example of a pep talk that he gives you guys.   
 DAVID SNOW: Well, that's kind of between us. I can't really -- I'm not going to share. Sorry. I don't think Vince Lombardi would say such things.  
  
  Q. What did you think of Espinosa?  
 DAVID SNOW: He did really well. I'm really happy for the guy. He worked all summer getting back from his shoulder surgery, so I'm really happy to see him have a really good game and a really solid performance.  
  
  Q. How much does your experience at center help you when you move out to guard just because you're the guy that's used to calling the protections and things like that?  
 DAVID SNOW: Well, just because I moved to guard doesn't mean I still stop. It doesn't mean I stop calling out stuff, and I can help. You know, it really does help because I know what just about everybody is doing because I have played on the whole line basically, and I know what everybody is doing, so I know what steps he's going to take, so that kind of dictates what steps I take.   
 So it really does help when you're able to line up at all the positions and play all of them. It really does help you.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT