UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 29, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID SNOW: You know, there's a lot of excitement going around. Last year we had a bad taste in our mouth, and losing is the most awful feeling, especially when you play in Texas where losing is not acceptable. You don't come into any game saying you're going to lose, and you don't expect to lose. So we're really excited about this year. We put a lot of work into it through the spring and the summer, working out with Benny. We've put a lot into this, so kind of ready to get the rewards out of it. 

 Q. How much did the hard work that you guys put in and the cross training help everybody get better?
 DAVID SNOW: Well, with the cross training you want to get the best out on the field, whatever combination that might be, so whatever combination works the best. With cross training it helps you understand what everyone else is doing, so even though I'm playing guard, I know what the tackle is doing, I know what the center is doing, and when you understand that and you understand the big scheme of things, it helps you in your job because you know, okay, these people are doing that so I'm doing this. You know how everything affects you. If you just look at your block you never realize the big picture, so there's a lot of little things you can pick up by knowing what the other people are doing in every situation. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID SNOW: Well, of course we did take a lot of criticism. You know, a lot has changed from last year. The scheme is different. So we're really looking forward to it. With the new Coach Searels coming in, he's done really great things, and I'm really excited to see how it all pays off. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID SNOW: Well, with the young guys they have grown up really fast over this spring and summer, so it doesn't really make me nervous because we've had so much time together and they've grown so much. So I'm really looking forward to see how all the hard work pays off. You know, through the summer and stuff we worked so hard and we came really close, so it's going to be fun to see how the new guys go. 

 Q. When you're in the huddle is it pretty clear that Garrett is going to be the guy?
 DAVID SNOW: Well, you know, I got the depth chart today. Coach Harsin was going to make a great decision about that. I'm not going to sit here and say I knew it all the time. There was a good competition between all of them. Coach Harsin was always going to pick the best one.

 Q. Did he pick the best one?
 DAVID SNOW: He did.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID SNOW: Fozzy is a great guy, let's just start off with that. He's worked really hard through the spring and summer. He hit it this summer really hard. I'm really excited for him. I've been here with him, seen him over the last four years just really grow, and he's got -- the kid is super fast, sheesh. He's put on some muscle, he's put on some more weight, and I'm really excited for him because he shows up every day with a smile on his face and hits it hard. He's one of those guys that's just coming in every day and hits it hard. So I'm really excited to see him have a great year and just explode onto the scene.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT