UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 21, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Do you have a favorite Thanksgiving meal or food?   
DAVID SNOW:   Well, you know, you can look at me, and I'll just about like everything.   You don't get 310 by not liking food.   You know, there's a lot of things I like.   I really like fried turkey, then you go with the stuffing and then top it off with a little s'mores pie.   You can get pretty heavy doing that.  
   
 Q.   When will you get to eat that, Friday?  
DAVID SNOW:   Yeah, ever since I've been at the University of Texas, Thanksgiving is moved back a day.   My family celebrates it on Friday.   
   
 Q.   Do you know a lot of guys who went to A&M or just even classmates you had from high school?  
DAVID SNOW:   Yes, actually, you know, all the top ten percent besides me went there.   We have a lot of Aggies where I'm from up in east Texas.  
   
 Q.   Is it sad to see this game go?  
DAVID SNOW:   Yeah, it really is.   It's a great tradition, but they've got to do what's best for them.   But I do hate to see it go.   You grow up with it, watching it as a child, and you know, it just becomes engrained into something that is just a part of your life.  
   
 Q.   Is that part of your memories of Thanksgiving growing up?  
DAVID SNOW:   You know, it is.   You get to eat lunch and then go play a little backyard football and then pile around the TV and watch the game.   It's one of my fondest memories I have of this rivalry is as a child growing up.   It's really great that I get to be a part of the ending of it, too.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you'll have to move past the game and kind of look back on it later in life to appreciate it, or do you think you've kind of used all of it as motivation this week?  
DAVID SNOW:   I appreciate it right now.   It's something that's beyond words.   But you know, things do get better with time, so I'm sure I'm going to appreciate it even more when I'm old.  
   
 Q.   What are some of your favorite memories from watching or playing this game?  
DAVID SNOW:   Man, there's countless ones.   I don't know if I can just pick out just one for you.   Sorry.   I'm not giving you much start to write.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)   You guys had to pull it out?  
DAVID SNOW:   This is true.   That was actually a really good one, Colt and all them.   That was something special, him running for that touchdown.   That was pretty nice, pretty special stuff.   That was probably one of my best ones.  
   
 Q.   What is that place like?  
DAVID SNOW:   You know, it's very hostile.   Their fans don't like us, and regretfully so, our fans don't like them.   It's really just hostile.   That's the only way to really explain what it is.   You have that many people hating you in one place, all synched in with the same chants, it gets pretty loud.  
   
 Q.   Do you think Case is ready to start a game like this?   
DAVID SNOW:   Well, you know, he's been doing really good for us.   You know, sometimes you've got to let your wings out and fly the coop.   
   
 Q.   But do you think he's ready for that?  
DAVID SNOW:   I think Coach Harsin has prepared him, so I think he's ready.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever noticed any confidence or just him being upset because he hasn't played much in the last four games?  
DAVID SNOW:   Of course you're going to be a little bit, but he doesn't show it.   He just shows up to work, and that's the great thing about him.   You know, he doesn't make excuses, he just shows up and battles.   He gets better every week.   
   
 Q.   What are your impressions of A&M's defense?   
DAVID SNOW:   You know, they're very good.   They like to show multiple looks, a lot of blitzes and stuff.   
   
 Q.   You said you liked the fact that it was a short week.   Is it more stressful at all?                                            
DAVID SNOW:   You know, it's just everything is really moved up, so it's kind of like gets you out of the everyday I'm doing this this day, that that day.   It's kind of nice sometimes to just change it up.   You get out of the routine of things, and I kind of like that.   
You know, it's going to be great.   
   
 Q.   Does today feel like a Wednesday?   
DAVID SNOW:   You know, it does.   We don't have SCA today, so I guess I'm not going to go to that.   Yeah, you know, pretty good, sure.   Closer to the weekend, right?   
   
                          
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT