UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. You got to listen to a lot of what Fozzy was saying. What has he meant and what's kind of going through your mind when you talk about him? 
 DAVID SNOW: Fozzy has meant a lot to us, knowing him over four years now. He's been a great friend to me. When I first got here he reached out to me. He just brings that high energy kind of demeanor to the team. He has that extra spice that -- it's very special. 

 Q. What kind of happened Saturday when he went down? Is that almost just really difficult to overcome for you guys? 
 DAVID SNOW: You know, when a guy like Fozzy goes down, it does take a lot out of it. When that happens, everybody else has to do a little bit more. We didn't do enough to win the game, and that was pretty much evident. 

 Q. How do you make sure that not only Fozzy but losing that game doesn't carry over into this week? 
 DAVID SNOW: We have a -- it's the 24-hour rule. Either a win or a loss, you've got to put it behind you after 24 hours after the game, start focusing on the next opponent. K-State is a really good team, both offense and defense, so you've just got to prepare for them and put this one behind you, learn from it, move on.

 Q. Is that hard to do in a week like this? 
 DAVID SNOW: I mean, you just have to do it, no matter if it's harder or anything else, especially losing somebody like Fozzy. Yeah, it's kind of an emotional thing, but you just have to get focused on the next week at hand.

 Q. On top of that, it's senior week. Talk about that. 
 DAVID SNOW: Yeah, yeah. It breaks my heart that he won't get to play in his last home game. He will be missed. 

 Q. How about for you, the senior class and what they've meant. 
 DAVID SNOW: You know, it means a lot to us. It hasn't really quite hit me yet, playing this last game. I'm sure -- I have kind of a thick skull so it'll probably sink in a bit later.

 Q. How tough was this loss of Fozzy? It seems like you guys are taking it harder than he is. 
 DAVID SNOW: Fozzy is an upbeat guy. That's just his personality, and he's always been that way. He doesn't let things get him down. You know, he always looks at the -- he's an opportunist. He looks at things in life and doesn't let things get him down.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT