UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 7, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. How much more fun are you guys having up front running the ball as much as you're running it?  
 DAVID SNOW: We're having a lot of fun. Whenever you control the whole game and stuff and run the ball effectively, it opens up a lot of doors, and it's just really great to be doing that.   
  
  Q. What does it do for you guys to kind of know that that is who you are, that's the kind of team you are? How does that help you?  
 DAVID SNOW: You know, when you find out who you are, you find out what your offense is, it means a lot. That's kind of our identity now, so especially when you come here with all new coaches and stuff, that's the thing is what is your identity going to be, what's your makeup of this team going to be because it changes from year to year, and we're finally finding our identity, and it's going well.  
  
  Q. That's something you guys have been working on, though, since the beginning the last season. How nice is it to see the fruits of your labor?  
 DAVID SNOW: It means a lot. We put a lot of work into it, and to see it finally pay off, it's amazing. We worked on it in the spring and the summer, working out and stuff, and it was just developing that mentality, and just to see it come through, it's really great.   
  
  Q. Coach Brown talked about how physical Missouri is up front. What kind of challenge do you expect that to present?  
 DAVID SNOW: It's a great challenge. You know, they're a great front, been looking at them, good linebackers, good defensive line. You know, they're going to be a good challenge, and I mean, we're going into their home, so it's just going to be a good test.   
  
  Q. Are you guys more prepared to go on the road now than you were maybe earlier in the season?  
 DAVID SNOW: Yeah, I think we get better at everything, honestly. I think this whole team is -- we're playing a lot of young players. They know what to expect now. We're getting better in every facet of everything that we do, so it's really coming along.   
  
  Q. You guys have a tough stretch coming up at the end of the season. Just talk about the fact that you do have three of the last four on the road and how hard that last month is in general every year.   
 DAVID SNOW: You know, it is extremely hard. Everybody is fighting, because it determines the quality of the Bowl that most people go to, so everybody is trying to win. You know, the last couple months is always a grind because everybody has improved over the year, so you're playing the best team that they've had all year long. So in that sense you're going to get your best from everybody, so to expect less is foolish.  
  
  Q. Now that he's taken all the snaps, where have you seen the most growth in David?  
 DAVID SNOW: He's grown a lot in his poise, his command of the offense and stuff. You've seen his confidence grow. You can tell it in the game, when he took off scampering and had a huge game with the run, and you know, he's just understanding a lot of stuff now. He's just growing. He gets better every week.   
  
  Q. How do you make sure that you guys aren't satisfied with just getting six wins?   
 DAVID SNOW: Oh, trust me, we're not satisfied. When you go 5 and 7 at Texas, no, you're not satisfied. We didn't work just for a Bowl. I mean, the Bowl is a milestone; it's another brick that we talked about. But the wall has a lot to go to be fully built. We've just got to keep on laying the foundation and building it up.   
  
  Q. You keep winning the Bevo Beast award every week.   
 DAVID SNOW: That's my goal. I try to be a little bit stingy.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT