UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 31, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. I know it's not obviously the end-all-be-all, but how important is it because of what happened last year to be Bowl eligible and get the sixth win and be able to move past that?
     DAVID SNOW: You know, it's very important, especially to us right now. I mean, as a Texas team not being Bowl eligible last year, that's not our standard. That's not anywhere close. This will be another step in getting that back and revamping what happened last year. All the work that we went through in the summer will pay off, so that's just another break that we need to get done.

 Q. Mack said that you've been playing really well and you were given a team award this week. Talk about that. 
     DAVID SNOW: You know, I feel like each one of us can play better, including myself. I've got things to improve on. Yeah, it was great winning the award, but just got to get back to work and get better because in the game I did stuff that I can get a lot better on. That's going to be my focus this week, just getting better. 

 Q. Talk about playing Texas Tech. They've got a pretty good defense. 
     DAVID SNOW: They do. I love how you just said that as a question. 
     They really do. I mean, they usually -- they always, every time I play them, have really good defense. So we're looking forward to playing them. 

 Q. I thought you would be one of the meanest, nastiest guy on the offensive line. Apparently that goes to mason Walters. Would you agree with that?
     DAVID SNOW: Whatever you think. That's your opinion. You know, you're granted an opinion. Mason is a very good player, and I'm not taking anything away from him.

 Q. His teammates said that he was the meanest and nastiest. 
     DAVID SNOW: Well, I guess he is.

 Q. What makes him so unique and dynamic? 
     DAVID SNOW: Well, you know, he just shows up and works every day. He's 6'7", 315 pounds. You know, he's very aggressive. It's great having him on the inside of the ball. 

 Q. What has it meant to the offense when you guys come out and score on the opening drive?
     DAVID SNOW: You know, it's very important. It sets the momentum for the whole team. It just gets everything going. It helps the defense out and keeps the ball away from the other team, so it's really great.

 Q. Do you have a favorite Halloween costume? 
     DAVID SNOW: On me or --

 Q. That you've ever had. 
     DAVID SNOW: I don't know. I haven't worn one in a very long time. I don't really know. I don't even know what I used to dress up as, probably Robin Hood, I don't know.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT