UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 24, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for David Snow. 

 Q. How do you make sure you avoid any kind of letdown after playing two of the best teams in the country?
 DAVID SNOW: You know, we played a lot of good teams and stuff. Each team and each opponent we face right now is just as equally important. It's another brick, keep on laying the foundation to this year. 

 Q. Mack talked about the offense needing to score points. This is a goal on every drive. How has that kind of been hammered home to you?
 DAVID SNOW: Well, I mean, it's very important for an offense to score points. That's a gimme. One that doesn't score points, it's a pretty terrible one (laughter). 
 We've had a lot of chances in the red zone that we didn't capitalize on. We just need to keep on working at it. Through this next week we're going to work on keeping getting better on a lot of different plays, focusing on that. 

 Q. (Question regarding the bye week.) 
 DAVID SNOW: We had a lot of practices and stuff. We got better. We got a little break to get our bodies back. All that kind of helped the mind and bodies at the same time. I feel like we got a lot prepared last week. It was a good practice. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVID SNOW: He's really growing up. With more and more games underneath your belt, that's what happens, you get more comfortable. That's just how it is. He'll just get more and more comfortable with more experience. 

 Q. What about for you guys with him? Does it work both ways?
 DAVID SNOW: Yeah, it does. Once you get things in there, we start working together and stuff, we get synced together, we know what's going to happen in certain things. It's really good to get synced with everybody. 

 Q. This is a cancer week game. 
 DAVID SNOW: I haven't had breast cancer in my family like a lot of people have. My grandfather had throat cancer. He's a survivor. I think he went through like 48 treatments or something like that. It hit home with us. Yeah, it's a very crippling disease. 
 Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT