UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. I guess if you guys want to win this conference you can't start off 0 and 2, can you?   
     DAVID SNOW: No. I mean, we're playing two really great teams back to back, and you know, last week didn't go like we wanted to, but now we have a chance to prepare and come back and have a great game against OSU.  
  
  Q. What did you feel like the biggest problems you guys had on offense were on Saturday?  
     DAVID SNOW: You know, there's a few. You can't just single out one thing. It was a multitude of things that led into what happened. You know, the great thing is all of it can get fixed and we can work on it and stuff. We've just got to get back to the drawing board and got to get back this weekend.  
  
  Q. Talk about the offensive line particularly.   
     DAVID SNOW: You know, it all starts with Tuesday, with the practice and stuff. Coach Searels, just start going back to practice and stuff, you learn from your mistakes you had and the mistakes we had in OU, and you just learn from them, and through practice and stuff you just get better, and you just don't make the same mistakes twice.   
  
  Q. OU had something like 17 tackles for loss. Are there specific things that you can point to that went wrong, and how much does that worry you going forward?   
     DAVID SNOW: You know, you're right, there was a lot that went wrong in that game. We've just got to get back and start practicing and stuff. You know, it's not what we wanted, but sometimes life gives you adversity, and you've just got to overcome it.   
  
  Q. Does it affect the linemen when the quarterback isn't stable?   
     DAVID SNOW: You know, both quarterbacks are really good, and it doesn't matter who's back there honestly. If you give them a window of protection, then it doesn't matter if it's Case or Ash. It really doesn't make a difference. You've just got to give him the protection time.   
  
  Q. And then Mack mentioned Fozzy played a great game. I know you've spoken highly about Fozzy before. I guess his performance doesn't surprise you?  
     DAVID SNOW: It doesn't. I mean, the guy, he works aÃˆs tail off, and he's always upbeat. He's a very dynamic player, and he makes great plays for us, especially when we need him. You know, it doesn't shock me at all because I've seen him do it in practice and stuff. It's just what he does.   
  
  Q. Oklahoma State, their offense gets so much notoriety, you don't hear a lot about their defense, but a couple of picks that they had against A †& †M were the difference really in the ballgame. Have you had a chance to see any of Oklahoma State's defense?  
     DAVID SNOW: They're actually pretty good. They're kind of shadowed by their offense, but I believe I think it's four different players on their team have interceptions and stuff. They're a very good defense. You know, we've just got to start preparing for them, and it's going to be a great battle out here in DKR.  
   
    
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT