UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2011
David Snow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. What do you take from last year looking back at this Iowa State game? 
 DAVID SNOW: Well, you know, it was a very hard game and stuff, and a lot of things didn't go like it should. You know, I guess it's just you learn humility, and not every team you're going to beat, so it's kind of like when you beat them, you really savor the win more. So I think all that. 

 Q. What do you know about their team?
 DAVID SNOW: They're very physical. The up-north teams, they're pretty much in line with that. Big linebackers. They're very good. They have a lot of returning starters. 

 Q. Do you think the UCLA game kind of helped you guys build a little momentum?
 DAVID SNOW: It did, and in that game we started a lot faster than we have in the past. In the past we've been more of a third and fourth quarter team, and UCLA you saw us, we were a four quarters team, and we prepared for that in practice and stuff. It was really good for the team to come together and do that and play all four quarters like we know we can. It was really a lot of momentum building up to Iowa State. 

 Q. Sad news about Garrett obviously, but how was it just practicing with Case and David? Do you feel like there's a little bit more rhythm in practice with those guys? 
 DAVID SNOW: Well, you know what happened with Garrett is a very bad deal, sad for the guy. He worked his tail off. You know, Case and David have been very good for us, and they have really stepped it up and taken hold of the leadership for us. 
 You know, they grew up really quickly, so it's been really good in practice. 

 Q. Anything you're looking forward to about seeing Iowa State's and doing something you didn't do last time other than winning obviously?
 DAVID SNOW: Well, winning is one thing we did not do. We didn't do much of anything last year if you remember. So it would be really good to get to go back and play them again, and this year's team is a whole new, brand new team, new schemes, new offense, new defense. We're not the same team we were last year, so it's really good to see us build up with this new offense and get the momentum going.

 Q. Do you feel like you're rested coming off the bye? 
 DAVID SNOW: We feel really good. We've got our bodies back with running and lifting and stuff and got the soreness out, and then we had really good practices for Iowa State and just got really focused and stuff. It was really good just to get us back in the game.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT