NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 29, 2003
Albert Costa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  How disappointed are you? 
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Well, I think today, I am disappointed because I was fighting all the time to win the match.  But I still made the good tournament.  
 
Q.  Would you say today was a result of Andre Agassi playing very well, or you, in your opinion, not playing as well as you could have? 
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Well, I didn't start so good.  I didn't start playing my best tennis.  But I was trying hard all the time.  In the second set, I think I didn't took my chances.  So I had many chances to make the break and to put him under pressure.  So I think I played a good match.  I cannot  -- now I know that I can play a little better, but he was playing also very good.  So it's tough to play against him. 
 
Q.  At 2-3, when he was serving in the second set, there was a triple break. 
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Yep. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about that game?
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Yeah, that's what I'm talking about, I think I made only one mistake.  The other two points were like it happened, you know.  Good return and I missed it and then he played  -- and then at 15-40, I had a good chance to win that point and I make the mistake.  But, you know, sometimes you put the ball in and you are very happy and sometimes, at this moment, you cannot make it.  But I was trying.  I'm happy because my obsession was try, try, try.  I tried - everything.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the first game, I think 17 minutes long?
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  That was pretty amazing. 
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Yeah, it was amazing for the first game, yeah.  Normally, the first games are more, like, cold, you make some mistakes and you are getting confident on the court.  But it was so tough.  And maybe I get a little down.  But still... 
 
Q.  You mean...
 
ALBERT COSTA:  After the game, I went little  -- like... 
 
Q.  It's hard after you play so long, right, just to lose that game?
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Yeah, yeah.  
 
Q.  Is it disappointing that there will not be two Spaniards in the final?
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Yeah, it is, it is.  I would love to play tomorrow the final.  But Andre deserves more than me.  He beat me, so now I'm happy with my semis. 
 
Q.  How do you think Moya will do against Andre? 
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Well, I think he has a lot of chances.  I think so, yeah. 
 
Q.  Why? 
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Because Moya, because today, if I make maybe  -- maybe, if I make that points in the breakpoint and I put him under pressure, I think I have chances to win that match.  And if Carlos doesn't make mistakes, has a good game, he serves pretty big, very good forehand.  So I think there is gonna be a very tough match. 
 
Q.  How much do you think the extra day will help Carlos and how much will it hurt Agassi, having played today?
 
ALBERT COSTA:  Well, it's gonna hurt for sure.  Now, Carlos is resting.  Andre has to be, like, 1 hours and 45 minutes playing hard.  And with a lot of hot.  So it's gonna be, I think, physically, Andre is going to feel it a little more than Carlos.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT