NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 30, 2014
Courtney Ceo
Cheridan Hawkins
Karine Shaver
Mike White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Florida: 4
  Oregon: 0

THE MODERATOR:   Here with us from Oregon to my right, Head Coach Mike White, Cheridan Hawkins, Karine Shaver and Courtney Ceo.   We will begin with an opening statement from Coach. 
COACH WHITE:   First off, I want to congratulate Florida on playing a good game.   They played defensively, pitched well, and took the most of their opportunities at bat.   I'm certainly going to be happy now that Dallas Escobedo and Hannah Rogers are both graduating.   They have certainly been a pain in my butt the last few years.   They have pitched well.   Hannah stepped up, took advantage of a good strike zone for her and controlled us.   We got three hits, and everything we seemed to hit they made plays on.   The big thing for us is to bounce back and see what we can do tomorrow night against whatever we play. 
I feel confident in our team.   It just didn't go our way today, but I'm confident that we will bounce back tomorrow.

Q.   Courtney, you accomplished a real milestone in softball today.   100 hits.   I can't find anyone else in the record book who has 100 hits.   Congratulations. 
COURTNEY CEO:   Thank you. 

Q.   What did you hit?   You all were starving for hits out there.   What pitch did you like? 
COURTNEY CEO:   Thank you.   I had no idea but thank you.   She was giving me similar pitches throughout my at‑bat sequence and I just knew that I had to hit a pitch early in the count so I didn't get behind and just, you know, looked for that outside pitch she was giving me, and that's the one I ended up hitting. 

Q.   Congratulations. 
COURTNEY CEO:   Thank you. 

Q.   You said in your opening comments that the strike zone was a good one "for her," meaning Hannah.   Was it not a good strike zone for Cheridan? 
COACH WHITE:   No, it wasn't, because the same pitches that were being called for Hannah were not being called for us, and then our right hander came in and he called those calls.   It just wasn't‑‑ I'm not saying it was a bad strike zone, it just wasn't a good strike zone for our left hander, created a lot of pressure, couldn't get those calls.   That's just the way it goes. 

Q.   Karine, can you explain what happened on the pop‑up? 
KARINE SHAVER:   I made a slight error.   I let my nerves get the best of me and ready to come back tomorrow. 

Q.   Did it hit your glove?
KARINE SHAVER:   Yes. 

Q.   Cheridan, seems like from the first inning on you weren't quite as sharp as you were yesterday.   Was it something else besides the strike zone? 
CHERIDAN HAWKINS:   No, I definitely think I could have hit my corners lot better and mixed better today than I did today, and I think it was definitely more of a mental error. 

Q.   Coach White, tomorrow you will face the winner of Oklahoma or Lafayette.   Could you talk about those two teams and your opinion of them? 
COACH WHITE:   Sure.   As you know, Oklahoma has been hitting the ball well lately, Kelsey Stevens is doing a great job pitching.   We know her a little bit from the Pac 12, last year against Stanford.   They had to win that game.   There are players we know about.   We faced them last year early on, and they handled us pretty easily, so it would be nice to get another shot at them. 
Lafayette, we haven't seen in a while.   We saw them a couple of years ago.   Obviously we saw a lot of tape on them, and I'm sure they're going to give us a great game.   Whoever is left in this tournament is great teams.   So it's going to be an exciting match‑up.   As I told the ladies, the toughest game for us is the next game.   It always is after a loss; it's how you bounce back.   Obviously a lot of disappointment.   We didn't come out and play the way we wanted to play.   We got "handled" to tell you the truth.   I don't necessarily say the best team won, but the team that played the best, and that was the Florida Gators, they outhit us, they outpitched us and they outfielded us, and they deserved to win the game. 
And now it's about whether we can bounce back and play the game the way we've been playing all year, where we've hit well, and we've pitched well, and we've played and done everything correctly.   So, again, it's about how we bounce back tomorrow, and I'm excited to see how we perform tomorrow night. 

Q.   Courtney, you are obviously the senior leader, one game from your career ending.   In terms of going into tomorrow and coming through the loser's basket, you will be glad to know that Coach Walton announced they made the final one year coming out of the loser's bracket.   What's going to be your approach in speaking to your team as a leader?   What's the message you want to give? 
COURTNEY CEO:   Just the message that we have done all year.   It's a process.   We need to stick to our plan and play our game.   We need to not focus on the other team but focus on ourselves.   Do what we do best.   We do best when we play team offense, when we pass the bat, when we see strikes in the zone.   We pick each other up; that's what we have done all year.   So whether we get down one run, two runs, or even more it's just picking us up.   Pick our pitchers up, our pitchers will pick our batters up and just really play a team game.   If we can get that message across and focus on ourselves and playing team softball we're going to be fine.   We're going to be fine. 

Q.   Coach Walton said he never seen Hannah Rogers pitch as well as she has pitched the last couple of weeks.   What did y'all see from her?   How hard was she to hit today? 
COURTNEY CEO:   Hannah Rogers is a great pitcher; she throws a great game.   She knew what she was getting, with the umpire, she was getting those strikes, and she pounded that zone.   She kept us off balance keeping it around the zone, not necessarily throwing strikes but getting us to chase.   She had a great game today, so props to her for that. 
KARINE SHAVER:   Same thing that Courtney said, she hit her spots and did a great job of capitalizing on our mistakes. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT