CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2006
Jim Thorpe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
to hit it hard.  Just right on the nuts, you know, and it was perfect, man.  And I think I'm in pretty good shape, but I think all the guys out here are in pretty good shape.  Look at the guys walking past.  They don't look 50, 60.  And I think the guys have kept themselves in great shape. 

The one thing we realize when we came out here is this is the greatest (indiscernible) in life.  We can make more money and do something that we love.  We can do this when we're 60, 65 year old.  We proved that last year.  We know that the competition is getting harder and tougher. 

But for a lot of the us that drives us to take it deeper, you know what I mean, and to play that much harder.  I'm going to come out next year, and I don't feel I played well enough to win, but I knew the last month my game was coming around.  To get lucky and win this golf tournament again, the year could not have been much better. 


Q.  (Inaudible.)

JIM THORPE:  Uh huh.


Q.  The guys talk about problems of, you know, being an African American particularly in country club settings.  You came along in the '70s.  Did you come out of a segregated area in Carolina?  Was it tough for you?  And did you have any problems when you originally joined the TOUR?

JIM THORPE:  No.  My dad was a greenskeeper at Rockburg Country Club for 55 years.  We knew what the south was like.  My dad always explained there's certain things you can and can't do.  When I same out in the year of '76, I think the stage had been set.  I think Charlie Lee, Pete Brown, all those guys had all those guys had kind of set the stage. 

And as a matter of fact, somebody said the other day    and he asked me if I had any races, and I don't remember one.  I cannot, honest to God, remember when    and I played throughout the south.  Mississippi, Alabama, New Orleans.  I never once    and I am the type of personality that I don't let it bother me no way. 

I think basically what happened to a lot of people is they found themselves stooping to someone else's level.  I think a man isn't a man until (indiscernible) I'm pretty sure for Charlie and a couple other guys it was tough.  But on the other hand, somebody had to do it.  He was the chosen one.  And, yeah, that's just the way it is.  I mean, it was that way when we came into that world, and probably be that way when we leave this world.

THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT