CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2003
Jim Thorpe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL STAMBAUGH:  67 today and at 130 that is a Charles Schwab Cup Championship record.  Good playing. 

JIM THORPE:   I got off to a good start this morning, I hit it close on 1.

Birdied 2 which was good, missed another short birdie putt on3.  Short par putt on 4, but we misread the putt on 3.  Actually 3 and 4, so that didn't bother me that bad. 

Then I make a couple of stupid bogeys there, that bogey on 5 was very stupid.  I should have chipped that ball instead of just trying to putt it against the fringe.  After that I took a couple holes but I took a real good second shot on 8.  I hit a 3-wood about, I don't know, 15 feet and had a nice eagle putt there and just missed that putt.

And made a nice birdie putt on 9 from probably 10 feet.

And made a beautiful putt on 10 breaking about  -- 9 just a little lob-wedge, I think he said I had 58 yards. 

10, I hit a nice drive and a nice little 9-iron shot about 12, 14 feet short, breaking putt 3 1/2, four feet and I made that.  That was a good putt there. 

Routine par on 11 from about 20 feet.

Birdied 12.  That was a good birdie.  On 12 I hit driver, sand wedge I think we had 90 yards, somewhere in that area and hit it probably  -- no, no, I'm sorry, pitching wedge, we had 110 yards, a little pitching wedge under the hole about six to eight feet and made that putt for birdie. 

13 was a good hole.  I hit a nice drive, a nice 3-wood, 260, 259 somewhere in area, 20 feet and made that for eagle.

I hit a very nice birdie putt on 14 from just off the fringe of the green. 

I missed a short par putt on 15.  I hit a tee shot that caught in the trees and went right and dropped it off the cart path and hit it just left of the green and played a great little chip shot from a bad lie to about 3 1/2, four feet and just dogged the putt.  That's one of those putts I actually pulled. 

Where was I  -- 16.  16, God, I hit a  -- I didn't think it was that bad of a tee shot, looked like I hit it up there in the hills.  My second shot went probably  -- that was a good birdie there. 

17, 2-putted about 35, 40 feet, pulled a 9-iron there.

18 got it up-and-down from the left side of the green there.  Hit a tee shot that went too far.  Got a drop from the tents in the cart path and pulled a pitching wedge just off the green left for a yard and got it up there about two and a half feet and tapped in for par.

PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Three-shot lead  --

JIM THORPE:   The fortunate thing the golf course is giving up a lot of birdies.  There's a lot of low scores today.  Jenkins is playing very, very well.  We know Tom Watson is going to battle until absolutely the end. 

Fortunately I keep making birdies, you know even with a little wind blowing.  We're hitting short clubs.  Any time you hit short clubs, eight, 9-iron, pitching wedges, you give your birdie  -- I think you increase your birdie opportunities.  That's basically what's happening out there.  A couple of holes we're driving the ball a long ways.  The tough par 4s we're driving the ball a long ways on the very tough holes.  Larry Nelson hit driver, sand wedge to 15, I think 15 is a hell of a for par, downwind, fairways are firm. 

I said earlier in the week it would take 20-under par to win it and I still think it will take 20-under par.  You think 14-under, you can go out there and relax a little bit and kind of let the golf course come to you a little bit, but unfortunately I can't go that way.  I have to go out there on the very first hole and try to make birdies.  If I don't, they are going to run me down and I know that. 

I was talking to Bruce a little bit and Tom has not been putting good for two days and he's at, I think 10-under.  So if he gets a hot putting round going, even Tom Jenkins, if he got his putter kicked in, he could have shot 62, 63 today.  He hit a lot of good putts, he hit a lot of good shots, the hole-in-one just kind of put the icing on the cake.  He hit three or four putts and the hole-in-one was really justified, you know what I mean, because he hit three or four putts that some just didn't fall in.  We need to go out and continue to play.  To get to 20-under for the four round, if they beat you, they beat you.


Q.  63, toughest thing to come back out and try to do it again the next day.  You can't go shoot 63 again, so 67 must seem pretty darned good to you?

JIM THORPE:   Yeah, but you know what, I could have shot 63 again today, really.  I think today, I might have hit it closer today than I did yesterday.  I hit a beautiful shot on 1 and it landed about a foot from the hole.  But the tee ball went a long ways again.  There again, I got 71, 72 yards to the flag, that was No. 1.  I dropped a lob-wedge about 14, 15 inches left of the hole with a right spin and it spun six feet right of the hole and I dogged the putt, first putt out of the gate. 

I hit another little lob-wedge from about 50 yards about a foot and a half.

3, I hit a 9-iron about five and a half, six feet.  I could have got off to a very good start even 4 and 5  -- the three holes I bogeyed, I never should have bogeyed one of those holes today.  I hit a beautiful chip shot on 4.  You have to make that putt from six and a half, seven feet.  We hit it just right edge and probably need to go a ball or two outside the hole. 

My second shot, I had about a 15-footer, and it was probably about an inch  -- I picked the putt up to take it back but coming back I caught the grass and left it about four feet short.  That's a simple putt to make.  But one thing I found out about poa annua  greens a long time ago, from living in Buffalo, New York, if you're not very firm on the short putts, they are not going to hole on you.  That putt, downhill I'm looking at the same putt coming back if I miss it.  So I basically I just talked myself out of the putt. 

There's two bogeys.  The third bogey I made was on No. 15.  I mean, I played a wonderful lob shot.  I hit it right across the trees and played a nice little 5-iron from the hard pan and I lobbed it up there about three feet from the hole.  That's a hell of a shot and just one of those putts I didn't take enough time.  I had not missed one for a while and I had a stretch there where I birdied 8, 9, 10, parred 11 birdied 12, eagled 13 so you think you can make them all. 

Even 17 today we hit 9-iron, another opportunity, 9-iron from 138 yards, Nelson and I just hit bad shots.  Jenkins made up for our bad swings.  But we are looking to make birdies there.  Even 18, 18 caught me a little bit surprise.  I hit driver, nobody should hit driver No. 1.  Even if I hit it and it over in the right side of the bunker, the big trees are going to block me out.  So I should have laid back with a 3-wood and have a 8-, or 9-iron to a back left pin placement, which is perfect for my game.

People say it's hard to come back.  I think it's hard to come back if you are thinking about it.  Like I said yesterday, this week I'm going to try to push my game to the absolute limit.  I'm going to try block out everything and just take the next hole to the next hole and just try to make birdies on all of them and that's the only way you're going to beat these guys.  We have the Top-30 here on the Champions Tour here, believe me, all 30 of them can play.  Any little slip up, if I don't go out and shoot in the 60s the next two rounds, believe me, they will beat me. 


Q.  Is this a good 67 or a fortunate 67? 

JIM THORPE:   I think the worst it could have been was 67.  Even the eagle putt that I had made it wasn't a tough putt.  It's only 20 feet and pretty it straight.  If I drive the ball well, I'm a pretty decent short iron player.  My game is pretty solid from 130, 140 yards in.  So if I drive the ball well, I can make six, seven birdies a day on this golf course and I know that. 

The par 5s, if I just play put myself in position where they land in my wedge range, I know I'll have a decent birdie putt.  So Tony and I, we just have to stay on top of that.  Today I tried to force a 6-iron out of the rough on 16 but I had a real bad lie.  So just taking a pitching wedge and beat the ball out there and leave myself 120 yards and I can pinpoint it from there.  But instead we had 173 or 174 and I hit a beautiful 7-iron about ten feet there. 

When I hit the putt I knew it was in.  Just the idea that Nelson had putted from the opposite side and his putt was looping a bit to his left, and we had an inside left, so I knew with the right speed it had to go. 

I can have two more 67s and see what the guys can do.  Hopefully we can do that.  The weather has been absolutely perfect for us.  The golf course has been perfect conditions.  The greens can get a little choppy.  Poa annua greens can get a little tough, but I like poa  annua greens, so I have that in my favor.  If I can drive the ball, today I only hit a couple bad drivers, I don't know how many fairways I hit today.  If I can drive the ball decent, hit ten out of 14 fairways or something of that nature I'll have a lot of birdie chances.


Q.  A little history.  I remember you were one of the leaders in 1981 at Marion, I'm just interested, African American golfers all we hear now is Tiger Woods and yet there's only Tiger, if I'm thinking correctly on the regular tour.  We have you, Jim Dent, Walter Morgan, what do you think has happened, you won three times on the regular tour, did anybody show any interest, these young kids, and why do you think there are more   African Americans on the Senior Tour than the regular tour?

JIM THORPE:   Back before I joined the Tour, there was eight, ten African American players, just to name a few, Charlie  -- inaudible -- my brother, Chuck, played for a little while.  You know we don't know.  We have many, many programs where we introduce golf to inner city kids, and we have the First Tee program which is doing absolutely great.  They just don't show the interest, man. 

And to me, if the parents don't kind of force these kids and say, hey, we are getting in the car, going to the driving range to play golf, we are not going to do it.  Golf is a very expensive game No. 1, and No.  2 I think kids have to find the venues.  Growing up as a kid, my dad was a greenskeeper, so I grew up on the golf course it was easy for my brother and I, and I had sisters that pursued golf but not as a career. 

But inner city kids do not have the access.  Even the First Tee program I know they are building some golf courses, and I don't know how many they are doing, it's something I  -- I don't pay that close attention to it.  Bill Dicky has a wonderful program out in Phoenix, Arizona and I don't see anything happening with these programs.  So I don't know what the answer is.


Q.  Tiger tied Byron Nelson's record this weekend, I mean, you look at him, when he was coming on TOUR, did you think he was going to be this good and does it give you a special feeling of pride because he is at least part African American? 

JIM THORPE:   I don't think nobody  -- I don't think nobody knew Tiger was going to be that good.  But he's a different breed you know what I mean.  He doesn't care about  -- I don't think he cares about the money.  Back in our days, we were dead broke.  When left say Tucson going to Phoenix for the next tournament, we thumbed a ride where he jumps in his Lear jet and takes off. 

We did Pro-Ams at 50 and 100 on Monday just to make sure we had expense money that week.  He came around at a time where corporate America stepped in and put a lot of money into golf purses.  Thanks to Arnold Palmer the rest of that crew, the purses have really grown and Tiger doesn't have to struggle the rest of the African American golfers had to struggle.  In 1981 I was leading the U.S. Open, after the first round, I could not afford to buy breakfast the next day; my credit was maxed out.  If they did not have food in the locker room, I would have been lost that day.  Even the guy that caddied, he had to wait for the USGA to send me the check so I could give him some money.  Tiger didn't have to go through those changes. 

I finished fourth.  David Graham played a beautiful round of golf. 

I was dead broke.  Two dollars would have been a hell of a playoff. 

My first trip to Augusta the 1982 and the golf course just kicked my butt. 

You know, I think the difference now, I have a 14-year-old daughter.  She's involved in a golf program, we live on a golf course and I take her out to play.  I set her up with a private lesson and I think that's what parents have to do to get more African Americans playing.  I think we have some programs and I think we have some young kids today, some aged between 12, 15 years old, I think with the market  -- I think we'll see.  Then again, I don't think we'll never see three or four for some reason.  I have no idea. 

Why, what Tiger has done in the last, what is he, seven years on the Tour now, what he's done last seven years, I think he's brought a lot of people of all color and race, he has introduced to the game of golf.  We still don't have it. 

So I think the only young men that we have that's taken a shot at the regular PGA TOUR is Tim O'Neil.  I haded pleasure of playing with Tim a couple of times.  I think he's got the game but I don't know if he's got the heart. I think the difference with a guy like Tim O'Neil and a guy like myself is that when I come out as a young guy, I didn't have the game but I had tons of heart, you know what I mean.  I wasn't afraid.  I mean, Charlie and all of the other guys that came before I did, kind of smoothed the road a little bit. 

So I never went through the changes that they went through.  I never went to a golf course and felt that I wasn't wanted.  I was the only African American playing at Shoal Creek when they had that big controversy, just like I told the press then, I'm here because I'm paying my bills, not because I want to find out who is a member here.  That's kind of the way I look at it. 

I can't  -- personally I think that's one of the things that hurt Calvin Peete.  Calvin Peete should have made a lot of money for endorsements.  Three or four years he was the best player in the world.  I think he won 12 times between '82 and '86.  Calvin and I'll say this because he's a friend of mine, I think Calvin, he felt that there was still racists in the game of golf and he felt that he didn't not get credit for winning 11 or 12 times.  Yeah, my question to Calvin is, did you get paid.  That's the only thing that matters to me.  Let me go finish my 72 holes or whatever we play and let my check show up and I'm happy.  No one owes me nothing else.  Calvin just looked at it different. 

And I don't think Tiger Woods, I've seen some of his advertisements and the some of his quotes, "because of the color of my skin,"  he couldn't play here or there.  I have some Jewish friends that couldn't play certain golf courses and I have some Italian friends in Buffalo that couldn't play certain courses.  It's universal.  Just go out there and play if you have the opportunity and let bygones be bygones.  I personally don't care if people like me.  I'm not there for people to like me.  I'm going to try to conduct myself as a man and my business  -- just go play golf and that's basically all I want to do.  Hell, I've got sisters and brothers that don't like me.  (Laughter.) That is something I never got really involved in, you know what I mean, what people think about me. 

Some guys asked me, I think last week in Texas, I might have shot 65 in the first round, he asked me, how did I want to be remembered.  Well, I could care less.  Hell, I'm dead and gone.  You could say Thorpe was a real asshole; that don't bother me.  I'm not going to jump out of the ground and come back and get him.  I don't bother about that man.  Last week or last year, 50 years ago, it was 50 years ago.  The only thing that matters is the present and tomorrow.  I can't change nothing. 


Q.  You were saying earlier in the week how tough a competitor like Tom Watson is, is there a danger you might respect him too much? 

JIM THORPE:   The thing about it, Tom has won so many golf tournaments, God almighty.  You know he says he's putting bad and he's 10-under par. 

You know what, you know Tom Watson and Hale Irwin -- and I think Hale Irwin is probably as tough a competitor as Tom Watson.  I don't think we respect him too much but we know what he can do.  He knows we are going to go out and play good golf to try to kick his butt.  We know if we slip he's going to kick our butt. 

My thing is, going out there, Tom hits a bad shot and he walks off, he's smiling, like nothing has happened.  Most of us hit a bad shot, we're trying to bury the club about 10 feet under the ground or something like that and Tom is just going about his work. 

Hell, he's going to be tough.  I definitely think  -- everybody here, I think I'm 14, that's why I know I have to go out and continue to make birdies.  Tomorrow I'm playing with Tom and Tom, Tom Jenkins and Tom Watson.  I won't get caught up too much in their game.  So hopefully I can go out and drive the ball long and straight and keep it someplace on the green.  And to me they will put a little more pressure on them.  And when you play guys like Watson and Irwin, I don't think you can put pressure on them.  I just think they are going to be there until it's all over.  Because two years ago in the PGA, at Ridge, I would have beat anybody else on Sunday.  The round of golf I played on Sunday I would have beat anybody else on Sunday but Tom Watson.   He's talking all week how bad he's putting and he's just knocking in putts.  I know he's going to be there at the end.  If he wins, I'll shake his hand and say well done. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT