NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 23, 2010
Nick Flanagan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you talk about your round today? 
 NICK FLANAGAN: Yeah, it was tough. Made a lot of par putts, and just kind of hung in there the last nine holes and made putts. It was hard work out there.

 Q. Much more difficult today than yesterday. Just talk about the conditions? 
 NICK FLANAGAN: Yeah, I'm not too sure how much the wind was blowing today. But it's blowing all day. But just got off to the last three or four hours that we were out there. It just makes it that much easier. The course was dried out as well on some of those par 3s. 

 Q. When you get around and just maintain your position, what were the highlights? 
 NICK FLANAGAN: Ball striking-wise I'm struggling a little bit. But I'm not making many bogies. I'm making a lot of putts from 5 to 10 feet, which is always handy. So I'm not making those mistakes and going backwards. 
 If I can get a bit of ball striking going on the weekend and getting more putts for birdie, hopefully that will help me.

 Q. Do you like the way you're playing and the fact that you're competitive going into the weekend? 
 NICK FLANAGAN: Yeah, I said it to my caddie, if we can get some ball striking around here on a few more greens, I'm only hitting 50% of the greens, if I can do that and putt well, hopefully I'll be somewhere around there at the end. 

 Q. Talk about the struggles that you're having with your ball striking and still being able to score?
 NICK FLANAGAN: It's more frustration than anything. Knowing that I'm around the lead, and if I can just possibly have some decent ball striking round that I can pull away from some of these guys. But that is just the way golf goes. You can't hit it perfect every day. I definitely have done that the first two rounds. 
 I've been hitting it okay on the range beforehand, and then when we upper out it's gotten out of whack, especially when it's so windy like it is today. It's hard when you're struggling to get out of there. 

 Q. The course sort of regained its teeth today? 
 NICK FLANAGAN: Yeah, two of those par-3s the 9-irons and 8-irons couldn't do it, and couldn't keep it on the green. So I have don't think they expected the wind to get up that much today. 
 The front pins all today and yesterday it was all back pins. So maybe if they switched them around, it would have been handy.

 Q. You were struggling with the ball striking, was it tough to control the trajectory with wind like this? 
 NICK FLANAGAN: Yeah, it makes the ball that much more difficult. More square on the club face up at impact so it's coming in close and makes it hard to release and hit that shot. 
 I spent most of the day just using my back-up swing, which is putting it well back in the stance and using the club face and just trying to roll it over. Got me through the day. 
 But if I have to keep doing that every weekend to continue to stay in the hunt, then that's what I've got to do. It's not always pretty, but it's working out now.

 Q. You were the only guy besides Jonathan who was going backwards, you were the only guy that went to 7 under today briefly, and then you closed it up with a bogey?
 NICK FLANAGAN: I started off okay. I hit a couple of good shots in the first three or four holes, then I made two long putts. About 40 footer on the 3rd for birdie. The same on 3 and made it for 35 to 40. Just three putts that when you're playing and scoring well, they tend to go in. 
 But after that I just struggled. Made bogey on the long par 5, which is playing back into the tee. I had to hit it off the bunker off the tee, and then two 5-irons from there to get in on the green. Had a tough chip and missed the putt. 
 The next hole I made a ten-footer for bogey which was quite handy. But, yeah, just made a lot of putts to come out even today.

 Q. The weather forecast shows 90's and windy. What's your plan? 
 NICK FLANAGAN: It's not really anything I can do about it right now. I'm trying to work on it as much as I can, but at the same time I don't want to get too caught up in it, otherwise it just gets frustrating. Just go out there and try to score no matter how it looks really on the weekend. 
 But I've just got to get a little bit more confidence, and hopefully find some kind of ball striking round in the next two.

 Q. What kind of wind player have been you been during your career so far? 
 NICK FLANAGAN: Well, when I was younger I grew up on the ocean course which was quite windy. Struggled with my game for a few years, it's been a little tougher for me. But my game tends to come back in cycles as one knows. 
 My bad cycle has stayed a little longer than I would have liked. So I'm getting back there slowly but surely. So like I said I've hit it really good the last three weeks. I've hit it, but I'm staying in contention so.

 Q. Is this the windiest day the last two or three weeks? 
 NICK FLANAGAN: Yeah, we haven't had many windy ones lately. It makes it tough. But I knew coming to this course being low and kind of an 8 or 9 under winning golf course is something that I enjoyed doing. 
 I don't make a lot of birdies right now, but the more we can get it across, the better it is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT