TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2007
Nick Flanagan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We'd like to welcome Nick Flanagan to the interview room here at the Turning Stone Resort Championship.  Nick, first and foremost, congratulations on your three victory promotion from the Nationwide Tour to the PGA Tour.  Obviously, this is a dream realized you've been working on for a long time now.   
 NICK FLANAGAN:  Yeah, obviously Nationwide last year and then played pretty well most of the year, and didn't finish up too well.  But learned a lot, and brought that to this year.  And just kind of took it to the golf course and everything's worked out much better than I planned.  But definitely in a good way.   
 THE MODERATOR:  You won the 2003 U.S. Amateur, obviously, after that there was a lot of high expectations that maybe you didn't quite achieve what you wanted to right out of the gate.  Played some on the Tarheel Tour, the Hooters Tour and then up to the Nationwide Tour and here you are.  Talk about maybe some of the struggles mentally of having those expectations, not realizing them right away, and having this week come about and now you're a PGA Tour member.   
 NICK FLANAGAN:  Yeah, winning the U.S. amateur was obviously one of the best parts of my career so far.  And it was good, but, you know, very minute way it was a bad thing because it kind of threw me out there a little bit quicker than I would have liked and probably wasn't quite prepared for turning pro at that stage.  But the opportunities were too good to pass it up.   
 And I just didn't perform that first six months, and that put me all the way back down to the start.  So I had to work my way back up.  But I guess that kind of hardened me up and showed me that I've got to work really hard to get out here and play with these guys.  And I've worked hard the last two and a half years, and two and a half years isn't a long time.  I guess, it feels like a long time, but it seems to have happened pretty quick.   
 THE MODERATOR:  The last of your three Nationwide Tour wins came right up the road in Rochester at the Xerox Classic, happy to be back in this neck of the woods.   
 NICK FLANAGAN:  Yeah, I'd like to have that success again this week.  But obviously, I'm just thrilled to be out here and going to treat it like every other week and go out there and play golf.  And if I play like I've been playing, hopefully, I can have a good week.   
  
  Q.  Are you excited about finally getting to play after a four-week wait?   
 NICK FLANAGAN:  Yeah, it worked out well, because I don't think I would have come out and played straightaway even if I could.  But, yeah, it kind of worked out well.  The FedEx Cup was on and so I could go home and relax, and kind of calm down a little bit from the high that I was on and practice hard, and just got my self prepared for coming out and playing the rest of the year.  I didn't have any pressure, so I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  How do you think your game fit this is course, and how do you like the course?   
 NICK FLANAGAN:  The course is in great condition.  The Greens are about as good as I've played on all year.  So if I hit my driver well, I think the rest of it should fall into place.  But yeah, I think it can be good for me.   
  
  Q.  What are your goals the last seven events here in the fall finish, you know, since the promotion?   
 NICK FLANAGAN:  I think my main goal is to get into contention in at least one event.  Obviously, next year is what I'm setting out to really work hard on.  But having these five or six events, whatever I'm going to play, is going to be good to kind of get a feel for it.   
 And the good thing about it is I don't have any pressure on me.  I know I've got my card next year.  So I'd love to get in contention for at least one of the events.  Doesn't matter which one it is.  And hopefully just see how I play under that kind of and, yeah, that's pretty much my goal so far.   
  
  Q.  Do you look at it as any bit of an advantage this fall where you already have your card secured for next year, and a lot of these guys out here are going to be fighting for their jobs so maybe can you free wheel it a little more, you think?   
 NICK FLANAGAN:  Yeah, like I said, there's not any pressure on me.  I've got next year wrapped up.  So it's just a matter of learning how here these six events and taking that to next year.  So hopefully make a little bit of extra Christmas money (smiling).   
 THE MODERATOR:  Nick, thanks for coming in.  Best of luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT