BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2017
AJ Alix
Amy Okonkwo
Raegan Pebley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas Tech - 76, TCU - 58   
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by the TCU Horned Frogs, Raegan Pebley the coach and her two student-athletes, Amy Okonkwo and AJ Alix.  Coach?   
RAEGAN PEBLEY: Congrats to Texas Tech.  Obviously they played a good game.  In short, just a rough offensive night for us and 3 of 24 from the 3-point line.  Then only getting 9 free throws.  It's tough to win basketball games when you give somebody 30 free-throw attempts and they capitalize off of that.   
I'm excited for the future of our team.  We're extremely young.  We've got a lot coming back next year and excited about the additions that we have and the opportunity that this off-season presents itself.   
 Q.  When they were taking Jada out of the equation how tough was that to respond?  
RAEGAN PEBLEY: Taking Jada out of the equation?  You mean Kianna?   
 Q.  Jada when she started getting fouls, in foul trouble.  
RAEGAN PEBLEY: Yeah, definitely.  I think having -- not having Kianna to be able to fit into the rotation at that point especially with the guard play they had was tough on our team.   
But Jada, as a senior, she is our most experienced veteran player and you need those type of players at this time of year in moments like that.  Absolutely.   
 Q.  Seems like in the fourth quarter there were a couple of times where you got within 5 or 6 and you were a bucket away from getting right back in it and it just doesn't fall your way.  Were you guys sensing that you were just on the cusp of things?  
AJ ALIX: I feel like we had a chance the whole time.  We had to convert our stops and we wasn't quite doing that well.  We were getting the stops.  We just wasn't converting them on the offensive end, or we got away from what we did in the first quarter when we started the game.  We were on it.  We were executing the plays.  We were running the floor and we got away from that, and I think that's how we lost the game.   
AMY OKONKWO: I agree with AJ.  I think we needed to get a stop and be able to score and not being able to get a stops and it dragged on.  It wasn't like we get a stop and a score and we were back in the game.   
 Q.  Coach, how tough is it to play the same opponent in back-to-back games?  
RAEGAN PEBLEY: We have done it the last three years in a row and it's really hard.  It's really hard, but they had to play us, also.  You find a way to turn it into an advantage.  Everything is fresh in your mind, but it's a challenge.   
 Q.  What's the status of Kianna?  Is she okay?  
RAEGAN PEBLEY: We're not supposed to really comment on players' health that way, but she will be okay.  Just won't get into the details.  She played really hard, and I know she would do the exact same thing in the exact same situation.  She is a competitor that way.  I think she'll be okay.  Thank you for asking.   
 Q.  You guys have one of the conference's younger teams.  Has this season been a learning experience for younger players adjusting to play in the Big 12?  
AJ ALIX: Definitely a learning experience.  Some of the games we lost we didn't take them as losing them we took them as learning from our mistakes and what happened.  Next game we'll get it in.  Sometimes it can't happen that way all the time, but this is a learning experience and next year welcome back with the attitude of winning, try to win all our games and it might not happen.  But this year is a learning experience for us and we are going to come back harder than what we did this year.   
AMY OKONKWO: It definitely brought us closer.  I think playing a whole year and learning from our losses and coming together after each one and it's just bringing us closer for next year because we're bringing basically everybody back.  It's going to be great next year.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you guys very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT