BUICK OPEN
August 8, 2002
Mark Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Mark, thanks for joining us, first round, 66.  A lot of players still on the course, but are you happy with the way you started?
MARK BROOKS:   Well, I got off to a good start.  I started on the back nine, but about right after sun-up.  I birdied  -- I get four of the first five, which that's probably the biggest birdie stretch on the golf course, 10 through 14.  I got 10, 12, 13 and 14. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK BROOKS:   10, I hit it about four feet.
Then 12, sand wedge about 10 feet.  
13, sand wedge about four feet. 
14, sand wedge probably about 7 feet. 
18, I hit an 8-iron about three feet. 
4, I hit an 8-iron to about eight feet, ten feet. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Coming off your finish last week, did that give you more confidence for this week and then next week.
MARK BROOKS:   Yeah, I would say so.  I took a week off after the B.C.  i actually went over and tried to qualify for the British Open and I was pretty beat up by the time I came back to the B.C.  i spent the week working with  -- basically the next weekend working with my teacher.  Saw a couple things had probably been, oh, I don't know, developing over the last six months, and so we made some adjustments and they paid off last week. 

Q.  You guys are never stopping with the adjustments  --
MARK BROOKS:   Well, if our swings wouldn't change  --

Q.  It seems there's always an assessment no matter how long you are playing. 
MARK BROOKS:   Well, experience can be a big part of the game, good and bad.  You know, the longer we play, the more bad stretches you could draw on. 
You know, take the three of us, I'm almost 20 years out here, this is my 19th year, so you're looking at over 60 years combined with those three guys you just named.  So we have all seen a lot of good and a lot of bad. 
The swing changes, you can't help it.  I mean, when you're doing it right, it's easy, but it's not like riding a bicycle.  And the tough part is you can't see yourself.  You know, they start subtly, it can be something that you may do something, make an alignment change or do something and play great for a little short period of time, and the next thing you know, it's caused a problem. 
It's not that technical, but it's just something that I think was caused by, you know, you're always looking for the cause so that it won't happen again.  I think there were some equipment-related causes, and I think trying to change golf balls the last, whatever, six weeks, six or eight tournaments, and I'm actually spinning this ball better.  I think it's allowed me to do  -- go back to a little more, I don't know what the word is, the swing that I used  -- more like what I used to do. 
I mean, if you have the wrong equipment.  I mean, for example, if you're playing out here, your survival instinct is going to kick in and you're going to start trying to make adjustments in your swing to try to make whatever you're using work. 

Q.  The tough thing is you can't see yourself  --
MARK BROOKS:   I was just talking about  -- that was in general. 
You know what you're looking for.  You can look all day but if you don't know what you're looking for, that could be  -- not necessarily, no.  You'd better have somebody that knows what they are doing or looking at it and know the way that you swing, the way you're supposed to swing. 
But our bodies change.  I'm not exactly the same body type I was 20 years ago.  I actually made big changes in between '87 and '88 and that's when I started playing a lot better golf out here.  So I'm not afraid to make a change.  I know  -- sometimes it takes months to kick in and sometimes it can happen in a week, if it's nothing huge. 
You know for me the equipment has changed a lot, just in general.  The ball doesn't spin as much as it used to, and I think trying to generate different flights with balls that don't  -- that don't act anywhere near what the old ones do was causing a problem. 

Q.  Which ball do you use? 
MARK BROOKS:   The new Hogan ball.  And my wedge game has gotten a ton better, I'm able to spin it from 120 yards and that's made a huge difference, as opposed to playing a ball that didn't spin near as much.

Q.  Used that ball the other day and it didn't help a bit?
MARK BROOKS:   Better keep using it.  You'd better get some videotape. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK BROOKS:   I think pretty normal. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you. 
MARK BROOKS:   Thank you. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT