U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2001
Mark Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mark, was it kind of demoralizing, the way you started playing so well, but it seemed like Retief was getting up-and-down. You had a one stroke lead, but --
 
MARK BROOKS:  I don't know if I would say demoralizing.  We kind of started in the match play mode.  And you expect guys to get it up-and-down and make putts, and he kind of did every one of them those first, whatever, six holes.  And then -- yeah, it certainly could have been different those first six holes.  I hit a bad tee shot on, I guess 7, 9 and 10, and that was kind of the big deal. And he makes two birdies in that stretch, and gets the big lead and I couldn't put any pressure on him. 
 
Q.  9 was a big one?
 
MARK BROOKS:  No, I really walked up there, I didn't see the ball, I got up around there, I figured it was going to be on the hardpan where all the people had been walking, and it was not in a good place. 
 
Q.  Anything else you could have done there?  Your hopes for that shot is the question.
 
MARK BROOKS:  I was hoping to hack it and have it come out low and hooking, and get it up in front of the green somehow.  I actually hit a good third shot, it just didn't fly like I thought it would.  And lucky that ball didn't roll down the hill.  But again he didn't have to make the putt, and he made that one at 9 and made another one at 10.  And I hit another bad tee shot at 10.  Played what I thought was a good third shot at 10, and had it spin off the green.  The conditions were definitely different out there today. It certainly wasn't because it was overcast.  It played easier.  I mean -- if I had had shots -- if I had lies, I could have played towards the greens, I could have made a lot more pars than where I did from where I drove it. 
 
Q.  Did you feel pressure the magnitude of playing 18 holes on TV like that?
 
MARK BROOKS:  No, I felt good out there today.  I really never got overly nervous or anything.  It was just one of those deals.  He almost holes it from the bunker on 1.  And makes the par on 2 out of the 7th fairway, and put it in the bunker on 3 and makes par.  You know, what do you say?  Great playing.  Great up-and-down.  He got up-and-down better on Saturday when he shot 69 than he did today.  And that's what it takes to win an Open. 
 
Q.  Mark, you're a right-to-left player, does that play a role at all?
 
MARK BROOKS:  I didn't think about it.  Everybody says Colonial is such a great course for me.  Yeah, I know it, but it was Hogan's Alley.  And he kind of hit a cut. 
 
Q.  I heard you said that you'd gone away from a 4-wood and went to a 3-iron.  Your thinking on that?
 
MARK BROOKS:  Well, I felt it was more downwind and yesterday it got a lot -- I hit a 4-wood yesterday and got it further down there than I probably thought it could have.  In hindsight, that's where I would have changed, I would have gotten more aggressive earlier.  And certainly at 7.  And I'm not saying I would hit driver on 9.  That was, again, not a great break.  Unless you're stymied over there, you can always have a chance to run it up on the green.  And that's the way it goes.  
 
Q.  You had a 1-shot lead after 5, could it have been more, should it have been more, and how did you feel after 5?
 
MARK BROOKS:  I felt fine.  I hit a great putt at 6. Conservative or safe, I played the play that most guys were playing into that green this week.  With the greens as hard as they were, nobody was firing at those left pins.  I saw the white of the hole and the ball went by on the edge.  You never know in a deal like this.  That could be the big turnaround.  That thing goes in from 40 feet and he misses his, now you have a two or three shot lead.  But it didn't work out that way. 
 
Q.  The first six holes were about as tense as a golf tournament can be, everybody had to make a putt, time after time after time.
 
MARK BROOKS:  Yeah, it probably helps not having a bunch of people on the greens in front of you.  I actually saw a spike mark on 14.  I wonder who came out, maybe the ghost of Southern Hills played in front of us.  Who could have possibly have been on these greens with spikes on.  But it didn't affect the putt. 
 
Q.  Did you feel that tension?  Those first few holes were make it or break it, it seemed like?
 
MARK BROOKS:  I really felt like I was pretty much under control all day.  Yes, it was a little deflating energy-wise after he birdied 9 and 10.  He hit good shots, I won't call them perfect, and I'm not taking anything away from him.  But birdied 10 out of the rough to a front pin, and it doesn't happen very often in an Open.  He hit great shots and guessed right.  He made a lot of putts on the back 9 that were small, but in the end they were big, those five, six footers. 
 
Q.  Surprised the way this thing finished yesterday that he played so well?
 
MARK BROOKS:  Not really.  I figured he'd be ready to go. He didn't get off to a great start, but he did the same thing he did the last time we played together, hanging in there, making pars, and it proved to be enough. 
 
Q.  On 10, the rest of the back 9, did it feel like you were playing catch-up and couldn't get over the hump?
 
MARK BROOKS:  I just never could get anything to happen.  I hit a bad bunker shot on 13, kind of in between clubs out on the fairway, trying to make something happen, and just kind of never did.  There was another place he could have had a little issue, his third shot on 13 out of the first cut, and he hit a great shot.  But a lot of it is guessing, and he guessed right on most of them. 
 
Q.  The way he played today, were you even more surprised at the way he finished 18 yesterday, as solid as he was for the whole five days?
 
MARK BROOKS:  No. 
 
Q.  What was the experience like, the whole thing of playing 18 holes against one man for the U.S. Open?
 
MARK BROOKS:  It wasn't as weird as maybe you'd think.  I mean two caddies, and we play two-somes a lot, so it's not that odd.  You've got leaderboards, all the officials and cameras.  The cameras are maybe different.  But those guys are pros, they stay out of the way. 
 
Q.  Did you talk to each other?
 
MARK BROOKS:  Not a lot.  I think the wind was blowing too hard to talk much.  He's not real talkative.  And I'm probably accused of not being real talkative, either.  But I tried to be respectful.  And he hit a lot of great shots. 
 
Q.  Are you still going to Westchester?
 
MARK BROOKS:  Probably.  I've got to go home, first.  I've  got a five-hour drive, so we'll see how I feel in the morning. 
 
Q.  Are you encouraged with your play here, to set up the rest of your year?
 
MARK BROOKS:  Yes.  That would be fair.  And again, I was glad I made the little putt on the last hole.  I know it didn't mean a darn thing, but that's been kind of what's missing was making some putts.  And right there I didn't play great today, it could have been 76 or something pretty easy, and I made enough of those little testy putts to keep it a decent score. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
MARK BROOKS:  I've played with him a few times.  He's one of those foreign guys (laughter.) 
 
Q.  You're Soupy Sales compared to him.
 
MARK BROOKS:  I guess. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT