SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2014
Mark Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You don't like to bogey a par‑5. 
MARK BROOKS:   No, but I thought I hit a great third shot, so when it was in the air, I thought I hit it perfect.   The wind just kind of beat it down.   I kind of got in a funny spot.
But I played good.   I actually played a little better today.   I just didn't makes a many putts. 

Q.   That would have been hard from what you did yesterday, with the way you putted. 
MARK BROOKS:   Well, I missed some yesterday.   I mean, dude.

Q.   The stats say you had 21 putts yesterday. 
MARK BROOKS:   Well, you're going to be on a lot of edges.   You can end up just off the green‑‑ I think I only chipped two or three times yesterday, so I putted from just off the green, so that turns into a one putt on the stats, they're very misleading.   I'm not a stat guy, okay. 
If there's rough, hitting fairways are important and these fairways are pretty generous here, for the most part.   So, no, I'm not a big stat guy, the stat that counts is what you shoot, so. 

Q.   Your results so far this year would not have indicated that this was imminent.   Is there a reason why you're playing so well this week?
MARK BROOKS:   I think the sporadic schedule is a little tougher on me.   I'm not ‑‑ I don't like playing a week and then have two weeks off and then a couple weeks and a couple weeks off.   And that's pretty much been the way it is from January until now.   I think we played more than a couple weeks in a row. 
So I like to play and it's been very difficult going home and our weather has been really nasty in Dallas/Fort Worth area.   So it's not been a very good year for getting your golf game going.

Q.   Regardless of how you had played this week, would you play at ‑‑
MARK BROOKS:   I've been doing it this a long time, dude.   I mean, you can miss, you could miss eight cuts in a row and win the next tournament.   We know how to do it, I know how to play golf, so, you know, it's ‑‑ I'm not being a smart alec either, it could happen at any moment.   So I'm not surprised when I play good.   I'm more surprised when I play bad.

Q.   Would you play the PGA Championship, regardless of winning here or as past champion?
MARK BROOKS:   I don't have to win here to play the PGA Championship.   Yeah, I plan on playing this year.   I do plan on playing this year.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT