MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Talk about your day.   
 VIJAY SINGH: It was okay. If you played well it's out there to score. When you go out early. And early on the guys going out early made a lot of birdies. So it's out there.   
 It's drying out now, it dries out very quickly, and once that happens it's going to start to play tough. So I think the guys in the afternoon, going out in the afternoon today, are going to have a hard time.   
  
  Q. 1-under for the Tournament, going into the weekend, you got to feel good about that. You would feel better if you were at 8-under but 1-under can't be that bad.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, yeah, considering what they say about the weather. I mean it's going to be, it might not be nice. I think there will be some strong winds on Sunday and I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. And if that's what happens, then you never know anything.   
  
  Q. There may be some rain tomorrow.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, and some rain, yeah.   
  
  Q. You haven't shot yourself out of the tournament and my point is you're very much in touch with two rounds to go.   
 VIJAY SINGH: I'm not overly excited about 1-under, but I'm not disappointed either. I know this golf course, I know what it can be like, but I need to play well on the weekend, I cannot go out there and shoot a par score, so.   
  
  Q. How was the course playing?  
 VIJAY SINGH: It wasn't playing that difficult. The greens are not as fast as what they normally are. They're not rolling as, rolling out like they used to. So you can, if have you a birdie opportunity you can actually go ahead and put a good stroke on it and not be lagging it. So I think that's why that there's a lot of birdies today.   
  
  Q. Do you still feel like you could have gone lower?  
 VIJAY SINGH: I could have made a lot more birdies today. I had a lot of chances from inside 10 feet and I converted maybe one of them out of seven. So I needed to make one or two more today.  
  
  Q. So basically the putter versus the irons?  
 VIJAY SINGH: But I hadn't been putting badly, it's just that in your head you know the greens are so fast, but obviously they're not, so you're not putting a perfect stroke on it.   
  
  Q. (Question about length of course.)  
 VIJAY SINGH: Pretty much. We had a lot of rain. I thought it was going to dry out, but it's not dried out. Especially yesterday. You think that they're going to dry the greens out and it's going to play fast, but it did not. So it was a surprise to me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT