WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2008
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  All you can do at this point is smile about this.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  It went on too long.  It's unfortunate that I missed the putt on the regulation last hole.  But I'll take three solid.  We didn't make any mistakes until he made one over here, and he had some great putts that could have gone in.   
  
  Q.  But you were 2-down with two to go?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, and I made a birdie here in regulation and then he missed that putt on 18.  We played pretty good.  We didn't give each other too many loose shots and just hung in there until somebody was going to make a mistake.  Unfortunately he did on the last hole.   
  
  Q.  That's what makes match play so much fun, isn't it?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I have to go out there again tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  You might have to go out twice.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  It was a good match, and I'm happy to be done with it.   
  
  Q.  25 holes out there, a long match.  Congrats; it's over.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I'm glad it is.  Otherwise we would have to come back tomorrow and play one hole probably.  But I played pretty solid, didn't make too many mistakes.  I had too many loose shots in regulation play.  I gave him three or four shots and that was the end of the other one.   
  
  Q.  Tough way for you to win, but is it something maybe you just want it to go on?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Not really.  We wanted to finish it.  We didn't want either one of us to lose.  Unfortunately for him he made a bad swing on that one when he hit the ball.  He made a mistake and I didn't.  I almost did on the last one; I couldn't see very well.  But I'm glad it's over.   
  
  Q.  Tomorrow another long day.  Will you look forward to that?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I'm ready for that.  I don't know who I'm playing.  Whoever I'm playing, I'm ready for them and I'll come out tomorrow fighting.   
  
  Q.  Pretty long day out there?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, it was.  We played pretty good.  This thing just went on forever.  I'm glad it's over.   
  
  Q.  Did you get a sense it wasn't going to end today and you'd play tomorrow?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  The way we were doing it, I mean, this was a good hole for me in regulation and obviously it's a good hole for me now in the playoffs.  But I'm happy it's over.  I wasn't looking forward to coming out in the morning and finishing it.   
  
  Q.  That comeback you had the last couple of holes, that was exciting.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I guess so.  He made a mistake on the last and I made a birdie in regulation, so that's the way match play is.  You just have to hang in there.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 VIJAY SINGH:  No, just come out tomorrow and find out what happens, try to survive.   
  
  Q.  You play Justin Leonard tomorrow.  Just talk about him.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I haven't played him for a long time.   
  
  Q.  Have you played him in match play at all?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I don't think so.  I will tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT