AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2008
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE:  We'd like to welcome Vijay Singh to the interview room at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am.  Great playing today, round of 67 out at Spyglass, which I believe tied the low round out there today.  Talk about the conditions.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Well, Spy is playing really well.  The condition of the golf course is probably the best I've ever seen it, and the greens are obviously the best out of the three golf courses.  So if you hit the ball decent enough, you can actually roll the ball pretty good here.   
 STEWART MOORE:  You've had a lot of success out here on the Monterey Peninsula.  What is it about these three courses that seem to suit your eye and suit your game?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know.  I mean, the greens are so bumpy, you just don't -- you're not putting any pressure on your short game over here.  You're just trying to make a stroke.  And if it goes in, well and good.  That's probably the attitude we should have every week, so that's probably why I'm more relaxed and just not putting any pressure on your short game, especially my putting.   
 I've hit the ball very well from tee to green, as well.  I think I missed two greens today, and the other two days I did the same.  So my ball-striking is pretty good at the moment.  Probably that's why I'm scoring well.   
  
  Q.  You had 32 on the back.  Did you have any chances to go even lower than that like maybe at 17 and 18?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I missed a four-footer on 17, maybe three-and-a-half-footer on 17, and probably a six-, seven-footer on 18.  So those were two easy chances I left.   
 Apart from that, not really.  I mean, I had my -- I hit a lot of greens, but they were -- 15-footers are a 50/50 chance over here you're going to make it or not.  If you're inside of five, six feet, then there's a chance that you can say that I've missed.  I don't think I've missed too many of those over here.   
  
  Q.  Was it an ace on 12, or did you eagle a hole?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  No, it was on 11.  I hit a driver, 3-iron just to the front edge and putted it in.  It was like a 35-, 40-foot putt.   
  
  Q.  You've got obviously a better record, more wins and more experience under pressure than anybody on the leaderboard.  Will that give you an edge going into tomorrow, maybe the intimidation factor?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know, I hope so (laughing), but these guys all can play.  I'm just going to go out there and see if I can strike -- I've been working really hard on my swing.  I'm really focused on myself right now.  I'm going to see if I can hit a lot of good shots and make some putts out there today.  I'm not going to be really worried about anybody else until probably the last few holes.  If I go out there and play the way I think I should and the way I feel, I should be okay.  I just need to make some putts tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  You're known as a hard worker anyway, so you're always working hard on your swing.  What are you doing above and beyond that or different than normal?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  No, I've been working on some things at the end of last year and they're just coming together now.  There was a few weeks here and there that you've got to keep doing it, otherwise you can lose it.  It's probably the constant part is if the positions are good and all that.  That's pretty much what I've been doing.  I've been working very hard on my putting, as well, trying to -- I'm going to a short putter and I'm just trying to feel a good stroke every time I'm out there.  I've been working on that quite a bit.   
  
  Q.  We know that the swing is a work in progress and you've been working on it for a while, and you've talked about it before.  Can you just say briefly what you're actually trying to do that's maybe a little bit different?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Well, just trying to get it to a better position on top, not to laid off, my hands a lot higher and my club is more pointing down the line instead of pointing left to the target, which I've been doing forever.  From there I get a little bit more power coming into the shot, and I've picked up a few yards, as well.  So that's a pretty good reason for me to do it.  It feels good, too.  It goes hand in hand; if you feel good and you're doing it, then it's good.  And that's what I've been working on.   
  
  Q.  You talked about your eagle on 11.  Do you mind taking us through your other four birdies and one bogey on 7?  You had a birdie on 14.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  14, yeah, I hit driver, 3-wood just on the left of the green, chipped up to about eight feet, made that.   
 15 was a short one.  I hit a wedge to about four feet.   
 The eagle was on 11.   
 And the birdie was on 1.  I hit a driver, 4-iron, wedged it about -- again, about four feet.   
 8 was the other one.  I hit driver, wedge.  That, again, was about five feet, I think.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT