THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2017
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH: I'm playing well, and I'm excited about it.
Q. How is this new driving range for you?
VIJAY SINGH: Pretty good.  You know, it's probably the best it's ever been, best around here, so I think everybody is raving about it.
Q. Did playing on the Champions Tour give you a little bit of confidence?
VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, every time you win, it kind of gives you that little bit of lift, and I needed a lift, and I got that.  But I've been playing well.  I've had some injuries, especially my foot, and that's been holding my back.
Q. How difficult were the conditions out there between wind and the firmness of the course?  How difficult was it to keep everything together and keep the ball in play?
VIJAY SINGH: Coming down 15, I was playing -- depending on where you hit it.  If you hit the fairway, it's okay, but if you miss fairways, it's very hard to keep it on the green.  17 was really, really tough, almost to a point where it's hard to play a decent shot and leave it on the green.  But 18 is tough, as well.  I mean, it's very hard to get to the pin, you know.  To play the middle of the greens, you can always accept it, but if you go for the pins, then you (indiscernible).
Q. Why do you enjoy playing the PGA TOUR still?
VIJAY SINGH: I'm playing well, I think I still can compete out here, and as long as I think I can compete, I'll play here.
Q. How good does it feel to do it at this course, this venue, this tournament in particular?
VIJAY SINGH: I haven't done it for a long time.  I mean, I have my moments.  But it's nice to be playing well again.  I've been hitting the ball pretty good, so it was good to do it at home.
Q. Is it ever awkward with the whole lawsuit thing still hanging?
VIJAY SINGH: I don't want to talk about that.
Q. On 12, what were you kind of -- when you're over the ball, how close would you be acceptable?
VIJAY SINGH: I've been putting really well.  I'm rolling the ball really, really good, and my caddie just got excited that I got it on the green.  It was sad I three-putted the last hole, but I feel really -- that's the strong part of my game right now is my putting.  If I keep putting like that, I'm going to be right there on Sunday.
Q. How big were those on 11 and 12?
VIJAY SINGH: They're all big when you make a putt, first day, second day.  I feel excited when I'm on the green now instead of worrying if I'm going to two-putt or three-putt.  I'm excited about putting, and it's a great feeling.
Q. When was the last time you felt that way?  I haven't heard you say that about your putting since about 10 years ago.
VIJAY SINGH: Yeah.
Q. What's your ability to practice now versus 10 years ago or 20 years ago?
VIJAY SINGH: Gosh, probably half maybe.
Q. Really?
VIJAY SINGH: Yeah.  You know, I spend a lot more time on the short game now.
Q. Did you make a change in your putting?
VIJAY SINGH: I made a change before I went to play (indiscernible) event.  I putted really good there.
Q. Grip or what?
VIJAY SINGH: Grip, just cross-handed, claw, and I just went right hand low, and I putted really incredible there, and just kind of kept it going.
Q. How long have you been using the Spider?
VIJAY SINGH: Six weeks.
Q. What have you been able to do so well these last two weeks?
VIJAY SINGH: I think managing the ball, you know, getting the ball in play, not getting too many -- too much trouble.  It's very hard to get into trouble here.  I kept my ball mostly in front of me, and I only chipped one time.  I putted every other time I missed the green.  I hit a lot of greens, which is good, and putting really well, so all together, it was a good round.
Q. You I'm sure know confidence is a very precious commodity on this level.  You getting a victory on PGA TOUR champions, what did that do for your confidence?
VIJAY SINGH: Any time you win -- I haven't won in, gosh, a couple years.  Just to win, it's a good feeling to win, no matter what you win, as long as you win.  You know, that kind of boosted my confidence.  I know that I can still -- and I wasn't too -- that surprised me a lot, even today when I'm out there playing, I wasn't anywhere nervous, I was more or less trying to get as low as possible, so that's a good feeling to have.  Once you're out there and you feel nervous about scoring good, then you get comfortable, and I'm not doing that.  That's a great feeling.
Q. This is a hypothetical.  If you're able to win THE PLAYERS at this point in your career, what would it mean to you?
VIJAY SINGH: Another win.
Q. Are you thinking about winning right now?
VIJAY SINGH: Of course.  I was thinking about winning when I started off.  I told everybody I was going to win, so that's kind of -- that's the feeling you've got to have to come out here.  If you think that you're just coming out here just to make the numbers, then you'd better stay home.  I'm not doing that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT