CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2007
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How do you explain your round?  Lot of guys coming off saying the course is soft.  And the numbers haven't been there, but they were there for you today.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Well, you know, the golf course is not very difficult, but the pin placements are.  You know, if you, like I said at the beginning of the week, if you mis-hit a shot, it's going to punish you if you mis-hit it badly.  But if you just mis- hit it, it's okay.   
 But to hit to the greens as big as they are, the pin placements are very much on little slopes, and you've got to be on the correct side of the pins.  So a lot of times you're 6, 8-foot away, but you have to read it so well and make a perfect putt to make it.  So pin placement made it difficult.   
  
  Q.  How important is it to have Mike and Stephen in this tournament over the weekend?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I think for the crowd it is very important to have Mike, you know.  I don't know what Stephen did, but, I was rooting for Mike as well.  He was struggling with his game a little bit, but I think he got it together.  Made a few birdies coming in, and unfortunately, on the last hole he missed a short one.  But he's, I think, it's good for the game, and good for Canada that he's playing the weekend.   
  
  Q.  The other guys on the leaderboard haven't been there as much as you have in your career.  Do you feel that gives you an advantage when you play more comfortably?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know.  I haven't been on the leaderboard for a while as well.  So I'm excited to be on the leaderboard.  I'm looking forward to playing a solid weekend.  You know, win or lose, I'm going to go out there and try to play my game, and try to win a golf tournament.   
  
  Q.  The week when you're clearly one of the marquis names here, and there are not all that many of them, do you feel like it's almost a responsibility to get yourself up there and in the top?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know.  You cannot put that much pressure on yourself.  You just go out there and try to play the best you can.  And if you're in contention and leading the golf tournament going into the weekend, that's great.  But, you know, it's not important in my head to go out there and be leading the golf tournament.  It's important in my head to go out there and play solid golf, so...   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT