AT&T NATIONAL
July 5, 2007
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What did you think of the course layout today?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  It was pretty good.  When we started out, it was kind of a little windy and then that little bit of rain came and calmed all the wind down.  It was playing pretty nice.   
 I really played decent.  I didn't play too badly.  I drove the ball very nice on the back nine and that got me going with some good birdies out there.  I struggled a little bit on the back nine but kept it together.  I'm very, very happy with what I shot.   
  
  Q.  Talk about this final hole and the decision.  Did you ever waver on going for a birdie being one shot off the lead; were you aware of where you're at?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Not really.  You know where you're at but it doesn't really come in your mind if you're leading or no.  You just want to try to make a birdie and get out of there.   
 I was in a good position to make a birdie.  I had a good lie in the rough and it was a pretty simple chip shot, and that 4-footer or whatever I had was shaky, but it went in.  So, you know, I'll take it.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the rough, too.  A lot of golfers have upped it today, in fact, talked about how high it is and how difficult it has been.  Did you find it to be any trouble?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Oh, yeah.  If you hit it in there, it's a whole load of trouble.  You try to get out of it the best possible way to give yourself a chance for a par.   
 It's rough.  I was lucky that I hit a lot of good drives and when I did miss it, I had a pretty decent lie to get out of it.  Hopefully I can keep that going and just stay out of it.   
  
  Q.  What's the key to staying in contention and staying in the lead the rest of the week?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  You have to hit fairways.  They are pretty tricky greens here.  You have to be below the holes to give yourself chances to make birdies.  If you can do that, you know, you should have a good chance.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT