BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2007
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  All of a sudden it turns nasty and you get hot.  How can you explain that? 
 VIJAY SINGH:  I think it's all to do with putting.  There was no pressure out there when I started.  The leaders were eight in front of me or nine in front of me and I said, just play a solid round of golf. 
 Made the turn and told my caddie if we get to 8-under we have a very good chance of winning.  We were almost there.  7-under now -- it's not going to get any better.  The greens are getting really bumpy those 3-footers can be really difficult. 

 Q.  So you're going to have to wait around; it's going to be quite a wait, Cabrera is on trouble on 15 and the only player ahead of you at the moment.  How do you find your chances at this stage? 
 VIJAY SINGH  It's hard to say.  I don't wish anybody bad, you know.  I'm just going to go out there and rest a little bit and watch the telly and see what's going on and if they get to 9, I'll leave. 

 Q.  The rain is getting heavier and heavier; conditions down the stretch pretty tough? 
 VIJAY SINGH:  The fairways are getting waterlogged, as well.  It's the greens, they are spinning back, you have to be able to hit it past the pin to spin it back to the hole. 

 Q.  Get ready for the playoff? 
 VIJAY SINGH:  I'll go have a nice, hot cup of coffee. 

 Q.  Quite a way back at start of the day, where did that round come from? 
 VIJAY SINGH:  I missed a short three-footer on No. 2 and said, oh, this is going to be a long day.  I birdied three.  Got up-and-down quite a few times.  Made a bomb on 15.  I hit the drive left and had to hit a provisional, got a good lie, knocked it on the green and made an 80-footer.  That kind of lifted me up, and I played pretty get last three holes, birdied 17, 18.  It's all about putting.  If you start making putts, you can make a round. 

 Q.  It not easy to make putts with so much water on the greens. 
 VIJAY SINGH:  I changed my grip.  I went from cross-handed to conventional yesterday halfway through and started putting well for some reason.  I told my caddie, should I have started this before the tournament started. 
 It just felt good.  Did not have any expectation, just went out there and tried to shoot a good round of golf. 

 Q.  Is it going to be good enough? 
 VIJAY SINGH:  It may be one or two short.  I hope it's good enough.  18 is actually playing quite easy. 

 Q.  Well played and you never know? 
 VIJAY SINGH:  I'm going to wait for a while and see what happens. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT