THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2007
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I had to trust it to go ahead and make a swing.  When we make bad swings, we don't trust our instincts and we always come out of the shot.  When it's windy like this you need to trust your swing.   
  
  Q.  Jim Furyk told Rich Lerner that he doesn't even come out to play on days like this.  I know he lives here as well as you do.  Are these the toughest conditions you've seen this course play under?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I think so.  Monday if it's like this, you're not going out.  Hopefully it's not going to blow like this on Thursday, but it did.  I was just telling my caddie, next time it blows this hard we need to go out and play to get used to the conditions.   
 The greens are so firm, the wind was gusting incredible.  Standing over putts was difficult, as well.  But I'll come back tomorrow fighting.   
  
  Q.  Was that respectable enough of a first round -- you hung in there, you fought hard all day, but does that keep you within the possibility of having a chance for getting a win on Sunday?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Oh, yeah, today is only the first day.  There are three days to go.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the conditions today.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Gusty and not golfing weather, really.  Today was weather when you come out here and look around and go back to your car and go home.   
  
  Q.  Now, you made your first birdie on the front nine on No. 3 on that par 3, but you hit the ball well all day.  You've got to feel like you're hitting it okay.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I'm hitting it good.  I feel really good except for those little putts that I need to figure out.  I'm pretty comfortable with my game right now.  I'm playing well, I feel good, and hopefully this wind dies down a little bit so we can go out and attack the golf course a little bit.  I think it's going to blow again tomorrow, so I've got to come out here strong and fight.   
  
  Q.  It's not supposed to blow as bad tomorrow as today, but I'm going to tell you, that sand shot that you hit on No. 9, that was one of the coolest shots I've ever seen.  Talk me through that one.  First of all, when I told you that was the coolest shot I ever saw, what did you say?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  You said, "What did you expect?"   
 VIJAY SINGH:  There you go, what do you expect?   
  
  Q.  You are the man, I'm not going to deny that, but talk me through that shot.   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Obviously I knew I could go out and hit it because the wind was right into me, and I just had to keep it under the trees and hook it about ten yards and stop it quickly.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT