WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2007
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  We saw a couple hiccups with the putter and you're still 6-under.  Do you feel pretty good about that? 
 VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, the greens, I couldn't get the greens this morning, I don't know why.  Maybe the temperature change must have done something to my hands, whatever it did.  I kind of was comfortable towards the end.  I made a good putt on No. 5 for par and that kind of settled me down, and hit a good shot on No. 7 and hit it better than I thought, and a good one on 8.  So finishing eagle, birdie, that was very comfortable. 

 Q.  You were sort of battling around there and then all of a sudden you get a couple shots back? 
 VIJAY SINGH:  That's the way the game is.  You just can never keep trying, and all of a sudden something good is going to happen.  I wasn't playing bad, I just wasn't putting it together. 

 Q.  It seemed like you were really hitting your irons well. 
 VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I was.  It's a lot cooler right now.  Yesterday the balls were going forever, and today we really had to adjust that.  But I'll take my position right now. 

 Q.  Talk a little bit about the conditions and how they've evolved over the last three days and how they are right now. 
 VIJAY SINGH:  You know, the temperature change always kind of fools with us a lot.  I don't like cold weather.  It wasn't cold, but it wasn't warm, either.  But you just have to deal with it.  You know, it's drizzling now.  I think it's going to soften the greens up for tomorrow, but that's going to be an advantage.  And the fairways, they're really running fast.  This is going to make the golf course play a lot easier. 

 Q.  As far as you guys, feeling a little lucky on the front end getting in on the early side of this rain? 
 VIJAY SINGH:  Well, this is good and bad.  If it rains hard and it blows a little bit, then it's going to be difficult.  But the greens with where the pins are, it's going to make the golf course a lot easier. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT