THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2017
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're in good shape, nice playing today.  Give us a quick update of your, overview of your round?  
VIJAY SINGH: I had quite a few rounds here before I left for Wilmington, so I was quite familiar with the conditions.  It was a lot firmer, but we knew that it was going to be really firm because of new greens.  So, I've never played that many rounds before the tournament, so I was kind of familiar with the winds.  The winds were very strong when I played, so not that it's easy out there, but it's pretty tough, you just have to manage your ball flight and I did that.   
 Q.  Nine out of 10 missed cuts.  Did you feel something different this week?  
VIJAY SINGH: I don't know the last time I missed a cut.   
(Laughter.)   
I don't try to remember what I did in the past, I came here feeling good about my game and I just thought that -- I was ready to play.  I was ready to play well, too.  I'm playing well and I'm excited about it.   
 Q.  How is this new driving range for you?  
VIJAY SINGH: It's pretty good.  It's probably the best it's ever been.  It's the best around here, so I think everybody's raving about it.   
 Q.  Did winning on the Champions Tour give you a little bit of confidence?  
VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, any time you win it kind of gives you that little bit more lift and I needed a lift like that.  But I've been playing well, I had some injuries awhile ago and that's been holding me back.   
 Q.  How difficult were the conditions out there between wind and the firmness of the course, how tough was it to keep everything together and keep the ball in play?  
VIJAY SINGH: Coming down, 15 is probably playing, depending where you hit it, if you miss the fairway it's very hard to keep it on green.  17 was really, really tough.  Almost to a point where it's hard to play a shot that would leave it on the green.  18's a tough hole as well.  It's very hard to get to the pin and if you play to the middle of the greens, it's okay, but if you go for the pins it's more difficult.   
 Q.  Why do you enjoy playing the PGA TOUR still when you can segue to the Champions Tour and make a fortune?  
VIJAY SINGH: I'm playing well, I feel like I can still compete out here and as long as I think I can compete I want to play here.   
 Q.  How good does it feel to do it on this course, this venue, this tournament in particular?  
VIJAY SINGH: I haven't done it for a long time, I had my moments.  But it's nice to be playing well again, I've been hitting the ball pretty good, so it's good to do it at home.   
 Q.  Is it ever awkward with the whole lawsuit thing still hanging?  
VIJAY SINGH: I don't want to talk about that.   
 Q.  On 12, were you, what were you kind of, when you were over the ball, how close would you have been acceptable for you?  Were you thinking you could make that on 12 when you putted from off the fringe?  
VIJAY SINGH: I've been putting the ball really well.  I've been rolling the ball really, really well.  And my caddie just got excited every time I got it on the green.  It was sad I 3-putted the last hole, but that's a strong part of my game right now.  If I keep putting like that, I'm going to be right there on Sunday.   
 Q.  How big were those on 11 and 12?  
VIJAY SINGH: They're all big, whether you make a putt the first day, second day, I just, I feel like I'm excited when I'm on the green now instead of if I'm going to 2-putt or 3-putt.  But I'm excited I made the putt and I think it's a great feeling.   
 Q.  When was the last time you felt that way?  I don't know that I've heard you say that about your putting since about 10 years ago?  
VIJAY SINGH: I don't know.  It's been awhile.   
(Laughter.)   
 Q.  What's your ability to practice like now versus 10 years ago or 20 years ago?  
VIJAY SINGH: Gosh, probably half maybe.  I spend a lot more time on the short game now than long game.   
 Q.  Did you make a change putting or is it just working on it?  
VIJAY SINGH: I made a change before I went to play the Champions Tour event, I putted really good there.   
 Q.  A grip or what?  
VIJAY SINGH: Grip, just I was cross handed claw but I just went regular claw.  I putted really incredible then and that's kind of kept me going.   
 Q.  How long have you been using that Ghost Spider?  
VIJAY SINGH: Six weeks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT