WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2007
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  That put a smile on your face, right?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Today, yeah.  It was pretty tough at the end with the wind swirling around and it started blowing.  I don't think there was any wind this morning.   
 I was just playing each hole at a time and trying to do the best I can.  This is one mis-hit over here, it can cost you.  I was really happy with my round.   
  
  Q.  Did you notice yourself just clawing and trying to hold on the last couple holes with the weather changing the way it was?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I mean, 16 was playing downwind, and 17.  If the wind was the other way, it would have been really difficult on 16.  But only 6-iron on 17.  The only thing was stopping the ball on that green was a bit difficult.   
 But hit two good shots on 18.  That was a tough one.  Drive was a tough one to do there.  But I hit a good drive and hit one to about ten feet and should have made it, but I'm happy with 5-under.   
  
  Q.  How much more hard and fast is it playing compared to other years?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  It wasn't that bad today.  I think they watered the greens a little bit so it made it a little bit easier.  And towards the end of the round you could see a little bit more crisp coming on and the wind was drying them out.  Hopefully it rains and softens the greens up for us.   
 The fairways are different from what they used to be.  I think it's Bermuda for the first time.  It's running out.  A lot of balls running into the first cut or into the long rough.  So that's the hard thing.  You think if you hit a good drive and look up, it just rolls into the -- the guys are kind of -- it's not something the guys are used to.   
  
  Q.  You've got a good record here.  What is it you like best about this?   
 VIJAY SINGH:  It's a tough golf course.  You need to play a shot, you need to be smart.  Driving is a prime factor over here.  You've got to know where to drive the ball and where to miss it.  It's a great iron players' golf course.  You need to know -- you need to be below the hole most of the time over here.  It's a difficult putting green if you're on the wrong side.  You just have to play smart.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT