THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 2006
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  A couple comments on the round.
VIJAY SINGH:  Surprising.  I made some putts, I guess.  I played pretty decent.  Just hanging around the front nine and got it going the back nine.  Hit some really good shots and made some nice putts.
Q.  You didn't make so many nice putts yesterday?  You were upset with that club at the end of the day?
VIJAY SINGH:  You know, crazy things happen.  Just fell over and broke it yesterday, if that's the right way to put it.

No, sometimes if you don't like a putter and you keep putting with it, you know, that way if I get rid of it, then I don't have to use it anymore.  I have other putters that were just exactly like it.  But it worked today.
Q.  How many do you travel with, putters, just as a rule?
VIJAY SINGH:  This week I had a few.  This week I think I had four of them.
Q.  Does that belly drive around with you, or is that long gone?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, that's part of history at the moment.  You know, I have no problems with my putting stroke, just getting the line right; these greens are very hard to read.
Q.  Everybody has been writing all week about the two guys who aren't here, but the leaderboard is pretty well    the whole top of the leaderboard is the rest of the world Top 10.  You guys are doing pretty good for
VIJAY SINGH:  Who's not here (laughter)?  I'm here, right?  Ernie is here, Furyk is here.  The golf tournament is still here.
Q.  What's the familiarity and your success here do for you?
VIJAY SINGH:  I've played here quite a few times.  I know the golf course better than    I know the greens a lot better than a few guys, which part of the green to hit it at and what kind of putt you're going to get if you hit it long or short.

In that sense, yeah.  But the fairways and roughs, you cannot predict what you're going to do out there, so you just go out there and play.  I feel comfortable here.  The key to this golf course always has been driving the ball, and for some reason I started driving the ball well.  I got a new driver this week and started to drive the ball pretty decent.
Q.  Feel any different this week because of Monday, getting into the Hall of Fame, anything different, or do you feel any different?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, I left that in St. Augustine, Florida, when I came.
Q.  Do you feel good about your chances tomorrow?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think so.  I'm hitting the ball really good; hitting my irons good.  I didn't hit my irons as good yesterday on the front nine, but I feel like I'm striking the ball really well.  If I can make some putts tomorrow, you never know.
Q.  You're a good friend of Tom's.  What did you make of his comments the other day?
VIJAY SINGH:  (Laughing) we have a thing with Steve Sands here.  Sorry, Steve (laughing).  I still love you, man.

You know, it's his own opinion.  I just feel    I'm not on the same side as Tim or of Tom's.  You know, I'm pretty neutral.  I just feel like whatever happens should be discussed like Tom's said.  I am not taking any sides at all, I'm just an outside observer.
Q.  How clear are you on what next year is going to be like?  Are you still kind of learning?  A lot of players don't know what next year is going to look like.
VIJAY SINGH:  I think it's pretty    you know, it's pretty clear already what you've got to do.  I have a theory, and it's Jim Colbert's theory:  If you play well everything is going to be okay.  Just go out there, play well, and everything is going to be okay.

That's for every player out there.  If you play well    obviously guys that are winning a lot, are they complaining?  No.

Just go out there, and the administration part of it, leave it to the guys that are handling it.  We just have to go out there and focus on playing; that's our job.
Q.  Do you know what you're going to do in the Florida Swing, because that stretch has been tweaked more than anything, and then you've got Ponte Vedra a month later.  It goes Honda, Tampa, Arnold
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm still going to play the courses I'm scheduled to play.  The schedule is not changing that much.  Houston is a big change here, coming before The Masters now.  That may alter a few guys' decision to play there or not.

We'll just have to wait and see and play by ear.
Q.  You made a joke about who's not here, but seriously, do you think the absence of Tiger and Phil hurts the tournament?
VIJAY SINGH:  Every time Tiger doesn't play a golf tournament it hurts the tournament because of his name and how good he is.  Yeah, sure.
Q.  Do you feel like it makes it easier to win?
VIJAY SINGH:  It doesn't matter.  I didn't come here to beat Tiger, I came here to win the golf tournament.  That's my theory.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT