CANADIAN OPEN
September 6, 2006
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Two weeks ago you were talking about how tough this game is mentally, and one week later you find yourself at the top of your game.  How?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's close.  It's not that it isn't still difficult, it still is.  Nothing has changed.  You need to get the confidence.  I guess all the hard work has kind of clicked in.  And it kind of clicked in and I'm finally striking the ball well and I found one or two points that I was doing before, and I had to go back doing it.
Q.  Certainly no one is going to out work you, but put in perspective the 2006 season for me?
VIJAY SINGH:  Okay.  It's okay.  Very disappointing first half of the year, and then one win and you can go through the whole career not winning.  For me, I think it was disappointing.  It's not the end of the '06 year.  I have some tournaments to go.  I'm planning to do well on those.
Q.  This golf course here, it's been compared by some of the players to Westchester.  You've been to Westchester three times.  Can you give us your thoughts about the golf course?
VIJAY SINGH:  Very demanding off the tee.  You go to hit the ball in the fairway to protect the flag.  The greens are very undulating from back to front, so you need to control the trajectory of the ball, otherwise you're going to have problems, you can spin the ball 10, 15, 20 feet at times.  To give yourself birdie good chances you need to know where to land it, how much to spin the ball and know which part of the green to hit it.
Q.  2004 you were in a battle with Mike Weir, coming down to the championship and afterwards you kind of had mixed feelings about it.  It was almost like you were apologetic that you had beaten him, but that was certainly a huge win for you?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I felt bad for Mike, since practically the whole world was behind him at that time, and I was playing against him.  But that's the way it goes.  It was a great victory.  Every victory is great.  And I always wondered    I wanted to win, at that time I was in the flow, and it felt easy.  This is a different time, a different year.  I need to battle against myself.
Q.  Monday finish and right back in action, did you do anything in preparation for this week?
VIJAY SINGH:  Tuesday is a little easier day, you don't work as hard.  You play a practice round a leave.  Not really, I know the golf course well.  I played here two months ago, a month ago, and played in '04 was it '04 or '03    '03.  Coming back to the golf course you get familiarized where to go, what to do.
Q.  You've been a consistent presence here at the Canadian Open.  Why?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's in my schedule.  It's always been in my schedule.  Next year will be a little different, because it's played after the British Open.  So we'll have to see if we can make some kind of adjustments.  I know what the golf course is a big factor.  That's always a big factor if the golf course is good then you are going to come and play.
Q.  Does the idea, just given the PGA and the British and the World Golf Championships, this one would be off
VIJAY SINGH:  For next year?  It's played after the British.  It's not just a plane ride away, it's a long one.  Depending how you play in the British, too.  If you play well in the British    chances are I can win the British.  It's a longer trip to come over here.  But at the moment I'm going to play in it, it's in my schedule.
Q.  When you look at the field here, Furyk is a guy, do you look at it as a pretty strong field?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, I'm battling against myself.  I've had    the whole year has been pretty difficult for me.  I'm not getting enough out of my game.  But I feel good.  I feel good the way I'm hitting the ball.  I'm not stressing out as much, so I think I'm going to have a good week.  My mindset is I'm going to have a good week.
Q.  I saw you win at Phoenix, in '04 and there's talk about (inaudible.)  Do you still feel like that, do you still feel
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm playing well, I feel healthy.  A lot of people go through the whole year not winning a golf tournament, their whole career, and I've won one this year.  I don't know how that came about, but I did win it.  And I have two seconds and a whole lot of top 10s. I'm not playing badly, but I'm not playing the way I want to play.  I think it's showing up here, an absolutely great example.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT