CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 7, 2006
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  67, Vijay.  You must be pleased with the way you played the first two rounds.
VIJAY SINGH:  Especially today.  I struggled off the tees on the back nine, which was my front nine.  I think I hit one, two fairways.  I got it going on the back nine, hit a lot of fairways and managed to be a bit more relaxed in the second half.
Q.  You're in pretty good position going into tomorrow?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, it's always nice to be one or two off the lead going into the weekend.  What's leading?
Q.  10.
VIJAY SINGH:  We'll see what happens tomorrow.
Q.  No bogeys, too.  On this course that's always
VIJAY SINGH:  That's always good, yeah.  I scrambled really well.  I think I didn't play as good as yesterday, but I did manage to get it up and down quite a few times.  Got away with a good par on the last hole.  That's what you have to do to play well, I guess.  If you're not playing well you've got to score well.
Q.  Yesterday you got yourself in some strange places coming in there?
VIJAY SINGH:  Unfortunately I didn't hit that bad of a drive.  I hit the tree and it went 30 yards left.  I was in deep trouble then.
Q.  How was your tee ball today?
VIJAY SINGH:  It was okay on the second nine.  The front nine I didn't do it as good as I thought I would.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  Off the tees I've been trying to do that.  I've been really struggling for the last five months off the tees.  You know, it's half good and half bad right now.  I'd like to get most of it good.  It's pretty hard to do that when you're changing drivers almost every week, and that's what I've been doing.
Q.  You've been coming here a lot of years.  What would it mean to win here?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's a great tournament.  There's a lot of tradition behind this tournament and one of the oldest ones out here, a great golf course.  I really would like to win it if I can.  You don't talk about winning until you get on Sunday in the last nine.  But hopefully I can play some decent golf and see what happens.
Q.  You do have a 2nd place and a 4th place here.  Would you consider this a tournament that's kind of eluded you in your career?
VIJAY SINGH:  No.  You have to play well.  If you don't play well, a lot of tournaments elude you.  In the past I've come here and played decently but not good enough to win.  This is a good opportunity this year.  I'm feeling fresh, which is good.
Q.  Are you looking ahead at all to the British?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, not really.  Once I finish with this I've got a week off and then I'm going to prepare for the British.
Q.  Do you know anything about it?
VIJAY SINGH:  No.  It's a links course, that's all I know.  We'll see what happens when I get there.  I'll have enough time to prepare when I get over there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT