CIALIS WESTERN OPEN
July 6, 2006
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH:  I played well.  I hit a decent amount of fairways, hit a lot of greens, no three putts.  I played well.  I'm hitting the ball decent.  I had two weeks off, worked pretty good on my game.  I've got a driver that I like finally, so looking good.
Q.  Players are saying if you don't hit it close, you get penalized but if you keep it straight and get to the green you can score.  Is that pretty accurate assessment?
VIJAY SINGH:  I've got so much knowledge about the golf course playing here so long, you know where you can miss it and run it up or have a chance at the green or where    sometimes it's even wide enough to even go for the green but leave it in a bunker if you get in a bad situation.  The knowledge about the golf course, I've played here for so many years, I pretty much know where to hit it and where not to hit it.
Q.  Is there anything about momentum from that birdie on 18 that you can take into tomorrow?
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, I'll sleep better, especially making a bogey on 16, 100 yards from the green.  I'm hitting the ball decent, looking forward to    like I said, I took two weeks off after the Open and worked hard, and we've got a big tournament in two weeks' time, so this will be a great week to play well and take a lot of positives from here.
Q.  With the knowledge of the course, your approach on 18, would you have hit that shot if you didn't know the way it would come up onto the green?
VIJAY SINGH:  I didn't know it that well.  I got kind of lucky there, had a pretty decent lie out of the bunker and clipped a tree, as well, otherwise it would have run way up there.  I got away with it.
Q.  Is that a new driver you have this week?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's one of the drivers I've been trying for a while, but I never got the combination of the shaft and the head.  I worked really hard yesterday and finally picked one out.
Q.  You talked about having a driver you like.  How much confidence does that give you when you're sitting on the tee box with a club that feels good in your hand?
VIJAY SINGH:  To me driver means everything.  If you drive the ball in the fairway, you set yourself up for the hole.  You hit a bad drive or miss the fairway then you're behind, then you're always scrambling.  That's been my game.  If I hit the driver half decent I would play well.  I just hope this is the one.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT