U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2006
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How much of this right now is between the ears versus say a week ago given what happened just up the road here?
VIJAY SINGH:  Pretty good.  I've taken a lot of confidence from there.  I'm not in a high, but my golf game just kind of lifted to a level where I feel a lot more at ease playing right now.  I'm looking forward to the next three days here.
Q.  Compare hitting out of the rough here in the first and second cut to Westchester last week.
VIJAY SINGH:  It started different.  You can get some nasty lies at Westchester, but the fairways were a lot more generous there.  But the rough at Westchester was almost as bad as this in places.  But obviously the fairways were twice or three times as wide as this, so you didn't have any problem with it, and a much shorter golf course.
Q.  The wind, the conditions last week, did that kind of prepare you more for the wind you had to deal with out here today?
VIJAY SINGH:  A little bit.  Windy conditions at Westchester was different because the golf course you could still go ahead and be very aggressive with the tee shots and not worry about missing the fairways much.  Over here you're always concerned about which side to miss it and where not to hit it.

It's totally a different golf course.  The conditions may be a little similar, but the greens are a lot firmer here.
Q.  The score that you did post today, does it feel like an under par round?
VIJAY SINGH:  It feels like a good round but not an under par round.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  I was in it once, but I got away with it.
Q.  What hole was it?
VIJAY SINGH:  It was I think 12 or    no.  12th hole, I think    no, 14, sorry.
Q.  Good lie?
VIJAY SINGH:  I missed the thick rough and got into where the crowds were walking, so I got away with it.
Q.  Was it a fair U.S. Open setup in your mind?
VIJAY SINGH:  At the moment it is.  There's a few greens out there, even 18, that's getting a little bit too crusty, so they've got to watch it.  They always turn up on Wednesday and say what a great setup, Thursday is the same, and then it starts getting a little bit over the edge.  So far it's pretty nice.
Q.  One of the members here said that they think 16, 17 and 18 are going to be the pivotal holes come Sunday.  What do you think?
VIJAY SINGH:  If the wind changes direction, it will be.  Right now the wind is blowing in our favor.  17 you can get away with just hitting an iron off the tee.  18, as well.  It's not playing as long as the card holes.  If the wind changes direction    like 9th hole, that's probably the hardest hole on the golf course, and I hit a driver, 9 iron today, and I hit driver, 5 iron in the practice round.  That tells you the difference in the conditions.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  You know, it's difficult when it's the first tee ball of the tournament.  You're a little nervous and you don't want to make a mistake, but it wasn't that bad.
Q.  What did you hit there?
VIJAY SINGH:  I hit driver, 7 iron.
Q.  Tell us about the emotion on Sunday.  Relief?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I think so, just the satisfaction of practicing so hard and pulling it off.  The whole team, Paul, myself and Joey, we worked pretty hard in getting    yeah, back to where I should be, really.
Q.  You talked about the greens being more crusty and the winds picking up.  Any putts or shots that you thought might break different than you thought they would?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I think 18 is a lot different.  I hit a really full sand wedge from 131 and spun it actually.  But if you lay back where you can hit irons off the tee, it's very hard to stop the ball.  I think if it gets crusty, I think three yards short of the pin you'll be down below.  There's one of the hard ones, and there's a few other holes that's getting really hard.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT