MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2006
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BILLY MORRIS:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have Vijay Singh who had a 74 today and is 3 under par for the tournament.  Vijay, would you like to go directly to questions or would you like to say something?
VIJAY SINGH:  Questions just fine.
Q.  Considering where your round was going after 13, were you pretty pleased to where it ended up?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I mean, I was disappointed with my drive on 15, which was probably the most disappointing part of the whole day, that was, because I thought, you know, I'm 1 over, or I'm 1 under for the tournament, I should be able to get back with a birdie on 15 if I hit a decent drive.  Even if that went in the trees and fortunately I made a good putt for birdie.  That kind of lifted my whole day.  That gave me really a good boost.  I went ahead and hit a good shot on 16, a good shot on 17 and made birdie.  So after the disastrous, you know, 4, 5 and 15th holes, I thought I played pretty decent apart from that.

It's just tough out there.  The winds were swirling around and it was difficult to pick clubs.  So all in all, I'm pretty pleased with the way I finished, with a 74.  Could have been a lot worse.
Q.  Do you remember when you last made three doubles in a round?
VIJAY SINGH:  Hopefully this is the last one.  (Laughter) It's something that you don't really think about until, you know, probably after the round and you sit down and say, wow, I made three doubles.  That shows this golf course, it's so easy, if you make one mistake, it's so easy to drop one, two, maybe three shots here.
Q.  Was it a little easier to take a day like today when you see that you haven't lost a whole lot of ground?
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, yeah, it's better today than on Sunday I guess, you know.

But then again, you know, it wasn't a bad round.  If I had just gone out there and not made any doubles and just made two bogeys or three bogeys and a birdie, 74 would not have looked that bad.  You know, if you look at it that way, then it's not a bad round.

I played well.  The two doubles I made on 4 and 5, I thought I hit good shots.  They went over the flag, just a little too much club I guess.  That's what happens when the winds start swirling around here.

Like I said, 74 is not a bad score today.
Q.  How much more difficult were conditions today compared to yesterday?
VIJAY SINGH:  There's a lot more wind today and it was really swirling.  You find a lot of that on 10 and 11 and then down at 12, it just kind of goes all around the place there.  13 and 14, it kind of settles down and picks up again on 15 when you get up on top of the hill.  17 and 18, as well.

It was coming from all directions.  It's pretty hard to figure out.  You know the general idea where it's going, where it's coming from, but it just swirls around.
Q.  Can you take us through that stretch of 3, 4 and 5?  You're the first person of the tournament to get to 7 under; can you take us through what happened on those three holes?
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, I hit a good drive on 3.  I hit a sand wedge, it was a 50 yard sand wedge and I hit it to about six feet I guess, made that putt.

I thought I hit a very good 6 iron on the next hole.  It was right at the flag, maybe just a yard or so right of it and pitched over the green maybe five yards on a little downslope and just took off into the bush.  Chipped it long, or I had to chip it long, I didn't want to leave it in there.  I had a 50 foot putt that I left short and missed a putt.  I should have finished with a bogey there.  Next hole, I hit a good drive, 7 iron and pretty much right over the flag and just too much club.  Bounced in the trap, left it in the trap and couldn't get up and down.

Then made a good birdie on the next hole.
Q.  How much did the yard change on 4 affect you with the tee box?
VIJAY SINGH:  When I was over the ball, I felt like it was going to be a little 5 iron because it was only, with the adjustment of the yardages it was like 180 just to carry the bunkers.  It ended up, I may have got a gust downwind because Henrik Stenson, he hit a 7 iron and he's one club longer than me and came up short.  It's just difficult to figure out.
Q.  How difficult is it to regain your composure and how difficult was it to get going in the right direction again after the double double?
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, after the double double, I was still 3 under, and I had only played five holes.  That birdie on 6 really settled me down a lot.  I don't think I made a mistake until the 11th hole.  I thought I hit a good second shot, and then had a good chip shot and missed a putt.

You know, if I made some of the putts like I did yesterday, I missed probably five putts from inside of six foot and, you know, that didn't help with my scores, anyway.

Those two doubles that I made, it was three doubles that I made, all of my second putts were inside of six feet.  So that should have been taken care of, at least one or two of them.
Q.  How do you feel about your swing right now?  Are you happy with it?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think so.  I'm swinging really good.  I'm starting the week over here when I was practicing, I didn't feel very comfortable but I knew what I was working on.  Today I thought I felt the best on my golf swing.  I drove the ball beautifully.  I thought I got some back in the distance.  I'm pretty pleased with that part of it.  I just need to forget about today's round and go out there tomorrow and Sunday and see if I can make some ground.
Q.  How much have you played with Chad Campbell and what's your assessment of him?
VIJAY SINGH:  Oh, he's a great player.  He's won a few times on TOUR.  I think if you see him in the past, all his wins, he's a very good front runner.  I don't think he's scared to go out there and play, especially with a lead.

He could be a very dangerous person if he gets his game on.
Q.  Have you always preferred firm conditions?  When you won in 2000 it was firm and you hit the ball pretty high; or does it matter to you what the conditions are?
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, I mean, the difficult conditions, obviously, favor the high ball hitter.  But right now, everybody hits the ball high and knows how to control the ball.

I just like firm conditions, difficult conditions when I'm playing well.  And right now, I think I'm playing well.  You know, I feel good about my golf game.  So even though those three doubles, I still thought I was in control of my game, so that is very important.
BILLY MORRIS:  Vijay, thank you very much and good luck to you tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT