SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2016
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Here with the 2005 Sony Open Hawaii champion.  11 years later you open with 63.  How satisfying was this start?
VIJAY SINGH: It was very.  I didn't know what to expect.  I was playing well, feeling good about my body, my swing, my mind.  So I just went out there, and it was early, so I didn't know how it was going to turn out.  But started off well and kept it going.
Q. Anything in particular that kept this round going throughout the day?
VIJAY SINGH: I scrambled really well.  Early on I didn't hit too many fairways, but I got it around the greens and chipped in once.  And my putter was working really well.  So that's always a good sign.
Q. You're 52 years young.  What motivates you coming out here on the PGA TOUR and playing with these kids?
VIJAY SINGH: I don't know.  I just want to play.  I feel like I can go out there and ^ play well.  It's been the same way for the last five, six years.  I haven't produced the scores that I wanted to produce.  I'm always looking to my next day, my next round, my next tournament.  So same this year.  Hopefully this year is going to go well.
I feel good.  Just going to keep trying.
Q. Let's talk about today.  Seemingly everything was working for you.  What was the best part of the 7-under 63?
VIJAY SINGH: Everything.  Chipped well, and I scrambled well, putted really well.  I made some nice long putts.  To make a few putts is always nice, nice when it turns out.
Q. I know you're always working on your game.  Have you changed anything heading into 2016 that you might have seen today?
VIJAY SINGH: No, not really.  Just being a lot more aggressive.  My body feels a lot better than it did last year or two years ago.  Once the body feels good and strength feels good, everything works good.
Q. You won here in 2005.  Has the course changed much since then?  You played here a bunch?
VIJAY SINGH: Not really.  I think there's more rough than I've ever seen.  Less wind this year.  So that's a big deal.  If the wind doesn't below.
There's no holes out here that's any longer.  They're playing the same way, and the greens are probably firmer, a little bigger this year, but nothing different.
Q. I know you love playing the game always.  Does a round like today really make you feel like, wow, it's coming back, or is this just another one a long way?
VIJAY SINGH: No.  I've been playing really well.  I just haven't produced the scores.  It's a good start to the tournament.  I feel I'm playing well, like you said, and see what the next three days bring.
Q. Putting well, is it fair to say when you're not scoring that the putting has been holding you back?
VIJAY SINGH: A little bit of everything, you know.  A little bit of mind as well.  Changed the mindset.  I've gone back to thinking what I've been doing a long time ago.  There's a book that I've always carried for the last 20 years, and I haven't read it for the last 10 years, but it's been in my hand carrier.  So I picked it up yesterday and started reading a few of the things that I've been doing.  And it's just a different mindset.
Golf swing has been the same.  Become a lot more aggressive this year.  That's the plan, to attack the golf course instead of just trying it put it in the fairway and trying to make a good swing.  Just be more aggressive.
Q. What was the name of the book?
VIJAY SINGH: I can't tell you.  I'd have to kill you.  (Laughs).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT