THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2006
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Right now one back.  You said before you desperately would love to win this golf tournament.  You've got to be pleased with your position.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, pretty much.  I'm playing decent enough right now to hold my own tomorrow.  I wasn't very happy at the beginning of the week, but I managed to get something going this week, and I'm putting well, I'm hitting the ball not too badly.  I like my chances tomorrow.
Q.  What's the comfort level because you spend as much time as you do now?  How much more comfortable are you here?
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, I mean, I've played this tournament for a long time in a row.  I just know the conditions very well, I know where not to hit it.  I know which holes to attack the pins and which not to.  You've got to play very smart, be patient out there.

It's not an easy golf course when it gets this windy and with these small greens and long rough.  It's a pretty tough golf course.
Q.  How much would it mean to you to win here?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's a big event.  I mean, it's one of the majors we call it.  It's the players' tournament, so it would be one of the bigger wins in my career.
Q.  Talk about 17, how you played it today.
VIJAY SINGH:  Hopefully I can do what I did today; it would be very good.  I had a 2.
Q.  You've had patience on this golf course, eight pars and a birdie on the back nine.  You have to be really pleased with that.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I missed a few opportunities coming in, but I made all I could out there.  It's just a tough finishing hole.  Some of the pin placements today    the one on 14, normally we play that on Sunday.  They changed it up a little bit and made it a little more difficult.
Q.  Talk about playing with Sergio today.  Both of you played well under pretty adverse conditions today.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, he played really well.  He missed quite a few putts, 9, 10, a few really good opportunities.  But he kept the ball in play, drove it beautifully.  We've been friends for a long time and we've played a lot of golf together.  But out there you kind of play your own game, and when we had chances we talked, but it was a good pairing.
Q.  He's a player that obviously hasn't had a win on a grand stage.  What would that mean for his career to win a tournament like this?
VIJAY SINGH:  You've have to ask him that (laughing).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT