FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 2, 2006
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  That was a nice way to end your round, I guess, nice rally?
VIJAY SINGH:  I hit one fairway on the back nine and I tried very hard to hit them all, but I couldn't.  I was shocked because I practiced a lot on my driver and, you know, I shot even par and it was one hell of an even par.  Back nine I started hitting fairways, and once you start hitting fairways, you can attack for birdies.  I was 1 under and birdie, eagle, birdie finish, which is always nice.

Q.  You had left a lot out there, I saw a lot of birdie opportunities that left you frustrated?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I putted well, too.  I worked a lot on my putting and I feel like I'm putting really well.  I'm putting like I want to putt it.
Q.  And you had left a lot out there, I saw a lot of birdie opportunities that left you frustrated?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, and I putted well, too.  I've worked a lot on my putting and I feel like I'm putting really well and putting like I want to putt it.
Q.  Coming off the West Coast, which I know wasn't necessarily the result you actually wanted out there, coming here does it make it easier, the greens are better, the course is more consistent?
VIJAY SINGH:  We're sweating between again, that's a big thing, once you start sweating again, your body is warm.  Especially me, I don't really like cold weather.  So it makes you swing the club a little bit more freely.

And the golf course is different, we're more used to the golf course, we've played here a lot of times.  The greens are better, too.  It's not those little bumpy poa annua greens that I don't think anybody has any pleasure putting on.
Q.  Is it there for the taking again this year?
VIJAY SINGH:  This week, you mean?
Q.  Like last year, 24 under won?
VIJAY SINGH:  If the weather stays like this.  This is hardly unlike the Blue Monster where normally it blows a lot.  This is as calm as I've ever seen it around 12 o'clock.  If it stays like this, that will be a score to shoot for.
Q.  Do you think this would be a good World Golf Championships venue?
VIJAY SINGH:  The crowds are great, here.  The golf course is not easy.  Once it start blowing    you can make bogeys very easily if you don't hit the fairways.  It's a tough golf course, but with the conditions like this, as far as we hit it nowadays, the guys are really good.  They need to bring in the bunkers and just make it a little bit more tighter driving areas.
Q.  You changed up your early season schedule this year and did the overseas thing, now that you've been through that run, how do you think
VIJAY SINGH:  It was a bad move.  (Laughing).  It was a real bad move.  Because I was really ready to play and going there for two weeks and coming back, it just flew away    when you've arrived there, you're not used to it, the first week is just getting used to it.  You come back over here, you do the same thing.  The first week, you're still trying to get used to the time difference.  It was a good trip but it was very tiring on my body and I think I wasted three weeks.
Q.  So you wouldn't do it again?
VIJAY SINGH:  Not really, no, I don't think so.  If I do it, then I'll probably take a week off when I come back.
Q.  You mentioned the weather, when is the last time you played in a tournament    I say this now and the wind picks up, when is the last time you played in a tournament when the wind was this calm?
VIJAY SINGH:  Not for a while.  Phoenix was pretty calm, but this is great.  This is great weather to watch golf.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT