WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2006
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You got off to an unbelievable start, three birdies early, 3 up today, a couple bogeys early, what was your mind thought going to the third tee?
VIJAY SINGH:  Just hang in there, it's still early.  I'd rather lose early than later holes.

I was very confident with the way I was playing.  I was hitting the ball very well off the driving range, so I was pretty confident.
Q.  Looks like you've got an awful lot of good rhythm going right now and a lot of confidence in your putter.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I've worked very hard on the putting for the last two weeks.

My driver is just behaving again, so that's a good combination.
Q.  Driving well and making putts, that's a nice combination for the rest of the week?
VIJAY SINGH:  Hopefully it keeps going.
Q.  Nice 2 & 1 victory over Jimenez.  Looked like you got better and stronger every hole you played.  Tell us how you feel the round went.
VIJAY SINGH:  The key is driving the ball.  If I can drive the ball straight, I give myself a lot of chances for birdies.  Looks like I'm beginning to putt again the way I want to.  I worked very hard on my putting, and it's coming around.

I knew he was going to be really tough.  He never gave up, and we just had a good match.
Q.  It was really refreshing to be out there and watch you hole some of the putts that you haven't been making lately.  What have you done with your putting that you feel like you've gotten it to this level again?
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm using one of Peter Kostis' tracks that he gave me in Phoenix, and I've worked really hard last week with it and this week, and just keeping my blade on line, and it's working really good.
Q.  You said you took last week off and you worked a lot.  How much did you work and what is it doing this week for you?
VIJAY SINGH:  I didn't work that much.  I probably worked an hour a day on my putting and did the same every afternoon over here.  Just more rhythm, keeping the putter more on line and just rolling it, don't think too much, just get your line and hit it.
Q.  What is the advice from Peter Kostis?  What are you doing?
VIJAY SINGH:  Come to the range and you'll find out.  It's a ball that you lean your putter against and there's a little device that fits behind the putter, so it keeps the putter on line.
Q.  When you make the putts that we see you making out here, does it help you in the other aspects of your game?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think so.  I'm not too worried about taking long putts now.  If I'm making those five, six footers, I can actually be more aggressive with longer putts and not worry about lagging up there.  That's what's happening.
Q.  You joked around about you don't have a lot of success at this event or on this golf course.  How good do you feel going into Friday?
VIJAY SINGH:  Driving it well, making the putts.  I don't know who I'm playing tomorrow, but I'm looking forward to it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT