NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2015
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid round of golf.   I know this golf course is so much fun to play because knowledge is so helpful, isn't it, around this golf course?   
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, it seems like it can play‑‑ it's right in front of you and there's nothing tricky about it.   You can go out there and shoot a low number.   But you miss‑hit a shot or get out of position, it's tough getting up‑and‑down or making a par.   But I kept my ball in play, hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens and when I did miss, I chipped it real close.   It was a comfortable round.  
   
 Q.   I feel like Riviera, you don't read the greens, you learn the breaks.   
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, we have the green book now that helps a lot.   But still, local knowledge is very important, from previous times you can see a break going one way and the green back says another way and you have to trust your instincts and hit it.   It's fun to play.   It's in great shape, the greens are beautiful.   You're going to see some low scores.   
   
 Q.   Early in the season, but happy with your game?   
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I'm finally not hurting as much as I did the last five years.   That's a big part of playing good golf.   You're not hurting, you can go out and play and you're comfortable.   Right now, nothing hurts.   The golf swing feels good, and I'm happy to be playing.   
   
 Q.   Conditions today fairly benign out there?   
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, it's early morning, seven in the morning, golf course is in great shape and so if you hit good shots, you're going to make birdies.   
   
 Q.   This is a golf course you don't typically have to go super‑low to win the tournament or at least be in contention.   Do you feel like at this stage of your career that's more of an advantage for you?   
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, you're not going to win it on Thursday.   You just try to be in position and slowly pick away and see what happens on Sunday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT