FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 19, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  I figured you'd like it (course changes).
VIJAY SINGH:  It's not a matter of liking it.  It needed some sort of a change, and hitting sand wedges on last two holes, wedge on the last hole, I think this might be    doesn't make it a good finish.

I think it's good.  I hit 6 iron on all last three holes.
Q.  All three?
VIJAY SINGH:  7 iron on the last one with the second ball, so it was a driver and 6 iron.  I'm not long of a driver out here, and there are guys that are longer than me and probably hitting 7 irons and possibly 8 irons, too.  Most of the holes are into the wind except for the last one.

I think it's very fair.  I just hope the TOUR will play them.  I don't know what the wind is going to do.
Q.  How much did the wind change it up?
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, today's wind, there's a lot of holes that, you know, they are playing a lot longer now.  The fifth hole, they had it way back, I hit a driver, 5 iron.  Seventh hole, they moved it just a little back.  Instead of a wedge I hit an 8 iron.

And the long par 3, the sixth hole, instead of hitting 6 irons and 7 irons, I'm hitting 4 irons.  That plays a lot different.  That's good.  The golf course is in great shape.  The greens are great.  I think it's going to be a good tournament.
Q.  Living here in Florida, the impending weather possibility this weekend, what does that do mentally, some guys might be concerned for their families?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think that you just go out there and play your heart out, and if you're worried about your family should you go home and go and take care of business at home.  This is a good golf tournament.  I have my family up north; they are a little safer.  Guys down south, I know they have families down there, so they need to go and take care of family business.  It's not a small hurricane.  This is a major hurricane.  We've seen the damage in the past.  It's pretty destructive.
Q.  You would go stir crazy if you couldn't play    it looks like the golf season in 2007, it's going to wind down in September, if not end officially there, then all but officially.  Would you still play in, say, a Disney or something like that if it was at the end of the year or maybe the purse wasn't quite as high?  I just can't you see sitting at home for three months and doing nothing.
VIJAY SINGH:  You don't me better; I may do that, I may not.  Doesn't mean I'm not going to play golf.  My schedule is I'm definitely going to focus on the main schedule.  But in tournaments afterwards, I like playing Disney, I like playing Tampa.  So I'm going to play those tournaments regardless if they are in the main season or not.

I love playing and they are in my schedule, and if I feel like playing, I'm going to go play.  That doesn't mean that if they are away from the main, so called schedule, I'm not going to play the tournament.  This tournament has been here forever.  So I will focus on them.
Q.  Did you ever think you would see the day when NASCAR and PGA TOUR would roughly be trying to do the same type of thing, or the TOUR would be looking at NASCAR for its model?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think it will be good.  I think it's a good finale.  The TOUR is not going to change just because they want to change.  I think it's good for the sport.  NASCAR has got a lot of interest towards the end of the season.  I think with our TOUR Championship, really does not deserve the hype they are getting now; they should get a lot more out of it.  The World Series have gotten a lot of attention, playoffs.  So I think what they are doing, they are going to try it out, and I hope it works and I think it will.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT