THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 24, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Pretty good golf, the last three days, you don't have a lot to show for it, I guess a point and a half, I guess talk about your matches today.
VIJAY SINGH:  I was very disappointed losing the morning match, 2 up and two to go, finishing off, and then this afternoon, I mean, you know, the way we lost it wasn't right, it didn't seem right, anyway.  Tiger hit it way off the tee on 16 and, you know, making a birdie out of that.  And, you know, didn't get up and down on 17 hole and 18.  I was disappointed but that's the way it goes.

But we're quite happy with the results so far, 11 11 and the singles to go.  I'm looking forward to the singles.  I'm playing well and I'm playing Freddie and I'm very comfortable with that.
Q.  In your match this afternoon, you seemed to be really comfortable hitting driver.
VIJAY SINGH:  You know, I've been working on a few things in my driving and it's coming around.  It's not 100%, but I've got a week off next week to experiment with it.  I feel comfortable enough to go out there and hit the drivers.  I'm just missing them.  I mean, it's so close to being good, and so, you know, I'm still going to go out there tomorrow and play aggressive.  I feel like the way I'm playing, I should win my match.
Q.  And you're playing against?
VIJAY SINGH:  Freddie Couples.
Q.  Obviously you guys know each other pretty well?
VIJAY SINGH:  We're good friends.  I know he's been playing well.  I'm comfortable enough to take him on, unless he does something drastically amazing or I play really poorly, I should be quite comfortable.
Q.  You seem to be hitting the ball great and didn't make any putts; is that what it comes down to, who makes more putts?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think so.  You've got to give yourself chances, singles tomorrow, just make sure you don't lose it with bogeys.  You've got to go out there and make par, then the guy has to beat you with birdies.  If you make mistakes, par is the worst you're going to make, and that's singles.  I mean if you go out there and make bogey, then give him holes that way, then, you know, then he deserves to lose.
Q.  Talk a little about playing against Tiger and Furyk today, they seemed to be a pretty good team.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, just damned slow, just too slow.  It took me    it took us 5 1/2 hours to play.  Getting up in the morning and playing with them, you know, it's okay when they are hitting the ball, but around the greens it just took forever to play.  Towards the end, it took its toll.

I had a partner that wasn't very fast, either, and there's three guys that are playing    you know, Tiger is fine around the tee shots or, you know, the second shot, but when he gets to reading putts and all that, they just took forever.  You start hitting a minute a hole for a player and there's three of them, that's three minutes a hole, it adds up toward the end of the day.  It just took forever.
Q.  I think just watching the games on TV and a little bit in person, you seem like you're having more fun than almost anybody here.  Is it just a fun week for you overall?
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know if I'm having fun, I'm here to win my matches and if I'm having fun doing it, you know, it's good for me.

I enjoy my teammates.  I gel with them better than probably anybody else.  I don't care who I get, I'm comfortable with everybody.  So I just go out there and play my game and enjoy my company.
Q.  If you played John Daly in a match in the Presidents Cup, how long would it take?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's tough, it's not the speed of play, it's just how slow they play.  I play with a few other guys that are very fast.  I have a pace and I play to my pace.  When you have to wait every single hole, I don't know what the officials are doing, you know, and we had 20, 25 minutes behind time, they are just not stepping up and saying, "hey, you are slow, hurry up."


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT