BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 10, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  The way the conditions are, the scoring?
VIJAY SINGH:  The golf course is playing so tough, if you make mistakes you've got to hit a good shot to recover and you have to make a good putt to save par, as well.

It's a demanding golf course, off the tee, second shot and around the greens.  So it feels pretty tough out there.

Q.  There were weird scores today, the eagles, is it out there if you're playing well?
VIJAY SINGH:  The par 5s, also if you hit the greens, as small as the greens are, it's possible to make a putt or two.  I think Barlow holed out on 17 and Immelman holed out on 16.  If you hit good shots, you're going to make a good score out there.

Q.  What's the plan for tomorrow, since you're so close to the top?
VIJAY SINGH:  Just play like I did today.  Don't make any mistakes.  I made two mistakes coming in and that cost me two shots.  It was a good way to finish, making a putt on the last hole.  I had good chances on 17 and 16.  Game plan tomorrow is go out there, hit a lot of fairways and hang in there and see if I can make a lot of birdies coming in.

Q.  Stephen Ames had the round of the day, do you have a chance to know him better than you already did?
VIJAY SINGH:  After his comment yesterday, I don't think I want to know him.  (Laughing).  I don't know, he's okay.  He's a good guy and we're all friends out on the Tour, so we give each other a lot of headaches now and then.
Q.  Do you relish the fact, you're the biggest name here and you have a chance to play earlier than the last group and maybe put your name on top early?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's so close, I'm three back, you're four back at the end of the day.  I've had chances now.  I'm giving myself a lot of opportunities and I just need the putter to get hot and see what happens.
Q.  Stephen Ames, the galleries will probably be all over him, he's the only Canadian left here?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, he's still called a Canadian, so it's no different than Mike Weir last year, anyway.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT