BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 23, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH:  Pretty happy.  It's slow, it's always slow here.  It's ridiculous, I mean, you play a round of golf in five hours and wait on every shot.  It's just like the officials are just blind.  You don't see one out there.  It kind of ruins the rhythm of the play.  It's 3-under, you know.  Really, really happy with that.
Q.  Are the official not moving the play along or are guys taking too much time?
VIJAY SINGH:  Which is which here?
Q.  What do you attribute it to?
VIJAY SINGH:  I mean, both.  The guess officials not doing anything about it and the guys taking too much time.  If the officials do not doing anything about it, then the guys are going to take more time.  And when you do talk to the officials, they think we are actually trying to bark at them.  We're really trying to have a place of play, get around quicker.  Seems like an uphill battle all the time.
Q.  What does that do to your rhythm?
VIJAY SINGH:  Just messes you up.  Everything shot out there on the front nine, you had to wait.  You get fed up with it.  I don't know if anyone ever withdrew after nine holes for slow play, nice to know.
Q.  Regardless of that, you won here twice this a golf course you feel comfortable with?
VIJAY SINGH:  The golf course is great.  It's playing good.  The rain yesterday, did really good to the golf course, I think.  Made the greens a little softer. They've got did tough out there.  It's in great shape. Great.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I started off really waited on the very first hole, take a tee shot, you had to wait. Every hole after that was waiting again.  You can't get a momentum going.  If I do get it, it's fine.
Q.  Being you won here twice, how did you overcome that in the past?
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't think it ever was this slow before.  I think it got slower and slower.  I think the guys are playing slower, the officials are doing nothing.
Q.  A lot of waiting (Inaudible)?
VIJAY SINGH:  The tenth hole you can go for it, but you can actually, you can have that as a call-up hole, get on the green, either that or start off the 11th hole, you're never going to have a waiting game.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT