EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Care to talk about your round and how it was out there today?
VIJAY SINGH:  I played okay.  I played six, seven holes pretty good and six, seven holes pretty badly and six, seven holes okay.  I made seven birdies and five bogeys, so that's very inconsistent.  It was pretty difficult out there.  Some of the greens were soft, some were firm.  They were tucked away, as well, so if you miss it on the wrong side, as I did a few times, it's difficult to get up-and-down.
Q.  First time you've played with Ernie in a while and I saw you guys laughing.  How was that?
VIJAY SINGH:  We're good friends.  We've known each other forever.  I enjoy playing with him.  We're very serious when we play, but when we walk along the fairways we talk, and we had a good time.  It was nice playing with him again.
Q.  Is there an added incentive with the Top 5 playing in the same tournament together for you guys?
VIJAY SINGH:  Maybe it is along the way, but when we go out there you're really not worried about who's playing the tournament, you just want to worry about winning the tournament.  It's a pretty hard task to go out there and to win the golf tournament than to worry about who's playing in the tournament.

I guess when we finish the round, we look who's doing what.  We do have an idea of what's going on out there.
Q.  If you do win, is it any more meaningful because of the field?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, I mean, it's always nice to win a golf tournament, doesn't matter who's in it.  But yeah, in a little way, it is.
Q.  You talked about the friendship with Ernie Els.  Is it tough for top competitors to be friends or is it easier to be friends?
VIJAY SINGH:  Depends who you're friends with (laughter).  I think it's okay.  You know, I'm friends with everybody out there.  I guess it's how busy you really get when you start to play well.  I have my own time, but you don't forget your friends.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT