SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 22, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VIJAY SINGH:  I hung in there.  It was one of those days that could have gone either way, and I just stayed very steady and played each hole at a time.  I guess the other guys out there would have taken 1-under today.
Q.  The scores may be a little bit different after the front.  There's some rain blowing in tonight.  If the wind kicks up, how does this course change your game?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think they missed the rain, that's what I was told.  It's getting really hard and fast.  You hit one shot with a driver, it backs up, the next shot runs 50, 60 yards.  If it's hard and fast right now, you've got to hit the fairways otherwise you're going to have trouble stopping it on the greens.
Q.  Was 4 kind of the highlight of the day?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, and then missing those 3 and 5 kind of evened it out.  It was one of those days.  I made some good swings and not-so-good swings.  I'm still one back right now.  36 holes to go on the weekend.
Q.  Was there any frustrations you couldn't make more out of the par 5s or just looking at the position you're in, do you go, "I'm still right there"?
VIJAY SINGH:  One shot, two shots, on the weekend it's really nothing.  I have to keep my head out there and play steady golf like I did yesterday and see what happens.
Q.  We were talking to Jeff earlier -- a few of the guys running this tournament, if you could pick three guys to be on top, you'd probably pick you and John Daly and Jeff Maggert.  You guys are all neck and neck.  Talk about playing with those guys going into the weekend and the stiff competition they're going to bring?
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm not worried about anybody but myself.  If I play like today, then my chances are not going to be really good.  If I play like yesterday, then definitely I have a very good chance of winning.  I'm playing well, feel good about my golf.  I'm not struggling.  It's one of those days.  You can't go out and shoot 64 every day.  You just have to take what you get and keep on plugging along.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT