THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Is this what you mean by having a better start?
VIJAY SINGH:  That's it.  I played well.  I hit a lot of fairways, and it was nice to start off a tournament in contention for a change.  I mean, normally I'm always chasing.  I feel like 5-under is a good start for me for this week, and we'll see if I can get it going tomorrow again.
Q.  Is it always a pretty good combination to have a good round here in the afternoon on Thursday and then have a morning start on Friday, condition-wise?
VIJAY SINGH:  Condition-wise, yes.  If it starts blowing tomorrow morning I'd rather play in the afternoon.  Hopefully -- the fairways were not cut today, were not mowed, so we were getting kind of suspect lies and a lot of mud balls.  Hopefully they cut the fairways tomorrow and we can go out there and -- I hit a lot of fairways, and hitting a lot of fairways didn't mean much if you had a lot of mud on the balls.  I finished up well today which gives me a lot of confidence for tomorrow.
Q.  There was no mud on the ball on 18, was there?  That was a pretty big drive there.
VIJAY SINGH:  No, even if there was any mud on the ball I think I would have managed to get it up there some way.  That's the key around here, if you drive the ball well, you should be able to score well.
Q.  You felt better today?
VIJAY SINGH:  A lot better.  It's unfortunate on 11 I hit the sprinkler head and almost went in the water, and then it kind of rattled me a little bit and I hit two or three bad shots from there on in, but I covered with pars.  I hung in there the whole way and made two or three birdies on the last three holes.
Q.  How was 17 today?
VIJAY SINGH:  It was no big deal, it was a wedge.  The greens are stopping really well, straight downwind, so you just take the number and hit it.  I have a spot on the green where I'm going to hit it every day, it's the middle of the green, and not even look at any flags and see if I play that hole a little better than what I've been doing.
Q.  When you hit that shot on 11 where did you think the ball was going to end up as opposed to where it was when you found it?
VIJAY SINGH:  It was a perfect shot, landing right up in front of the green and running up towards the flag.  That's unfortunate.  Fortunately for me it didn't go in the water.
Q.  You've had your share of unlucky bounces and gusts of wind the last couple of weeks.
VIJAY SINGH:  I think so.  That's another one -- I don't know if that's a lucky bounce or not, hitting the sprinkler head on the perfect shot.  Hopefully it's over.  Hopefully the next three days will be a little better.
Q.  Did you kind of do a double take seeing Steve Jones' name on the leaderboard?  He hasn't been around in a while.
VIJAY SINGH:  I think he's healthy now.  I think he had operations and all that, but he can play.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT