THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 13, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Your second shot on 18, did you get a little different wind?
VIJAY SINGH:  I tried to draw it in there.  The lie was kind of a little -- I was on an upslope a little bit, so I didn't want to go left at all.  I dried to draw it in and just hung on it a little bit.
Q.  You said you thought you had a chance to win this tournament, and you kind of went out there and proved it today.
VIJAY SINGH:  14-under was my number.  I thought the wind was going to blow a little harder than what it did today.

I played well, I struck the ball well and could have made one or two more putts out there, but I made the ones that counted.
Q.  Did you think you had a couple chance a couple feet from the hole ON 17?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, it stopped breaking at the end, but I was happy to see it go a foot and a half past only.

The putt on 18 was big.  The 5-footer I hit there, that was a crucial putt.
Q.  Did you get a read from Tim's putt?
VIJAY SINGH:  No.  He kind of pulled his, so didn't show me much.  I knew it was right there and I hit a solid putt.
Q.  No 3-putts this week; are you doing anything different at all?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, not really.  Just trying to get it as close as possible.  And it's hard to read these greens, the grain, you have a straight putt, the grain is going three different ways.  So you just have to pick your line and hopefully you get the speed right.
Q.  Is it conceivable being No. 1, you may have lost a little bit of your edge, and now being 2, you kind of like have a little bit more to kind of aim for again?
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm not really worried about the ranking at the moment.  I just wanted to come here and have a solid tournament and play the tournament and not worry about the ranking.  The ranking is going to take care of itself.  It's going to go up and down each week.  You're going to have different point systems, so I'm really not worried about the ranking right now.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT