FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 4, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.    5-under, just overall thoughts?
VIJAY SINGH:  I played really well today.  I had a few drives off the tee that wasn't where I wanted to hit it, but my approaches were very good.  I think I played really good.  I'm really happy with the way I'm striking the ball.  I'm really disappointed I could have made one or two more under but that's the way it goes.
Q.  It seems like the scores, a lot of guys at 9-under, did you have a number in mind when you started or just take it shot by shot?  What it your approach?
VIJAY SINGH:  The scoring was so low yesterday that we knew that going out today, I mean, leaders were 8-under, so I needed to get to about 10-, 11-under, somewhere near there.  They are going to shoot under par this afternoon no matter.  I just kept trying to make birdies and the best I could finish was 9.
Q.  The wind seems to be picking up a little bit, is the golf course going to play a little different in the afternoon?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's really wet still.  The golf course is totally wet, so you're not going to get much run out there.  The ball is gathering more mud than yesterday.  The greens are very receptive so guys are pretty good right now.
Q.  What do you expect to be leading at the end of today?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think 12-under will be leading.  12-, 11-under, somewhere out there, unless Phil goes and does another one of his magical things.
Q.  You say you did have mud on your ball a couple of times?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's beginning to collect mud, yes.  Maybe more this afternoon because the water is drying out, the ball is going to start digging in a little bit more.
Q.  Did you find your swing yesterday?  You didn't look too happy at the end of your range.  Did you find something out?
VIJAY SINGH:  It wasn't that I was unhappy, just 4-under and it was out there, there was so many birdies out there yesterday, you could have gone -- they are playing late, and the greens were cued up a little bit.  We had good greens in the morning today, so that's pretty much why guys in the morning putted well and could make birdies chances from 15 foot in.  Find your line and you could make it.
Q.  How much tougher did the course play today?
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't think it played any tougher.  The wind, it's not really strong.  It just started to get stronger towards the end of the round.  The greens are stopping so well, I mean, whatever you hit, I plugged a 4-iron into the fourth hole today and did not move, it just plugs.  If you're going to plus 4-irons, it's pretty easy, it's like darts out there right now.
Q.  Are you hitting the ball the same now maybe as you were the end of last year?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think so, if not better.  I'm really striking the ball well.

I just need momentum going.  This is the first time where I got two rounds, the first two rounds under par comfortably.  It was the easiest 5-under I could have shot today.  I left a lot out there, but, you know, you just have to take what you get.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT