WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2005
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Took the best week off you could take off, didn't you, last week?
VIJAY SINGH:  Last week, I know.  After AT&T I needed a break.  I did some good work at home, and unfortunately the weather has not left us, but I'm ready.
Q.  What did you see at AT&T that made you say, hey, I need to take a week off?
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know, I just    it was just a long week, and I didn't play very well, and it's hard to get the momentum going on six hour rounds.  Normally when you're playing half decent, you can get it going, but I was not scoring well.  I hit one or two loose shots, and I needed to fix a few things.
Q.  Did you fix them?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think so.  I may go to the range.
Q.  How did you feel coming in here?
VIJAY SINGH:  I felt good.  I did very good work last week, I practiced really good for four days.
Q.  The weather was dry?
VIJAY SINGH:  It was a little cold, but I was good enough.  I think my technical is not very good here, but I think I can go a little better than last time.
Q.  Do you like match play?
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't mind it.  I think it really depends on how you play.  Last time I played here    last year I didn't play very well.  I'm driving the ball much better than I did last year and I've fixed my irons.  I think my putting is better, too.  I just have to go out there and place it and see what the situation is.  I still have to go out and play.
Q.  Would you like to see this tournament move around, different sites, different places, different time frames?  I don't know what your thoughts are on this golf course, per se, but it's been talked about.
VIJAY SINGH:  If you change the dates it would be okay.  Every week there's a lake on 9 and 18 where we never play in a tournament.  I would say they can move it around, maybe the dates.

The golf course is fine.  They've done a lot of good things to the golf course.  It's a challenging golf course now.  I'm kind of tired of playing this wet golf course every year.
Q.  You had an opportunity to sit down with Bryant Gumble which is going to be aired tonight.  Are you comfortable with how the interview went?
VIJAY SINGH:  I think so.  I think it went pretty good.  He touched on a lot of subjects and we'll see tonight, if it airs out tonight.
Q.  We'll talk tomorrow.  Are you bringing the popcorn?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, I'm not that crazy about it.
Q.  Talk about your first round opponent, what you're looking at there and strategy wise?
VIJAY SINGH:  He's a good player.  I don't know how he's playing coming into this event.  But I have to treat him very strong.  I'm not going to treat him lightly at all.  I'm going to go out and see if I can play my game and play the best I can and see if I can finish it off.
Q.  With this kind of match, do you have to work on it psychologically with the other guy?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, I think you just have to go play your own game, and play better than your opponent.  If he plays okay, you just have to play a little bit better than him.  It doesn't really matter who it is, you just have to try to beat him the best you can.  There's no gamesmanship involved.  You just play your game and go out there and do the best you can.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT