TARGET WORLD CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY WILLIAMS
December 8, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
You said last year one of the things you'd like to do is reach No. 1; another one is be No. 1 in the world; and the third one is be voted Player of the Year, so you achieved all of them.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, it was a great year.  I did what I've wanted to do for a long, long time, and I guess practice pays off.
Q.  What tournaments are you going to play this year, do you know yet?
VIJAY SINGH:  Most of them.  I'm going to miss Bob Hope and probably, I don't know -- (inaudible).
Q.  John Daly thought your year was the most unappreciated year in golf history.  Talk about how you feel about that.
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, I appreciate it (laughter).
Q.  So the fact that obviously your reputation, you'd rather go to the practice tee than do a lot of television and newspaper stuff --
VIJAY SINGH:  You can do a lot of TV and not play well.  I'd rather go to the range and play well.

It's not that I'm not doing a lot of TV and media, it's just I'm doing enough.  I cannot oblige every single media out there.  That would be too much of my time.
Q.  Talk about how this is good for the Top 4 now, you and Tiger and Ernie and Phil.  You coming up now is going to spread a little bit more competition on the Tour.
VIJAY SINGH:  Not only that; I think everybody in the Top 10 is going to be playing really well.  I think Mike Weir is coming up, as well.  It's going to be a good showdown next year.

I hope I just keep playing the way I am.  I don't see why I cannot.  I'm looking forward to it.  I'm looking forward to the season.  I know it's going to be a very difficult season for me because there's a little bit more pressure.  How I'm going to handle it, that's entirely up to me.
Q.  Now you're the hunted one instead of the hunter.  They're looking at Vijay.
VIJAY SINGH:  That's true.  They can hunt me all they want.  I know how to hide (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT