THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 7, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH:  Good way to finish and a great way to start the next season, thinking of what happened this year, and I can't wait to get out there again.
Q.  As you walked off 18, how rewarding is this season?  It's been unbelievable.
VIJAY SINGH:  I wasn't thinking about the season at all playing today, playing this week.  I was really thinking about this golf tournament.  I wanted to do well and I wanted to finish strong.  Unfortunately this round didn't come in early on where I could have had a chance to be in the thick of things.  You know, that's the way golf goes.
Q.  On the road to No. 1 and with all the success you've had this year, are you surprised at yourself inside?
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, I guess, yeah.  Everybody looks up at me and congratulates me everywhere I go.  That's a big surprise.  You know, there's a lot more people with their eyes on me than what they did before.

As for winning so many times -- they want to see good golf and they come and watch me, so that makes me happy.
Q.  You're trying to be the first guy since 1950 to get a tenth win -- (inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  In a way it is.  It would have had nice to get ten wins, but I'll take nine.

I don't know, you don't look at it that way.  Ten wins is a dream year.  It hasn't happened in some 50 years.  It's not going to happen every time.  It's going to be difficult.

I'm really, really pleased with the way I finished.  I never thought I was going to win last week coming off Disney.  I played well at Disney, as well.  It was just like a roller coaster.  Whatever I did, I did well.

That's the way it goes, I guess.  I'm pleased it's the last tournament in one way, so I can go back home and rethink and start again next year without thinking about if I'm going to win another tournament this season.
Q.  When do you start to focus on next year?  Do you give yourself time to rest and reflect on this year before you start focusing on next?  When do you start focusing on next year?
VIJAY SINGH:  I've got a routine where I haven't changed the last so many years.  I've just got to keep doing that.  Once I get back, I have three or four weeks to prepare for my season next year.  I'm going to still work out.  I mean, I'm working out as of now on Wednesday, so that's my first plan.

Golf-wise it's going to be another week or two weeks before I play again.
Q.  This tournament is going to be here the next three years, the next three years for sure and possibly on a permanent basis.  How do you feel about that?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, it's a great golf course.  Look at the scores that reflect the conditions.  The scores are not going that much lower than they thought they would.  It was 9-under for the lead yesterday and 8-under right now.  It's a very demanding golf course that requires all aspects of the game, that requires driving the ball straight and obviously putting, as well.  It's a good test of golf.  I just hope when we come back here next year that it's not this wet.  I hope the greens are as firm as what they normally are, and it's going to be a great test of golf then.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  I was looking up at the leaderboard.  They weren't running away with it.  I needed to play the last three holes.  I got myself into position, but unfortunately you cannot control the ball when it has so much mud on it.  The one on 16 flew sideways, the one on 17 caught a flier from the middle of the fairway.  Doing those kind of things kind of takes the air out of you.  Anyway, I was happy to finish the way I did.
Q.  Are you going to make any decision to change anything for 2005 in terms of -- (inaudible)?
VIJAY SINGH:  I would consider thinking about -- when we have muddy conditions like this, do what we do and clean and replace it.  It's not penalizing anybody at all.  They've been changing rules of golf every year for some reason.  Last year it was when I brushed a green with a towel and it cost me two shots and it just got away.

With the mud balls, some may think it's just the rough and the greens, but it's difficult to hit the middle of the fairways and get mud balls.  If they have to do one change, I think that would be a really fair change.  Nobody is getting any advantage at all, just cleaning the ball, replacing it on the fairway.
Q.  You mentioned a minute ago the Father-Son.  I wonder what's the most exciting or fun thing you'll do in the off season?
VIJAY SINGH:  That would be it probably.  I can't wait to go out on the range and teach him an hour a day when he comes back from school, and I just look forward to seeing him out there again.  It's probably the one thing that I can say I enjoy doing with him and he enjoys doing with me.  Otherwise he likes something I don't and I like something he doesn't.  This is something we're both going to enjoy.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT