THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 4, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Vijay, 1-under -- (inaudible)?
VIJAY SINGH:  It was a tough day, so the last few groups coming in, I think it was difficult for them to keep the scores going.

You know, it was a day where you just have to manage yourself, get around, not getting too far away from the lead.  The lead is only 3-under, so I'm right in there, and there's three days to go.  Two shots, I'm not really thinking about that.  I'm just maintaining a good round of golf.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know.  I can't answer that question.  I guess my golf swing just holds on.  I've worked so hard through the years, and my physical ability is still hanging in there.  I'm not tired.  I may be getting a little kind of mentally exhausted, but physically I'm still pretty in tune.  I'm looking forward to this week.  It's a great golf course.  We come here, you know the conditions are going to be hard.  I feel like we have to play good golf.
Q.  Before you got in good shape working with a trainer in the last five years, were you tired at the end of the year before?
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know.  I mean, I've been training for five years.  I don't know, it's just a way of life now.  You work out, and after the day is over you work out.
Q.  Two a day six days a week, Mondays off?
VIJAY SINGH:  The two-a-days are probably three days a week, four days a week, depending on how tired I get.
Q.  International players, maybe you didn't have the same interest or same things going on in America like the guys who follow football.  Maybe you can maintain focus on golf longer than some others.
VIJAY SINGH:  For me the season -- for a lot of guys out here after the PGA they kind of slow down.  To me, the season does not end until this event is over, so I maintain that ability to keep going until the season is over.

My focus does not to get any less after the PGA.  If anything, it gets stronger, and I just want to keep playing until the season ends, and then start again.
Q.  Do you think of yourself as more of a technical player or a feel player?
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know.  I don't know what's technical, you know.  Technical comes when you start thinking about your golf swing.  I do a lot of thinking on the driving range.  I do a lot of thinking at home, and when I get on the golf course it's all just play.  I do a lot of work outside the golf course.
Q.  When you holed the second shot on 16 as you were approaching the green, you looked towards the grandstand on the right there and you were holding up your club.  What was that?
VIJAY SINGH:  Just warning the guys that were coming that way (laughter).
Q.  How nice is it to go to the 31 best guys on the Tour where the pace of play is not where it's like you're waiting all day?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's pretty good.  It keeps you moving.  I love the pace of play today.  It keeps you sharp.  You get on the tee and you're still sharp, still in the rhythm of things.  I thought it was a great pace of play today.  If we can keep things like that all the time, it would be unbelievable.  But only 31 guys, that's what you get.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  It would be after -- the next week is pretty hectic for me, as well, a few more places to go.  I'll be going to Canada on Monday to get one of the visas that I have to get, come back here Tuesday for FootJoy, go to India on Wednesday.  After that I will be done.  I will be done for a week, and then the Grand Slam.  It should be a good, relaxing tournament, come back home for three or four days and then play the Father-Son, and that will be it for me.
Q.  Any plans to play in Tiger's tournament.
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm debating.  Right now it's a yes, but most likely it'll be a no.

All right, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT