FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 23, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH:  I wasn't doing anything wrong, I just wasn't taking enough time on the backswing.  It's really not a fault.  I mean, I've been playing so good but just not taking enough time.  I'm too anxious to get it close to the hole.  Everybody is shooting under par and you're not, so you probably get a little anxious, and that's what happened.
Q.  Are you playing as well as you played -- (inaudible)?
VIJAY SINGH:  I really was today.  I drove the ball beautifully, hit a lot of good iron shots.  The ones that I needed didn't go in coming in.  I got myself back in there.  Hopefully I'm not too far back at the end of the day.  I've got a good chance tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, you know, I didn't play bad.  I put myself in good position and hit good putts, as well.  The one on 14, I thought it went in.  I took a risk going for the green there and it didn't pay off because I didn't make a birdie.

17, I thought I made it, as well.  But I had my share out there today.

You know, I have 18 to go tomorrow, so who knows.
Q.  Do you have to go with the mindset that you've got to make birdie, try to make birdie every hole?
VIJAY SINGH:  You've got to watch what the weather is doing and how far back you are.  If I'm within three, four max, I need to make a few birdies to catch up early, but otherwise if I'm one or two back, I think I just stay patient and see what happens.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  I think the only time you defend it is when you come over here on the first practice day and you say you're defending champion, but once the tournament starts, you just play your game.  You really don't think about whether you won it last year.  You just try to get out there and just play.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm really not thinking that, never thought about it today or this week until they told me, but let's talk about it tomorrow, okay?  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT