JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 5, 2012
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid 10‑under par.   I know you're disappointed with 18, but good, solid playing for you.   
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I played well.   I've been hitting the balls pretty good off the tee.   I think that's the first left ‑‑ or straight ball that I've hit all week, so nice hole to do it at.   
But all‑around game is pretty good.   You know, and 10‑under, could've been a lot less, but have the weekend as well.  
   
 Q.   Today I thought you putted a little better; yesterday I thought ball‑striking was even more solid than today, but you were 7‑under in your round; si that correct, or was it pretty even?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I putted better today.   I made some putts and had some good you up and downs and I made a bomb on No. 13 for eagle, so it kind of helps.  
When got into trouble I got away with making my putts, so I hit it closely yesterday but I didn't miss too many shots today either.   
   
 Q.   At 18 looked like the TIL was in your line of sight.   Was there nowhere to go or could you ask for relief?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I could have, but there was no guarantee I was going to get a good lie.   (Laughter.)  
I thought I had a pretty good lie there, do if I dropped it, I would have dropped it where I had no way to get out of.   
   
 Q.   Thanks for your time.   Good playing.   Keep it up.   
VIJAY SINGH:   Thanks.   
   
 Q.   Vijay, how difficult is it week to week ‑ and you know this as much as anyone as much as you've won ‑ you need fortune, talent.   In the last 10 years has it become more and more difficult for a guy to win on this tour?  
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I mean, a player has (indiscernible) quite a bit, and if you slip up there is 10 guys going to go by you.   You can't make a mistake out there if you're in the lead or near the lead.   You just have to keep playing.   
You got to keep improving your score.   Nowadays par does not help.   You got to make birdies.   Especially on a golf course like this or a golf course where the scoring is low, you got to make birdies to go forward.  
   
 Q.   Do you still learn stuff each week even after all you've played?   
VIJAY SINGH:   You always learn.   Whatever you do, I mean, you always find something that you can improve on.   That's what I do.  
   
 Q.   Shot making, as one of the best shot makers, will you still see a lie that you haven't seen or have you pretty much seen everything?  
VIJAY SINGH:   You kind of see the lies.   You can't have worse lies than I've already had my career, you know, but you kind of learn how to play different lies.  
You see a lie and you played it before, and you know from experience how not to play it or how to play it.  
   
 Q.   You just keep playing for years.   Can you see as you go on‑‑ we were talking before, and you might play as long as anyone has ever played.   Do you still love it?  
VIJAY SINGH:   We'll see.   If desire loses me or goes away then I'm going to quit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT