BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2012
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How would you describe the day today?
VIJAY SINGH:   Just a mixed round.   I made some nice putts, I missed some nice putts, and I had some really good chip shots.   I chipped in on 15, that was a big one there.   It was a mixed plate I would say.   I'm striking the ball well and I'm putting well, which kept me going.   A round like this, I'm still in there and gives me a chance tomorrow. 

Q.   You have been talking all year basically about trying to put four solid rounds together.   As well as you've been putting as of late, how optimistic are you now of putting those four together?
VIJAY SINGH:   I've got a good chance tomorrow to do it.   Today's round could have got away from me, but I really dug deep and really focused hard on that.   We'll see what I can do.   I'm going to be aggressive, and I have a chance to win the tournament. 

Q.   How much excitement is it for you, a veteran, playing against these heavyweights tomorrow? 
VIJAY SINGH:   I've played with them forever.   It's not that I haven't played with them.   I've played with them many times.   They'll be just another player out there for me tomorrow.   I'm going to focus on my game, and whatever they do, they can do it.   That's their play.   I'm going to play my game and focus on my game and see what happens.   I think I'm playing good enough to win the golf tournament, and that's how I'm going to think tomorrow. 

Q.   Talk about today, really an exciting day for you.   How would you assess your performance? 
VIJAY SINGH:   It was totally a mixed plate.   On the whole I hit the ball pretty decent.   I got away with some‑‑ one or two chip shots and one or two nice putts.   But I missed my share out there, as well.   I'm playing well, I've been telling myself that.   I'm still in the lead, and I'm going to go out there tomorrow and see what happens.

Q.   You are playing well and you're putting well despite the miss on the last hole, eight one‑putt greens, putting with a lot of confidence.   You've got to be happy with that. 
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, I'm working hard, so I think it's paying off.   Hopefully it pays off again tomorrow.   I'm staying optimistic, and I'm playing well, so again, I'm going to go out there tomorrow and try to win the golf tournament.

Q.   Will you try to be aggressive early?
VIJAY SINGH:   Not really.   It's a big course.   There's a lot of opportunities out there, so even if I don't start fast, you can finish pretty good year.   I'm going to be very patient and just focus very hard on what I'm doing. 

Q.   Three bogeys in the last five holes.   That's not going to do it for you tomorrow, will it?
VIJAY SINGH:   It's not tomorrow.   It was disappointing.   It's always a bad way to finish, but still in the lead.   We'll see what happens tomorrow. 

Q.   What's that say about your ability to respond, though? 
VIJAY SINGH:   I mean, you just have to keep playing.   It's not the end of the tournament.   You've got a whole day tomorrow, so you've got to keep plodding along and get the best score at the end of the day.   That's what I tried to do.   I didn't slow down.   I was focused on every hole.   Every hole is a new hole, and that's what I tried to do out there.

Q.   You were talking about yesterday trying to play four full days.   What do you need to do to make that happen?
VIJAY SINGH:   I've got one more to do.   I've got to play a little better than what I did today.   I've got to make less mistakes than I did today.   I think I can do that. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't know, I mean, I made those two birdies on 5 and 6 that kind of got me going, and I bogeyed 7, but I kept making nice putts from inside of eight feet to keep me going, eight, ten feet.   If I keep doing that tomorrow, that's my window to see what I can do tomorrow is putt well.   I think putting is a really big part of my game and of golf itself.   I've had three good rounds of putting, and I need one more. 

Q.   Talk about the chip on 9, good recovery there. 
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, it wasn't as difficult as it looked, I just had to get it on the green and it was going at the hole.   The one on 15 was an even better chip.

Q.   You haven't won on the TOUR since 2008.   Are you itching to get that W? 
VIJAY SINGH:   I've got to be careful not to force myself.   There's a lot of chances out there, and if I don't win tomorrow, I'll still have a lot of chances until the end of the year and next year, as well.   I'm not going to go out there and try to force it.   I'm going to go out there and play my game and see what happens. 

Q.   If you finish fourth or better you're moving on. 
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I'm really not worried about it.   I'm worried about trying to go out there and finish this tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT