PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about your round today, 67, I don't know what kind of expectations you had, but obviously people talked about how difficult the course could possibly be.  And Darren Clarke has 65, you shot 67, is it a combination of good playing and the weather was not all that bad?
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, yeah, good playing and the weather, it wasn't as windy.  It came from a totally different direction, so it was either into you or down.  And a lot of tees were forward.  A lot of the holes the tees were way forward, like 11, and on the back nine, normally plays as a very difficult driving hole.

18 was really forward.  It made it a lot easier that way.  But, I played well.  Putted nicely.  The pins were in collection areas were you to kind of hit it off the bank and get it close.   But I played nicely and you could potentially score very well.
Q.  Talk about the setup overall; pretty fair, do you think?
VIJAY SINGH:   I think they kind of went a little too easy.  All of the par 5s were playing downwind, two of them actually, and you're hitting irons to the green.  But the other par 4s, that you didn't have to go into the wind, you could hit a decent drive and a 6 iron instead of hitting 3 irons and 2 irons.

So that way, it was easier, the setup was a little bit     18 is a demanding hole.  I think they misjudged those ones.  Apart from that, it was very fair.  I enjoyed playing it and I think it's going to get tougher from here in.
Q.  Overall, striking the ball well?
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, drove the ball really well.  Did not get in too much trouble, except for one hole and made a birdie out of it.
Q.  You were at Buick and had a week off; were you able to recharge your batteries and practice?
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I stayed home and practiced, mostly hitting lower shots and moving into the wind and a lot of putting.  Today I putted nicely and I practiced a lot all week, as well on the putts.  I made a lot of nice 15 footers.
Q.  You played this course about a month and a half ago, and then you played Monday, Tuesday Wednesday.  Do you feel like you know the course well enough?
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, we're getting used to it.  Now this is the fourth round I played today.  The more you play, the more knowledge you get about the golf course, and you know where to hit it, where not to hit it.  I think a course like this, you have to know where to miss it.  You get more braver as you know the golf course more and more, and that's why a lot of guys are hitting drivers where the first day we were probably hitting 3 woods off the tee.
Q.  Talk about how the atmosphere was, playing with Tiger and John Daly.
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, it was such a crowd out there, it was intense and there was a lot of cheering for everybody, especially JD didn't play that good, but hopefully he comes back tomorrow.  It was a fun group.  I enjoyed playing with the guys and looking forward to tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT