BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2012
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about today's round.   What made it happen for you?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I was pretty slow off the start, made that birdie at No.11 and made another one‑‑ I hit two good shots on 15 and got it pretty close to the pin there and two‑putted that one.   Rolled in some really good putts or hit some really good iron shots coming in, 18, 1, 2 and 3.   I made those putts.   So that kind of got me going.   When I did miss the green, I stuck my chip shot very close, so always nice to keep the momentum going.  
   
 Q.   Did the early start affect you one way or another?  
VIJAY SINGH:   Not really.   I've been getting up early pretty much every day for a while now, but it kind of threw me off knowing that I have to get up early and get out here, because I was out at the range quite late yesterday, so I need to get to sleep quite early.  
   
 Q.   When did you go to the fat grip on the putter, and what impact does it have for you or what effect does it have on the stroke?  
VIJAY SINGH:   Gosh, I've been putting so poorly at the beginning of the year, I just needed a change.   I tried the grips, so many different grips, but this one just feels really good when I put my hands on it.   It fits nicely, and it's a light one, too.   It's a thick grip but it's not heavy, so it kind of gives a good balance to the putter.   I think that's pretty much why.   I think it was just before the British when I changed.  
   
 Q.   Obviously this round puts you in a nice position for the weekend.   
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I've got to keep it going.   I've been playing well for two days for a while now, but I need four days of good playing.   Sooner or later I think four days is going to happen, and hopefully it starts this week.  
   
 Q.   What advantage does a 49 year old have over a 23 year old like McIlroy who's chasing you?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't know.   We'll find out during the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the pin placements today.   How did they affect your round?  
VIJAY SINGH:   It didn't affect me at all.   They were tight.   They were close to the edges, so if you did go for the pins and missed it on the wrong side, you had pretty difficult chip shots.   I did that, I think, twice today, and lucky enough I got my chip shots pretty close.   You've got to be careful there.   If you miss it on the wrong side, it's very hard to get it close.   
   
 Q.   How much more practice time are you devoting to putting now than you were say five, ten years ago?   Is it a significant amount?  
VIJAY SINGH:   A little more, yeah.   I spend probably an hour a day at least putting.   It gets my back going a little bit.   It's a good workout with my back.   But I guess it's paying off.   I needed to put that much time, and it's always good to know that when you work so hard, it pays off.  
   
 Q.   10 years ago how much time did you spend, 30 minutes?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I'm too old to remember that.   
   
 Q.   Can you put your finger on why you haven't been able to piece four rounds together, why it's been a two‑round deal?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I have no idea.   I don't know, just I guess I want it so bad that I get in my own way, so I just have to get out of my own way and just play.   
Last weekend I played better but I didn't play well the first two days (laughing).   Hopefully I can go out there and just shoot two comfortable rounds this week.  
   
 Q.   Do you know what your schedule might be in 2013 considering that you'll turn 50 in February?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I'm going to be on the TOUR.   I don't think I'm going to play the Champions Tour this year.   
   
 Q.   Not even the majors?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't think so.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT