BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Looked like more work out there today.
VIJAY SINGH:   Yes, I guess the conditions were not as good as yesterday.  It's wet and the rain started coming down pretty hard toward the end of my front nine, which is the back nine.

I played well.  The putting was not as good yesterday and my ball striking, though it was good, I didn't hit it as close as yesterday.  It was a tough day and I'm happy to be still leading.
Q.  Three way tie at the top; should be a fun weekend.
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, it's going to be A shootout.  Depends on if the wind comes up with the rain.  The golf course is playing really good.  The greens are rolling nicely.

Depends on the pin placement and how we play.  The pin placements were pretty tight today.  Some of them were way back where you have to pitch it past the flag to get close to the hole.  If you're not careful, you'll hit it over the green and make bogey.  That way was difficult.  But I'm playing well.  See what happens.
Q.  New putter is still working okay for you?
VIJAY SINGH:   It didn't work as good as yesterday, obviously (laughing.)  But I hit it very close yesterday.  I hit the same shots yesterday but it wasn't as close.  I missed a lot of chances on the front side, but I don't know if I was tentative or what.  You know, I'm surprised I'm still leading, but it's good to be leading still.
Q.  Are you considering going back to the belly putter at all?
VIJAY SINGH:   Not really.  I putted nicely.  I hit my spots and that's important to do. I misread a few putts and that's understandable.  It was difficult.  It was difficult     with the rain, you can lose the putts that way a little bit but I managed.
Q.  The rain should be going away by tomorrow afternoon; does that change your game any?
VIJAY SINGH:   I'll probably be playing in the afternoon.  I don't really like playing in rain that much.  We just have to manage the best we can.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT