U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Vijay Singh, 2-under par for the championship.
Q.  Seemed like you were chasing the tee ball?
 VIJAY SINGH:  I think I had a lot of chances, I had a lot of birdie chances.  My plan was to be aggressive off the tees.  I had a lot of sand wedges, even though I missed the fairways.  I stopped it pretty comfortably.  I missed a lot of fairways, so I couldn't get it as close as I wanted to.  But I'm playing well.  I just need to make a few putts here and there and hit more fairways.
Q.  Are you okay with your position, you're four back, assuming all the numbers stay the same throughout the day?
 VIJAY SINGH:  I think so.  I shouldn't worry about what the lead is right now.  It's the weekend to go.  So that can change.
Q.  (Inaudible).  This course has a lot more teeth in it with the wind.  Is it dangerous to try to get aggressive on a day like today?
 VIJAY SINGH:  Not really.  I played aggressively today.  I hit drivers.  As long as you keep it in the long fescue, the green rough, which is not that long now, is growing.  So go ahead and be aggressive today and if you hit the fairways, so it's not going to get any easier, but hopefully the wind picks up a little bit.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 VIJAY SINGH:   You need to think a little bit, the greens are firming up.  We were lucky this morning, it was quite benign out there, and the greens were stopping, so we could actually go for the flag more.
Q.  You think the wind will play in your favor?
 VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah.  If you're playing badly, it's not going to favor you at all.  I'm playing well.  I'm hitting the ball nicely.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 VIJAY SINGH:  I only hit an 8-iron in.  I didn't want to go long.  So the club was a little 7-iron, but I wasn't taking a risk to go over the green.
Q.  What did you end up hitting?
 VIJAY SINGH:  An 8-iron, and ended up going short.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 VIJAY SINGH:  11th hole, I hit 7-iron, almost went in, about six inches.

I bogeyed 12, hit a good tee shot, I laid it up, hit it 25-foot, 2-putted.

15, I missed, hit it 15 foot, made bogey, 2-putt.

And --
Q.  That was 14.
 VIJAY SINGH:  15 I hit a driver, sand wedge 30 foot and made a long putt.

I 3-putted third hole, driver, 7-iron and 3-putted from about 30 foot.

I made birdie on 5, hit driver, 5-wood just short of the green, and chipped it about a foot, foot and a half.  That was it.
Q.  How long did you have between rounds?
 VIJAY SINGH:  Only about a half hour.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT