EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
It sounds like it actually just helped you out a little bit today.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, the wind died a little bit towards the end.  It was just kind of gusting.  I didn't play particularly well but I scored well, I managed myself, I didn't get frustrated out there.

I knew a lot of guys were going to be struggling today.  I was thinking if I could get to 2- or 3-under in the house I would be happy, and that's what I did.
Q.  In general terms, is it more fun for you when you're trying to stop a guy from catching you or would you rather have the lead?
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, when you have the lead it's always better than you've got to play well to -- shoot better than the rest of the guys.  If you're in the lead it's always good to be in the lead because then guys are hunting you down and if you're playing well it's always nice.

I don't mind being behind, as well.  You know, you can play a little more aggressively if you're playing well.
Q.  Why is this tournament so difficult to defend?
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know, I'll tell you after Sunday (laughter).

Right now I'm in good position.  If I play a little better over the weekend obviously I'm going to have a chance to win, but I'll play the conditions.  We've never played a golf course with this much wind, so it kind of throws everybody off.  If you're not used to it, then it's difficult.
Q.  The leaderboard, Tiger, O'Meara, yourself, Sergio, should make for a good weekend.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, it's heating up.  Tomorrow is going to be the key.  You've got to go out there and do it and I'm looking forward to that.
Q.  What is it you weren't doing earlier in the round that you figured out to birdie three out of the last four holes?
VIJAY SINGH:  Nothing really.  I didn't hit too many fairways today really.  I was struggling with my driver.  I could have hit fairways with a 3-wood but I thought there was a good chance to go ahead and shape the driver.

But I made some nice putts coming in, a good one on 15 and a nice one on 18 here, and 16 was very nice, so it was a good way to finish.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT