EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm playing quite nicely.  I had a good little pickup on 6 and 7.

6 was a really good chip shot and I left it short.

7, I should have made birdie there.

I made a double on 14, and got really ticked off at that one and then made a birdie coming in.  That was a nice way to finish.  Birdieing the last hole was nice.  I can feel better about today, I guess.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  A lot of holes are playing downwind and not too many holes into the wind.  18 and 9 were into the wind, and 17, but if you hit the fairways you've got a lot of chances for birdies.  I am a little surprised, but everybody is hitting out there.
Q.  This is always a star-studded field at this event.  What are some of the things you particularly enjoy?
VIJAY SINGH:  This is Byron's event.  He's a legend.  So I guess everybody has to pay respect to him.  I come here especially for that, and I'll keep coming.

It's a good purse here, one of the bigger ones.  That helps.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  Well, the autographs, that's part of the job.  I wish there was a shortcut, but there's not.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  It's okay.  It's not too bad.
Q.  What does that say about this event, the type of field we have?
VIJAY SINGH:  A strong field.  Every year we get good players coming over here.  The golf course is nice.  I guess every player is looking forward to this event because of Byron.  He's been with the game for so long and he's done so much for the game, so we show our respect for him.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, majors, and -- it is.  I will keep on eye on what's going on with the other guys, but you only do that after you go to day two or day three.  It's nice to play against them, and at the end of the day you see how you stand and what you need to do the next day.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  Not really.  I mean, I'm not thinking about No. 1 when I'm playing out there, I'm trying to think about winning the golf tournament.  My main goal this week is being in contention on Sunday afternoon, so if I can do that, I'll be happy.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm in good shape.  I work pretty hard.  I could be a little bit more fitter, but I'm looking towards that.
Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  If you think about a score, you can get very down on yourself if you don't make it.  I'm going to go out there and take my chances.  If there's a birdie opportunity, I'm going to take it, but you've got to play the golf course the way it's set up.
Q.  Seems like a lot of the big hitters are not playing Colonial anymore.  Is there a reason for that?  Some of the big hitters have pulled out of that in recent years.  Is it the technology that makes an old style course like that obsolete?
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't think so, no.  Colonial is a little bit shorter golf course, but you can still hit drivers there.  I'm not playing there because I took it out of my schedule.  I don't know why the other guys are not playing that.  It's one of the better golf courses we play.  It's an old style golf course with small greens, so maybe next year, maybe the year after I'm going to start playing it again.  I have no real reason for not playing it.  I think it's a longer hitters' golf course.  I think there's a lot of birdie opportunities out there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT