SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 25, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  It's obviously a different golf course, but talk about not just the frustration, but what you basically deal with when you have so much time to kill on a day like today.  You play a little golf and then you kind of sit around.  How do you keep focused?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's hard to be in the locker room and just hang around there.  You can hang around for a half hour or an hour and then you get bored.

See, now I'm out here and standing up, making sure I'm on my feet, swinging a club.  I just can't get too relaxed and then I have to start all over again.  My mind is set to play, so I'm just waiting.
Q.  The golf course has obviously changed from how it was even this morning as far as having to get it in the fairway to be able to play lift, clean and place, but also just you're going to have to bomb it out there because there's not going to be any roll.  Just talk about the change in conditions.
VIJAY SINGH:  It's wet.  I mean, this is probably going to make the golf course a little bit more -- you can hit your driver.  With the water on the surface it's going to skid a little bit more.  With ball in hand you want to hit as many fairways as possible.

It's hard coming in over here because it comes along -- if it stays like this we'll have to hit the fairways.  It'll be really key.
Q.  Overall talk about your game.  You had a double on, I think, 7 in the second round.  Other than that, you played pretty well in the last couple of days.  Just talk about your overall game.
VIJAY SINGH:  I've been driving the ball really good except for today.  Today I hit three fairways in the last 12 holes.

But I've hit every green, which is key over here, and taking opportunities, making putts when I needed to.  You can't lose any shots.  It's all bunched up, and if you lose one shot you're going to fall back.  I've got to be a little more aggressive when I go out and I have to take chances.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT