THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2012
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  VIJAY SINGH:   I was just happy to be back here, and the golf course is really tough.   It kind of got all‑‑ I don't know what the mindset was after yesterday when I got to the clubhouse and seen all the low scoring.   It kind of threw everybody off.   But yesterday off noon the conditions got a lot tougher, and this morning, too, it was firmer than, I guess, yesterday morning.   I think they shut the waters off.
It's playing harder.   The wind is swirling around.   I'm happy to have finished what I did. 

Q.   You say the course has been harder.   How were you able to perform better today than yesterday? 
VIJAY SINGH:   It was pretty dry yesterday afternoon.   It was a lot‑‑ the winds were a different direction, and we weren't expect ing it to get that firm that quickly, especially with the scoring in the morning. 
But this morning it wasn't as firm as yesterday afternoon, but I guess it was firmer than yesterday morning, yeah. 

Q.   Can you feel right away that you have a good round in you, how the course is playing?
VIJAY SINGH:   Really you just go out there and play hole by hole.   I've been hitting the ball pretty solid lately, so kind of gives me a good feeling when I go out there, especially on a golf course like this.   You need to hit the ball good.

Q.   How close do you think you are to being good enough or as good as you were to win again? 
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, I'm leading (laughing). 

Q.   Overall, the game, to be able to‑‑ you were leading at the PGA, too. 
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I think I'm playing as good as I did any part of my career.   I'm hitting the ball as long.   I'm hitting the ball straighter.   I feel a lot of confidence in me.   It's just I need to get some kind of momentum going to keep me going.   I thought I had it at the PGA, but I kind of let it slip there on Sunday. 
But it's all about how you're hitting it, and right now I'm striking the ball good.   My distance is back, and I'm literally pain‑free, which makes a whole lot of difference.   If you can play golf pain‑free, I think you can go out there and play the way you want to play. 

Q.   If you keep playing like this, are you just going to keep playing on this TOUR and just take the Champions Tour some other day? 
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't know.   I mean, I'm playing as good as anybody out here, so if I can keep doing this and if the desire is still there and fire is still there, I'm going to keep playing here.   I think if I lose the edge over here, I don't know if I'm going to even go and play the Champions Tour.   But I feel good about myself, my health, my strength and my golf game.   As long as all of them act normally, I think I'll be okay. 

Q.   You always play good late in the year.   Is there any reason for that?
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't know.   I guess I just outwork everybody else. 

Q.   Are you still doing that, your workout regimen? 
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't think I can work as‑‑ I don't hit as many balls anymore because I'm pretty sound with my golf swing what I need to do.   I have a set routine that I go through, and if everything is in place, I just keep going.   I'm putting a lot more, which makes‑‑ I think I spend a lot more time on the putting green than I've ever done, hence my putting game is‑‑ I should have done this a long time ago.   My short game is good.   I am working a lot more on my short game than I've ever done.   I'm practicing, yeah.   I'm not slowing down.

Q.   How long is a typical practice day for you?
VIJAY SINGH:   I'll probably go and hit 45 to an hour's worth of balls today and probably spend an hour on the putting green. 

Q.   When you're off, when you're‑‑
VIJAY SINGH:   I try to get four hours of practice session, yeah.   That includes gym, hour and a half, pretty much every other day or every day, if I'm not hurting. 

Q.   How long had you been dealing with pain?
VIJAY SINGH:   It started with my knee in '08, and I had two surgeries on my knee, and then my back kind of started acting up straight after that.   That's been a two‑year process.   I do feel it in the mornings when I get up.   I have to be very careful how I jump out of bed.   But so far it's been good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT