THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Nice finish today.
VIJAY SINGH:  Thank you.
Q.  Big putt there on 18?
VIJAY SINGH:  Big putt.
Q.  17-footer?
VIJAY SINGH:  17, 15, 16, something like that, I wasn't counting.
Q.  Talk about your round today.
VIJAY SINGH:  I played all right.  I didn't play -- I'm still pretty unhappy with the way I drove the ball.  I drove okay.  I drove it really good yesterday.  I've been struggling with it last week.  I thought I had something there today.  But I played decent.  I didn't do too much wrong.  I didn't make too much mistakes.  One bad drive on 15 cost me the bogey.  Three-putted 16.

The greens are getting firmer.  The pins were difficult today.  I'm really happy with my position right now.
Q.  Going into the weekend you're in a good position, and I'm sure you're glad to be back in the hunt on the weekend here in Ponte Vedra after two years of missing the cut?
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm just going to go out and enjoy it.  I was enjoying myself.  I had a lot of friends out there, a lot of guys that I've known forever.  It was just a -- really just took it easy and didn't care too much about how good or how bad I was playing.  I just tried to relax and play the game.

Probably on the weekend I'm going to get a little more serious, but I just want to enjoy this week.  I've put too much pressure on myself so many times over here, and that kind of backfired.
Q.  Compare yesterday afternoon with this morning, the wind.
VIJAY SINGH:  It's calmer.  The pins were a lot more difficult today, a lot more difficult than yesterday.  I think yesterday they had some of the easiest pins on the course, and that's why the scoring is a little more difficult.  The wind just kind of keeps gusting.

Here I don't think the leader is going to get any more than 10- or 11-under.  I'm pretty optimistic about this weekend.
Q.  What's going well in your game?  You're driving the ball well, you're putting well?
VIJAY SINGH:  I changed my putter yesterday and today.  What I've been using, I think that was a little too fiery, and I couldn't judge my pace.  Today I had a different putter.  I made some nice six-, eight-footers for pars, which kept me going -- actually one six-footer for par.  But I think I'm rolling the ball better with this putter than I did with my old one.  That's a big thing.  And I think if I just start making a few putts, I think I'm going to be difficult to beat this week.
Q.  You're 5-under on the front nine this week, you're 1-under on the back nine.  You haven't had any bogeys on the front nine, is there anything --
VIJAY SINGH:  I three-putted 16 both times, yesterday and today.  I birdied 11 both times, just -- I don't know, I thought I was 2-under today -- on the back?
Q.  1-under on the back -- you were 2-under on the back.  You got four birdies on the back and three bogeys.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yesterday I hit a bad drive, but nothing really --
Q.  No reason for it?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, there's nothing out there that I can really pinpoint on it, just I played bad holes and made bogeys.
Q.  Birdies and bogeys.  Birdie on 2?
VIJAY SINGH:  2, two-putted from 25 feet, hit driver, 4-iron.
Q.  No. 3?
VIJAY SINGH:  3, I hit an 8-iron to about three feet.

11 was driver, 4-iron, about 30 feet, two-putted.

13, 7-iron, maybe eight feet.

15, driver in the rough, 7-iron in the bunker, blast out about eight feet.

18, driver, 9-iron, about 15 feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT