FBR OPEN
January 31, 2004
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk a little bit about the mentality you went through the first two rounds and then the difference you had in this round. 

VIJAY SINGH:  I made a little bit more putts, I guess.  I hit the ball a little better today.  I didn't start out very well.  I had chances on 10 and 11, and 13 I went in with a 5-iron and kept it alive. 

Then I had a good putt on 15 and then started a roll from there.  I didn't do anything special, just scraping slowly, made a lot of good shots and made some good putts.


Q.  The eagle on No. 3 was pretty special. 

VIJAY SINGH:  No, not eagle, I didn't make eagle.  I almost made an eagle on No. 4, but that was a tap-in.  I think hopefully the leaders don't get any further forward than what they are now.  What are they at? 

If I'm within four or five I'll be happy.


Q.  When you're seven back, eight back, whatever it was to start the weekend, what is the mentality as you go out?

VIJAY SINGH:  Just get within striking distance if you can.  There's really no plan, just go out there and play your game, play the best you can and hopefully you shoot a good number.  I've been playing well, so I'll go out there and play my game and make putts.


Q.  63 on Sunday a year ago and another one today.  What is it about this golf course that suits you so well?

VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know, I'm pretty familiar with it.  I've been playing here forever.  I just know where to hit it, where not to hit it.  I kind of know the greens, how they break, as well.  That's an advantage to guys that have been playing here for a while.


Q.  (Inaudible). 

VIJAY SINGH:  Depends on the weather, but they moved one tee forward today on 6, so that played a lot easier.  As the wind blows, like it will, I don't think you'll be able to shoot that low.  It depends on the weather.  If it's calm like it was the first two days, then you need to do that.


Q.  Did you have an advantage playing early before the crowd, get to 16 and play the back first and quietly doing what you do?

VIJAY SINGH:  It was still rowdy but it wasn't as rowdy as it is now.  It was like that yesterday afternoon.  It didn't bother me. 


Q.  When you're playing this way do you come in and it's a little quiet and all that --

VIJAY SINGH:  You still have to play the shots, though.  The golf course is not getting any easier.  It's still up to you to play the shots that you need. 


Q.  (Inaudible). 

VIJAY SINGH:  I hit three very close.  I had about four tap-ins and birdied one par 5, so I just played very steady, didn't do too much wrong, and when I did, I made a good putt for par.


Q.  You said yesterday 8 under. 

VIJAY SINGH:  I didn't know what I was going to shoot.




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT