THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 9, 2003
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Talk about today.

VIJAY SINGH:  I needed to start off very fast, which I didn't.  I had a chance on number 5, which I didn't birdie that hole from 15 feet off from the pin.  But then I played well.  I made eagle on 13 to get it to 5.  And I thought if I birdied in I would have a chance.  And I bogeyed the next two holes.  But it really didn't matter.  He was too far ahead and I just wanted to finish solid and play the way I can.  Which I did today.


Q.   You said yesterday you came here to play well and you weren't really worried about the money title.  But now that you've secured the money title, what does it mean?

VIJAY SINGH:  It's probably the biggest accomplishment that I've had in my career.  Especially at my age.  And it wasn't my goal when I started off.  I mean, it's nobody's goal to win the money title when you start off.  But as the year got long and I started playing better and better, that was my goal.  And I have accomplished that.  Hopefully I can get voted for the Player of the Year.  But if I don't, in my mind I've done what I wanted to do.  And we'll see what happens after this. 


Q.   You made it to No. 2 in the world.  Does it mean something to you to ascend to that level?

VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, all the hard work.  I've never been outside the top-10 for awhile now, but I wanted to climb up the ladder, which I've done.  The next step is to see if I can get to the top spot.  That's my goal for the next three or four years.  It's not going to happen in the next year, I don't think so.  I will just keep working and keep trying and see what's in store for me. 


Q.   Do you know enough about Chad Campbell at all to express an opinion on the way he's playing in terms of how he played and whether this might be the first of many?

VIJAY SINGH:  He's been threatening for awhile.  He's a very aggressive player.  When he gets it going, like this week, there's no stopping him.  We will hear a lot more from Chad Campbell, this is not the end of it. 


Q.   Could you describe that shot that you hit.

VIJAY SINGH:  It wasn't that difficult in the sense that my goal was to get inside six feet of the hole.  I wasn't trying to make it or anything, just tried to lob it up there.  Pick a spot and lob it.  And it just came up.  I was surprised it went in, yeah.  But that's a bonus.  It was a good way to finish there. 


Q.   The Presidents Cup, after that, what's on your schedule?

VIJAY SINGH:  I have the father and son tournament.  I'm really looking forward to that.  And then the Target Williams Challenge.  And after that two weeks, two and a half weeks off, and then back on schedule again. 


Q.   You finished the season with eight straight top-10s.  That's a pretty incredible feat.  And you won the fall finish for the second straight year.  How do you feel about that?

VIJAY SINGH:  Really proud, I guess.  It's a big achievement.  Guys go through the whole year not finishing top-10 once, and I did it a lot of times in a row.  And that shows that hard work always pays off.  I'm really excited and excited about next year now and hopefully I can continue this play and even play better than this.  And I am just thrilled that this year has come to an end. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT