THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 7, 2003
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VIJAY SINGH:  The pins are a little bit easier today.  I played better today.  I hit almost every fairway.  And that was the easiest 68 I could have shot.  And I left a lot of shots out there.  But it's very hard to read the greens.  I played on Bermuda for the last, three, four weeks, and I just have never played these Bermuda greens before that are just so difficult to read.  The grains are going one way, the ball's going the other way.  That's why the scoring is -- nobody's running away with it.  I think the greens are just almost impossible to read out there. 


Q.  With the flags today, you played to the middle of the greens and you were putting downhill to the edge all day, kind of always above the hole. 

VIJAY SINGH:  I hit it close all day, except for one or two.  But I had long putts on those.  And I think that I missed two fairways and I was left with long putts in.  But I had a lot of good chances out there.  I knew that if you're aggressive enough and go for the flags, if you miss it on the wrong side, that it's pretty simple little shots to the holes, that's why I had a lot of birdie chances out there. 


Q.  Back to 1-under.  Do you still like your chances this weekend?

VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, well nobody's doing anything.  If I'm within four, five shots of the lead going into tomorrow, then it really depends how I play.  If I play well tomorrow, it would depend.  I think I have a good chance. 


Q.  Do you think these greens benefits the guys who know these type of greens better?

VIJAY SINGH:  It's difficult.  They gave us some easier pins today.  But then again they can hide the pins pretty good out there.  You just don't go at the pins that are three or four from the edge.  And if you miss it, you are going to have a problem getting up-and-down.  But it really depends on the pin placements.  I think they can really -- there's a lot of pins out there that you can't get to.


Q.  Did you find something out there on the range from yesterday to today?

VIJAY SINGH:  No. 


Q.  Just golf?

VIJAY SINGH:  Just played better today. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT