CHRYSLER CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2003
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Vijay, you didn't get the win, but the ultimate goal, the Player-of-the-Year, the money title you are in good shape for going into next week?

VIJAY SINGH:  Yes.  I have to play a solid tournament next week. I don't think I have to win to win the money title, but I would like to win again next week. 

I will figure it out when I get there. I'm going to take a day's rest and go out there next Tuesday, Wednesday, and then, you know, play my tournament. 

But now this week it's just winding down, and I'm really happy to finish second.  I am a little disappointed I didn't win.  I thought I had a good chance.  Retief played solid all day and he deserved to win.


Q.  (Inaudible)?

VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know.  Hitting the ball well, putting good and starting well.  I don't think there is any secrets out there.  This year with Jay Haas winning and Stadler winning over here, Jacobsen winning over here.  It doesn't really matter.  Age doesn't matter.  If you are physically fit and your mind is fresh, I think, you can play at any age.


Q.  Are you looking forward to being paired with Tiger in the first round, I understand that's the way they do it on the money list, eye-to-eye, and this is what you have been pointing to?

VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know if it's eye-to-eye.  I'm looking forward to playing in it.  It will be a good tournament, I think. 


Q.  Vijay, did he in any way spur you, I know you are a self starter, that's for sure, but where he took the game a few years ago, but did you, based on that, try to go even harder?

VIJAY SINGH:  Not really.  Although he raised the bar for everybody a few years ago.  I have been working hard physically on my golf game.  So it's just now coming together.  I don't think it's Tiger doing this, I think everybody's game has risen to the next level and I just kind of rose with it. I'm playing better than I have before.  It's easier to go out there and hit the wall and it feels good, and I am enjoying playing the game of golf. 


Q.  When you got within one today, I think it was after your birdie on 11, did you feel like I'm going to do this again?

VIJAY SINGH:  I was excited about it.  I was pumped up.  I hit a 7-iron over the green.  He had a good birdie there.  I did not make birdie, then bogeyed 15.  By then he was four shots ahead.  He is too good of a player to mess up.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT