DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2003
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Vijay, for joining us for a few minutes.  Solid round today.  Good position going into the holiday.  Why don't you talk about your round and your playing the course today compared to yesterday. 
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, you know, I thought the greens were going to be a lot firmer.  It's very inconsistent out there.  Some greens are really firm and some are not.  So when you play early  -- I played early shots where the greens were firm and you could actually bounced it on close to the hole.  On the back nine I tried it do that and some of the balls kind of spun back.  All in all, I'm playing pretty solid right now.  I drove the ball really well.  I hit a lot of greens and made some nice putts on the front side but the putter went cold on the back.  I stroked them well but they didn't go in.  That's how it goes playing late in the afternoon, a lot more bumps. 
Playing well and really looking forward to the weekend.

Q.  Can you (explain) what happened your second shot at 18?
VIJAY SINGH:   In between clubs, either a very hard 7-iron or an easy 6-iron.  I knew over the green wasn't very good, so I kind of just eased off on it and tried to play more toward the middle of the green so it wouldn't run off and just came off the shot.  It just  -- you know, it wasn't a particularly good shot. 
Then the bunker shot, it wasn't lying very well, so I had  -- that's the best I could have done where I hit it.  And the putt was misread, again, so missed it. 

Q.  Is it different when you score  -- inaudible -- you've changed to a belly grip?
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, this is the first week I'm trying it out.  It's going good.  I'm feeling very good stroking it.  I'm lining up the putts much easier and striking the ball where I'm aiming.  It worked yesterday and it worked today as well.  I putted good all day, just some of the lines I was reading were not on. 
Hopefully I will continue the way I've been putting.  I think I'm going to do okay.  I'm not struggling with it.  I'm not fighting my putts anymore.  I feel like I'm going to make everything when I look at it but it's just not going in right now.

Q.  What do you think about the course overall? 
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, it's one of the finest of its kind.  It's okay.  There's not many like it.  (Laughing).

Q.  Player of the Year, is that a motivation for you, do you think you have a shot? 
VIJAY SINGH:   No, it's not.  I think Player of the Year is never crossed my mind.  Still hasn't crossed my mind.  I'm only going to think about it when the year is over with.  I think that's not my objective right now. 
I think my objective is to play each tournament and try to win it, and then assess my performance at the end of the year and see how I've done.  If I've done enough to win Player of the Year, then it's, you know, well and fine.  But I cannot be going out there and thinking about winning Player of the Year award because that's not my goal right now. 

Q.  Did you ever play at Southern Valley, the other site where the tournament used to be?
VIJAY SINGH:   No.  But I heard that's a pretty nice golf course, too. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Let's go through your birdies. 
VIJAY SINGH:   Fourth hole, I hit driver, wedge to about six feet. 
Fifth hole, I hit a driver, 9-iron to about 15 feet. 
Sixth hole, I hit a driver, sand wedge to about probably ten feet.
Seventh hole, I hit a driver in the trap, laid up with 5-iron, hit is it to about six feet and made that. 
11, I hit a bad tee shot and chipped it probably ten feet and missed that.  That was it. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Vijay. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT