PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2012
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How good was that round considering how tough it is out there right now?  
VIJAY SINGH:   You know, after a while you don't really think about your score.   You just think about each hole, each shot and just try not to mess up.   Those two‑footers are important out here.   You try not to‑‑ I think 16, 17, 18, it was so hard just standing on the greens trying to make a putt.   It was one of my better rounds.   I didn't strike the ball as good, but I scored really, really well, and I think that was the key.   
   
 Q.   What did 69 feel like to you?   
VIJAY SINGH:   You know, right now it feels great.   But I just never thought about the score.   I just kept adding it up each hole and trying to make my pars on every hole.   That was the key.   And I just tried to make my pars, miss it in the correct spot if I was out of position, and be very strong with the longer putts.   The lag putts were so key, not to leave myself four and five‑footers, and it was very easy to do out there.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, it starts off on that 8th hole.   Well, the 5th hole was straight into you, as well.   All the par‑3s were just really difficult.   I don't know what Dye was thinking when he made 14.   He must have been asleep or something.   But it's one of the hardest par‑3s I think anywhere.   You have‑‑ I don't know anyone is going to be happy playing that hole today.   I hit a good shot and made bogey.   It's just a‑‑ all the par‑3s are really difficult, and if you make pars on all of them, I think you're doing good.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned back there you have to kind of throw away the original game plan.   What does the game plan become when you throw away your original plans?  
VIJAY SINGH:   You know, just trying to get the greens if you can, get the fairways and anywhere on the green where you can two‑putt from.   If you're lucky enough, the par‑5s, you can take advantage of the par‑5s here.   Two of them are downwind, so you can actually make birdies on those ones.   But no more swing thoughts out there, just try and hit the ball as solid as you can and hit the fairways, hit the greens and just try to two‑putt.   That's the game plan out there.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the progress in your game this year, when you felt you were starting to get back?  
VIJAY SINGH:   You know, I've been playing well for a while.   I've just been telling myself I'm swinging the club really well, but nothing is going.   All of a sudden it clicked, and it clicked at the British, played well at Greenbrier, didn't finish it off.   I've been playing well for a while, it's just the last two weeks was great, and so far it's been unbelievable.   
   
 Q.   Is this at all like riding a bike?   
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, but nobody is used to winds like this.   You're saying, yeah, you're contending for a major.   We didn't expect wind like this.   Guys going out yesterday morning had no wind, and they're going out this afternoon.   You can't say, well, it evens it out.   It doesn't.   This is really strong winds.   Yeah, I love contending in the majors, but you just contend with yourself and try to make a score if you can.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't know, I mean, it's‑‑ if you had a golf course like this and you asked me to go and play golf in windy conditions, I'd say no, I'm not going to play.   I guess nobody is going to go out and play in conditions like this.   But it is a major, and we have to go out there and just struggle and manage yourself the best you can, I guess.   
   
 Q.   How do these compare to the winds you play in at the British Open?  
VIJAY SINGH:   Different.   Links courses are different, because although it blows like this, the golf course can handle‑‑ you can play the golf course.   If it blows this hard, I don't think we can handle this golf course as good.   Yeah, sure, I shot 69, but if I had to go out there and play again, I don't know what I'm going to shoot.   This is a difficult golf course in windy conditions like this, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Does this compare to anything in memory?   
VIJAY SINGH:   It's a tough day, put it this way.   It's one of the tougher conditions I've ever played.   And put this golf course in the middle of all that, it becomes even more brutal.   
   
 Q.   How many club adjustments were you making out there?   
VIJAY SINGH:   It's difficult because you don't really play any wind straight down or into, it's always across.   So if you're playing across, you're always trying to fight the wind because you cannot ride this wind.   It's just going to get away from you.   Yeah, I mean, coming in, you think it's downwind but it's really not down.   I think the tee shot on 18 would be the only hole that you'd play straight downwind.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy you shot 69 or just happy you're done?  
VIJAY SINGH:   Kind of both.   You know, I mean, I'm happy I shot 69 for sure.   I would have taken 72 when I started off.   And I'm happy I'm done, too.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
VIJAY SINGH:   7‑iron.   It was 215 yards to the hole or 220 to the hole and I hit 7‑iron.   So there again, it's a toss‑up, what do you do, hit a 6‑iron over the green or take it on with a 7‑iron, and I took the flag out of play and I just went for the middle of the green.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking yesterday when you saw the scores going so low?   
VIJAY SINGH:   You know, funny enough, I just said, it's a long week.   If it stays like this I have a chance to go out there and shoot a good number myself.   I'm playing well, so I never thought of anything.   I just was surprised the scores were pretty low.   I had a chance to go out there and do myself some, too.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, I mean, I'd like to have that power.   But I think power makes a lot on golf courses like this.   I've played a lot of different conditions, put it this way, so it kind of helps a little bit.   Clubbing is probably one of the most important things out there.   If you're not familiar with wind conditions like this, cross‑winds, it's going to be hard clubbing.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
VIJAY SINGH:   I just started believing that I can do it.   I was so negative for a long, long time.   I played great on the‑‑ had great sessions on the driving range and just couldn't take it on the golf course.   I finally started to believe that I could do what I'm doing on the driving range.   A little tweak to my golf swing during the British Open kind of helped, as well.   Like I said, my head is in a better spot.   I'm more focused and believing that I can do it has helped me a lot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT