U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2003
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Your back nine was very cruel to you, not only to you but to a few others. 
VIJAY SINGH:  I only got on the clock on 17 and kind of brushed things up a little bit, a disappointing bogey on 16, a bad way to finish, three bogeys in a row.  Anyway, thank God it's still Saturday.  I've got a lot of holes to go tomorrow. 

Q.  How much more difficult was the course today? 
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't think it was any more difficult than it was yesterday.  The pin placements are a little bit more tougher.  It could very eyesly go on the wrong side of the holes here.  The hole placement on 16 was pretty tough.  The last three holes, I'm a little disappointed the way I finished, but like I said, there's a lot of holes tomorrow. 

Q.  What's your mindset tomorrow being five shots back?  Do you feel like you need to be aggressive, go after the flags tomorrow to put up a good number? 
VIJAY SINGH:  No, I have to play my game and worry about what I am going to do, see if I can make birdies early on and catch the gap up a little bit.  Jimmy is playing very well.  I don't think he's going to shoot worse than what he did today.  I have to go out there and catch up.  I don't expect Jimmy to slip too much. 

Q.  (Inaudible).
VIJAY SINGH:  A little bit.  It's still receptive to good shots. 

Q.  Tiger said earlier the greens were slower than he thought and he had a hard time getting the pace of the greens.  Did you find that at all? 
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't think so.  You get into probably a little bit of a negative mode and stop being aggressive.  Obviously they play a little slower because you don't want to make a bogey hitting it past the hole.  There was a lot of downhill putts out there so that's probably why we left a lot of putts short. 

Q.  (Inaudible).  
VIJAY SINGH:  Not really.  I was hitting good shots.  I played okay.  I didn't play bad at all.  Two bad shots, then one on 17 and one on No. 12 was two bad shots that I hit.  I had a bad break on my lie on 18, but that's the way it goes. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT