U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2003
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Remarkable round, Vijay.  You have to feel pretty good.  
VIJAY SINGH:  I do.  I played really well.  I hit a lot of drivers out there.  That wasn't my plan when I started off on Monday or at practice, but I started to swing a lot better and the ball was kind of going where I was aiming so I said why not go ahead and be aggressive on the golf course and I shot a good number. 

Q.  Is that because the course is more forgiving than you would have expected?
VIJAY SINGH:  It's not if you hit bad shots.  If you're just out flying you can get away with it because you're going in with short irons.  You can get to the green even if you miss fairways.  It played pretty nice.  The wind died down a little bit and gave us a chance to shoot a good score. 

Q.  As Bill pointed out you tied a record for a U.S. Open.  Is this the kind of course and the kind of conditions for a low round record to be set? 
VIJAY SINGH:  You still have to -- the course is not easy.  There's still a lot of hard holes.  If you mishit you're going to be punished.  Fortunately I didn't hit too many bad shots and I shot a good number. 

Q.  I understand maybe somebody got thrown out.  Do you know anything about that?
VIJAY SINGH:  I didn't notice anything. 

Q.  Five birdies in a six-hole run, that was pretty remarkable. 
VIJAY SINGH:  I wasn't aware I was making all those.  I was playing a hole at a time, so I started off and made a good putt on 10 and then kind of got the momentum going and I birdied 11 and three more after that.  I was hitting it close and feeling good about my game so I wasn't emotionally concerned about the score, I was just playing my game and just enjoying it. 

Q.  Few people have done what you just did today.  Does it feel big to you? 
VIJAY SINGH:  It would feel better if I did it on Sunday.  There's two more days to go.  I'm going to focus on what I'm going to do tomorrow and try to forget this round. 

Q.  Did you realize you were coming up on a potential record of 63? 
VIJAY SINGH:  Rocco mentioned that on 17.  He said I would love to see a 61.  I said you'll probably see a 62 now.  I missed it on 18. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT