THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 30, 2003
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You are in second place, 8-under.  Maybe talk about the first two rounds, obviously 67 yesterday, 69 today, you played well.
VIJAY SINGH:  Yes, I managed to score well.  I don't think I hit the ball as good as I can.  I mean I didn't hit it badly but I didn't hit it great.  I got up and down from the traps every time.  There were some difficult ones.  I chipped in today ones with par.  Another save.  I just did good things all the time. Putted nicely, didn't putt great, putted nicely. 26 putts.

Q.  Having won here before even though the golf course is a little bit different, that's got to give you some good feelings going into this weekend, it's got to be a nice feeling for you?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yes, I know the golf course well.  I have got good vibes over here and I can feel the course.  It's not coming out here.  You got to know where you are going to miss it and you got to know not to miss it on the wrong side, and I have been missing the greens.  I have  comfortable up-and-downs. So hopefully I started hitting the ball a lot better this weekend. If I can hit the ball a little bit more better. 

Q.  Talking about how Kenny Perry is playing, obviously, he is 11-under and he won last week, he has to be celebrating himself?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yes, he is doing a lot good things, any time you win.  A lot of guys, they win, if they are playing well they are in the lead later.  (Inaudible).  I have done that.  Quite a few guys do.  If they had lucked out winning a golf tournament, it's different than playing well and winning.  I think he is playing well.  He is the guy to watch this weekend.

Q.  Heading into the U.S. Open, are you playing next week?
VIJAY SINGH:  No, I'm going to go back and find my golf swing a little bit more and prepare for the U.S. Open. 

Q.  Have you played there?
VIJAY SINGH:  I will probably go over there one day and play. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT