AT&T NATIONAL
June 28, 2012
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel you played today?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I played well.   I hit a lot of good shots, made a lot of birdies, and finally I made a couple of putts, which I guess is the key to playing good golf is you've got to make putts, and I did that.   
   
 Q.   You holed the chip‑in on 10.   Did that kind of boost your round?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I was already 3‑under.   It kind of got me excited there.   I thought I was going to go out and really shoot a low one, and then I bogeyed three in a row after that.   You've got to be patient.   You've got to keep calm out there.   I gathered myself and made some more birdies coming in.   
All in all, I played really nicely, and I'm playing good golf.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you need to tweak tomorrow to play better?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't think I need to tweak anything.   I just need to go out there and do the same thing and stop missing those greens with 8‑ and 9‑irons, which I did twice today.   If I can get that under control, I think I can do well.   
   
 Q.   How good is a 68 on this golf course considering how difficult it's playing?  
VIJAY SINGH:   It's good for me.   Any time I shoot under par right now is good.   
I played well.   I've been playing well for the last month or so but nothing is coming out of it.   Today I made a few putts.   I hit seven fairways, but the ones that I missed were right on the edges and I could get to the greens.   I hit my irons and made some putts.  
   
 Q.   About six weeks ago we were talking on the range and you said you were starting to play well and you weren't scoring like you just alluded to.   What is the difference out here on the PGA TOUR between playing well and not scoring and actually posting a good number?   
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, last week on putting I was 174.   Last year I was kind of 160 something, last week I was 174.   I said I need to improve my putting, I need to improve my short game, and I changed putters this week, and it's helped a little bit.   I need to work more on my putts than anything else.  
   
 Q.   How does it compare working on your putting trying to improve that aspect of the game as opposed to where we normally see you on the range trying to improve your long game?  
VIJAY SINGH:   Well, my theory was if I get it close enough I don't need to putt.   It doesn't work after a while.   But if I putt well, everything else gets easier.   You don't have that much pressure on yourself to hit close shots.   That's the key.   I should know.   When I putt well, I know what I can do.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
VIJAY SINGH:   I made some mistakes, as well.   If you would have given me 3‑under at the beginning of the day, I would say, yeah, I'll take it.  
   
 Q.   7 of 14, is that a little bit misleading on the fairways?   Did you have a couple of first cuts and decent angles on the fairways that you missed?  
VIJAY SINGH:   I hit a lot more drivers today.   I think all year long I've been trying to hit the fairways with 3‑wood and missing it, as well.   Today I said, go ahead and hit the driver.   If you miss it you're way down there where you can actually attack it and at least get on the green.  
   
 Q.   That's a huge factor, don't you think?   The length is huge because the fairways are fast, ball seems to find that first cut anyway, hit the driver, get it out there, and if I'm in the rough at least I've got a chance to find the front portion of the green somewhere?  
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, that's true.   If you're going in with a short iron, I think you can still fly it on and stop it.   I missed some fairways, but if you can get it to the front of the green, you can have a chip up, and most of the greens are back to front, you can get away with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT