THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 24, 2002
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  How was the round?
VIJAY SINGH:  It was good.  It was fun playing with Jack.  The ovations were unbelievable.  It was just like playing the PGA, when I played with him.  It was great out there. 

Q.  How about your game?  You felt pretty comfortable here too?
VIJAY SINGH:  I'm playing well.  I hit a few lousy shots, missed a few birdies.  But coming in, the golf course is playing pretty easy right now.  No wind.  There's a lot of birdies out there.  You will see a lot of low scores. 

Q.  What is it about this course that brings out the best in you?
VIJAY SINGH:  I just like it.  It's a long hitter's golf course and it's wide open.  The fairways are probably more generous here than any other golf course we play on. 

Q.  Do you suspect going into tomorrow and Sunday that it's going to be that kind of shoot-out with guys?
VIJAY SINGH:  It depends on the weather.  If the weather stays like it is now and it drys out a little bit, then it's going to be a pretty good golf course to play at.  But if we have any rain and it gets soft, then it's going to be a shoot-out.  It really depends on the weather. 

Q.  Can you talk about that birdie, eagle, birdie stretch you had there?
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, it was a good time to have it.  I had just bogeyed one, and I was just kind of hanging in there and then I made that birdie from 15 feet.  And then I had the eagle and it wasn't a two on the green and putt, yeah, it was a good sand wedge.  It was about 80 yards.  And then I birdied the next hole and got something going.  So it was fun playing out there.

Q.  You talk about fun playing with Jack, he's probably not going to play too many more of these PGA events, can you describe the feeling?
VIJAY SINGH:  That's what I mean.  His time is almost, he said he's not going to play much at all.  So to play with him and see him play well in his own tournament, it was just nice.  He played really good today. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT