HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2012
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Vijay, 4‑under par 66.   I know you wanted to two‑putt that last hole but solid round of golf in tough conditions on a Saturday.   
VIJAY SINGH:   It wasn't easy at all.   You need to control the ball and obviously the ball flight.   The Bermuda jumps a little bit too, and you don't know when it's going to jump.   I'm really happy with my round, had a good finish there.   
   
 Q.   That lie on 18 really kind of thought it might jump, release and it kinda got up in the air and it knocked it down?   
VIJAY SINGH:   The wind kind of died down and as I hit it a gust got it, but it would have flown over the green if I would have hit it harder, so waited a long time to putt that, so lost my momentum there.   
   
 Q.   Seemed like the toughest part of the golf course today was not so much the wind but how much it was going up and down, not consistent throughout the day.  
VIJAY SINGH:   That's what happens over here, gusty winds.   Sometimes you hit a drive, there is no wind, and the next guy gets up and it's gusting 20, but you've got to manage the ball flight, that's the key over here.  
   
 Q.   Good play, 6‑under par, good spot going into Sunday!   
VIJAY SINGH:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Vijay, 16 the eagle, 17 the birdie.   Talk about how you have to play that hole with the swirling wind coming off the tee.   
VIJAY SINGH:   16 the tee is forward so you know you can actually go for it the second shot, which I did.   I was fortunate to make the long putt, it was moving, too.   17 was a tricky one.   You're up on top of the plateau and the wind is blowing where you are, where players are standing, but down on the green it's not.   
You've got to control your ball flight, and I was fortunate enough to hit a decent shot.   
   
 Q.   Can it change from player‑to‑player what to hit and what to do?  
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I hit a easy punch 5‑iron and one guy hit a 5‑iron almost over the green, so it depends on how gusty the wind gets out here.   
   
 Q.   (Away from mic.)  
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I made one decent birdie putt on 14.   Again, you know, good one on 16 as well.   
I putted nice.   I didn't putt great.   I would like to putt like that every day, you know, but I putted nicely.   I think I hit the ball a lot better than I putted today.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel this round coming on?   
VIJAY SINGH:   I've been playing well, you know, just letting it go here and there.   Start off with a good round and then come back with a really bad one, that's what happened last week and the week before that.   
Just trying to manage my game right now and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   You have got vibes here?   
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I like the golf course, the conditions are always difficult here so you've got to play well.   
   
 Q.   Being into contention on Sunday, does that feel like you're where you're supposed to be?   
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't know what you are "supposed to do," everybody is supposed to be in contention on Sunday.   (Laughter.)   But you go out and play the shots you want to play.   I prepared really well, and I've been playing well, score doesn't reflect that, but I just have to be patient and today my game kinda came around.   
   
 Q.   Vijay, did it seem like a day you have had so many times where you just keep creeping up the leaderboard and at the end of the day you wake up and you're right there?   Had to bring back memories for you.   
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I haven't been in this position for a while.   I've been looking forward to this position.   I've worked really hard, I haven't stopped working.   
Like I said, my game has been coming around, but there wasn't any signs of scoring and this is the first day where I kind of went out there and scored well.   
THE MODERATOR:   Vijay, thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT