INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY QWEST
August 4, 2001
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VIJAY SINGH:   Thank you.  
 
VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I played pretty good.  Kind of surprised that not too many guys made a run for it.  They were all hanging around 25, 27.  I thought even shooting 12 points today, would I have been way back, because Saturday, normally people go out and shoot low numbers, but they didn't do it, so I'm in good position.  I'm really excited and looking forward to tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Is the course playing harder, do you think maybe the reason why that nobody is up in the higher  --
 
VIJAY SINGH:   I think that you can get a hold of the ball today.  It's playing down so that makes a bit of a deference.  You get so used to the first two days, getting nice lies, it makes a little bit of a difference.  If we were playing it down all week, then I would have thought the players would be a little more used to it.  But one day makes a lot of difference.  
 
Q.  Thoughts on the 18th tee?
 
VIJAY SINGH:   I didn't hit the drive particularly well.  I pushed it right.  But second shot came out pretty much the way I wanted it to.  Missed my putt.  I mean, it was  -- I misread it.  I thought it was going to be straight going left, but it moved right at the end.  
 
Q.  I think you misunderstood my question.  The tee on No. 8. 
 
VIJAY SINGH:   I thought you said 18.  (Laughter.)  8, tee.  
 
VIJAY SINGH:   8 tee.  It's different.  I think it's a little bit  -- for this format, it doesn't favor anybody.  The shorter hitters are going to lay up.  The longer hitters are going to lay up.  So I think it takes away a little bit of that excitement that you are going to go for that green and go for your eagle putts.  I don't think anybody is making a run for it.  Daly is not playing this weekend.  I had a decent drive, but no advantage going for the green.  It's a little bit too severe.  They could have made another tee probably in between the previous one and a new one.  That would have played a little bit better, I think.  
 
Q.  One other question, do you think it gives you an edge tomorrow, having won here before? 
 
VIJAY SINGH:   I don't know.  All of the players are really good right now.  This format like this, you can go out and if you're five back, you make an eagle on the first hole, you're tied for the lead.  One eagle, one putt there, one putt there can change a lot of things.  I have to be patient tomorrow.  I'm excited going out there tomorrow, you know, being probably one or two back.  It's different.  Nowadays, you can't really have any advantage leading out there.  You just go out there and play the best you can, and hopefully, all of the putts are going to fall for you.  And just be patient.  I think that's what I'm going to do tomorrow and not worry about  -- winning previously is going to keep me a little more patient out there.  I think that's what I need.  
 
Q.  Like you said, the competition tomorrow is going to be really tight.  There's a lot of good players out there.  How much of a factor is the course and the altitude and things like that, playing into determining who comes out on top?
 
VIJAY SINGH:   You really have to pick the clubs correctly.  Straight off the bat, we have 200 yards, it's playing 180 yards.  So more or less, we are playing in meters this week than in yards.  Once we figure that one out and the wind and the uphill  -- every hole is either uphill or downhill, so picking the club is really, really important.  I'm hitting 9-irons 180 yards and normally you do that with a 6-iron or 7-iron.  Altitude is a factor.  We are all pretty fit.  All of the golfers out here are capable of going around without any problems, but I think the clubbing is the problem out there.  You know, it takes three or four days to get used to it, and we've been here already a week, so it should not be much of a problem right now.  
 
Q.  Do you keep your eye on anybody on the leaderboard, at least maybe when you're done?  Ernie kind of shot up off the leaderboard.  Do you look at a guy like that as saying, "He might be a threat; I've got to keep up with him tomorrow"? 
 
VIJAY SINGH:   You don't really isolate one single player out there.  Everybody hits the ball a long ways here, and it's difficult.  I mean, I'm just going to go out there and not worry about the leaderboard.  I'll try to get myself up there being if I can.  It will be a dogfight, I think.  Everybody within seven or eight shots, they have got a good chance of winning.  So it's whoever is going to make the least mistakes and make the most putts out there tomorrow is going to win.  Hit a driver, 7-wood on 1  -- just short.  Chipped it about four feet.  3, I hit a driver  -- yeah, I hit a driver, sand wedge to about 15 foot.  7, I hit an 8-iron to about 20 foot and made a good putt there. 8, I hit a driver.  Laid up with a 6-iron and hit a sand wedge to about a foot. Bogeyed 9.  I hit 3-wood 6-iron.  I pulled a 6-iron left.  It was on the fringe.  I put it up about eight, four feet and missed that.  14, I hit, again, a driver, 7-wood just short and 2-putted.  Second putt was six inches.  15, I hit a 3-wood, sand wedge about a foot.  16, I hit a 5-iron and 3-putted.  Second putt was about six feet. 17, I hit driver, 4-iron to middle of the green and 2-putted.  Second putt was about a 4-footer.  
 
Q.  Do you normally carry a 7-wood or do you just carry it for this tournament?
 
VIJAY SINGH:   It started last year over here and I never took it out of the bag.  (Laughs).  I took away my 2-iron and I'm playing a 7-wood.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT