BUICK CLASSIC
June 22, 2001
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH: It was long.  (Laughs).   It was okay.  The wind kind of changed directions.  First 18, came in -- it was more from the left side on number -- or right side on No. 1.  When you turned around, it was directly on the left side.  So the wind, you know, picked up and made the golf course a little bit harder.  They put the pins really in some awkward spots.  I think they were expecting some rain so it was hard to get to.  But the course has dried up pretty good.  We had perfect lies this afternoon.  It played pretty good. 

Q.  Can you talk about the 9th hole?

VIJAY SINGH: In the morning I was surprised that my ball reached the green.  I was very surprised it went in because it was a pretty long putt over the ridge and  -- but I was trying to 2-putt, just now I hit two good shots.  I hit a decent drive and 4-iron and stopped it pretty quickly and had a good lie.  Good way to finish, especially bogeying the 8th hole, so I was kind of pleased with that.

Q.  Drive on your second shot?

VIJAY SINGH: On the first, yeah, surprised it got up to the green.

Q.  The putt, how long?

VIJAY SINGH: It was about a 60-footer.  It was a long one, I was lagging, and it went in.

Q.  Second?

VIJAY SINGH: About 20-foot.

Q.  How about the fact of being finished for the day and everybody else - a lot of these guys haven't finished.  Obviously an advantage for you?

VIJAY SINGH: They didn't play 36 just now.  We are tired.  It's never easy to play 36 holes on a wet golf course.  The guys that are going out this afternoon are going to have to come back and finish tomorrow.  So they have to get up in the morning.  It kind of evens out.  They had a good rest today and we are going to have a good rest tomorrow morning.  I think on a whole, it's pretty fair.  We had to play 36 and they have to come out now.

Q.  Why does this course fit your game?

VIJAY SINGH: I don't know.  (Laughs) I guess it is hard and you need to  -- I play well over here every time, I don't know why.  I like this golf course.  I like the setup.  You need to hit -- you know, I have been driving the ball pretty straight off the tee this week, so I mean, that's a big advantage when you are playing over here.  Then you got to know where to put the ball on the greens.  If you are above the pins, you are going to have a hard time 2-putting, but if you are below it, you have a good run at a birdie.  I think a lot of guys don't do that.  They have to play below the pins on almost every hole and it's almost impossible to get up-and-down if you miss it long and if you have downhill putts.  That's pretty much what I have been doing ever since I have got here.  I know exactly where to put the balls  - not exactly  - but pretty much. 

Q.  How much did the 64 on Sunday help your mindset coming into this weekend?

VIJAY SINGH: I don't know.  I putted well on Sunday so that probably gave me a little bit more positive vibes.  I have been putting kind of not so well for the last 4, 5 weeks and last Sunday kind of clicked and I putted great today.  That is why I shot low numbers.  I made quite a few long putts out there today.  I made 3, 4-putts from over 30 foot.  If do you that you are going to play well.  Any time you making long putts it's an advantage.  That's pretty much why I have done it.  64 was 64, but from there I brought the putting side onto this golf course.

Q.  How long did it take you to get over the Open and gear up for this tournament mentally?

VIJAY SINGH: I guess when we teed up on Pro-Am, you kind of still think about what happened, especially what happened on Sunday out there.  You talk about how your chances were.  I had a very good chance of playing well.  But I didn't.  I played well one day.  I was very, very disappointed especially the way I -- you know, I geared myself up for it.  I went up there early and did all the things I needed to do but I didn't play well. That was a disappointing part.  When you come to a new tournament you have got to clear all your mind and go out fresh and that's what I did.  I was ready to go and tee it up.

Q.  Coming here help the fact that you won here and always played well here?

VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I like this golf course I like the place.  The fans are great here, so I have got good memories.  First Tour win over here, every time I come here I feel like I am going to win.  It is always a great feeling.

Q.  Can you remember the last time you made two eagles in one day?

VIJAY SINGH: I remember making two eagles in one day but not on the same hole, so, that is a rarity.  I have a very good feeling on the second time around too.  I made a long putt on one in the morning and I felt good, so, it is always nice.

Q.  Was the 60-footer in the morning round?

VIJAY SINGH: Yes.

Q.  How about Tiger's turnaround?

VIJAY SINGH: Where did he finish.

Q.  66.

VIJAY SINGH: Finished 1-under?  That's good playing.  That's why he is No. 1 in the world.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT