VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2001
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH:   I started well coming in, but I just cannot read these greens for some reasons. 


Q.  Disappointing for you? 

VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I hit good putts but just never got one in.  One of those things. 


Q.  Do you feel you played well?

VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I played well.  I'm really happy the way I'm playing.  Hopefully, I can keep doing the same thing the next few weeks and good build-up for the U.S. Open.


Q.  What's your schedule? 

VIJAY SINGH:   Next week I have off and then the U.S. Open.  Hitting the ball really the way I wanted to.  Driving it good.  Just need some putts to go in there. 


Q.  It's been a nice week? 

VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, it was a good start.  A little disappointed.  I really wanted to play well here and I thought I played well.  I just didn't score the way I probably should have.


Q.  What does the membership mean to you?

VIJAY SINGH:   I'm part of the European Tour for good now, and I can come back here whenever I want to. 


Q.  You've always enjoyed Europe?

VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, I still call Europe my home tour.  I play in America and live there, which was a big thing.  Now that I'm a member, I can just come and go whenever I please.  But it was good of them to give it to me. 


Q.  A good finish, good tournament, but a frustrating day in some ways? 

VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, same as yesterday.  Hit the ball really good.  Thought I was going to play well when I teed off.  Didn't get the breaks I needed.  I hit the ball good.  Didn't make the putts.  You need to make putts when you are playing well.  I just didn't do that. 


Q.  Three birdies in a row, though, on the way back in.  That must have given you hope that that could yet happen?

VIJAY SINGH:   I looked up and I only dropped one.  Caddy got excited.  I got excited.  But even then, I hit good shots coming in.  When you do that, you need the putts to go in.   But all in all, it was a good week, and I enjoyed playing back here in Europe and meeting the old guys.  I like this golf course.  Never played it this firm and hard for a long, long time, which was surprising.


Q.  I suppose you have to admire Oldcorn.  He's under all sorts of pressure, but seems at the moment to be holding on well?

VIJAY SINGH:   Yeah, he's been around for a long time.  He's won golf tournaments; so he knows how to win.  Just that he has not won for a long time, which is probably giving him a little bit of pressure, but Faldo seems to be playing well again.  So, it's going to be a good finish. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT