WORLDCOM CLASSIC--THE HERITAGE OF GOLF
April 13, 2001
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VIJAY SINGH:  The golf course played pretty much the same yesterday.  The wind kind of got up a little bit in the latter part of the round, but the greens were rolling nice and I putted well again.  Played well, played a little better than today.  I didn't do too many miss-hits today.  Got a little bit rushed by the official on the last 2, three holes, it kind of messed up my rhythm.  But apart from that, I am okay.  
 
 
Q.  Why was he moving you along?  Why was he bothering you?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  He was bothering me.  We got behind, we had Glen and Bernhard, on the very first hole, second hole, and they turned up when we were way behind and instead of turning up just  -- I don't like to be rushed.  I am a fast player but if I get any quicker I get rushed.  I thought it was a little bit unfortunate for me that they showed up.  I wasn't in a very good frame of mind when playing the shot on 18 because I felt like I was always on the run.  I shouldn't feel that way, but because I am a fast player I don't like to be harassed.  I think they should have showed up a lot earlier than they did.  
 
Q.  Was one of your playing partners struggling or something?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  No, Bernhard, as you know is not the fastest player in the world, neither is Glen Day, so, they are not slow, but they get deliberate at times.  But thank God I was on the team, otherwise we would still be out there (laughter). 
 
Q.  Any changes in the course conditions for you today as opposed to yesterday?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  The wind was pretty much the same, no.  Early part when we started off, the wind was a little bit different, but went back the way it was blowing yesterday.  Once you get out in the open it is a lot stronger like on 18, so  -- but the course is playing great, great condition, the greens are unbelievable.  All we need to do is hit good shots and make a lot of birdies because they are out there.  If you hit the greens, the greens are rolling so well that you always feel like you are going to make putts when you are on the green. 
 
Q.  Seems like you have been in this similar position for the last six or seven weeks, you know, in contention, ready to strike it.  Are you going to do anything to, maybe do something to close it out maybe a little bit better this week?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  You can't really force it.  If you start forcing it then you are going to go backwards.  All you can do is go out there and play your own game, play solid shots, hit fairways and greens.  That is what I need to do.  I think if I do that, the way I am putting I think I have a very good chance of shooting another low round tomorrow if I do that.   But if I start forcing things to happen, then it can  -- this golf course is so tight it can bite you very quickly.  I just made one birdie on the front nine.  I wasn't impatient.  I just kept on plugging along and I made birdies when I got chances to.  I think that is how you got to play this golf course.  You have to be very patient and wait for your chance. 
 
Q.  Does it surprise you at all with as well as you are playing and as many times as you have been real close in contention that you haven't won a couple of times already?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  I don't know, the guys are playing really well.  You cannot make mistakes coming down the stretch and I have been making one or two mistakes down the stretch, but I haven't been in that much of a position to win golf tournaments like I did at TPC and I think I was -- at Doral, I had an awful third round or fourth round.  I am in position right now where I can go ahead and play the weekend and be in contention.  The rest of the weeks I have been always catching up to the leaders.  I am in better position now than I have been in any other golf tournament. 
 
VIJAY SINGH:  I did win twice but it wasn't over here, so....  (Laughs). 
 
Q.  Last year after winning The Masters how much different is it mentally this year?  Last year had to be a little bit tough coming here.
 
VIJAY SINGH:  I think I was a little bit more  -- I would say more relaxed last year because winning The Masters it didn't  -- I was on top of the world over here, so didn't really matter if I didn't win or not.  I came to play a round of golf here.  But this week I am a little bit more into it.  I want to win the golf tournament so  -- last year doesn't mean I wasn't that I wasn't trying last year.  I did try to win the golf tournament.  But this year I haven't won on this Tour and I want to win, so I am putting a little bit more pressure on myself, so....  I want to win.  I would like to win anyway.  
 
Q.  Having gone through that last year and now this year, is it not surprising to you that most times if they come over here, Masters champions don't win  -- maybe one won once --
 
VIJAY SINGH:  They played well. 
 
Q.  Bernhard did it.  Maybe Faldo played okay.
 
VIJAY SINGH:  You are always on a high when you are coming off that.  The thing you need to do is get off to a good start if you are coming off a win.  If you do that you get the momentum back again.  Last year I didn't play  -- I don't think I played great the first two days, something like that, so I had no momentum going into the last day, the weekend.  This year I feel a little different.  I am rolling the putts well and I am playing well and I am pretty calm.  Keep those officials away I will be even better.  All right?  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT