MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 12, 2001
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH: Played well. Played the par 5 really well. I think I birdied every one,
eagled the fifth and birdied the rest. I hit most of them in two, which is good, I think.
That's what you need around here. 

Q. You hit all of them in two? 

VIJAY SINGH: (Nodding head.)

Q. Any of the par 4s in one?

VIJAY SINGH: I got to the front edge on No. 12. I putted it up there. 2-putted that
one. Really wasn't that many birdies. Made a par 4, hitting the greens, making the putts.
A lot of long 2-putts. That was it, I guess, long 2-putts.

Q. For long-hitters, there's like six or seven really good birdie chances out here,
aren't there?

VIJAY SINGH: Yeah. If the wind blows, I think it favors the longer hitters because we
can get up on to the par 5. If the wind doesn't blow, everybody else gets up on the par
5s. It's a good track. I just hope the wind doesn't blow too hard, blows like it did
today, then I have a chance of playing. If it blows too hard, we are kind of doing too
much things with the ball. You're trying to control the ball too much, and that's not what
we want, you know. 

Q. How was the eagle?

VIJAY SINGH: It was on 5. I hit a driver, 5-iron, I think, 25 foot, made it. 

VIJAY SINGH: Driver, 3-wood on to the green, about 35 feet, 2-putted. What was the
other one? 

VIJAY SINGH: 15, I hit driver, 5-wood, again about 40 feet, 2-putted. 18, I hit driver,
4-iron, again about 50 feet, 2-putted that one. I 2-putted on No. 12. Front edge of the
green, hit 3-wood, 2-putted that one for birdie. 

Q. Ernie and you are obviously top players. Do you think it's any coincidence that you
played last week and now are leading this week?

VIJAY SINGH: I don't know. You know, we get into a competitive mode from last week.
Again, everybody else that's playing here has been practicing or doing some sort of work
before coming over here. I played the golf course before. I think whoever's going to play
well here played the golf course well before. There's quite a few guys that has been
playing here in the Kapalua event that has been going on forever. It's more local
knowledge than anything else. The wind conditions and the greens, you have to know where
the breaks are.

Q. Was the wind the same direction as yesterday?

VIJAY SINGH: Changed a little bit. Towards the later half, it changed a little bit. 17
was not playing straight down, it was more across. 18, as well. It kind of changed a
little bit. Pretty much the same direction. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT