THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY
November 4, 2000
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
VIJAY SINGH:  I played extremely well.  I missed I think two fairways, two fairways, hit almost all the greens.  Had a lot of chances.  I am disappointed with 65, how about that?  I mean, if you had been watching, I hit a lot a lot of good shots and a lot of good opportunity for birdies, and it came up short or shaved the edges, but I will take it, though. 
 

Q.  You are playing and your body language or so different than they were two years ago.  What has gone on since the Presidents Cup to you?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  Playing a little better.  That is it.  I am really comfortable with what I am doing right now.  I was playing well at The Presidents Cup. I wasn't making the putts.  Guys playing against me were playing better than me.  So it is totally a different game here.  I feel at ease with my game,  hitting the ball really good.  Whenever you do that, you feel comfortable.  That is what I feel right now. 
 

Q.  After your great play here last year you have a history of courses where you have played well that you really like, you come back, and usually play pretty well on them strong like that.  Obviously you like this course and it suits your game?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, I think it is a tough golf course if you are not hitting the ball well.  If you are missing the fairways, like I said, yesterday the key is to get the ball in play.  If you do get the ball in play, we all hit the ball a long ways.  If you drive the ball off the tee, going in with pretty much short iron to medium irons, with the greens as good as they are, you can always knock in 15, 10-footers. That is why the scoring is good for me over here. 
 

Q.  How secure are you with your putting now?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  Pretty good.  As many putts as I have missed today, most of them are very good putts.  The only putt that I did not like was the one on 17 that I didn't trust my line and instead of changing the ball line, I just went ahead and hit it. I over hit it.  But I was very comfortable with all my strokes I hit today.  It is an exciting time for me when I am feeling that comfortable.  
 

Q.  You looked relaxed out there.  Do you ever get nervous and what do you do to counteract?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  I guess you get nervous before you tee it off.  You get the butterflies, like I said, many a times if you are playing well.  If you are comfortable with the game, you don't have to be nervous.  You let your game do the worrying.  I feel really comfortable.  I am playing well - hitting the ball well.  When you are doing those things, you just go out there and try to play the best you can, and I am not nervous at all because I am hitting the ball good.  Hopefully I feel the same way tomorrow. 
 

Q.  As confident as you are and as well as you are playing right now, do you like your position that you are going into this final round?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  My goal is to go out there and win tomorrow.  That is what my goal was when I came over here.  I am playing really good.  I can't play any better.  All I need to do is make more putts.  And with the position I am in, if I hit the ball like today, make some putts, nobody is going to beat me tomorrow. 
 

Q.  This is the first time you and Tiger have gone head-to-head in two weeks.  You know, is there a thought of a rematch at all in your mind from The  Presidents Cup?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  Not at all.  I am going to go out there and my goal tomorrow is to go and win the golf tournament.  If Tiger plays better than me than I can't do anything about it.  I am going to go out there and try -- play the best golf I am capable of. I cannot dictate how he plays or how feel Phil is going to play.  He is one shot back.  But you know, I am not worried about how everybody else is going to play.  I am just going to worry about how I am playing and right now I am pretty comfortable with the way I am playing.  I think that is a good sign for me. 
 

Q.  Will there be any incentive for you tomorrow when his caddie shows up with a "Vijay Who" cap on him?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  I will probably fire him. 
 

Q.  When is the last time this year you felt as good about your game as you do right now, a couple of weeks, a month?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  I felt my game has been really good, but my putting has not been.  After The Presidents Cup I started lining my ball up with -- I marked my ball with a marker pen and I am lining my ball up that way.  That has been the downfall.  When I start rolling the putt well, it feeds right through my  game.  Now I don't worry about 6, 8-footers, if I get the right line, start the ball on line, I have a good chance of making the putts instead of worrying about if I am going to hit it on line.  I think that is the key for my game right now.  I am rolling the ball where.  I am aiming and that is -- that shows. 
 

Q.  How long has it been since you felt that good with the putter, the Masters?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  Pretty long time.  Masters is one week that it was a one-off week that I putted well.  After The Masters I did not putt well.  That is why I changed my putter.  But this is probably the best I have felt.  I like the way I am putting. Taking it from Zinger the way he is putting.  I feel really comfortable and the more I putt, I feel more and more at ease with it.  I think it is a good way that I am putting and hopefully it is going to do me good. 
 

Q.  Do you feel a different level of respect or appreciation from fans now after The Masters here as opposed to like two years ago when you were walking the property?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  Obviously they congratulate me about The Masters a lot more here because obviously I won.  They have been really good the first time I came  over here.  I think they are a nice bunch of people here.  They understand golf a lot more over here. 
 

Q.  There has been talk on Americans being reluctant to travel a lot at certain times of the year.  You have played a -- has your schedule this year been busier than usual after The Masters?  Seems like you were in Europe for a long time this summer...
 
VIJAY SINGH:  After PGA, I took two weeks off, played Asia a week, came back for a week, went to Europe for two more weeks.  But those trips are just an eight-hour plane ride.  I don't mind that at all. I love playing in Europe.  I played there for a long time.  I enjoy playing.  I enjoy travel and playing. I have done it all my life.  I don't feel uncomfortable when I fly over there and play a round straightaway.  It takes me a day, if that, to get used to the time zone. 
 

Q.  You don't feel tired at this point of the year?
 
VIJAY SINGH:  No, I am a well-trained athlete.  (laughs) (laughter). 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT