THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2011
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Great start, 6-under par 65, eight birdies, throw out that double-bogey and it's a wonderful day.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, it wasn't easy out there, swirling wind and the rain delay. Played very well. I managed my game good and I putted nicely.   
  
  Q. How different was the course before and after the rainstorm?  
 VIJAY SINGH: It was not that much different.  
 but we know that your lines -- you just needed to control that.   
  
  Q. I was in Greensboro with you last week, you were tied for 4th, you're feeling better, practicing, playing good golf?  
 VIJAY SINGH: I'm not hurting my back as much, that's the good thing. I can play a lot more freer. So I can focus on my game now.   
  
  Q. 6-under par, great start?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Thank you. I played nicely. I hit the ball from tee-to-green pretty nice and I'm putting well right now so it makes a big difference.   
  
  Q. The early double --  
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, lucky it was early in the round. I came back with a birdie on the next hole so kind of calmed things down. So besides that, I struck the ball really good. Hit a lot of nice putts.   
  
  Q. How do you feel coming in this late in the season, do you feel pretty good?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I don't hurt as much anymore. Doesn't mean I don't hurt. But the back's a lot better and that's the big thing. It makes a big difference when you are hitting the ball that hard trying to swing, so I can swing more freely now.  
  
  Q. Have you cut down on your practice time on the range, the stuff you've been doing all these years --  
 VIJAY SINGH: Trying to practice, you know, with an abbreviated swing, so I was trying to maneuver that around and tried to get used to that. Now I'm starting to swing the way I used to swing. The back, it's a nasty thing, I don't -- care who it is, once you get a back pain -- now it's not hurting, you know, touch wood.   
  
  Q. Wear and tear or a single hurt, hurt in the rough or fall off a bike --  
 VIJAY SINGH: As you get older, bulge disk, that's kind of what -- if you're not playing golf, it's fine, but if you're hitting the ball day-in, day-out, it's going to take a toll.  
 25 years without an injury, I've lost track of knee surgeries --  
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I thought I was bionic man, you know, but the amount of practice you put in, sooner or later it's going to take its toll and now I'm paying for it. But you know I'm physically quite fit but I get away with a little bit more than, you know --  
  
  Q. Are you worried that your back might act up a little bit?   
 VIJAY SINGH: I used to. Now, after the therapy I've went through, I have no pain at all, which is really good. I can get up in the morning and not feel the pain. I can feel my back now and not the pain, so that's pretty good.  
  
  Q. What does the weather do to your mentality?   
 VIJAY SINGH: We were expecting that. The first two days we played, it was kind of soft, as well. So we knew what we were supposed to do. Shorter irons are going to be an issue, spinning back and all that. But you know, if you are prepared for it, I think it's okay.  
  
  Q. If you were in charge of the impending weather that we are supposed to have, what would you do?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Just rough it out I guess. There's nothing else we can do. We can play till Tuesday, which is a big thing, so hopefully it's going to miss us. You never know.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT