BUICK CLASSIC
June 7, 2000
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH: Except for the 5th hole, everything else is pretty good. The golf course
has dried out tremendously. I mean, if you had not known that it rained so much here, you
probably wouldn't have figured that one out because the greens are playing just right. A
lot of fairways are very dry -- not dry, but I mean it's not wet. I think it's going to be
-- I think once we start off tomorrow, I think it will be very playable. 

Q. Are you wearing contacts? 

VIJAY SINGH: No. I'm not.

Q. Did you do the laser surgery? 

VIJAY SINGH: Yes, I did. 

Q. So between the Memorial when we asked you, you did laser surgery?

VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, just the way I putted the last day at Memorial, I thought I should
do something drastic, and this is it. I had it done a week ago, a week or two go. 

Q. How is it? 

VIJAY SINGH: It's okay. I have to trust my reads a little bit. Trying to focus a little
bit better. Always trying to look at things a little differently now. But getting used to
it. I've worn glasses for six, eight years, and I always wore dark glasses; so getting
used to the light is going to be a little bit of a factor.

Q. Some of the players who have had the surgery say that for some reason the hole looks
bigger. 

VIJAY SINGH: I hope it looks bigger to me tomorrow. You know, I don't know, I think you
read the breaks a little bit more. You see things that you don't really see on the greens.
And I think that's -- I don't think you see it any better. I think you just notice it a
little bit more. Right now, I'm just getting used to the depth, without glasses. I think
if you wear contacts, it's a little bit easier to go to the surgery instead of wearing
glasses because the depth -- the distance between the ball is a little -- the first time I
went out to the range, I must have hit about 10 shots straight heavy, fat. Getting used to
that is going to be a little bit different.

Q. Are you seeing 20/15?

VIJAY SINGH: I'm going to go out and check that out this afternoon, my final check-up.
See what the real deal is.

Q. What were you before?

VIJAY SINGH: I was minus-one-point-something in both eyes. A little bit of corrective
stigmatism. 

Q. Can you talk about the difference of playing the week before a major to get ready
and why you prefer that, as opposed to some guys who elect to sit out?

VIJAY SINGH: It depends on what golf course we play. If you notice, if we play a
different golf course than Westchester, not too many -- the fields are not as strong as
this. The greens over here is very similar to Pebble. It's poa annua greens, a lot of
undulation on them. It's a tight golf course. Normally we don't play a links golf course
like Pebble, which suits the -- the preparation for the Open. But this year, it's going to
be a different golf course. We're going to a links-type golf course. This is always a very
good test of golf, and if you play well here, you know, you're going with a lot of good
feeling to the Open. I think it's one of those problems we've had for a long time; so it's
going to be a really good time. The rough is up, which is always good. I think you have to
put a lot of attention on your driving here because there it's going to be the same thing.
If the wind blows, it's going to be very similar.

Q. Aside from the fact that you always play well here, what do you like most about this
course? 

VIJAY SINGH: I think it's an old-design golf course, traditional golf course, where I
think you need to shape the ball a lot more. Ball-striking is a factor here. If you're not
hitting the ball well, you're going to shoot a very high score. And ball placement on the
green; you've got to know where to hit it on the greens. If you hit it 20 feet past the
pin and it's downhill, it's not going to be a very easy 2-putt. Normally, 20 feet is a
birdie opportunity. A lot of doglegs where you need to shape the ball. So it's a very good
test of golf over here.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT