DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 2, 2000
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I played pretty good. I did everything good. I missed a few drives. I
think I missed three drives all day. I made a birdie out of one of them. I rolled the ball
well, putted really nicely. Greens are playing so good this morning. If you get the ball
on line, have a good read, you are bound to make a putt. The golf course is in great
condition. It is enjoyable to play a golf course like this again for a change. 
 
Q. Must be nice to see the ball roll to the cup as opposed to the last two, three
weeks?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I think it is nice to see the ball; without any mud on the ball also
on the fairways. I think when I got here on Tuesday the first shot I took, I wanted to
take my tee out and mark the ball. We have been doing that for the last four weeks. But
also the golf course, I think they did a great job to the golf course and nothing but
praise for the guys that did the work on the course. 
 
Q. How big of an adjustment is it when the Tour changes regions from like from the West
Coast to here, different grass, different topography?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: We play, Hawaii, which has pretty much the same environment like this.
Then we go to the West Coast. The West Coast, it is so wet. Just nice to see the ball
rolling on the fairways and we are so used to the conditions over here every year, I think
it is not a big change, but just the wetness of the golf course on the West Coast, that
really makes the difference coming here and see the ball react the way it is supposed to. 
 
Q. How many times did you come back to Florida during the West Coast Swing?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: Every year I have been here. How long about? 
 
Q. During the West Coast Swing - I am sorry - how long did you come here and head back
out? 
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I played two in Hawaii, then came back; then played two more after
AT&T, came back home. Then Doral and -- I mean, Nissan and Match Play. Match Play was
a short trip for me. So it was almost one week deal for me there, Nissan, so.... 
 
Q. Is that about as bad as you felt. I have heard guys say that losing in the first
round is far worse than missing cuts?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I didn't play badly. I played -- I think I shot 1-under, 2-under with
Duffy, but Duffy played really good. If I played really badly then I would have probably
felt bad. But I didn't play badly. I would have beat half the field. I was very
disappointed losing to Duffy, but then I wanted to get out of there, so it was all right. 
 
Q. Did you finish up in the rain?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: Just before. 
 
Q. What are you putting with now?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I got a new putter. This was the fourth -- third competitive round with
it. I putted on the weekend on Sunday with it, Nissan. It is called Dandy, so it is just
another putter. A guy gave it to me. It is rolling good for me. 
 
Q. What kind is it?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: It is Dandy. It was dandy today. 
 
Q. How many putters do you think you have used in your professional career?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't know. 
 
Q. Good guess?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: Quite a few. I have no clue. 
 
Q. 50?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: Probably, yeah. 
 
Q. Does it have different metals, one on the outside, and one on the inside, this
putter?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't know. It is a different concept, you know. I am putting well with
it. If I putted bad with it, I'd probably change. Just another putter. It is working for
me right now. 
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I hit two drivers just front edge, pitched it about a foot. Then I hit a
pretty good shot. Then I 3-putted; hit it four feet but missed it on 13. Then I birdied
the par 3, hit 7-iron, 15 feet, then I hit driver sand wedge to probably two-and-a-half
foot on the next, 16. 16, right? 
 
 VIJAY SINGH: 17, I hit a driver, sand wedge to about 6, 7 feet maybe. 10th hole, I hit
two drivers in the bunker, driver, driver green-side bunker, pitched out to about six
inches. I hit 4-iron about 20 feet, holed it. 5, I hit a driver, 9-iron about 30 foot,
made it. 8, I hit driver 3-wood just short of the green, pitched it about eight foot, made
it. That was it. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT