WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 1999
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VIJAY SINGH: It's pretty tough. The wind was all gusty. We have to -- I started making
some putts, which helped a lot. I birdied the second hole from pretty close range. And
then birdied the 4th and 5th so that settled me down. And I had a good round. I know the
golf course, because I played here quite a few times before. So I knew what I needed to
do, what clubs to hit most of the time.

VIJAY SINGH: I don't know. I can't remember what I shot the other times. But this seems
to be one of the low ones, yes. I'm pleased with that.

Q. Vijay, you said yesterday you thought the greens were slower than you remembered
them. Most people disagreed with you. Do you still feel they're slower than they used to
be?

VIJAY SINGH: I don't know, maybe I got used to fast greens. But when I did come here on
Tuesday, it was a lot slower than I know the greens over here. I don't know what they're
rolling, probably 10 and a half or 11. But normally they would be a lot smoother and a lot
faster. But I still think they're slower than what I remember them.

Q. Vijay, you're saying it's a course you know quite well, is it a course you like, as
well?

VIJAY SINGH: When you play well, you like it. I liked it today. It's a golf course
where you need to place the tee shots and iron shots precisely. And with the small greens,
if you hit a lot of iron shots toward the middle of the greens, you're going to have short
birdie putts. And that's what I remember about the golf course, is you don't need to fire
the flags on the front side, and that's what I did very well.

Q. Vijay, can you think of courses that place such demands?

VIJAY SINGH: Most major golf courses have a lot more rough where you need to be on your
toes in every type of play, especially this one here. This is a golf course where a lot of
trees come into play. You may hit a very good tee shot and then you've got to deal with a
tree on the next shot. Like the second hole, you hit it alongside of the tree, you're
going to be dealing with the trees. You need to be on your toes, you need to be aware
where you have to hit the balls and where everything is. You may have a very short birdie
putt on this hole, if you're on the wrong side of the hole it will be very hard to 2-putt.
And with the slope and the speed of the greens, it's a very good test of golf, this one
is. If you're not playing well, you can shoot a very high score here.

Q. Has it got to the stage where (inaudible.)

VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, in a way he kind of -- you keep a lookout on what he's doing. But
when you're playing well you're not really thinking about what they're scoring. But I'll
go back down and see what the rest of the guys are doing later today. But there's
scoreboards around the golf course, so you're aware of how people are doing. I think
everybody will be more interested in what Monte is shooting, because he's won this
tournament quite a few times and played well on this golf course.

VIJAY SINGH: (Inaudible.) I played with him one time in the States. I like playing with
him. He's really a nice chap to play with. And we talk a lot, unlike other players who you
don't have conversations with. With Sergio you always have something to talk about.
Unfortunately he didn't play as well as he wanted to. Yeah, it was a good day.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT