THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2018
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How good does it feel to finish strong and put yourself in position for the weekend?  
VIJAY SINGH: Good to finish.  The winds are picking up a little bit, so it's getting a little bit more difficult coming in.  But you know, it was pretty gettable on the front nine, and I bogeyed the first hole, chunked it in the water and missed a lot of putts.  But you know, got myself together and I made two birdies, so I think it was 13 and 14.  So just hung in there.  Had chances, but very happy, very happy to be done, and hopefully the weather holds up tomorrow so we can have a good tournament.   
 Q.  You were mentioning the conditions.  How important was that draw to you as far as these guys going out this afternoon and where you think you might end up?  
VIJAY SINGH: I don't know.  Anything can change here, if it does start raining.  It was calmer weather this morning, but it was all foggy.  So it's kind of disappointing because we had to wait so long to go out there and play.  We were fired up, and I woke up at 4:30 in the morning to get ready, and tee time was after 12:00, so kind of hang about, hang about, hang about, but that's the way it goes.  But like I said, I'm happy to be done and just looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  Do you feel more comfortable navigating this course, you mentioned ball striking is a strength for you.  Are you good for the next 36?  
VIJAY SINGH: Yeah.  If it doesn't rain I'm good.  I don't think anyone wants to play in the rain.  I don't mind if it blows, but rain and wind is going to be challenging.   
 Q.  Is there one thing, Vijay, that you would like to shore up for the weekend as far as your game goes?  
VIJAY SINGH: I hope my putting holds up.  I'm putting well and putting a lot of effort on the putting.  Driving the ball good.  Iron play is pretty good.  So I just hope my putting holds up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT