THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 4, 1999
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I had a good momentum going with Payne, he started off with five straight
birdies, and I had four after five as well. So I mean we kind of fed each other with good
shots, and just kept going like that. And played really good. One was on 11 where I got
lucky with my drive, over the ditch and laid up. Tried to go for the green, knocked it in
the water. So that was more or less a -- I don't know what kind of error you call that,
half unlucky, I guess. But played pretty good, played solid. I'm playing really good. So
that's the good thing about my game right now. I'm striking the ball really good. 
 
Q. I just want to clarify. Did you get into the water with your layup or with your
third?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I laid up, okay, then I tried to go for the green and the club -- well, I
thought my 7-iron was going to fly, it was 165 to the front. And it came out really soft.
It was a bad, bad double. I mean, especially when you know you can at least agree with a
3-wood on mid lie. 
 
Q. Tell us about 15.
 
 VIJAY SINGH: Pretty good drive, nice smooth drive up the middle, hit a 5-iron to about
6 feet. And followed it up with a bogey on the next hole. Wrong club off the tee, went to
the wrong side of the sand wedge, it was really downhill and I had to go to the bunker
from my first cut. So it was regulation I guess -- 
 
Q. What did you hit there?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: 4-iron. I should have gone to the 5-iron to keep it out of the back
bunker. Once you go to the back bunker, it's almost an automatic bogey. 
 
Q. So do you think you and Payne, good momentum, you think you kind of fed off each
other? The fact that he was playing well helped you play well?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: We hit good shots. He birdied -- we both birdied one. We both birdied two.
He birdied 3. We both birdied 4, we both birdied 5. You know, just went on like that. And
we both birdied 8. He birdied 7. He bogeyed 6, which was unfortunate. But we hit good
shots after good shots. Then Lee kind of came in there late, you know, birdied -- he
birdied 6 -- he birdied 5. Then eagled 11 and then birdied 15. So I mean he was playing
very steady. He wasn't doing too much wrong, just wasn't making the birdies that we were.
But it was unfortunate, he made the double in the last. 
 
Q. Vijay, you appear to like this course fast and hard. How do you change your play and
strategy compared to the way it's been playing in the recent years?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't know. I think, you know, it's playing hard and fast like it's
doing now. It's not that fast. It's fast enough. But you just restrict yourself off the
tees. There's a lot of holes where you really don't need a driver. It's very wet, you
almost tend to get drivers wherever possible. Here, you don't really need it. 18th hole
today, we hit, you know, 3-woods into the wind, so into the wind you can go ahead and do a
driver and still be okay. 
 
Q. How many holes did you hit driver today?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I hit quite a lot of drivers. I was driving the ball very well, I felt
comfortable hitting drivers. I must have hit eight drivers out there. It was colder in the
morning, so the first nine was a little longer.  
 
Q. Vijay, how do you guys handle the situation out here with the greens, where you're
going from older greens and then you get into the newer greens and then you get into the
older greens, finishing out the round? Is it something that you have to make yourself
remember? Does your caddie remind you, hey, we're coming into a different green here or
what?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: We play almost the same, you know, same golf. The speed of the greens are
pretty much the same. You know, it's how the ball reacts when it lands on the green. The
newer greens, the ball kind of releases a little bit more. But they are getting really
fast, they're very consistent. To me, it didn't make any difference. You know, like some
of the holes probably, 17 and 18, if you get on the wrong side of the green there, they're
older greens and they can get really hard and just, you know, can get really extremely
fast. But right now, today, the morning, they all played very consistent. I think it's
going to do some -- the older greens probably get more firmer and much faster in the
afternoon than it does in the morning. But I handled it okay. It was no different there. 
 
Q. Was it a different course today than it was yesterday? You had to play a little
differently. How was that?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: We just played the same golf. Golf ball doesn't change. The wind was in a
different direction obviously. It was more into the wind on the first couple holes, then I
guess it was downwind. Played the same, just stick to your game plan and play the golf
course like it does. The wind changes, that's all that really changes the golf course. 
 
Q. And your game plan is?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: Just hit the fairways, hit the greens, make the putts. (Laughing) That's
the best you can. 
 
Q. Vijay, does winning the PGA change your mental approach to preparing for major
championships now? You're geared up more for Pinehurst, more than before?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I guess. Once you win, you focus more on the majors than before. I mean, I
feel I really look forward to playing the majors now, since I won one. I always looked
forward before as well, but especially now. I think, you know, when you win one, I think
you can win another one. So you kind of really gear up for it. My game plan right now is
kind of preparing for the U.S. Open, I got a week off next week and, you know, go up there
early and see the golf course. Have to do what the golf course requires, how you're going
to chip on the greens if you miss it and things like that. 
 
Q. What are you working on specifically now and what are you happy with as it relates
to your golf game?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: I'm consistent with all my irons and my driver. I'm a bit worried with my
putter. I feel like I'm putting really good, but it's not consistent enough to go out
there and, you know, feel comfortable. You know, I felt very comfortable when I changed
the cross handle, but the last few weeks I've been missing a lot of short putts and that
plays in your mind when you're staying with it. I'm kind of getting over it. The more I
play, the more comfortable I feel. I've been practicing a lot more on my putts than I've
ever done. It has given me a little more confidence. 
 
Q. Are you using the same putter you did when you won the Honda? I remember you
switched in the middle of that tournament.
 
 VIJAY SINGH: No, it's a similar putter but not the same one. 
 
 VIJAY SINGH: Thank you. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT