WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2011
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Vijay, nice playing out there. Drove it well, you putted it well. Kind of a secret, isn't it?
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah. I'm finally pain-free for a change so I can work on my game a little bit more freely and last week was disappointing but it was a trial thing, came back from Germany. I didn't know how I was going to be. My back is fine and game is coming around. I'm excited.

 Q. It looked good. Were you surprised when you got to the first green today and you saw Jim putting with a putter that looked just like yours?
 VIJAY SINGH: I saw him using it last week. Really didn't surprise me. I wasn't watching anyway. No, you know, it was a good start. He played well. It was a good day.

 Q. How is the golf course playing?
 VIJAY SINGH: It's good. I'm surprised there's that many low scores out there. Didn't look like it was that easy during the practice rounds. Every Tom, Dick and Harry shot under par. I guess mine is very average round.

 Q. It was good. Also fun to watch.
 VIJAY SINGH: Thanks. 
 I drove the ball very well. Missed one fairway, made a birdie out of it. But played solid from tee to green. I think I was very solid. Putted well.

 Q. You had your back surgery in Germany. I saw you all week seemed to be smiling a lot more, enjoying life. Maybe your game is better. How are the back issues?
 VIJAY SINGH: Been getting out of bed and crawling on to the ground first. It makes a big difference. It freed up my whole back. 
 Now I can hit the way I want to do it, my swing, and I can work on my golf swing the way I would like to and working a lot better. I feel like, you know, it's good.

 Q. With that rejuvenation as you move towards The Playoffs --
VIJAY SINGH: You know, you cannot play with injury. I thought I could but you can't. It's been the whole two years now. I like the way I hit the ball, I like the way -- I'm a lot more positive now. Putting well is a big part of my game. Looking forward to the next few weeks.

 Q. 5-under par. Talk about your ball striking. Seemed pretty good out there.
 VIJAY SINGH: It was pretty good. I hit a lot of fairways that you need over here to get a good scoring going, I need to hit fairways. That's what I did. Need to putt well as well. And especially everybody is under par, you know, you want to get under par and I'm very happy with my round.

 Q. Little bit of a lull in the middle. Just a nice good start to get into The Playoffs.
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah. I had some issues with my back in the middle of the year and even four, five weeks ago I pulled out of a tournament but I'm feeling good now, the golf swing is coming along and putting is coming along, too. I'm really excited for The Playoffs. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT