NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 20, 2011
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You had a great wedge at 11 that set you up for birdie. When you made birdie there did you think, okay, I'm still in this thing?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I was right in there then, and then tough holes to come after that, and then I just played 12, 13 badly. I hit a good drive on 12 and hit a terrible second shot, wrong club actually.  
  
  Q. Bogart Tree got you.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, right behind that. And then didn't hit a good drive on the next hole, so made bogey.   
 But all in all, I'm pretty satisfied with the way I played, the way I scored. I've got some work to do. I've got a week off next week and see if I can come strong in Honda and pull that off. That's a tough golf course, though.  
  
  Q. It's got to feel good to be back in the hunt on a Sunday.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I haven't had this feel for a long time, but it's really good. I mean, I had a little bit of it in Phoenix but was in there all afternoon today. It was good. I'm feeling good, and I think I've still got it.   
  
  Q. As you mentioned in Phoenix, it was kind of back door on Sunday night while the contenders still had to finish on Monday. You were in the mix all day. It's been a while. How did it feel?  
 VIJAY SINGH: It's feeling pretty good. I was into it. The game is starting to come around, although I wasn't hitting the ball as solid as I wanted to. I was driving the ball good, which was good, putting myself in good position, but my iron play was not very good. But I'm putting well and I'm scoring well. I'm putting well. That's a great, great thing to have when you're putting well. I haven't done that for a long, long time. This is going to get me some places.  
  
  Q. In the fall of '08 when you won the FedExCup you were in jest but other people were trying to get you on record; you were calling yourself the best putter in the world. This week you were statistically.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, I feel that way, too. My putter is working, and I have a good feel on the greens, too. I never played well in Riviera for all these years coming over here. I think I had one or two good finishes. But this is the first time I've played really well. It was because of my putting, and I putted well.   
 I'm looking forward to the rest of the season. I think it's good things to come.  
  
  Q. What would you attribute the good putting to?  
 VIJAY SINGH: A lot of hard work and change of grip. That makes me feel really good. I've got a new putter in the bag, too, so just a different look to the putting. I read the putts really well today.  
  
  Q. What made you change to this particular grip?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, I don't know, just -- it's been a struggle for me all my career with putting. I've had great spells and not so good ones, and I tried to get a grip where I feel really comfortable with, and hopefully this is the one. It anchors my left hand pretty nicely, and I don't have any play with my right. Hopefully -- the way I putted today I think that's the best putting week I've had probably all my career. So putting four good putting rounds together, that's something good.  
  
  Q. What should we call this grip?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Just another grip. I don't know. Just another grip. I don't have any name for it, but if it keeps going in, I don't care what you call it.  
  
  Q. Your goals to start the season, were they different this year than they have been in the past and have they changed now since you've had some early success?  
 VIJAY SINGH: No, not really. I still want to get up there. I've had two years of really bad injuries and bad playing, so I'm feeling very -- I'm feeling healthy. You know, it's just going to take a little while for my golf game to come around, as well. My swing has to feel my body, and it's beginning to do that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT