WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2010
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A continuation of how you played last week?  
 VIJAY SINGH: I think I swung the club better today than I did all last week. I worked a little bit on Monday, Tuesday and yesterday, and I started to find one or two things that I was not doing last week. That's why I hit a lot more loose shots last week.  
 You know, I've got to keep my aggression under control. That's one thing that I've got to figure out; that there's no use hitting it ten yards further. When you can hit it straighter, it's better. That's what I tried to do on last today and came out on top of it.   
 On the whole I'm happy. I'm putting well which is a big part of my game. If I putt well, obviously I'm going to play well. That's my mentality is that way. So hitting my irons good and chipping well.   
  
  Q. As hard as it is to expunge 18 from your mind, do you walk away [] feeling positive?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, you know, I could have played for a bogey. I could have blown it way right. But I tried to play the shot that I planned in my head. But you know, all day, I swung it well. All day I hit a lot of good shots. And you know, making a double on the last, it doesn't leave a good taste in your mouth. But you know, like I said earlier on, thank God it's on Thursday.   
  
  Q. 18 is always one of the harder holes on TOUR. What is it like today?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, they didn't move the tees that far forward, so still if you hit a good drive, you're still going in with a pretty long iron. And the pin placement wasn't that easy. I mean, you couldn't just hit it safe and get up-and-down, because it was front and if I miss it to the right there's a good chance you could hit it into the water. You have to take all of that into account. Even without the wind it's a tough hole. Today it was almost like a par 5.  
  
  Q. Is there a place where you can hit it a mile right on 18?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, with a day like today, making a bogey wasn't too bad. Majority of the field is going to make a bogey on that hole. But when you're playing well, you're not thinking that way.   
 But you know, you can blow it right, and if I had a two-shot lead, I would probably do that, blow it right and just play it safe and try to make my bogey from a hundred yards in.   
 So, you know, today is Thursday. You have to go for it.   
  
  Q. What's the key to good ball-striking?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Just work, working hard and just no injuries, pain-free. Once you're pain-free, you can be a lot more aggressive with your whole body, you know, legs and your upper body, as well.   
 And just working, working at the right stuff, and up there, if you're not hurting, you're going to play well.   
  
  Q. There are reports that Tiger is going to come back at Bay Hill be. What would your reaction be?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Just wait and see.  
  
  Q. Have you heard those reports?   
 VIJAY SINGH: No, I have not.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT