THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 7, 2010
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   VIJAY SINGH: That was disappointing. I probably expected too much, and it didn't play like supposed to have played. But a lot of good times and learned a lot of issues with my golf swing. I did not trust it. Being out of it for so long, didn't feel comfortable with it. But that's a really good step toward next week, week after next and Bay Hill and then coming into the Masters. I think it's a great tune up. A little disappointed but need just a little bit more time. 

 Q. Nice recovery on 6?
 VIJAY SINGH: Missed the putt, but you can't make all the putts. Didn't make that one on 8. Didn't make that one on 9, and I had a chance on 13, as well. 
 You have to look at the positives, and it's a good step towards next week. I think I'm looking forward to next week. I have a good feeling about it and I think the game is coming back. 

 Q. With Camilo starting off so strong and running away quickly, did that have any effect? 
 VIJAY SINGH: No, I knew the golf course, there's a lot of holes to go. I played my game. I didn't really worry about what Camilo was doing. A lot of noise a couple of times. 
 You know, I was just focused on what I was doing, and I just played badly today. I didn't play like I wanted to. 

 Q. You made a couple long putts here this week and you missed a couple short ones, is it just getting back into the zone?
 VIJAY SINGH: There's a lot of positives on the putter. I think I feel really comfortable with it. That's the best I've felt on the putting green for a long, long time this week. 
 So there's a lot of great signs that the more I get used to the putter, the more I start getting into contention, I'm going to be fired up. 

 Q. What are your impressions of Camilo, contending in majors, winning in majors? 
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't know. We'll have to wait and see. He's got a lot of game. We'll have to wait and see. 

 Q. How do you guys think of Doral?
 VIJAY SINGH: It's probably going to be more bermuda than this week. That's a tough golf course. If the wind blows, it perfect he I tough and I've heard they have lengthened a few holes as well, great finishing hole, very tough. You've got to play well there. Every week is a grueling week for us. We just have to go out there and play the golf course and not worry about what the guys are doing. 
 It's a big tournament and one of the ones we look forward to. It's probably one of the -- outside of the majors, one of the ones we look forward to. 

 Q. Do you feel like you have an edge with your experience and how much you've won? 
 VIJAY SINGH: Age doesn't really matter. I hit it as far as they do and probably hit it as good as they do, even better. Just go out and play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT