THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 6, 2010
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 69 today, you're working on what will probably be your best results of the year?  
 VIJAY SINGH: The reason? I enjoy playing in Florida. The weather is a little better. It started cold at the West Coast. It's cold here but I can manage it. And I'm playing well again and I'm feeling healthy, working on a few things on the golf swing, still getting one or two loose shots out there.   
  
  Q. You're always working on one or two things, but the difference has to be that you are healthy.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, I don't have any pain there's no knee pain and no back pain. The back pain came from the knee trying to affect walking, but I'm feeling really good and strong. I've done some good work, and just ready to play.  
  
  Q. How much of a difference does it make when you know you're going to play pain-free? We know what kind of a difference it makes physically, but can there also be a mental effect as well?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, you think you can go out there and manage. I felt my knee was not going to be that much of a problem, but you know, you play two or three weeks and then you find something else is wrong with your golf swing, and you try to protect it without even thinking of affecting it. So end of the day, it's going to become a big distraction.   
 Towards the end of the last season, I was swinging so badly it was a joke. And then I had another surgery done and, you know, no more pain and the swing is coming back again.  
  
  Q. Is this kind of the way you're going, do you figure age is catching up with you or you're not going to give in?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, age, you can never help that, it's always going to catch up. But I think if you keep healthy and fit and your mind is free, I think you're okay.   
  
  Q. The word of the day was a grind, and all of a sudden the conditions worsened and it got colder and windier.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I thought it was going to be okay when we started off, but then the fire, the control burn or whatever it was, kind of made it more colder. And the wind picked up, and one or two loose shots doesn't help either, but I managed and stuck in there and putted nicely. Didn't hit too many loose shots but when I did, I got away with it. Like to have the two shots back on 15 again. But you know, 1-under is not that bad.  
  
  Q. So you make the double bogey at 6, you went through that stretch yesterday where you made back-to-back bogeys but then you came right back, birdie, birdie and you did the same on 8 and 9 today?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I don't know what happened with the second shot. I was trying to finesse it in there and just didn't even put a good golf swing on it. Similar to what I did on 15.   
 But it was good that I figured it out, and you know, coming down the stretch here, I hit some really good shots. You know, 69, I'll take it today and I like my chances tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Three rounds in the 60s; you must be pleased.   
 VIJAY SINGH: I am. The way I've been playing, you know, lately, I feel like I'm breaking through, and I feel like my swing is coming back. It's getting back to where I feel comfortable again, and that's a good sign.   
  
  Q. On a course like this, 69 has to be a good score; what's your feeling after the round?   
 VIJAY SINGH: I feel pleased and disappointed, as well. I thought I was going to go out there and shoot a good one today and be closer to the leader, but it's a tough golf course. I don't know how they are going to set the golf course up tomorrow, and I don't know what the wind is going to do; but all in all, I'm quite pleased.  
  
  Q. How would you prefer they set the golf course up?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, I mean, they can set it up a lot tougher. The first three days hasn't been as tough as the golf course can play but the wind makes up for it, and the today the conditions are colder than when we started off. If you don't make any mistakes, that's the key to coming in over here.  
  
  Q. In terms of game plan, do you think you need to put pressure on the leaders early?  
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't know, just go out there and play my game and play solid. If I go out and shoot 3- or 4-under, even 2-under, see what happens. It's not going to be easy for nobody tomorrow but I'm sure it's going to blow. I'm just going to go out and play solid, try not to make too many mistakes. If you can keep the mistakes to a minimum, I think you'll be okay.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT