CONSTELLATION SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2018
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAURA VESCOVI: Vijay Singh, congratulations.  It's great to have you here as the 2018 Constellation SENIOR PLAYERS Championship winner.  You've tallied another accolade onto your long list of accomplishments.  What does it mean to you to win this tournament, especially it being a major?
VIJAY SINGH: Well, I'm really happy because I'm into the real PLAYERS next year, and it's in March and it's my home.  That's really exciting.  To win the first major on this TOUR, I'm really excited about that.  Winning my first tournament at the beginning of the year was big, and now I've won this one, so I look forward to winning a lot more now.
I always say, the first one, you get the first one out of the way, you can win a lot more after that.
LAURA VESCOVI: Can you take us through that final shot in the second hole of the playoff that you just recreated out there for Golf Channel?
VIJAY SINGH: I had the same yardage the first time around, and I just yanked the shot way left, and I was fortunate that Jeff didn't make his putt.  The second time around, my caddie said, hey, you know, you're the best second-shot player I've ever known because every time you mis-hit a shot, you drop a ball, you hit it really good, and I just took that into account and I just aimed it right at it and hit it, and it just came out perfect.
Q. How does this one feel compared to winning your other majors, your Masters?
VIJAY SINGH: It's a little different.  You know, it's a senior major, you know, so it's -- any time you win a tournament no matter what it is, you feel accomplishment, and that's what I feel.  I feel like I played well, and it's a win.  A win is a win.
Q. Are you aware of having played on the TOUR, like the Masters with the huge crowd, it's not so much of a crowd?  Is that a little bit of an adjustment?
VIJAY SINGH: A little bit.  I think the Champions is a little bit more relaxed.  Most times we play three rounds, and there's not that many crowd out here.  Some weeks you've got a huge amount of crowds, like the U.S. Open had a lot of crowds.  I mean, it wasn't that bad of a crowd.  It was still exciting out there, you know.  Any time you're in the lead or you're close to the lead, you get your blood flowing a little bit.
Q. I think you were bogey-free on the back nine all week.  Talk about that consistency to really keep you right on top of the leaderboard.
VIJAY SINGH: I think I made one bogey all week.  That was yesterday on the 8th hole.  I just played well.  I drove the ball really well.  It's not a difficult golf course from tee to green.  The green concepts are very hard.  There's a lot of slopes on them.  And you give yourself a lot of birdie opportunities out here.  If you can convert them, you're going to shoot under par.  Like today scoring was really low.  The pin placements are a little bit more easier today than the other days.  There was scores out there.
Q. Is it different going toe to toe with a competitor down the line like you were with Jeff today, whereas other times in your career you may have been chasing someone or in the lead?
VIJAY SINGH: You know, the leaderboard was so crowded when we started off.  Jeff took the lead, I think.  He birdied the first hole, and then McCarron was up there, too.  But then after seven, eight holes, I think Jeff was in the lead and I was just one back, and we literally made birdies on the same holes.  And then he made that bogey on 16.  He played really well.  He did not miss a shot except that shot on 16.
So it kind of gave me a little breathing space, and I got a great up-and-down on 17.  But any time you play with somebody that -- if you're chasing or tied with, in the same group, obviously it's like a match play, you know.  So you kind of know what you have to do.  The last shot, I thought I stiffed it but came up short and almost made it.  It was right in front of me.  I knew if I could win or lose, it was right there.  Fortunately for me, Jeff missed a couple of makeable putts on the last hole, so it gave me a chance to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT