THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 4, 2010
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First of all, your first hole of the day, the 10th, the 590-yard par 4, the 10th hole?
 VIJAY SINGH: It wasn't that bad. It played hard the first to days I played here. I hit 3-wood -- today I hit driver, 4-iron. There was no wind, very little wind. Guys going out now, there's more. 

 Q. As you look back from the start of the year, probably your most solid round of the year so far?
 VIJAY SINGH: I didn't play that many. I hit one or too Haas shots and I got away with it. I made some nice saves. On the whole I played really solid golf. I practiced really hard the last few weeks and got a lot out of my game. Feeling good, seeing a lot of potential out there. So driving the ball well again. Be glad to keep it going.

 Q. A lot of people think you hit a lot of balls, but last week at Ponte Vedra, every time I appeared over there, you were on the putting green and working on your short game?
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I think that's the key. I've hit -- I've got to keep my round going by recovery. I get so down on myself if I don't get up-and-down. So I think beginning of the year, my caddie and myself, we wanted to work on that, get my short game going. 

 Q. I want to end all speculation. Everyone is questioning, the physicality, how do you feel? 
 VIJAY SINGH: I feel good. No more pain in my leg, my knee. No more back pains. I think it came from my knee. I'm feeling healthy, I feel good, I'm ready to go.

 Q. You've had so much success in your 40s, how tough has the last year and a half been for you? 
 VIJAY SINGH: Last year was -- I don't know, how can I say, it was a big downer for me. I had a lot of injuries that I had to deal with, and when I played, it kind of made it even worse. So I'm trying to put that away and start new. 
 I'm looking forward to the Florida Swing, and here it's arrived. Worked out hard and practiced hard and I'm ready to go. I think it's going to be a good year, regardless of what I do, I think physically I'm great again, and I have a great trainer that's working really hard getting me in shape. My game is coming around, too. I'm trying to forget last year and make a new start.

 Q. Do you cut yourself some slack because you were injured? You seem to be kind of hard on yourself?
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, not really. My knee never was right all year. I had another operation towards the end of last year, and that got me fixed. 
 Finally I can go down and line a putt again. I haven't been doing that all last year. So it's nice to be fit and ready to go. There's no pain in my knee when I finish a round of golf and I don't have to ice my leg. That's a big factor. 

 Q. When did you have the second procedure? 
 VIJAY SINGH: In December. It was in L.A. 

 Q. Did you come back too soon from the first one? You waited like three weeks; California, and you were playing again by Phoenix. 
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, I followed the doctor's orders, and he said six weeks, go and play. Six weeks I played, but unfortunately I started in February, so it was soggy and muddy. I think I needed to give it another -- should have given it another month. But that's behind me. 

 Q. You got a back injury out of that, too, from compensation?
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, my back was really bad all year and struggling with that. But now I'm healthy and good. 

 Q. What does it mean to you to have that record, the most wins in the 40s? 
 VIJAY SINGH: I'm looking forward to having a few more wins. 
 I didn't start as good as I've wanted to. Played in Riviera and it was rained out, and Pebble, obviously, is always hit and miss. I got knocked out the first round in the Match Play and I was playing really well. So it's a shame. That one, if you don't make enough putts there one day, you're knocked out. 
 But that was actually good; I didn't play Phoenix. I had two weeks off, really worked hard on my game and just getting ready for the Florida Swing and I think I'm going to have a good Florida Swing. 

 Q. Where are you playing, are you playing next week?
 VIJAY SINGH: Four in a row. 

 Q. Great round on a difficult day, and for you, and this course, how do you approach it in these conditions where the wind just kept continuing to battle you guys throughout the day?
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, I haven't -- this is the first time I've played the golf course. The first two days was cold, windy, even more blowing than this. I got the brunt of it when I practiced. Didn't feel that bad today. Sun is out, a little bit warmer. 
 It's one of the tougher golf courses I've played, I think we've played all year. There's no hole out there where you can just ease off. Every hole is grueling and there are a lot of tough holes, and really great par 3s, long par 4s into the wind. So it's a hard golf course where you just need to Buckle down and just play. 

 Q. For you, as you go forward and you're getting closer to that 50 number, but for you, how do you approach years like this and continuing to strive and stay up at the top of the game and the World Rankings? 
 VIJAY SINGH: You just have to be fit in your mind and your body and just move forward. I'm not looking forward to 50. It's a long ways from now. I'm 47 and I feel healthy. I feel fit. My game is better than it's been for a long, long time. I'm really not looking forward to even talking about the Champions Tour now. 
 Kenny Perry had a great season last year and he's almost 50, 49 and I'm a lot healthier and fitter than Kenny Perry, so I think I can go a long ways. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT