CONSTELLATION SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2018
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great finish there on your round.  
VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, thank you.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you to win this tournament, especially considering going back next year we're going Firestone and you have so much history there?  
VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, that would be nice.  It would be nice to win this and get The PLAYERS.  You know, first time it's in March after a while, so that'll be a good goal, too.   
 Q.  Had you played this golf course before?  
VIJAY SINGH: This one?  No, first time.   
 Q.  And how have you like it had so far?  
VIJAY SINGH: It's good.  You got to make a lot of the birdies here.   
 Q.  Yes.  
VIJAY SINGH: You know, it's a putting-fest out here.  Whoever putts the best is going to win.   
 Q.  Did you feel a lot of change in the course from how hot it was yesterday and how it was more wet today?  
VIJAY SINGH: It was more comfortable heat-wise, but the little rain, it's annoying, but you got to deal with it.   
Still, made the course play a little bit easier, too.   
 Q.  Is there anything in particular from your round today that you'll go in and practice at the range later?  
VIJAY SINGH: I wasn't hitting my short irons close enough.  A lot of short irons in the hole and a lot of birdie opportunities, and you got to hit it within ten feet.  I left some way out there, so see if I can fix that.   
 Q.  Champions Tour life, has that made a big change for you?  
VIJAY SINGH: You got to get used to the pace over here.  There are three rounds.  This is a four-round event.  But the pace, a little shorter golf courses.  You got to focus a lot more on your wedges here, and putting obviously.  Everybody has to putt well here.   
You get a lot of chances for birdies, and if you don't make them you're way back in the pack.  That's the hard thing.  Some golf courses are challenging, but mostly it's a pretty -- I wouldn't say easy, but it's, you know, a moderate golf course at best.   
Then you just have to -- it's a shootout out here.   
 Q.  Did you still get caught up in decisions of scheduling?  Do I play here or do I play there?  
VIJAY SINGH: It's getting easier.  I'm leaning more to this side.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT