MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP
January 7, 2009
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Update us on the condition of your knee.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Perfect right now. I rode in the cart all day. It's okay, actually. It doesn't hurt much until I start walking.  
  
  Q. And the future prognosis?   
 VIJAY SINGH: I'm going to have it operated on on Wednesday, and I should be out for three weeks and I'll be okay.   
  
  Q. What is is the exact procedure?  
 VIJAY SINGH: I've got a torn meniscus. I don't know what that means, a torn meniscus. It happened during Tiger's tournament, I think going up and down those hills. Either it happened that week or it just got worse that week, but it's feeling okay now.  
  
  Q. Has it been a problem before?   
 VIJAY SINGH: No, that's pretty much when it started.   
  
  Q. This is such a hilly golf course. Will it be difficult getting through this week?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Only hurts when I walk downhill. Doesn't hurt when I go uphill at all. I'm going to have deal with that.  
  
  Q. Do you anticipate playing any West Coast events?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Planned to play AT&T. If I can come out then, then it will be okay, but I don't know what the doctor is going to tell me. He said my legs are really strong, which is a big advantage, having an operation like that. So I should be all right.  
  
  Q. Where will you have it done?  
 VIJAY SINGH: In Jacksonville, same guy that's doing Fred Funk. I think Fred Funk's leg is not doing as good as he wanted to, but I think my procedure is a lot less complicated.  
  
  Q. Was it an option to just rehab it?  
 VIJAY SINGH: No.   
  
  Q. Did you consider not having surgery?  
 VIJAY SINGH: It had to be done. If it was just a slight tear; but it's quite a big tear, there.   
 At Chevron, went in there and put cortisone in there, and it feels great.  
  
  Q. Had you thought of not playing this week?  
 VIJAY SINGH: No, I'm going to play this week and then I'm going to go back and do it, yes. It doesn't hurt at all. I haven't walked at all this week, so try to walk one or two holes, and then the second hole, I tried to walk it, and it's feeling okay.  
  
  Q. With the PGA drug testing policy, did you have to under the TOUR that you are were on painkillers?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Not really. I think painkillers are diagnosed by the doctor and you take it as you wish. It's not against the policy not to take it.  
  
  Q. What exactly is the surgery? Is it arthroscopic?   
 VIJAY SINGH: It's arthroscopic. It's not that complicated.  
  
  Q. Have they told you how long?   
 VIJAY SINGH: They said I'll be out for three weeks, so that's what I'm planning to do.   
  
  Q. Is that going to be next Wednesday?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Next Wednesday.   
  
  Q. And did he tell you whether it's a lateral meniscus or which meniscus?   
 VIJAY SINGH: It's inside, I think it's the lateral meniscus.  
  
  Q. You won't be able to work out for a couple of weeks.   
 VIJAY SINGH: My upper body is okay. As long as I don't move my legs.   
  
  Q. How long have you been doing the push-ups with the weight in each hand?   
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I've been doing it. It's a new trainer I have now, so he's got new stuff that I'm going doing.   
 It's different than the last guy I had. Just got to change it up. Otherwise, you're going to be stale. He's doing a good job.   
  
  Q. Who is your new guy?   
 VIJAY SINGH: His name is Junior Tuyo. He used to be an MMA fighter, and now he's been training those guys, so I kind of stole him from those guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT