RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 28, 2017
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice playing.  I'm liking the rhythm with the putter.  Are you putting better?  
VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I'm doing everything good.  Driver let me down today.  I drove it beautifully yesterday.  This is a golf course where you get in the fairway, you can attack pins.  I practiced my putting pretty good last week, so it's working out.   
 Q.  It's tough when it gets wet like this, getting it close on the short holes because of how much spin there is on these greens.  
VIJAY SINGH: Still, the greens are very small.  You've got to be on the fairway.  We can control our spin pretty good.  But you've got to hit the fairways.  Yeah, it looks like we're going to have good weather for the weekend.   
 Q.  Past champion in 2004, probably the most unpopular winner because of Mike Weir, you always said that made you feel sad for him because of how big it would have been for the country.  You could have been in a major this week.  You love this place, don't you?  
VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I've come here a lot of times.  I've played this golf course many a times.  Pretty familiar with what the golf course gives you.   
 Q.  What were the conditions like out there this morning?  Different than yesterday?  
VIJAY SINGH: A little bit more breezy.  I think the first four or five holes we played were pretty calm and then it got a bit easier.  Greens are rolling really well.   
 Q.  It's a golf course where there's a lot of opportunities to take advantage of the par 5s, but these are some of the most difficult fairways to hit on the PGA TOUR every year.  What is it about this?  Looks easy, but hard to hit the fairways.  
VIJAY SINGH: You know, it's easier now when it's soft, it doesn't roll out into the rough.  The greens are small.  It's hard going into the greens on a par 5 if you're in a good position -- you might as well lay up with a wedge.  Going for the greens on the par 5s, it's very, very hard to get up-and-down for a lot of guys.   
 Q.  You won in 2004 and you've had a bunch of really good finishes, and this, believe it or not, 30th round in the 60s, and the only person that had two more is Jack Nicklaus had 32.  What is it about playing the Canadian Open that you like?  
VIJAY SINGH: It's like playing Augusta.  You get to know the golf course.  I know the golf course.  I've played it many a time and I like the golf course.   
 Q.  You're 54 now and I see you working as hard now as you've ever worked.  Where does the passion and drive come?  You've done everything you can do in the sport and you're still grinding as hard as ever?  
VIJAY SINGH: If I turn up at a golf tournament and know that I can't win, I might as well go home.  I just have to work hard and bring it to the golf course.  Otherwise, might as well not show up.  So that's what I'm doing.   
 Q.  You're in a good spot heading into the weekend.  What was the key to putting together a 68 today?  
VIJAY SINGH: Minimized my mistakes.  Hit a lot of fairways yesterday, and front nine today was the back nine -- you've got to make putts.  You've got to make those 6-, 7-, 8-footers, which I did consistently.   
 Q.  You mentioned the putting, and on the first hole, you birdied it with a 32-foot putt?  
VIJAY SINGH: It's the longest one I made all week.  It's nice to make one from a long ways.  It's like a bonus.  Just trying to get close.  Got a good line and it went in.   
You know, the golf course is playing well.  I'm putting well, playing well, so hopefully shootout on the weekend.   
 Q.  What do you like best about coming back here to play?  
VIJAY SINGH: I know the golf course.  The people are very friendly and they know golf.  I just love the golf course.  I've played here so many times.  Very, very familiar with it.   
 Q.  On the Champions Tour, you have a win and a couple of Top-10 finishes.  How does that success translate with the confidence and the play here on the PGA TOUR?  
VIJAY SINGH: It's very different.  Champions Tour is way different than this.  You know, to come over here and play, you've got to bring it.  The guys are not letting up.  No matter what you shoot, they shoot lower.  You just have to get your game and play hard.   
 Q.  Does your success there make you more comfortable here?  
VIJAY SINGH: No, I think it's the other way around.  I think if I'm successful here, it's going to be easier there.  It's a different game, different setup, much shorter golf courses.  But obviously you can freewheel it over there and get that confidence over here.  If you want to try something out, go on the Champions Tour and just try it out, because you don't miss the cut there.  There's no cut.  So that way it's good.  But it's totally a different game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT