BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2008
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Maybe talk about your day and your week.   
 VIJAY SINGH: I played pretty decent. The greens kind of got really slow. They're not my favorite greens. You know, Rees Jones' greens are not my favorite. I don't think there are too many players' favorites, either.   
 You know, it was a tough week. I tried to play as good as I could. I thought the hit the ball from tee to green pretty good, but you've got to make the putts on these huge greens, and I just didn't putt like I did the last two weeks. My attitude was really good, and they're just very slow. These greens were running at -- you could top it off at running at about eight or nine. The last two weeks the greens -- last week's greens were probably running at 12, 13. So that was a big change, trying to hit the ball hard. The greens are just too big.   
  
  Q. Were they slow before the rain?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, they were kind of slow. We thought they were going to speed it up, but obviously the rains came. I don't think they have SubAir system here to make it dry. But you're just on the greens and trying to make the putts. It was just a long, tough week.   
  
  Q. So were the two wins taking a lot out of you emotionally?  
 VIJAY SINGH: No, not really, I was pretty focused this week and tried pretty hard and never gave up. After keep grinding for three days, sooner or later it's going to get to you, and I think at the end it was getting to everybody that wasn't in contention.  
  
  Q. You're going back to East Lake for THE TOUR Championship in three weeks where you've won before; you have a good chance to not only win a golf tournament but win $10 million and the FedExCup if you don't clinch it this week?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, I have two weeks off. Obviously this was my sixth week in a row, so that's taken a toll, as well. I have two weeks off; I'm going to take a week off and then practice hard and get ready for THE TOUR Championship.  
  
  Q. Do you think that's going to help you, having two weeks off, not being in the Ryder Cup, things like that?  
 VIJAY SINGH: I think so.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT