BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2008
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us what you thought about Bellerive. 
 VIJAY SINGH: It's pretty good. It's very long, very demanding golf course, soft from tee to green. Greens are huge with a lot of undulation, so you've got to bring your golf game this week.

 Q. Too much undulations on the green?
 VIJAY SINGH: Not really. They're pretty fair. They're huge greens with different sections of it, so wherever they put the pin, you make sure that you hit it on that side of the hole, otherwise you're going to have difficult putts.

 Q. You've been on fire. Can you talk about the 63 the other day and trying to make this three out of three?
 VIJAY SINGH: I'm going to go out there and play hard. It was a great win last week, but that was last week. This is a new week, new golf course, new conditions, so I've got to focus on this week and see what happens. 

 Q. Is it difficult to win, keep winning, like this against these strong fields?
 VIJAY SINGH: Not really. You don't think about what you've done last week. If you start thinking about what you've done last week, then you've got issues. You just have to come out here. They're all good players, they're all ready to win, so you just have to go out there, play your own game and don't worry about whoever is playing, just play your own game, play hard and play good. That's the way to do it.

 Q. Given the point differential between first and second right now, and with there being no cut the next two events, do you kind of feel like it's almost just about over?
 VIJAY SINGH: I'm not worried about the points. I'm just really worried about this week. I'm going to go out there and just play as hard as I can. If I win, it'll be great. If I don't win, hopefully I can get enough points to clear it up. But my main focus is to go out there and play well.

 Q. We haven't had a chance here in St. Louis to cover your great career, but we always hear about the work ethic. Can you tell us about what you try to accomplish every day when you go to that range and how important practice is to your success? 
 VIJAY SINGH: You'd need more time than just an answer. It's important. To play well every day is important. I have a set way of practicing, and I keep to it. 

 Q. Why is success so important to you? Why is being the best so important to Vijay Singh?
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't know, it's everybody's -- everybody wants to succeed in life, just like you. You just don't want to be just another reporter. So you go ahead and do whatever you have to do to be good in your life, and I do mine. Playing well is what I like to do. 

 Q. Do you feel that when you're out there, by putting in that extra time, then when you go to the tee, on the first tee, I'm the best I can possibly be? What does that do to your confidence, knowing all the time you've put in?
 VIJAY SINGH: Great, very good. That's all you need. You can do as much work as you want, and you do the right kind of work, it's even better. I think when I go out there on the golf course, I'm ready to play.

 Q. You always have that target on your back. Do you think it's bigger because you won the first two?
 VIJAY SINGH: What target is that? 

 Q. Just people coming after you. 
 VIJAY SINGH: Not really. I just don't worry about what's behind me. I just go out there and start playing golf, and when I get on the tee I just look at the first hole and go and play. When I'm on the golf course, I'm playing for me but nobody else, and that's the way I like it.

 Q. You played here in '92. Do you remember anything about the course?
 VIJAY SINGH: No, absolutely not. It's a different golf course. I think they redid it.

 Q. You've had a lot of great moments in your career. Are you playing as well now as you ever have?
 VIJAY SINGH: I think so. I feel good, my golf swing is really good. I feel very comfortable with the golf swing, I understand it a lit bit more now than I've ever done before, and I'm putting well. I feel like this is the best I've ever putted in my life, so that's a good thing to have this late in my career.

 Q. Is there anything specific about playing with Sergio that makes you perform better somehow?
 VIJAY SINGH: He's a good friend of mine. We have a good relationship on and off the golf course. We shake hands on the first hole, and he's just like another player when we tee off. 

 Q. You don't expect the weather to play a role this week?
 VIJAY SINGH: I hope it doesn't rain. The golf course is in great condition. But the way it's looking, it looks like it's going to rain a lot. The greens are going to get softer. I've seen some of the pin placements they've put; it's all in high spots, so it's not going to be easy to get close to the holes when it's soft. 
 It's not an easy course. You know, it's a big golf course. There's a lot of big holes. 10 is one of the hardest par-4s I've played and so there's a few others out there. 4 is the same way. You have to go out there and drive it long and drive it straight and just play hard, and hopefully it doesn't rain too much so we don't have too much time in the clubhouse sitting around.

 Q. How close has your son come to beating you?
 VIJAY SINGH: Not close at all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT