DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2008
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 69 today, it seemed a little bit hard to get things going out there. Is that how you felt?
 VIJAY SINGH: A little bit. Like I thought, the greens were going to be a lot firmer today. I didn't expect it to be that firm. It was okay on the front nine, but the back nine kind of firmed up a lot more. I hit some really good shots at the pins and came up short or went long. I grinded it out. You cannot win the golf tournament today, so that was the key part, to go out there, stay in there and just keep patient.

 Q. Well, the wind was switching around quite a bit on the back nine. Did that make it more difficult with the club selection?
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't know if it was the wind as much as the greens. 14 is really, really firm, 12 was pretty hard to get close to that hole and then it's hard to read the greens there. 11, I hit a great shot there that went 25 feet past. It really depends on how you know the greens. I thought it was going to be not that firm. 
 But anyway, I played good golf. I should be happy about it. I played good golf from tee to green. I hit a lot of good putts, too.

 Q. At the moment you're two shots out of the lead. Do you fancy a repeat of last week?
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I mean, I'm going to go out there tomorrow and play hard and play hard to win. If it happens, it happens. I need to putt a little better than I did today, or I need to make a lot more putts than I did today. That's the key. 

 Q. You said maybe this course was playing a little bit too easy, so I guess you got your wish, a little bit tougher today. 
 VIJAY SINGH: A little bit. The wind, we didn't expect the wind to come up like this. It was swirling around. And as it got late in the day, the greens got a lot firmer. The guys in the morning may have had a little better greens. They got a little crustier and tough to make putts. There was a lot of putts that was kind of rolling not the right way. They were wobbling along the way. 
 But I hit a lot of good putts. I was happy about that. I committed to my line and putted like I was supposed to. 

 Q. You and I have spent a lot of time talking about confidence through the years, and yours is probably as close to as high as it's ever been. How much will that help you in terms of a win again tomorrow?
 VIJAY SINGH: I have to go out there and play good golf. I have to go out there and just go around the golf course and win. I think the guys that are leading are playing good golf. I played with Mike Weir at a skins game on Tuesday, and he played really good golf. I know he's playing well. Camilo is playing well. He had a good round today. I just have to go out there, play my game, play hard and make a lot of putts.

 Q. It's amazing how that works. 
 VIJAY SINGH: It's always going to work good if you do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT