DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2008
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Vijay, two good rounds in the books. That's pretty good playing.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I played well. I didn't hit my irons as good as I did yesterday. But I'm happy. With the weekend to go, I'm, what, two back, three back. It's a long weekend.  
  
  Q. Tell me about this golf course because today there was just a little bit of wind out there, but the greens seemed to stay pretty soft.   
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I think they've been watering it pretty good. I hope they turn off the water here soon so we can just play golf. It's not easy. You've got to drive the ball straight here because otherwise you can't attack the pins. I drove the ball decent and I didn't drive it, again, as good as I did yesterday, so I didn't get my irons close enough. I'm happy with where I am and looking forward to the weekend.  
  
  Q. Are you happy with your play today?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Yeah, I mean, I scored well. I didn't hit the ball as good as I did yesterday. I putted decent, hit a lot of greens. If you don't hit a lot of fairways here you can't attack the pins. The pins were a little bit tougher than yesterday, but still, they were pretty generous.  
  
  Q. You've obviously played here before and played well here before, but scoring, we've never seen it like this. What is going on this week?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Well, last year the rough was really high, and if you missed the fairway you were doing good to get on the green. This year you're able to get a good flight on the ball, and the greens are soft. The Pro-Am was fine. Come tournament day, they made it soft. I'm sure they're watching, and I'm sure they're going to make it a little tougher on the weekend.  
  
  Q. Do you like it when you have to go this low in every round?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Not really. I mean, it's nice when you go low, but catching up is pretty difficult. There's a lot of birdie chances. If you're patient enough, you're going to make birdies.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT