WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2008
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Vijay, 67. I know you didn't like the double on 18, but in general your game seems to be coming around, a fifth at Hartford, a little bit of a lull and now you seem to be playing better. 
 VIJAY SINGH: Last time when I played over here it was Hartford, and we had that great weather at the British. But I took a lot of time off and worked on my game a little bit and got my body a little more rested and played well today.

 Q. I know you missed the cut at THE PLAYERS, your big tournament. Performance hasn't been the standard you've been holding yourself to. What have you been working on all year? I know your physical regimen is very harsh. 
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't know, I always work out. But I've been hurt a little bit. I pulled a muscle in my stomach, and that takes a long time to heal, and you really don't want to hit any balls out of the rough or anything. And I got that worked out, and then I had a few issues with my shoulder, but I think I've got it all cleared away, and pretty much working on the same things I've been working on forever. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 VIJAY SINGH: That was the only fairway I missed. I tried to play to the fat side of the fairway instead of just hitting down the middle, and I came off it a little bit. It was a bad double. I would have loved to make a bogey, but a double is always a bad way to finish. I played well, hit a lot of good shots and putting well, so I'm looking forward to having a good week.

 Q. I know you've been on the back of the range at TPC working pretty hard. What have you been working on and what's been starting to turn around?
 VIJAY SINGH: Nothing really. I went back to the belly putter and felt a lot more comfortable, so now I'm just going to focus on that more than anything else. I've been changing putters back and forth and really not getting any consistency out of it. I worked very hard on the putter, and I feel a good rhythm coming with it. So that's my key, I think, this week is to putt well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT