STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 6, 2008
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Vijay, one word to describe these conditions out here.  
 VIJAY SINGH: Tough, really tough. Really -- they're really different because the wind dies, you can shoot over the green. You know, if it gusts, you come up short. You've got to pick the right club and hit it at the right time. It's pretty tough.  
  
  Q. To go 71, I know you would like to go lower, but to be where you are right now, knowing these conditions are probably going to get tougher this afternoon, you feel good where you are?  
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't think that I'm going to be leading by any means. I think somebody else, but it's going to be -- they're not going to run away with the lead. It's just a tough, tough day. It's not going to get any easier. The greens are going to get a little firmer, and I think the wind is going to gust a little bit more. All in all, I'm quite happy with my round. I'm only two shots back, and I have the weekend to catch up.  
  
  Q. You were struggling with your wedges. What is that?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Just different -- you have to make up your mind to hit the shot. If you do that, you know, the wind gets it, you come up short or long. That's what happened all day.  
  
  Q. Vijay, when the guys came out here looking at the layout, it wasn't going to prepare anybody for a U.S. Open, but with these conditions, having to battle through what you guys are battling through, is it going to be good at Torrey Pines after doing it this week?  
 VIJAY SINGH: It's different conditions altogether. This is hard and fast and very gusty wind. I don't think it blows like there in Torrey. Anyway, we hope not. It's a good test. It gets you in the game, keeps you very focused. You can lose your focus out there. Once do you that, you're going to shoot a number.  
  
  Q. With the wind do you feel like you're preparing more for a British Open?  
 VIJAY SINGH: I don't know. You prepare in your own mind. That's pretty much how you describe it. You just have to be very, very patient out there. That's the key.  
  
  Q. Vijay, they say the winds may die down for the weekend, just like last year it died down. How does the game change if the wind doesn't become as big a factor as it has been yesterday and today?  
 VIJAY SINGH: I would like it to die down a little bit. I don't like playing in these conditions. It's too much of a guessing game. But if it dies down, the pins are going to be accessible and I'm hitting the ball really good. I'm looking forward to that if it happens.  
  
  Q. The injury not a factor for you at all?  
 VIJAY SINGH: Not a factor at all.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT