U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2019
Megan Schofill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Last nine holes it seemed like you were just on auto pilot.  
MEGAN SCHOFILL: Yeah, just couldn't get anything to fall in.  Had some good looks later in the round, and just could not make anything.   
 Q.  Did you look at the board at all?  Did you realize where you were?  
MEGAN SCHOFILL: I saw on I guess it was No. 16 that I was tied with a few other people, but I was just still trying to play my game one shot at a time.   
 Q.  Do you honestly think about trying to be medalist, or is it just get the score in and get into match play?  
MEGAN SCHOFILL: It would definitely be nice to be medalist, but it doesn't matter.  Match play is what matters at this event.   
 Q.  A couple weeks ago you didn't make it to the match play at the Girls'.  You were in a playoff.  Has it been stewing you a little bit?  Were you working on a few things before you got here?  Was there one thing in particular --  
MEGAN SCHOFILL: Yes, sir, definitely just playing a little bit smarter on the golf course, and I putted really well here this week, and just really wanted to make the cut because U.S. Girls' is the first cut I've ever missed.   
 Q.  How many championships have you played?  
MEGAN SCHOFILL: This is my third USGA championship.  This is my second Women's Am.   
 Q.  How far did you go last year?  
MEGAN SCHOFILL: Round of 32.   
 Q.  So you've got a little bit of that experience.  The fact that you play in the south and you're going to be going to school not far from here, these types of conditions, do you feel comfortable in this?  
MEGAN SCHOFILL: Oh, for sure.  I really like this golf course.  It definitely suits my game.  It reminds me a lot of my home course, so I love this course.   
 Q.  Why does it suit your game so much?  Is it the grasses, the water?  
MEGAN SCHOFILL: It's just -- it's kind of -- if you hit it good off the tee, you set yourself up well for a lot of birdie opportunities, and luckily I've been hitting it pretty straight with my driver, so I've been able to score a good bit this week.   
 Q.  So you feel comfortable going into match play now.  Obviously everybody will start from ground zero starting tomorrow.  
MEGAN SCHOFILL: Yeah, I'm excited for match play.  Obviously anything can happen, so hopefully I'll go out and play good tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT