PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 21, 2003
Anna Pistolese
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Anna, please.  
 
 
Q.  Tell us what happened in the second game of the third set, that 11-minute game. 
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  Yeah, it was a very long game.  I had some chances, but she played really, really well on those points, the game points or the break points that I had.  I don't know if it was a key point, if I would win that game that something would change.  It might.  It was really tough to lose that game.  So it took a lot of energy from me. 
 
Q.  Seemed like you were pretty exhausted after that. 
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  Well, the next game, yeah.  For one game, it took me a while to recover.  
 
Q.  Talk about the strategy.  Seemed like second set you took some pace off.  Did you try to get your bearings after she beat you so easily in the first set?
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  It wasn't easy.  I mean, she played very well the first set.  Maybe I wasn't on it from the very first point.  I was a little bit slow start.  The second set, I played a little bit better.  I mean, still the game was there, like the first set.  
 
Q.  Did you find a range with your forehand?  Seemed like in the first set, a lot of your forehands were going long. 
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  In the first set, I didn't return very well.  She was serving very well.  It was not actually my fault.  It was all up to her.  Maybe she played a little bit worse the second set, I played a little bit better.  Anyway, it was very close set.  It was 7-5. 
 
Q.  This is the first time you played her.  What did you think of her game?
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  No, I knew she's a great player.  I mean, sometimes she has some ups and downs.  But today was just all up.  She played really well today. 
 
Q.  What in particular impressed you about the way she played?
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  I mean, she's very tough.  She really fights for every point.  She moves well.  She didn't make almost any unforced errors, which I thought maybe sometime would come.  They didn't come.  Very good serving.  I mean, she really was on top of the game today.  She come to the net, she attack.  She was there all the match, all the way through. 
 
Q.  What kind of condition do you have to be in?  You said she didn't make a lot of unforced errors.  It's so hot out there.  Obviously she didn't feel that fatigued out there.  What type of shape does she have to be in to do that?
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  I think she's in very good shape because it is true, it is very, very hot today.  But she's in good shape, plus she's a fighter.  So maybe even if she's tired, she goes through the tiredness and she lift herself and she keeps fighting. 
 
Q.  She spoke about how you seemed to return everything in that second set, people underestimate your abilities.  With that said, how did you feel going into the third set?
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  Normally, I don't like those breaks between the second and the third set.  But it's a heat rule.  It's nice to go and change the shirt.  And I was confident after winning a second set.  Anything can happen.  I can actually win the match.  I just have to play.  But I was just trying to play point by point because I knew it was really, really still far away.  Still one more set to go, which is a long way. 
 
Q.  This ends your 12-match winning streak.  Can you talk about that run you've been on in the last two tournaments, coming in here rallying the other night, talk about getting on this type of run. 
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  I've been playing quite well lately, these last two tournaments, mostly here.  I was just getting more and more confidence.  I think my game was there since the beginning of the year, also since last year.  But the results start coming more now.  
 
Q.  Did you think in the second set that fatigue might be getting to her?
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  I was thinking, but I was also tired.  I knew if I'm tired, so is she also probably getting tired.  But, like I said, should is a fighter, so I don't think she let the tiredness beat her, she kept fighting. 
 
Q.  Your game is to get the other person tired. 
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  Me, too.  I also get tired, especially after playing so many matches in a row.  That's my 13th match.  I didn't have much time to rest. 
 
Q.  What type of goals do you have for the US Open?  It's a tournament where you haven't won a lot of matches. 
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  No, I haven't won much matches there.  One match at a time.  I know I'm playing against Schaul, a girl from Luxembourg.  It's a winnable match, but it's a match I still have to go out there and play.  Always very tough to play first rounds, especially in a Grand Slam.  I will just try to go through the first match and we'll see what happens.  I mean, it will be very tough one, I'm sure.  Then we'll see one by one.  
 
Q.  How will you spend the next couple of days before The Open?
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  I know I have to train, but also I'm going to take some rest.  I'm going to make a combination of resting and practicing. 
 
Q.  Do you think you'll stay here?
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  No, I'm going to be leaving tomorrow.  It's already Friday tomorrow, so it's just a couple of days before The Open. 
 
Q.  Back with your coach?
 
ANNA PISTOLESI:  Yes, husband.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT