NCAA WOMEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: DALLAS
March 25, 2016
Adut Bulgak
Leticia Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by the Florida State student-athletes, Adut Bulgak and Leticia Romero.  Ladies, we'll take questions from the floor.
Q. Adut, what if anything from your experience in the tournament run last year can apply to this year and be helpful?
ADUT BULGAK: I think the most important is the do-or-die part of it.  Like, you only get one chance.  You're only guaranteed one game at a time, so look at what's in front of you right now.
Q. For both players, beginning with Leticia, what do you know about Baylor?  What has your coaching staff told you?  What have you seen on film and how do you attack these guys?
LETICIA ROMERO: We know they are a really good team.  They are balanced.  They have good post players, good guards.  They like to run, but mostly what the coaches have told us is that we have to worry about ourselves.  We have to play our game, you know, at this point in the Sweet 16 we are gonna -- any team you can play against is going to be really good.
So if we play our game, our defense, we are just going to be fine.  It's more about what we do rather than what they can attack.
ADUT BULGAK: Just like Letty said, they are a talented team no question.  I think it balances out really well.  They have some really physical, big post players.  We have some physical athletic post players.  They have some really great guards; we have some really great guards.  So it's going to be a really interesting match-up.
Q. Leticia, do you like a game where you can get out and run and move and keep the pace quick?
LETICIA ROMERO: Yes, I like to balance -- like I like to find, you know, the right balance between when we need to run and when we need to just stop and play, and I think it's been a learning process for me, especially since I came to the States, because the game is different than in Europe, so I think I'm still learning to do that.
I definitely like to run.  I think this team -- I mean, effort is good when we can run and we get rebounds and everybody is running the floor.  So we're definitely looking to do that.
Q. Leticia, it's pretty well documented you had to fight to transfer from Kansas State to get to Florida State.  Looking back at it, what was that look and was it worthwhile when you look at how things have worked out?
LETICIA ROMERO: I mean, I said it last year, I was blessed that I could play at FSU.  For me, it's been really amazing to be able to play on this team and be able to transfer and go through all of this stuff.  I mean, I don't even -- I don't even think about it, because it's over.  For me, my focus right now is playing with this team.  I mean, I just love playing here!  Like I said last year, it was such a blessing.
Q. Letty, I think maybe two years ago your first year at Florida State would you have gone against Alexis Jones when she was at Duke and what have you seen from her game?
LETICIA ROMERO: You mean my first year at Kansas State?
Q. When she was a sophomore at Duke I think it might have been your sophomore year, too.  She was at Duke.  You were at Florida State.  What do you remember about her game and what have you seen from her this year?
LETICIA ROMERO: Well, she just can do a lot of things.  I mean, she attacks, she is always, you know, looking for attacking the basket.  You can't rest with her.  She can do pretty much everything.  So we are going to definitely have to guard her well, but, again, I think like Adut said we match-up pretty well with them and it's going to be a fight, so we'll see.
Q. Adut, when you look at Baylor, they don't just have one big they have several big, physical people.  They can throw 15 fouls at you basically when you go down their depth chart.  What kind of problems does that present when you look at their bigs?
ADUT BULGAK: Sounds like a problem for them if they're going to throw 15 fouls at us.  We're going to take that to our advantage.  I don't see a problem.  We have some athletic posts, so they're going to have to run with us if we want to talk about disadvantages, but it will be a great match-up.
Q. Adut, to elaborate, is that what you want to do is use speed and athleticism and maybe your versatility in the post to counteract their size?
ADUT BULGAK: Kind of.  Playing our game, that's how all of us play.  We have Ivey and Shakayla, undoubtedly athleticism, so we're going to use that to our advantage.
Q. For both of you beginning with Adut, where is your team's confidence level given the way you guys went into College Station and especially playing A&M on their home court you're up 20 points at halftime.  Where are you in terms of confidence and mentality coming into this?
ADUT BULGAK: Just from being on this team, however you want to take it.  I don't think confidence has ever been an issue for this team.  We like to speak things into existence.  We had players that thought we were going to pick up where we left off last year, not in a cocky sense, but just in the sense that we know what we can do.  I don't think -- I've never seen my teammates lack confidence at what we can do even when we were struggling, so I think we're pretty excited.
LETICIA ROMERO: I think we have built a little more confidence just by, you know, coming together at the end of the season.  I feel like it's been a building process with everything, chemistry and everything, and I think we have reached that point where we have come together.  We know how to play together.  We know each other, and it's just -- it has contributed to our confidence.
Q. Further questions for our student-athletes?  Okay, ladies, thank you.  Good luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT