NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: COLLEGE STATION
March 18, 2016
Sue Semrau
Leticia Romero
Adut Bulgak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Take questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Talk about, your a senior in the program, can you talk about what it means to be back in the tournament once again.
LETICIA ROMERO: I can't even explain it.  It's really exciting.  Filled with a lot of emotion.  I think the best word is excitement, for me.  I'm really ready to play again.  We have been off for two weeks.  I'm just ready to compete again with my teammates one last time.
ADUT BULGAK: I think we're ready.  I think we're all excited about the NCAA Tournament and just ready to play together.  This is Adut's last year so we want to make it a good one.
Q. How does it feel to be back here once again?
LETICIA ROMERO: It's really cool, like, I have people texting me, calling me, they're probably more excited than I am to play or to watch us play.  So it's really good to be close to somewhere that's familiar, where people know you, but at the same time it's a business trip and it wouldn't matter where we were, but it's really fun to be back in Texas.
Q. Do you have an extensive background here in Texas?  Are you from here originally?
LETICIA ROMERO: Actually, I went to Junior college in Athens, Texas, and, yeah, that's pretty much it.  And my Junior college is playing in Lubbock right now, they're actually playing in the semi-finals.
Q. You guys have been off for quite some time.  What's that time been like since the last time you played and how have preparations been for you guys?
ADUT BULGAK: Well, we have had some time to prepare.  I think what we need to do now is like the last details, stuff like getting -- I mean, we already know how to play together, we just been have been -- how do you say it?
It's just details, like transition defense.  Playing a little bit zone, too.  But it's been good, just because we needed that time to fix some mistakes that we have been doing in the last game.  So, I think that it has been a good time for us to get ready.
THE MODERATOR: All right, ladies, thank you very much.  We'll start with coach.
Q. Just to follow-up on that, how have you liked your team's preparation in these couple weeks that you've had since the last time you played?
COACH SEMRAU: I think, generally, having as long of a period of time where you haven't played a game is difficult.  For us, we're fortunate that we have a little bit of a break over spring break, and so we could give them some time off without having to go to classes and let them get away and clear their minds a little bit.  So, when they came back, they were really mentally rested, and we have had really good preparation leading up to this time.
Q. Your team not getting to host a first, was that a little bit of a disappointment moving forward or where is your team at, I guess?
COACH SEMRAU: They're extremely excited.  You know, it's the NCAA Tournament.  Doesn't matter where you play.  Certainly we had a really good year at home this year, only losing one game.  And I think there's just a lot of things with the women's game that are still in flux and this is the second year that you can host.  And it used to be that everybody hosted, the first top 16 hosted, then we went to predetermined sites, neutral sites, back to predetermined sites.  Gary has talked about how difficult it's been to sell tickets, because they didn't find out until this week.
So, there's a lot of things, I think, that we need to think about with the women's game.  We look at it and say basketball is basketball and the men handle things a lot differently than the women do.  I understand why.  At the same time, I think we need to be creative with our solutions going forward.
Q. What really sticks out to you about Middle Tennessee?  What do you see as maybe the hardest part about maybe trying to get a win over them?
COACH SEMRAU: Just they're solid.  Rick was saying today, I want to say it was nine out of 11 years they have been there, that they have been to the NCAA Tournament.  Something phenomenal.  You look at a program like that, that has been able to have this kind of sustainable success, you have to be good at what you do.  And they're very good at what they do.  And so, we have to find a way to be really good at what we do and see how it matches up on the floor.
Q. Speaking of Gary, he always looks at the brackets, most coaches do and when it was announced when you saw the pod here the four times, the Dallas regional, what was your initial thoughts of the matchups moving forward for your team?
COACH SEMRAU: Mine or Gary's?
Q. Yours.
COACH SEMRAU: Again, I just know we're going to be playing solid basketball programs.  It's not like it's a one-hit wonder for any of us.  We have all been here, we have all done this, not only the coaches, but the programs, and I think it's going to be an exciting regional.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT