CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: WASHINGTON VS ALABAMA
December 29, 2016
Chico McClatcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The last six teams that have won the Battle for Bowl Week have actually won the game.  Do you guys think there's anything to that?  
CHICO McCLATCHER: I mean, obviously, we do take pride in winning that, but it's going to come down to Saturday, whoever executes at their best.   
 Q.  From an offensive perspective, do you ever get sick of hearing how good that Alabama defense is?  Does it make you want to come out and try to show them up?  
CHICO McCLATCHER: We do get tired of that.  Once again, it's going to come down to us preparing in practice and being ready to play against a great Alabama defense and to execute our best.   
 Q.  In the first quarter, depending upon what the metric is, you're the first or second best team in the country scoring in the first quarter.  
CHICO McCLATCHER: We just get off to fast start.  We emphasize a lot trying to score first, with that first possession.  Not turn the ball over is a key thing for us too.  So, you know, we've been very glad that we haven't turned the ball over that much and get off to fast starts in the first quarter.   
 Q.  You mentioned that you're first in the country in turnovers.  What do you attribute that to?  Are there specific things that you guys do in practice you do to try to eliminate turnovers that other teams don't do?  
CHICO McCLATCHER: We have a lot of ball security drills we do every day.  That puts a big emphasis on not turning the ball over, keeping the ball high and tight and make sure that we don't fumble.   
 Q.  What makes Jake so good?  
CHICO McCLATCHER: His preparation, honestly.  Like he's probably the most prepared quarterback in the country, you know.  He stays in, you know, extra hours to study film and he helps us as wide receivers to make sure where we're at running routes.  His film work is unbelievable.  So very prepared.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT