PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2005
Steve Schneiter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Can you talk about how you finished there with an eagle on 18 and how much sweeter that makes this?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  Well, I finally hit a good drive and dropped down there and I had exactly what I had in, I had 187 or 189 to carry on to the front of the green, and I hit 6 iron and ended up being close, made the putt.  It was a great week.  I had a lot of fun and this is a great course.
Q.  You're also going to be one of the club pros that's going to be participating in the closing ceremony; can you talk about what that will mean to you?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  Well, I'm honored to be the low club pro.  I don't know if I deserve being with the champion, I mean, shooting 6 over par, but I think that's a neat thing and I'll cherish this week for a long time.
Q.  Coming into this week, did you think this golf course matched your game pretty well?  This is the first PGA Championship where you made the cut, and you played it well all four days; do you think your game matched up well with this golf course?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  Yeah, I've been hitting the ball well.  Playing well all year.  And I got here, I felt in love with the golf course.  It kind of suited my game and I hit it on the fairway, I played good.  It was one of those weeks, you know you have every so often.
Q.  Did you have any expectations coming into the week?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  Yeah, I wanted to, you know, play well of course and make the cut.
Q.  Coming down the back nine, were you thinking about being the low club pro coming down?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  You know, I didn't think about it a lot.  I just figured whatever happens will happen and just play your game and see if you can't shoot par or better.
Q.  You eagled 18 both on Thursday and today.  During your practice rounds, did you think 17 and 18 meshed up well with you because you hit the ball so long?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  I figured if I hit good drives, get in the fairway and hit good drives, you know, I should make birdie.
Q.  Do you have any family out here last week or this week?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  I have my son, Jonathan, and I had my brother, Jerry, and a few other friends.
Q.  How much more special does it make it knowing that he were following you around in the gallery?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  Oh, it was fun.  It was fun having my son here with me.  He's out there, "Come on, dad, you can do it."    That's what it's all about, just having your family with you to share your moments, your successes.
Q.  Where does this rank and what are your memorable moments?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  Well, it's up there.
Q.  No. 1?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  Well, I don't know if it's No. 1, but it's close to No. 1.
Q.  Do you know Ron Philo; did you talk to each other in the locker room?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  Not really.  He had all his family.  Everyone is busy doing their thing.  He'll say, "Hi" and "How you doing, have a good week."
Q.  When do you head home and what's your first day back on the job?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  To be honest, I'm going to Rochester for the Nationwide Monday qualifier tomorrow.
Q.  So right back at it tomorrow?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  I figured I was out here so I might as well.
Q.  Do you have a favorite memory you might bring back to the club this week, favorite moment?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  I don't mean to be selfish, but that last shot and making eagle on the last hole, final hole to shoot even par.  That's something that will stick in my head for a long time, hitting a great drive, executing the next shot.

It was a great week and I had a lot of fun.
Q.  Were you personally motivated at all playing with Luke Donald today?  Did you in the back of your mind just think to ourselves, it would be fun to play well with Luke Donald who has been playing well this year?
STEVE SCHNEITER:  I have played with Luke two years ago in Rochester at the PGA.  Luke's a great kid.  I mean, he's one of the good kids out here.  He's just a good person and a heck of a player.  It was a great pairing.  I couldn't have asked for a better pairing, really.  You know, we talked a little bit.  I had fun.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT