NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 24, 2014
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   When you look at the video of the stretches where you've played well, what have you been doing that you need to sustain on a more consistent level? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, it's some of the things that we've worked on the last couple of days; offensively just continue to have good ball movement, good body movement, set screens and wait on the screens and be patient and look for better opportunities, shot selection.   Defensively continue to be able to guard the ball in the pick‑and‑roll coverages and then close out their shooters.   Like I've said many times, they're a very difficult team to do that because they have good pick‑and‑roll players and great shooters on the floor, and they have a big guy that is as skilled as any big in the game. 

Q.   How much did Serge do today? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   He worked out with our staff.

Q.   What kind of workouts did he do?
SCOTT BROOKS:   Just basketball workouts. 

Q.   Anything new?
SCOTT BROOKS:   Just with our coaches, just all‑‑ it's all part of the process with him recovering.   It's nothing‑‑ he didn't practice with us, he just worked out just with our coaches.

Q.   So no change in status basically?
SCOTT BROOKS:   No, still day‑to‑day.

Q.   You guys have been resilient within games and in series, down in series, in Playoffs specifically.   What's allowed you guys to kind of get through those moments and what do you need now?
SCOTT BROOKS:   The same things that we have to do well.   We have to be able to do it for 48 minutes and we have to be able to do it consistently with great focus.   They're a very good basketball team.   There's no hiding that.   But we have to play better.   That's one.   And we have to do a few things that are on top of that by stopping the basketball, by getting our pick‑and‑roll coverage, closing out their three‑point shooters in transition, particularly with Green.   He's getting too many shots in transition. 
I'm excited about the game tomorrow.   We have a great opportunity.   We've been down before.   We've been down to this team before 0‑2.   It's not the ideal situation, but it is what it is, and we have to be ready to play much better, and we feel like we have a great opportunity in front of our home crowd tomorrow night. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT