NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 23, 2014
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are the chances we see Serge walk through the door now?
SCOTT BROOKS:   That's a good question.   I'm surprised you guys started off with that one.   Right now, as Sam spoke to you guys earlier, that Serge is listed day‑to‑day.

Q.   Just knowing him as a competitor, how not surprised are you that he's at least put himself in the best possible position that he could be in at this point?
SCOTT BROOKS:   When the injury happened, you knew that with our medical team and Serge would get after it right away, and that's what's happened.   It's changed from we thought he was going to be out, now it's day‑to‑day, but he's still out.   He's still out.   We're still focusing on trying to beat the Spurs without him playing, and that has not changed.   I know he's listed as day‑to‑day, but still, he is out until I'm told differently.   All of our attentions and game planning is to focus on ways to play much better than we did last game.

Q.   Will he practice with the team?
SCOTT BROOKS:   Don't know that yet.   He's doing some work with our staff, individual work, light shooting and some of our coverages.   Other than that, I don't know.   I haven't met with our guys after today's work that he has done, and I'll know more tomorrow morning. 

Q.   What do you need to do?
SCOTT BROOKS:   We obviously have to play better.   We need to focus.   To beat this team you need to have focus every possession.   We had a two‑minute and 37‑second lapse and turned it over a couple of times and gave up three threes and then went to 14 at half.   We understand that.   We have to make sure that we don't let that happen again but also understand that they're a good team, so you have to prepare to stay focused every position.   But last game, that's not us.   Our guys understand that.   We've pretty much turned the page pretty quickly and for all the right reasons.   We know that we have to play better and we will play better.   Today we focused a lot of the things that we feel we need to do to get better.   I thought we had a great day today.   We did a lot of scrimmaging just to get the feel of playing with one another and enjoying the game together, and I thought it was a great day today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT