NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 20, 2014
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Everybody wants to talk about what you did wrong most of that game, but you guys did a lot right in the third quarter.   What did you do right and why did it work?   
SCOTT BROOKS:   I think what we did in the third quarter is what we have to do throughout the game.   We can't let them feel comfortable.   I thought the majority of that game they were feeling comfortable.   We have to make them feel uncomfortable with our intensity on the defensive end.   They're a very good basketball team.   They move very well without the ball, their offensive rhythm was at a high level last night, and we didn't disrupt it.   We have to play with more force defensively and disrupt their offense.   Our guys in that third quarter did a very good job with that, and that being said, we have to do that throughout the game.   
   
 Q.   Do you do that with the same lineup, go with different lineups, more small, how do you do that?  
SCOTT BROOKS:   I think whoever we put on the floor has to be able to do that.   They have to participate into that mentality.   That starting lineup did a good job in that third quarter.   We were up one with four minutes to go.   By playing with a lot of toughness on the defensive end and using our athleticism and our speed on the offensive end.   That's always a good recipe for our success, playing defensively with good hands, good toughness, the physicality that it takes to stop a very good offensive team like San Antonio.  
   
 Q.   How much of it was the fact that they played awfully good?  
SCOTT BROOKS:   You've got to give them credit.   We're two of the best teams in basketball.   They played very well.   Duncan had a great start, making his outside shots, and then he had some good rolls and some and‑ones.   
Ginobili is a handful.   He's a handful.   You don't look at his age because he did it all year.   He has the ability to do that and have games like that.   
Green has the ability to knock down four, five threes in a quarter, let alone a game.   But we have to be able to do a better job of locking in all five guys because they give you five guys that can play.  
   
 Q.   Does your dry spell late in the third quarter reinforce the lesson about you need to execute almost perfectly?   
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, you have to.   You have to compete on the defensive end like we did in the third quarter and you have to continue to take your shots.   We took about four or five tough shots the last part of that third quarter and that gave them a seven‑point game going into the fourth quarter.   Against San Antonio you have to play the shot clock and you have to play the possession, and it has to be for four quarters.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT