NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 19, 2014
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Who are you replacing in the starting lineup?   
SCOTT BROOKS:   Nick.   
   
 Q.   Why Nick?   
SCOTT BROOKS:   Why not?   You don't like Nick?   Everybody likes Nick.   It's a good option for us.   Nick gives us a good option, knows what we do.   It's a good match‑up with Splitter.   Splitter is a very physical player, great roller, great finisher around the rim, gives us a guy that can stay in front of him and also our pick‑and‑roll coverages are important, and Nick is one of our best pick‑and‑roll defenders.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SCOTT BROOKS:   Those were the options.   Let the game kind of unfold, but we can go small, we can go smaller in our backcourt with Reggie and Russell, we can go smaller in our front court with Kevin at the 4 or Kevin at the 5.   We have those options.   Everybody has to stay ready.   I tell the guys all the time, we have 13 guys active.   Be ready when your number is called.   We expect you to play hard and play well.  
   
 Q.   Was it a factor that he is fundamentally solid and moves the ball well, getting in there early?   Was that a factor?  
SCOTT BROOKS:   Yeah, a lot of things played in the decision, but Nick does‑‑ he understands what we do, and he's been in the league.   He's just a great pro.   He can step in and give us good minutes.   We don't necessarily want to go small to start the first game.   Not saying that that can't happen going forward, but our lineups can be very fluid.   We have the flexibility all year long to have done that.   We played small a lot.   With Serge out, obviously we have more opportunities to play small.   
   
 Q.   When you look at Reggie Jackson's success against the Spurs, over four games, do you see a match‑up situation that he can exploit?   
SCOTT BROOKS:   He's played well.   I've watched the games over and over.   He's played well.   He's made shots.   He's been aggressive around the basket, and those are things that he's done pretty good all year.   He's just done them at a high level against the Spurs.   
We'll see.   He's going to get opportunities, a lot of opportunities, and we hope that he continues to attack and make shots, but the thing that I like what he did last year is he's played better defense, and that's what we're going to need out of him to be a two‑way player.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT