NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: CLIPPERS v THUNDER
May 11, 2014
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COACH BROOKS:   It was a very physical basketball game.   After 48 minutes, both teams are definitely going to feel all the bumps and bruises, need a lot of ice packs.   
But I thought when you're both fighting for something special, that's going to happen.   There were times where guys got tangled up.   Russell, Blake, Serge even in the beginning of the play.   Perk pushes Serge and hits Blake.   
But that's what it is right now.   We're both very competitive.   We're both competing for a big prize.   That's expected.   
But I liked how we played, with a lot of determination.   We could have done a better job of getting through our spots in that fourth quarter.   
Offensively we kind of bogged down a little bit.   But then again defensively the 38 points in the fourth quarter is something that we pride ourselves on.   
But you got to give them credit, they stepped up when they were down.   They scrambled and made a bunch of big shots.   
I thought Collison came in and played big minutes.   10 or 12 points.   They needed every bucket he provided.   
   
 Q.   Obviously Doc put Chris Paul on Kevin in the fourth quarter.   Why wasn't Kevin able to make them pay a little bit more?  
COACH BROOKS:   That's something we'll look at in the film.   Kevin was having trouble getting the catches.   I'll be able to give better information tomorrow.   But it was physical out there.   I'll just say that.   It was physical.   But we have to do a better job of getting him open, freeing him up.   
There was some physical play going on in that fourth quarter.   
   
 Q.   The offense stagnated the last nine minutes.   Defense got virtually no stops.   Which was the bigger problem?  
COACH BROOKS:   The bigger problem is the defense, 38 points.   We take a lot of pride in what we do defensively.   When they were down, they played with a lot of desperation.   They were able to spread us out.   I think Griffin got 10 points, Paul got 10 points.   D.C. got 10 or 12 points.   Everybody got involved in their offense.   
Defensively we have to do a much better job.  
   
 Q.   As far as the foul trouble that occurred, both teams, but Blake was held out for quite a while, yet he comes in and obtained the victory.   Talk about the foul trouble.   
COACH BROOKS:   Well, that's part of it.   That's part of the game.   One, you have to play through it, not worry about it.   That's why both teams have 13 active players.   You have to be ready to use them all.   
Foul trouble, I mean, it's something we don't worry about.   Might adjust your minutes here and there.   The physicality of the game, that's what this is about right now.   This is the second season that we're all fighting for every possession.   
They made a lot of big plays down the stretch.   I thought Griffin was really a big factor down the stretch.   They got to the free‑throw line, layup opportunities, hit some threes.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the ups and downs of Russ offensively in the fourth quarter.   
COACH BROOKS:   Yeah, I thought when we had some opportunities‑‑ well, we turned it over too many times.   I thought that was a big opportunity for them to create transition points.   We were having trouble getting the ball to KD.   We have some actions where we have to utilize the space on the floor and continue to attack.   
I thought he had some good attacks.   I thought he could have got to the free‑throw line even more.   That's something we have to continue to look at and build our offensive package with.   
We have to do a better job of getting defensive stops.   38 in the fourth quarter is too many.   
   
 Q.   You talked about the boost Collison gave them offensively.   Did the small lineup disrupt you on the defensive end?  
COACH BROOKS:   We still had 24 points.   I thought we could have got some better looks in the fourth quarter offensively.   But the defense, they gave us some problems.   They were making some shots, spreading us out.   They were playing at a high level in the fourth quarter.   
You have to have all five guys locked in, not only physically, but mentally engaged, playing off one another.   When one guy moves, four other guys need to move.   If you don't do that, you're in trouble.   Very talented team, just like we are.   
   
 Q.   You led most of the way, then lost.   Any concern about bouncing back from this?   
COACH BROOKS:   That's the ups and downs of a playoff.   The way we look at it, we're 2‑2.   We have two games at home.   Best‑of‑three series with two games at home.   
We're not focused on Game 6 or Game 7, we're focused on Game5.   That's what we do.   We're going to figure out how we could have gotten better, how we can get better going into the next game, make some adjustments, put all of our attention and focus on Game5.   
Have a good day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT