NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No microphone.)
SCOTT BROOKS:   Just his whole demeanor.   Just, you just see it year to year to year.   And I've been around it and he's just growing up right in front of all of our eyes.   It's pretty special to see.   I'm fortunate to be in my position so I can see it every day. 
I couldn't ask for a better guy to be around.   And I don't think the basketball world could ask for a better guy to lead the game the way he leads.   He's just a phenomenal young man.   And Reggie and Jeremy, I think they have improved.   We take pride in developing our guys.   I think Reggie has done a good job of stepping in to a very good basketball team and playing the toughest position in the game.   You have so many personalities and so many decisions that have to be made and I think he's done a good job.   He has to continue to improve and he understands that. 
And Jeremy Lamb is another guy.   We didn't know what we were going to get on the basketball court, I was able to see him all year long in practice and the developmental league, but now he's getting opportunities, I think he's making the best of them, but he is another guy that he has to continue to improve.   And I think he will. 

Q.   How are you still able to fly under the radar and not get all the credit that you maybe should?
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well it's not something that I wake up and search.   I think that I've had, I've had my day in the sun.   It was nice.   Playing in the game, playing basketball and calling that your job is like the greatest thing. 
You wake up and it's like you're on.   You know you have to go to practice and get to compete and get to challenge your teammates every day.   So I don't look at, I don't look for the attention.   I don't need it.   I really love what I do and I love who I'm coaching.   Our guys are a good group of guys.   I mean, I want to be respected by our guys and vice versa.   I want to respect them. 
And I'm still fortunate that I can respect our guys because I see them work every day.   I have trouble respecting guys that don't do work.   And thankfully we have guys that are driven, that are highly motivated, and so I don't have any worry about coaching guys I don't want to be around, because I will have‑‑ as a player, I didn't like being around teammates like that and I made it be known, that's why I was traded and cut so many times.   But I like guys that are about competition.   And you should compete in everything you do.   Whether it's a free throw drill or a line sprint or a practice, you want to win everything. 

Q.   What would a second Coach of the Year Award mean to you?
SCOTT BROOKS:   Absolutely zero. 

Q.   Even though you've been so much.   With injuries and all?
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, don't get me wrong, I'll take it.   I'll take it.   But that does not motivate me one bit.   I don't think about it.   I mean, it is an honor to have received that award once, I'm not disrespecting that award, because it's a lot that goes into coaching, there's so many things that I never even knew existed as a player I always had respect for coaches and I had no clue on what the amount of stress and decisions they have to go through.   I mean, you have to come up with 82 different ties and suits and I did a horrible job with that.   Thankfully, I have a daughter that takes care of me in that department.   But there's so many decisions that have to be made.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT