NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 21, 2012
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You guys are facing your first potential elimination game.   How are the guys feeling for the task at hand?
COACH SCOTT BROOKS:   They're focused.   We had a great shootaround today, talked to the guys.   They're excited about the opportunity.   We know that they win, the summer begins.   But that's not how they're wired.   That's not what they're thinking.   They're excited about the opportunity.   I anticipate them to have a great game tonight. 

Q.   Do you talk to your players?   I know nobody has ever come back from 3‑1 to win a Finals?   Do you ever talk about anything historically?   What do you talk to them about?
COACH SCOTT BROOKS:   I just tell the guys, we're not trying to win three games tonight.   It's impossible.   All we're trying to do is play better for 48 minutes than the Miami Heat, and that's very possible, and that's all we're focusing on.   We're not thinking about anything else other than winning tonight's game.   It's definitely a great challenge ahead of us, but it's not impossible.   Our guys are excited.   They're thrilled to get this opportunity. 
We felt that the three losses that we've had could have gone either way.   They've made some bigger plays.   It's not like we're crying and complaining about anything.   They made some bigger plays or a few more plays than us.   But we have a great opportunity tonight.   Our guys are excited about this chance. 

Q.   Talk about your encouraging words to Serge as well as Harden as far as their performance and getting into the flow and rhythm of the game and just relaxing and just playing their game. 
COACH SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, that's what you have to do.   I believe in those guys.   We wouldn't be here if they didn't have the seasons they've had and the series they've had prior to getting to The Finals.   But I talk to our team in general, "Guys, we have to play better as a team."   If you're putting all the pressure on yourself to play better, that's a lot of pressure.   We have to play better as a team, and I've always felt that the pressure is to play as hard as you can and play for your teammates, and if you do that, there's no pressure; you did your job and you live with the results.   There's another simple way to look at it, just try to make your teammate look good.   If you do that, you end up looking good yourself.   That's what we focus on.
We have a great opportunity tonight.   James hasn't shot the ball well but he's defended.   He's getting good looks.   He has to step up and get those same looks and knock down those.   Serge is our defensive anchor.   Him and Perk really battle in the paint and do a great job, and we need great paint protectors tonight. 

Q.   Any update on James Harden's hand?   And do you think it's affecting his shooting any?
COACH SCOTT BROOKS:   He's fine.   Yeah, he bruised his left hand, but he's not affected.   That kid is as tough as anybody on our team.   He understands that you play through everything.   Everybody is banged up.   There's not one person on either team who's not feeling some type of bumps or bruise.   He's fine.   Like I said, I don't think it will affect how he plays tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT