NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
June 6, 2012
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What do you expect to see out of your team tonight, their first close‑out?
SCOTT BROOKS:   I know we'll see great effort.   That's what we do.   That's how we play.   That's what we believe in.   We want to play well.   We want to play good basketball, and we know they're going to come out and play with the same amount of effort that we will give, and it should be a great game.   I like our guys, I like what they're about, I like how they play, I like how they prepare.   Even the guys that don't play, they're helping us prepare.   I think our guys are ready. 

Q.   Pop said tonight he is going to start Manu again.   How big of a challenge is that? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, he's definitely a big challenge when he's on the floor.   He's one of the greatest competitors of all time, the way he attacks the game on both ends.   He's feisty, scrappy, makes big plays.   Whether he comes in or comes out‑‑ he doesn't play much, but he's one of the best in the league at what he does.   He can come in off the bench and impact the game, and he does what he does at the start of it, last game.   He's hard to stop.   We have a lot of things that we throw at him, and he figures out ways to find the crease and get in there and makes his threes.   What do you do?   You have to pick your poison when he's knocking them down like he did last game.   That's hard to stop. 

Q.   How much contact have you had with (Inaudible)? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Not a lot.   I mean, not a lot.   I didn't like many of my teammates.   Barkley was overrated, Kenny Smith never passed.   I mean, enough. 
It's time to‑‑ I guess I get a lot of texts after games and before games.   I mean, if we're just focused on playing good basketball in Game 6, they know that we'll have plenty of time to talk and catch up after the series is over. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
SCOTT BROOKS:   He's a great player.   You know, he's a great player.   He still has a lot left, and you're only going to be able to make him miss so many times.   But he had a great stretch.   He's had a few great stretches against us. 
I thought that last part of the game‑‑ he's tough.   He has a left hand, he has a right hand, he has a drop step, he has a left shoulder, he has a bank shot, he can make it from his mid‑range game.   He's a terrific passer, and also he drives.   He's a great right‑handed driver.   He does a lot of great things.   You have to be a really good player when you guard him because he has so many different looks that he throws at you.
But I think Perk and our guys have done a great job on him, and that's not an easy job, and it's going to be a tough one tonight. 

Q.   Do you have to remind the team not to get ahead of themselves, not just like a normal game?
SCOTT BROOKS:   We haven't changed anything that we've done up until this point, even going into today.   It's been the same, same routine.   We talk about what they did and what they've done well and the things that we've done well against them.   We had our shoot‑around.   Guys are in normal routine today.   Just talk about the pressures of playing hard and playing together and for each other, and that's all I put the pressure on our guys. 
We have to play well to beat them, we know that, and they're going to have to play well to beat us.   There's no added pressure other than we're just going to go out there and play our best game and hopefully we can come out with the win. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, I mean, we've got a very excitable group.   You guys know that.   When we were struggling four years ago, we were excited about playing every night.   We weren't winning a lot of games, but we were putting ourselves in a position to win down the line.   But I don't see any more excitement that they have starting the Playoffs.   We have a focused group.   We never talk about our age.   We talk about all our guys have a job to do.   I have a job to do.   We have to be professionals every day.   We have work ahead of us, and you can't get ahead of yourself. 
You have to stay in the moment and enjoy it and embrace it and have fun with it because you have to play well and play hard, otherwise those other things don't matter if you don't do those two things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT