NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 30, 2012
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Sounds like you guys just wrapped up film.   Was it a lengthy film session? 
COACH BROOKS:   Actually, we did not watch film.   We had a meeting.   We had a good meeting and talked about some things that we have to do better and understand where we are.   We're down 2‑0 in the series, and we've always going into the playoffs it's the first team that wins four.   Also you only focus on the game at hand.   Tomorrow night's game is the most important game.   It's what we've done all year.   Taken a one game at a time approach, and we have to do that tomorrow night. 
We're playing against the best team in basketball and we have to do a lot of things well.   We took away a lot of their point paints from the previous night, but they made 11 threes.   So beat them you have to do both.   So we'll figure out a way to do that tomorrow night.

Q.   What will it take to win Game 3 and 4? 
COACH BROOKS:   We have to play well.   We're only concerned on Game 3.   We have to play with maximum effort every possession and an entire possession.   If you don't do that, you give them so many open looks, because they're the best passing team in the game. 
They don't hesitate.   They make the plays for each other, and they make them consistently, and they make them quickly and on time.   But that being said, you can have great defense and still make some tough shots. 
Ginobili made a couple of tough shots against us that you can't defend that any better.   But that's what makes them a good team.   That's what makes us a good team.   We just have to figure out ways to stop them a few more times than they can stop us.

Q.   Where does it get to the point where you go, hey, we're doing it right?   We've just got to do it better.   Or do you start taking suggestions and kind of experiment?   When does it get to that point?
COACH BROOKS:   We'll make a few adjustments.   Whatever we have to do, we have to do it with incredible effort, because they throw incredible shooters on the floor, and they have an amazing point guard.   Their big is Duncan, so they make you make some tough decisions, but you have to make them and you have to live with some things. 
We want to live with taking away points out of the paint, but we did not make the second and third efforts to take their three‑pointers away.   But we have to be able to do both to beat them.

Q.   How is everybody's attitude right now?   Are you still seeing some good fighting spirit with the guys? 
COACH BROOKS:   Bad attitude right now.   No, it's good.   One of the things we never worry about here.   Throughout the season, throughout the playoffs there are going to be frustrations, but there is never a bad attitude.   We always focus on what we have to do. 
Guys were great today.   We had a great meeting.   We just have to win a game.   It's as simple as that.   It's as easy as saying that, but it's hard to do. 
They've won 20 games in a row for a reason, but it's not impossible.   We definitely have to play better.   We have to make some shots.   I thought we had a lot of good moments last night just coming back from down 22.   It's hard to come down from 22 against a team like San Antonio on their court. 
But we did come back and cut the lead to 6 with 5 to go, and had a couple of times we had a chance to take a charge, and we didn't get the call. 
It might have changed.   But we played hard.   We had a lot of good things, but we still had to play better.

Q.   How much can you appreciate what they've done?   You mentioned the 20 game win streak.   In the history of the league, they're only the fourth team to win 20 games in a row, and half of them have been in the playoffs?
COACH BROOKS:   Impressive.   You have to as a fan of this sport and the league, you look at teams and players and it's pretty incredible what they've done.   To win a game is hard.   To win 20 in a row and 10 of them in the playoffs, it's quite an accomplishment. 
They're a good team.   They have a great coach.   Their role players are outstanding.   They have really good shooters.   They're smart.   But they've been together a long time also.   They've had a lot of playoff battles and a lot of success.   They've had some tough times also.   But they have a lot of guys that have played in a lot of big games for a lot of years. 
I'm not taking anything away from our guys.   We have enough experience and talent in our locker room to win Game 3, and that's all we're focusing on.

Q.   You mentioned last night the teams face adversity.   Do you feel like the guys will problem solve and stick together to try to figure this out? 
COACH BROOKS:   Yeah, that's what we have to do.   All of our guys are in.   They're all in, and we know that that's what they do.   That's how our team has improved throughout the years of just staying together and sticking together through good and tough times. 
Right now it's not fun being down 0‑2, but we still are at home.   They did their job, and we have to do our job now to even this series up going back to their place.   But we're just focusing on Game 3 before we even think about Game 4.   All of our focus and energy, and attention to detail has to go to Game 3.

Q.   I know you believe in defense.   Is this one of those times where a great offense trumps a good defense, and do you try to play that game against them? 
COACH BROOKS:   Well, they're definitely both.   They don't get credit for their defense, but their defense is solid.   Their numbers probably didn't say it in the regular season, but in the playoffs they've stepped up.   A lot of good teams have another level and their team has another level on the defensive end. 
But their offense is good.   They got a lot of pieces that give you a lot of problems.   Ginobili is the wildcard off the bench, that just makes winning basketball plays and he makes them so many times.   Defensively, offensively and not just scoring.   Seems like he makes it all the time.   They have a great offense, but their defense is good.

Q.   You talk about points in the paint for them.   For you guys, you're getting the ball in the paint, but they're not finishing.   How concerning is that? 
COACH BROOKS:   Well, we did a better job in the second half.   But we missed some opportunities early in the game to keep the game close or maybe even have the lead.   We missed shots around the basket, and we have to be able to convert. 
We got to the free‑throw line which is nice to see, because that's one of the strengths of our team.   We're one of the league leaders in free throw attempts and makes.   But it was nice to see that.   We have to take some of the good things that we did last night and use it for tomorrow night's game.

Q.   Might not be what you're known for, but do you feel like you're at your best when it was kind of uglied up there in the fourth quarter?   When there was a lot of contact? 
COACH BROOKS:   Well, when you're down 22, you have to do something different, and we did.   We played with more desperation.   They probably relaxed a little bit.   Can't give ourselves all the credit for coming back for 22.   When you're up 22, it's hard to go up 32 at that time.   It gives an NBA team, a good team like we are. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT