NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 28, 2012
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the fourth quarter last night? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   We did a few things well, but we did a lot of things not well.   One of the things about our team is we compete very hard throughout the game, and we did that.   But we just had a lot of breakdowns. 
A lot to do with it was Ginobili.   Ginobili is a special player.   It was vintage Ginobili last night.   He was on.   There are a lot of times you can have good defense, and you're not going to have the success that you want off of that possession. 
But he was making the shots.   He was making passes.   He was getting to the basket.   He gave up the 16 points in the paint in that fourth quarter, put him on the free‑throw line too many times, and that's tough to overcome. 
On top of that, we weren't doing a very good job.   Offensively ourselves we were getting into our offense a little slower than we normally would like and than we did the first three quarters.   Then we were taking tough shots. 
They did a good job of really packing the paint and forcing us to make plays outside the paint, and we didn't do that well last night.   We hope to do that better.

Q.   Is today's practice a good chance to learn from last night and make some adjustments? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, we're going to watch film, and we're not going to do much on the floor.   We'll walk through a few things, but we'll watch film.   We'll get better. 
One of the things about our guys is they love to get better and they love to compete.   They know we had a great opportunity, but it's not the end of the world.   We're down 1‑0, and it's the first to four.   We've always had that philosophy of going one game at a time. 
We know that we lost to a very good team.   They're not going to be easy to beat like it was last night, but we had a chance to win the game.   They did a good job of closing out the game.   We've always been a good closeout team.   Last night wasn't one of our best closeout games.   But a lot to do with it was because of them.

Q.   Why was Serge not in the game late? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   That's an opportunity.   I think there's usually one more substitution that I'll go through in the fourth quarter, and we had a chance to go small with Kevin.   I've done that in the past against the Lakers and it was very successful.   Against Dallas, the same thing.   We have a chance. 
Every decision you make, if it doesn't work out, you always say why did you do that?   I'm with you on that.   I wish I would have played Serge last night.   But we've done it in the past and had a lot of success.   So you can't look back and beat yourself up too much.   But I will. 
It's nothing against what Serge did.   It's something that I thought Kevin and our other guys had a chance to close the game out.   But Serge, I expect him to be right back in there tomorrow night.

Q.   The way the game flip‑flopped there to start the fourth quarter, was it just one of those NBA things?   What do you put your finger on there after the way you dominated those first games? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   That's the thing about NBA basketball.   You're never out of T we had the situation last series where we could have easily been out of it, and we came back and won the game.   They had the same situation.   I thought the Splitter's two lay‑ups were huge.   They really gave him an opportunity to get two baskets, and his minutes were good.   Nine points, three assists, a bunch of rebounds off 12 minutes. 
I thought he was a big part of their win, even though he missed his free throws, he made so many winning basketball plays.   The guy seemed to be a great competitor.   But I thought his minutes were good.   We missed some shots and we missed some tough shots.   You're not going to make tough shots a lot.   You're occasionally you'll make those shots, but we have to find easier shots. 
Like I said, we didn't do a good job getting into our offense quicker.

Q.   If you get back to playing that brand of basketball, can your bigs have a bigger impact at the offensive end? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   I think so.   We have to trust everybody.   With our bigs, they do a great job.   We have to reward the bigs when they role.   We have pocket passes.   Those are the passes that have to be completed and give them a chance to touch the ball, feel the ball and make plays for each other. 
We will.   We've done it all year.   Last, I would say eight, maybe nine minutes out of the last 12 minutes, it wasn't good basketball for ourselves on the offensive end.   But I believe in our guys.   They do a great job of figuring things out.   Getting better day‑to‑day, game‑to‑game.   So I expect us to play better in the fourth quarter tomorrow night. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT