NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 24, 2012
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is it just a matter of that winning cures those kinds of things?   
SCOTT BROOKS:   It's still the same thing, same team.   We have a very competitive group of guys.   When all that came out, it surprised all of us because that situation wasn't even with Russell and Kevin.   It was really me and the bigs, and then Russell got involved.   
But it's‑‑ we have very competitive guys that always challenge each other, but it's always in a respectful, competitive way.   If it ever got below that, I would step in.   And it hasn't gotten‑‑ it's not even near.   I've been on teams where it was a lot worse, and it was personal.   This is a very competitive group that works hard, that wants to keep getting better.   
But Russell is a winner.   He's a leader.   If it wasn't for him, we wouldn't be in the position that we're in.   The guy is a tremendous competitor and he's passionate about it.   
   
 Q.   When you look at this season, how important was it for you guys to be pretty much bringing back the same group when you look at short training camp, not a lot of practice?  
SCOTT BROOKS:   I think stability in an organization is always important, whether it's a coach that's been around, same group of players have been around.   That's very important.   But it's also important to have good players.   We have good players that are very competitive that work hard that are improving every day.   Kevin Durant is a special, special player on and off the floor.   He competes; he gets after it.   You would never know if he had a great game or a bad game the night before.   When he comes to practice, he's always there early putting his time in.   
I mean, it helps with a short season.   They're familiar with what we do.   The system is in place.   But we still have to work on things to get better.   We're not where we need to be or where we want to be and where we should be.   But things are good because our guys are good players.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT