NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v SPURS
May 28, 2014
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Coach, Kevin calls talks about how he can take his game to another level.   It seems like Russell has done that during the Playoffs, as well.   What have you noticed in particular about where he's taken his game? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Russell or Kevin? 

Q.   Russell. 
SCOTT BROOKS:   You know, he's been good for a lot of years.   There's no question last night's game, his energy level was off the charts.   He was pursuing basketballs, he was staying in plays, and he's guarding one of the better point guards in the league.   I think he's an All‑Star player that has played well and he's continued to improve in all areas of the game.   He's one of those guys that we have on our team, there's a few of them, that they can fill the stat sheet.   We want that from him, and he demands that from himself. 

Q.   He had 10 assists last night.   He had to learn the position sort of on the fly.   What do you remember about those early days? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Do I have to go back there?   (Laughter.)
A lot of film sessions, a lot of work, but it's all paid off.   Russell has put a lot of time into the game, not only his game but playing that position.   It's a tough position because nobody ever seems to be happy with what you do.   They always want the ball.   Coach always wants something different.   It's something that he has done a good job of managing all the other players and all the other personalities on the team.   I think that is one of his major improvements in that position, just understanding all the other‑‑ all the finer points of that position, just understanding game management, understanding the players that he's playing with, and he's really improved in that area. 

Q.   The team as a whole seems to be playing with a new energy, a new focus.   Where do you think that's come from the most? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, we're playing better.   We played well at home.   We knew that we had to do that in order to win Game 3 and Game 4.   But we have to be able to take it on the road with us.   We know that we've watched some film sessions today, and we have to play better.   We have to do things better.   We understand that.   It's one thing about our group, we're never satisfied.   On the road it's going to be‑‑ we know what they do, and they beat us pretty bad the first two games, but we know what we have‑‑ we have to play with that maximum effort every time down the court. 

Q.   About taking it on the road, is it an Xs and Os mentality?
SCOTT BROOKS:   It's a combination.   We're playing against a very good team.   We have to be on high alert on all their actions.   We have to play with the effort and we have to play with a great IQ.   In order to beat them, that's what we have to do.   We understand that.   We've done a good job with that the last two games.   We have to go into that Game 5 with that same mentality, and I believe our guys will do that.

Q.   Their point scoring went from 60 a game to 35 a game, you're out scoring them 33 to 3 on the break these past two games.   Is one more significant than the other?
SCOTT BROOKS:   I think they're both important.   I think it helps when we attack and not settle for jump shots and get to the free‑throw line and not turn the ball over.   It helps our defense, it helps our offense, it helps everything about the spirit of the game. 
And then defensively we played better.   Obviously having Serge back is a big part of that, but we've been a good defensive team all year because all other guys do that.   But I think having Serge back obviously helps because we can get into a few different types of schemes that we kind of can throw at them when they have different lineups at us.   I think we just played better defensively overall.

Q.   Two years ago when you had three big time scorers, but you had a pretty big dip after that.   This year you had four double digit scorers with Jeremy into February.   Are you more balanced, more suited to other guys chipping in and helping out with the scoring load than you have been in the past? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, I mean, I hate to compare team to team because we're different than we were years ago, but it's always good to have balance.   We had two very good basketball players that can score the ball.   It doesn't make a good team when you only have two guys.   You have to have other guys chipping in, and whatever they do, they have to do it consistently.   We have guys that set great screens, we have guys that are ball movers, and then we have guys that can catch and shoot that don't need the basketball in their hands a long time because they're open, they can shoot it with great success. 
I think we're good when we spread the ball around.   There's going to be nights where, just like other teams that have really good players, there's going to be nights that they have big games, but last night Kevin and Russell had big games when we needed it, but the other guys did chip in and they stepped up when we needed points out of them.

Q.   When you're assessing your defensive rotations, what are you looking for? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Well, I think you have to have your coverages in check throughout the game against a team that has so many offensive weapons, and with that coverages you have to have the great effort because they go hand in hand.   If you don't have one, you don't do your coverages with great effort, they're not going to help you out.   I think we've done that very well.   We have to do it again.   We have to do it again.   We look at it as every series, as every game.   It's a one‑game series.   We focus on one game, and that's Game 5 and nothing else other than Game 5.

Q.   How is Reggie today?
SCOTT BROOKS:   I spoke with him.   He's feeling pretty good.   He will get treatment throughout the day and then tomorrow, but he's feeling pretty good today. 

Q.   How is Serge holding up?   He's had two games now with 30 plus minutes, and what are you doing with him right now?
SCOTT BROOKS:   He's still going through the process of the rehab process.   He's holding up pretty good.   He's had two really good games, impactful games on both ends.   We're not doing a lot between days as a group, not just Serge but as a group.   It's mainly classroom work and trying to get better through the film than on the court, and then some of the guys that haven't played a lot of minutes are on the court.   But he hasn't done much in between games, but that's pretty normal for all of our guys.

Q.   Leading shot blocking during the Playoffs is not Serge Ibaka, it's Steven Adams.   Did you teach him everything he knew about that? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   I wish I could take credit for him.   You know what, he's really improved a lot throughout the season, and he has a big upside.   His shot blocking, protecting the rim has been really good, and last night he got in some foul trouble, had five fouls, but his fouls are decreasing as the season went on.   That's something that we always‑‑ that's why it's good to have Perk and him by committee because you're not really concerned with fouls.   Perk has 10 rebounds last game, Steven has rebounds and blocks the game before.   But they both are very good for us. 

Q.   This afternoon notwithstanding, I sensed a little bit more edginess from you these Playoffs.   I understand it's the Playoffs, the pressure of losing guys to injuries, those sorts of things.   Is that sort of‑‑ am I reading wrong?   Is there something to that?   I don't blame you if you would‑‑
SCOTT BROOKS:   I mean, I don't‑‑ I'm competitive just the all the other coaches in this league.   I want our guys to have success as much as any other coach in this league.   I don't feel it.   If I offend you, I'm sorry. 

Q.   You're a little snippy, though, for you. 
SCOTT BROOKS:   Oh, I'm done.   I love what I do.   I'm competitive.   But I don't feel that.   But it's the Playoffs.   We are fighting for something special, and we feel that we have a great opportunity.   If it's coming across as edgy‑‑

Q.   Do you feel like you've been unduly criticized? 
SCOTT BROOKS:   No, that was a joke.   That was my sense of human.   It's a little dry at times.   No, that was a joke.   For those of you that didn't think that was a joke, I'm sorry for you guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT