NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v MAVERICKS
May 24, 2011
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How did you sleep?   
 SCOTT BROOKS: Not well.   
  
  Q. Did the last five minutes replay over and over in your mind, or did you find a way to toss it out?  
 SCOTT BROOKS: No, I don't think you toss it out. You figure out ways that we could have done a few things different. It definitely is a tough loss to accept, but as a group we have to. We're still able to play basketball tomorrow, and we've got to take advantage of that one more chance that we have in Game 5. However, it is tough. It's tough emotionally. I'm sure it's tough for our guys physically and mentally to overcome that, but they've done a great job all year long. We've had some tough losses throughout the season but none obviously in a Game 4 Conference Finals setting. It doesn't get any tougher than that.   
 But our guys are resilient. They will bounce back. They will come back. That's what they're made of. That's how they survive. That's how they've gotten better the last three years, by pushing the envelope forward every game, and I see that happening again tomorrow night.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about Kevin? We've never seen him like that. He said he had no idea how to explain what happened, didn't talk to his mom, grandmother. He's as hurt as we've ever seen him from a loss.   
 SCOTT BROOKS: That's a good thing, also. You learn -- you learn from tough situations, and there's definitely -- losing that game last night is tough. But when you get punched you have to get up. You have no other choice. If you don't, you're not going to grow, you're not going to get better as a player, and Kevin gets better every game, and he learned from all those experiences. It's a lesson learned.   
 We didn't do a lot of things well, and give credit to the Mavericks. They did a lot of things well. Dirk hit some amazing shots. He hit a tough three. We tried to double-team him. Jason Kidd hit the three. I thought we fouled three times, offensive rebounds and off of turnovers, so we gave them six points without any clock being run down.   
 But we lost the game. There's no way around it. You have to accept that and grow from it. This is a team that believes in each other. They stick together, and no different tomorrow.  
  
  Q. That's probably the toughest situation you've been in as a coach aside from that 1 and 12 start. What did you learn from that tough situation?   
 SCOTT BROOKS: They're tough. Everybody goes through it. There's never been a coach or a player or a team that goes from not being a very good team record-wise to being an NBA champion without going through it. We still have a chance to get to our ultimate goal. That is to get to The Finals and to win a championship. Obviously the odds are against us, but there's odds. When you have odds, you still have a chance. And Game 5 is going to be an interesting game.   
 I know our guys. They're going to look at it as an opportunity to extend it and to come back home for Game 6.   
 It was tough, there's no doubt. It was tough. There's no words, emotions, the feelings that you have going through it. But you have to step up. That's the job of the coaches, to step up and continue to lead this group of young men that we have, and they do a good job of helping all of us.   
 They came back today in a good spirit, a good place, knowing that we still have basketball to play. We still have a chance to extend this series. We're going to have to play great basketball. We're going to have to do a lot of things well, but it's definitely possible.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT