NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v MAVERICKS
May 18, 2011
Scott Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Have you thought about how to slow down Dirk overnight?  
 SCOTT BROOKS: He had a great game. First of all, the guy is an incredible player. If he wasn't a very good player, he wouldn't be able to have great games like that. The guy is on fire. He did everything perfectly, a flawless basketball game. We have to do a better job, absolutely, and we're going to have to do a better job of that quickly because he can put that on you pretty quick.   
 He made some tough shots. The right side of the floor, he owns that side. We have to knock him off of his spots without fouling. 24 free throws is hard to overcome. He was getting what he wanted all over the floor.   
  
  Q. How much more difficult is it to defend his shot now than before Avery made him work on his posting up?   
 SCOTT BROOKS: He's much better. One, his experience, and he's gotten stronger. Earlier in his career you could put a small on him and just really push him around and make him catch where he didn't want the ball. Now you can't do that. He's as strong as anybody in the league, and that's why you don't look at him as a strong guy, because he's seven feet and he's lanky, but he has a good base and he has long arms, and his jump shot is as smooth as there's ever been one, and he knows how to play. He uses his body, he spins, he uses everything to his advantage.   
 We have to do a much better job on him. Like I said, he's capable of having games like that. He's a great player.  
  
  Q. What are the dangers of doubling him?   
 SCOTT BROOKS: Well, you double him, you give up a lot of threes. They made 12 or 13 threes a game against the Lakers, 49 threes, and that's what they do. They're a good team, and they put you in positions you have to make decisions, and we made a decision to really stay at home on their shooters, and it didn't work. We still have to play better basketball. We gave up a lot of 30-point quarters, and that's something we pride ourselves not to give up. We gave up three of them.   
 They played good. They're a good team. They're a very well passing team. They make you chase the ball all night long until they find a good shot.  
  
  Q. After watching film what did you see out of Russell? How can he play better in Game 2?  
 SCOTT BROOKS: Russell missed some shots. He attacked the basket very well, as well as he has all year. He got to the free-throw line and was getting fouled. He missed some of his shots, the ones that he makes, the ones that he improved on over the year. But he has to just continue to attack, and he'll play better. He'll play better offensively. But defensively, that's what we have to do. We have to play better defensively. We pride ourselves on that.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT