ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2020
Joanna Bernabei-McNamee
Marnelle Garraud
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boston College - 85, Clemson - 73   
THE MODERATOR: It's my pleasure to introduce Boston College head coach Joanna Bernabei-McNamee as well as student-athlete, Marnelle Garraud. Coach?   
JOANNA BERNABEI-MCNAMEE: What a game! I thought that was pretty intense going back and forth. I thought as the game went we really took better control of the boards, where it was even at halftime I think we ended up plus six. I loved our composure as the game went on, both knocking down our free throws and handling the press and handling the traps and Marnelle was a big reason we were able to handle that, only having one turnover with all that heat.   
I loved the way that we shared the ball on offense. I'm really proud of our team and I hope that we continue with confidence going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  They made several runs and you seemed to stand firm every time they did and answered them. One stretch particularly there in the fourth quarter, Marnelle, I think you hit the big 3 and Georgia followed with a jumper. Could you talk about that? Did you think it was the knock out punch so to speak?  
MARNELLE GARRAUD: Our coaches told us, stay calm, they go on their runs and we have our runs. So we stayed poised and calm while they were on their runs and we kept doing our offense. I think that's why we got good shots is because we got what we know we can get on a normal basis.   
 Q.  Been a long time since you've seen Duke, but talk about what you need to do tomorrow night in that game.  
JOANNA BERNABEI-MCNAMEE: It's been a really long time since we've seen them. I think both teams have greatly improved since our first interaction with each other. I think we have to not handle their zone, so not probably a better game for us to prepare for Duke's zone than going up against Clemson's zone.   
We will see their match-up zone quite a bit but defensively we have to be on point and playing together 5 as 1 because we're going to need the backside help and they outsize us in some positions and we're going to need that help and Haley Gorecki is an unbelievable scorer so we're going to have to be on lockdown mode with her, but I think it will be a really nice battle with her tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, we will see you tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT