XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 31, 1996
Neil Broad
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk us through it.
 
NEIL BROAD:  It was three sets. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think I was probably responsible for the first set.  I got off to a pretty slow start on the serve.  Once we put that behind us, then I think Neil served particularly well, he didn't lose his serve all day.  And obviously it was very much dominated by the serve. 
 
NEIL BROAD:  I think the crucial game was the first game of the second set, when I was 15-40 on my serve, and we managed to hold. And we broke the next game.  And I think if we lost that game we would have had a tough time winning the match. 
 

Q.  How unexpected was this for you?
 
TIM HENMAN:  We're obviously very pleased.  I think coming into the event we're hoping to try and get a medal.  Now we're in the final we have to forget about what's happened so far and just try and make sure we get the right card. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
NEIL BROAD:  You've got to win a lot of good matches.  We always thought we could do well, if we played well.  And we did play well.  So we didn't expect to get a medal, but it's -- we thought we could do -- we could get a medal if we performed to our capabilities. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think in doubles it can be so close with the serve, and when you get your opportunities on break points and stuff, you've just got to try and take them.  And I think we seem to have served fairly well in the four matches so far.  And most of the big points we've won them.  So I just hope that continues for us. 
 

Q.  Forgive me, I'm not a tennis writer, as I've explained to you before.  How long have you been together as a partnership?
 
NEIL BROAD:  One match.  Davis Cup one match when we lost. 
 

Q.  Before this tournament?
 
NEIL BROAD:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Where was that?
 
NEIL BROAD:  Slovakia. 
 

Q.  You beat them the first round.
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's right. 
 

Q.  Is there a likelihood now you'll stay together?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Not necessarily.  I haven't really played as much doubles as I would have liked. 
 
NEIL BROAD:  I've had a partner the whole year which I'm committed at least through the U.S. Open.  So right now -- 
 
TIM HENMAN:  We'll see how things go. 
 

Q.  It was just for this tournament essentially?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yes. 
 

Q.  What's your background, Chris?
 
NEIL BROAD:  It's Neil.  Well, I was born in South Africa in Capetown and my dad was born in Sunderland. 
 

Q.  Did you ever play for South Africa?
 
NEIL BROAD:  No. 
 

Q.  You've had a British passport --
 
NEIL BROAD:  Since '84. 
 

Q.  It's safe to assume when you became British, the Olympics wasn't in the cards for you?
 
NEIL BROAD:  No, not really.  
 

Q.  You don't know who you're going to play?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  They're both very good doubles teams, they obviously play a lot together.  I think all four players have been number one in the world in doubles.  So that sort of speaks for itself, that it's not going to be easy, but we do believe we do have a chance. 
 

Q.  Did you find it difficult after your second round game against Woodbridge to come back?  What were your feelings after you went out in the singles?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I was disappointed, sure, to lose a match 7-6, 7-6, when obviously it was a close run thing.  You are disappointed, but having said that, I don't find it difficult to pick myself up and put that behind me.  And I very much enjoy playing doubles, so that's what's really been happening. 
 

Q.  Have either of you played doubles against either of the partnerships --
 
NEIL BROAD:  I've played against both of them.  I've actually never beaten both teams. 
 

Q.  You've never beaten either of them?
 
NEIL BROAD:  No, but Eltingh/Haarhuis I played twice, and so in those kind of matches one or two points always changes things.  And the Woodies, they've drove me a couple of times, and a couple of times -- obviously the Woodies' record speaks for themselves.  And you have to play well to beat them.  And whoever we play we have to play well. 
 

Q.  You talk to each other almost every point.  Is that somebody's idea or --
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's doubles play, really.  Just when you're serving you've got to let your partner know where he is going to serve.  And just some little thoughts about where he might return, just communicate and know what the other one is up to. 
 

Q.  Have you worked well as a pair or would it come naturally to any doubles player?
 
NEIL BROAD:  I think we work well together. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  It doesn't always, you know, you don't always gel as a doubles team.  But we didn't really play very well in the Davis Cup match against Slovakia, so we weren't sure how things would go. But so far so good. 
 

Q.  You were always designated a pair?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's done on a ranking, Neil is the highest British ranked, and I am No. 2 in the doubles. 
 

Q.  What did you say at 30-All in the last game?
 
NEIL BROAD:  I was pretty nervous that last game.  He just said go for the serve and I did.  And the next point he said -- he said "pub point".  It was match point, because I've got a pub in the house, and the boys have been kidding me about putting the medal up there.  That's what he said sort of relaxed me pretty well. 
 

Q.  Sort of worked?
 
TIM HENMAN:  A couple of aces. 
 

Q.  Is that the only time you sort of began to feel nervous?
 
NEIL BROAD:  Yeah.  I was fine serving to stay in the match. And when we broke that game on the changeover I was shaky, I was nervous.  But we played a good game.  I was positive on my serve and we just are thankful we pulled it out. 
 

Q.  Did you think you would be playing for a gold or silver medal?
 
NEIL BROAD:  It does go through your mind a little. 
 

Q.  Were you conscious of the recent sporting history of semifinals?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think we were reminded by most of you that we  don't have a great record against Germans in semifinals.  And football, obviously, losing two penalty shoot-outs, maybe we were owed a close one today. 
 

Q.  I know you're professional tennis players, do you actually feel part of the British Olympic team?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Sure.  Very much so.  Tennis is a new event, but the BOA have given us huge support, not just out here, but also in our preparation.  And we feel like we have been very much part of the Olympics, especially being in the Village around all of the other athletes.  It's something we've both enjoyed. 
 
NEIL BROAD:  We've got to know quite a few of the other athletes, as well.  So it's been great. 
 

Q.  Have you any views on how we've done, then, overall?
 
TIM HENMAN:  In tennis? 
 

Q.  No, in all sports.
 
TIM HENMAN:  There's been some good and bad moments, I think. But at the end of the day I'm sure all the athletes went out and gave a hundred percent and that's all you can ask for. 
 

Q.  How does this compare to Wimbledon?
 
TIM HENMAN:  They're both very exciting moments in my career so far.  I wouldn't necessarily put Wimbledon in front of this.  But it's different being, obviously, an individual at Wimbledon and now at the Olympics, A, being a doubles team, and B, representing Great Britain.  Hopefully we can go one step further. 
 

Q.  Are you aware of any personal support here people traveling from Britain?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't know about them specifically, but there are obviously a lot of British people in the crowd.  I think we've had very good support throughout the matches. 
 

Q.  Neil, it's been sort of a quiet year, you've been on the doubles circuit, coming into a big match like that, was that different --
 
NEIL BROAD:  Yeah, I've played big matches before, but this was probably one of the biggest I've played.  I'm always nervous before, it doesn't matter what round it is.  I'm always nervous normally the first couple of days.  I get into it and the nerves go away.  But I was pretty comfortable out there except maybe that last game I was shaking. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think also he didn't lose his serve in the last match, didn't lose his serve today.  So I think he should feel pretty confident with the way he's playing. 
 

Q.  It would be safe to assume when we're looking at our medal hall at the start, we weren't looking at the tennis.  Do you feel it will have a positive effect?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I'm sure it will help.  I think before the events, singles and doubles, we probably weren't expected to get a medal. Having said that, we all believed in our abilities and as I said, we've made the final, but we have to concentrate on that now. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT