NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 21, 2014
Daniel Briere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you think it gets to him, or has he been through this kind of stuff before? 
DANIEL BRIERE:   It's funny.   You know, in the Boston series, I think the first two games people started getting on him, and then he had a big game where he scored a couple goals.   You know, that's Thomas Vanek.   You know, he's dangerous.   At any time he can come out and hurt you and make big, big plays.   So I'm not too worried about him.   He's too talented, and he seems to find a way to get it done when you don't expect him.

Q.   Is this just the sort of thing that gets amplified or magnified? 
DANIEL BRIERE:   I think so.   Like you just said it, sometimes when you're losing everybody's looking to pinpoint the problem somewhere.   You know, look, I guess it comes with the territory.   When you're expected to be, and I was there before and you're expected to make things happen offensively, your focus is a little bit more on you.   I think Thomas is used to that.   It's not something that's going to faze him or surprise him.

Q.   Do you think in Game 2 that you guys figured out a way to force them to turn the puck overcoming out of their zone compared to Game 1 the way you were playing there? 
DANIEL BRIERE:   I don't think it's really figuring them out.   But I thought we did a much better job on the forecheck.   The first game, for some reason, we didn't have our legs.   We turned the puck over way too much.   It's really not the way we had played so far in the playoffs.   I'm hoping it was just a bad game and it's not going to happen again.   But at the same time, we did a much better job and we got back to the way we were playing in the second game.   You know, faced a good goalie.   He made some great saves.   He gave him a chance to win, and you have to respect that.

Q.   Have you seen from Justin Tokarski going from obscurity to the spotlight that he has? 
DANIEL BRIERE:   I've had some crazy goalie stories in my time in Philly in the playoffs.   But for Dustin the way‑‑ this story is different.   I thought he battled hard.   He played well for us the last game and he gave us a chance to win.   At the other end they had a goalie that was even better and sometimes that's going to happen. 
But Dustin has really nothing to feel ashamed of.   I thought he played extremely well, and like I said, he gave us a chance to win.

Q.   What was your impression his demeanor being thrown into that situation? 
DANIEL BRIERE:   I thought he reacted well.   He seemed comfortable.   He made the saves that he had to make.   He didn't seem too nervous.   I'm sure on the inside he was, and anyway, I would have been.   But he seemed in control.

Q.   You guys have to change the way you play at all when you have an inexperienced goalie? 
DANIEL BRIERE:   Not really.   I think for us it's finding the desperation to come back in this series.   That's what we have to find.   We did a much better job in Game 2.   Lundqvist was great.   Sometimes it's going to happen.   Carey stole some games for us in the Boston series, you know.   He stole one there in Game 2 for them, but we have to play and somehow find a way to play with even more desperation in Game 3. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT