NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 22, 2010
Daniel Briere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You guys promised a very different Game 4, you did it. Can you talk about what you thought were the key differences today?
 DANNY BRIERE: There're many things we did much better. I think our execution to start with, we were on top of our game in that department. Passes were on tape, we weren't bobbling the pucks; we weren't fighting pucks like we did in Game 3. Our forecheck, our cycles were a lot better.
 We were able to sustain some offense much better than we did in Game 3. But I think the biggest difference was the coverage in our zone, the way we were able to limit their chances, keeping them on the outside. And Michael was there to make the big saves when we needed them.

 Q. It seemed like a lot of you and your teammates were somewhat angry at what happened in Game 3. But it looked like you were able to contain that anger coming out. I think a lot of people expected you to come out and be really, really physical, but it looked like the priority was to contain your emotion; is that accurate?
 DANNY BRIERE: Yeah, definitely. We were much better at controlling our emotions. Not letting their guys that talk a lot get into our heads. That was one of the things that we talked about. I think as the game got on, they got more and more frustrated, so that's the way we have to keep it. You know, we can't start retaliating when they're talking to us. When we do that, we're playing into their hands. So we did a much better job of that tonight.

 Q. You guys are a win away from the Stanley Cup Finals. Can you just taste how close you guys are to this opportunity?
 DANNY BRIERE: Yes, but at the same time, it's where we have to be careful. If there's a team that would know that it's us with what we were able to do in the previous round to the Bruins, and also what Montreal did to Washington and Pittsburgh.
 We're definitely not going to take them for granted. There's still one big win. We always say the fourth one or the last one is always the toughest to get against a team. We expect them to come out with a lot of desperation in Game 5, but at the same time, yes, we know we're getting closer.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT