NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 28, 2010
Daniel Briere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Do you remember anything, DANNY, about the 6-1 game where you beat Carolina with Michael Leighton in goal early in the year?  
 DANNY BRIERE: We did that?   
  
  Q. Apparently.  
 DANNY BRIERE: I have a vague memory of it. I wouldn't be able to tell you. All I remember is that we beat them once. I can't remember any of the goals. That's all I remember about it.  
  
  Q. Danny, when you take the ice today and you were out there and skating around, you looked down to the Stanley Cup Final logo and how much do you want it to get going and play here?  
 DANNY BRIERE: I think like everybody else, we can't wait. We can't wait to get it started, to start skating, to start playing, to get that physical contact, the battles, just to get involved.   
 I mean, I'm enjoying everything what's going on around the rink and the media stuff and everything. But at the same time, yeah, I can't wait to get it started.   
 The weird part is we don't know much about the Hawks. We've seen them once a long time ago. And I guess it's the same thing on their side. I can't wait to start playing, to start the hatred going a little bit. Right now everybody's nice to each other.   
 I can't wait until it feels like this is going now and there's no love anymore.  
  
  Q. Brian Boucher practiced again today. Tell us what you saw from him?  
 DANNY BRIERE: He looks good. Like everybody else, he's excited. He's excited to be back on the ice. Just like Jeff and Simon and Ian, he thought his season was over as we're moving along all these guys have a chance to keep playing now and I'm sure they feel very fortunate to be playing, but at the same time they're excited, they're jumping.   
 Brian looks like himself, just like the way he was before. So that's very encouraging going into the Finals. Knowing that we have both guys that have - I don't know what the record - who has many wins out of the 12 that we have. But it's got to be pretty close.   
 So we're comfortable with both of them.  
  
  Q. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about Claude Giroux and the post-season he's had and also is he as cool a customer as he looks when you watch him from up top in the press box?  
 DANNY BRIERE: On the ice, he certainly is. I'm very impressed with him, the way he's been playing, the way he's stepping up his game. We've all seen him, if you ask any of the guys in the room, everybody knows about his skill level, his hands, his vision.   
 One of the tops in the League, but the thing that's impressed me about him is how he's showed up to play, and how he stepped up his game. He's shown a lot of character.   
 He's not a big guy, but he's strong on the puck. He's not afraid. He goes in there. He's one of the reasons - one of the big reasons why we're still playing today.  
  
  Q. Going back to the word "hate", do you feel that you play better and maybe this team plays better when you get those juices going, and when the hate comes out?  
 DANNY BRIERE: It seems that way, anyway. Throughout the Playoffs, the first round against Jersey, everybody knows the rivalry between the Devils and the Flyers. We came out strong, and it took us a few games to get going against the Bruins.   
 And you look against Montreal, we didn't feel we played really well the first two games. We got beat really bad in the third game, and that's kind of when they started saying stuff about us.   
 And that's kind of when we started to get going. So hopefully it doesn't take that long in the Finals. We have to find a way to get going right off the bat, because at some point we can burn ourselves with waiting sometimes and waiting for that fire to show up.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT