NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 27, 2010
Daniel Briere
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How much do you expect to see of Campbell this year? I would imagine you might draw him. 
 DANNY BRIERE: To be honest, I didn't even think about that. Yeah, I'm sure they'll probably try to match up Seabrook against Richards; that would be my guess. So after Seabrook, it seems the next four kind of mix and match the way they play them. 
 So I wouldn't be surprised, yeah, to play against Brian.

 Q. You were pretty close to him. 
 DANNY BRIERE: Yeah, we were good friends.

 Q. I remember you talked a lot with him before you signed in Philly. Can you talk about that?
 DANNY BRIERE: Yeah, we talked when it was his turn to -- about the process of going through it, because he was kind of going through it the year after me. But this is the Finals. So at this time, just like the previous round with Montreal. 
 I was good friends with Spacek. And every time we would travel we were always sitting together on a plane, playing cards together. But if it's the Playoffs, you have to leave that friendship aside there for a little bit. 
 And I think everybody understands that part, too. We're so close to our goal, do expect Brian to back off in any way on me when I'm out there.

 Q. I just talked to Hitchcock for a while. One of the things he said is the Flyers are going to scare the hell out of this team. He said they're not used to a team that they get up a couple of goals and come back on them. And he said this will be the first time they've seen an opponent probably since Nashville that's not afraid of them and will strike fear. Can you talk a little bit about that, just the psyche of this team?
 DANNY BRIERE: Well, you know it's tough, because the tough part is we don't know them as well. It's kind of where I guess it's like that in every Finals. You don't really know much about the teams you're facing. You face them once, maybe twice a year. Obviously we know they have a good team and we respect that they have a good team. 
 But we can't give them too much respect. We still have to go out and get things done. 

 Q. Would you agree with his assessment, though, that you guys come at teams, you come back from any deficit, and it's a little bit different than other teams in the Playoffs. You're scoring a lot of goals and plays. Players, usually like one- or two-goal games. 
 DANNY BRIERE: I mean, I don't know. I think that would probably be a better question to ask them. I'm not sure that we strike fear in them. 

 Q. There was a time when this team couldn't score a goal to save its life, if I remember.
 DANNY BRIERE: You're right, you're right. Coming down the stretch we gained a lot of confidence, and in the Playoffs. 
 I mean, that's one thing now, we do know that we can come back. And I remember there was stats, I think we finished close to last in the NHL when we fall behind, after a period, after two periods. I think we were last coming into the Playoffs or the bottom of the League anyway. And for some reason, you know, in the Playoffs it's been a total turnaround. 
 I think that goes back to the character of the team, the no-quit attitude that we've had since the Playoffs began. I don't expect us to back off from that at any point, no matter what happens from now on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT