AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 13, 2001
Freddy Garcia
Aaron Sele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How did you feel? 

AARON SELE:   I felt fine.  You know, made some good pitches.  Really, the only bad pitch I felt like I made was the curveball that was up a little bit to Vizquel. 

Q.  Were you surprised when you were pulled? 

AARON SELE:   Yeah. 

Q.  What was said to you? 

AARON SELE:   Oh, they do it the same way.  Bryan just came down and said I was done. 

Q.  What does it do for you when you take the mound with the lead? 

AARON SELE:   It really doesn't do anything, because like I said, I had not been on the mound yet.  I was still going with my game plan, how I felt in the bullpen and everything, and I still had to go out and make pitches.

Q.  Did it unnerve you that your defense didn't come through for you? 

AARON SELE:   No, it didn't unnerve me.  It's very uncharacteristic of the way we played all year.  Especially in the post-season, the way you win is with defense and pitching but it's uncharacteristic of the way we've played all year. 

Q.  Were you shocked and overwhelmed with what you saw today?

AARON SELE:   Not overwhelmed and shocked.  Like I said, it's not characteristic of the way we've played, but one thing that is characteristic is that we've shrugged off losses all year long, come back and played hard the next day.  Guys come in early to get their works, they will be lifting and running like we always have and that's what we've done all year long.

Q.  Is it harder to shrug a loss like this?

AARON SELE:   No, a loss is a loss, a one-run loss or a 50-run loss.  A loss is a loss.

Q.  Did you think you were up in the zone much? 

AARON SELE:   No.  One pitch to Vizquel, like I said was a curveball that was up a little bit that he hooked and one pitch to Alomar was a little up and that was a good piece of hitting, when he hit the double down the right field line.  Other than that, it was just some singles.

Q.  Lou has not pulled you early all year long, do you have any thoughts on that?

AARON SELE:   No.  Skipper said I was done and skipper makes calls. 

Q.  After seeing a big offensive output like they had, does it change your game plan?  What are you thinking right now? 

FREDDY GARCIA:   I don't think so.  Tomorrow is a big game for us.  I'll try to do my job.  I'll try to slow a lot of strikes and be aggressive with all those guys.  Right now, they are really hot right now, but I've got to be aggressive and go out there and try to do the best I can, too. 

Q.  What did you learn from watching this game? 

FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, like today, they hit pretty good.  So tomorrow, they will be aggressive and I'll have to be focused on what I do and concentrate to throw my pitches. 

Q.  How much more pressure on you now compared to the first game? 

FREDDY  GARCIA:   For me, it will be the same.  I'll go out there and try to do my job.  There's no pressure.  I know it's a big game, but I'll try to the best I can do tomorrow. 

Q.  Do you feel you have to pitch them any differently than in Game 1?  You had a good game in Game 1?

FREDDY  GARCIA:   I think I'm going to be the same; try to throw a lot of strikes.

Q.  What will you do to make sure you stay calm tomorrow? 

FREDDY  GARCIA:   Try to throw strikes, try to keep Lofton and Vizquel off the bases.  I think that's what I will try to do.

Q.  Does the fact that you don't know what time you are pitching tomorrow impact you at all? 

FREDDY  GARCIA:   I don't know what time we're playing tomorrow.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Has your team played any one game as bad as this game all year? 

FREDDY  GARCIA:   I don't know.  I don't remember.  Maybe one month ago when we lost Sunday night here.  We had a 12-run lead and we lost.  It's about the same. 

Q.  Was there any time during the game or after the game your teammates came up to you and said, "Hey, man, get ready to go tomorrow" or any type of encouragement at all?

FREDDY  GARCIA:   A couple of guys, and Lou, just, "Be ready for tomorrow."   


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT