AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v WHITE SOX
October 15, 2005
Freddy Garcia
A.J. Pierzynski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A.J, obviously you've been booed every time you've come out, so how sweet was it to hit the home run against the boos?

A.J. PIERZYNSKI:  I didn't care about that.  It was another run for us and gave us a little bit more of a cushion.  We kept trying to score after they scored, and if people boo me, they're going to boo me no matter what.  And to hit a home run was great, just another run we put on the board and more runs for Freddy.

Q.  Since you've caught all three complete games in a row now, what is the common thread between all three of them that you've seen that you've been happiest the most about the pitchers?

A.J. PIERZYNSKI:  Strike 1.  They're getting strike 1, they're getting ahead, and all of them have been able to use all their pitches, in any situation they've been able to throw curve, slider, change-up, fastball, they've all been able to do it, but the key is they get ahead and once we get ahead they've been pretty good at putting guys away.

Q.  A.J., the (Steve) Finley situation, did you feel that that hit your glove, and do you think that that was an extra break for you guys, the fact that he turned around and looked at the umpire cost himself some time going down the line?

A.J. PIERZYNSKI:  Yeah, I felt it, but I couldn't really hear it.  I mean, the only two people that knew it hit me was me and Steve.  You know, we got a break.  I mean, he hit it right at the guy and they turned a double play.  It was a lucky break, what can you say? 

Q.  Freddy, Ozzie came out there in the ninth.  What did he say to you and was there any doubt you were going to stay in?

FREDDY GARCIA:  He asked me how I feel.  I said I was fine.  You know, when I made my pitch, I got that guy out, throw a good change and he hit a ground ball to second base.

Q.  Freddy, you had a tough act to follow after the way you guys have been pitching, but you felt having a little bit of extra rest would help and it seemed to do just fine for you?

FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, I was on vacation, got like eight days no pitching. 

A.J. PIERZYNSKI:  You had a kid, too, didn't you? 

FREDDY GARCIA:  Yeah, I go out there and I was strong, throw a lot of strikes, make good pitches.  That's all. 

Q.  Can you talk about the home run?  You've hit some big home runs and some long home runs, but did you know from the instant that you hit that that it was gone?

A.J. PIERZYNSKI:  Yeah, I've been swinging the bat real well, trying to be a little more patient, and he just made a mistake with a fastball down, and I thought I got it when I hit it, but in this place the ball doesn't carry very well when the sun goes down.  I was surprised myself with how far it went.  I didn't think I could hit it that good.

Q.  Relievers have only gotten two outs in four games.  How are you keeping them loose, and what types of things are you saying to them?  Are you telling them to enjoy their vacation, too? 

A.J. PIERZYNSKI:  No, I'm telling them to be ready for every time.  You never know when we're going to need them.  One thing I give Ozzie credit for and Coop and K (Kusnyer) they keep those guys out, they keep them throwing.  I saw them all throw tonight and they threw the last couple games.  They're all out there and they're loose and getting a feel for the atmosphere.  It's not the same as being in the game, but they get to feel the crowd and the game and stay sharp.

Q.  Obviously it's up to the pitcher to make quality pitches more than anybody, but what role is your ability to call a play played in the success the last three games?

A.J. PIERZYNSKI:  For me it's, I put down the best suggestion I have and they throw it.  They still have to execute the pitches.  I kept yelling at Freddy "stay aggressive.  Stay after them," and that's it for me.  That's all I can do.  They have to throw their pitch.  It's their game all the time, so I'm lucky, I get to catch these guys. 

Q.  Freddy, do you feel that you guys have built upon each other here, that you had the great start by (Jose) Contreras early and then (Jon) Garland?  Were you expecting more out of yourself tonight and do you expect the same out of Contreras tomorrow? 

FREDDY GARCIA:  Yeah, I was trying to do my job.  I tried to follow those guys.  Those three guys, they pitched really good.  Contreras pitched like eight against them.  They asked me, "What do you want to do tomorrow?"  I told them "I'll try the best I can."  I'm glad, and thank God I did it.  You know, I feel lucky.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT