AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v WHITE SOX
October 14, 2005
Freddy Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations first of all. 

FREDDY GARCIA:  Thank you.

Q.  When did you fly in and what was that whole experience like as far as having your daughter and then getting here?

FREDDY GARCIA:  I flew in last night.  She was due during the game.  I was watching the game, waking up with her.  No, it's pretty good.  A lot of stuff for me.  I never seen that before, and that was a really good experience.

Q.  I think you'll have an extra day of rest when you start tomorrow night.  Is that a positive effect or any kind of effect for you?

FREDDY GARCIA:  Maybe that's good for me.  I've got a lot of innings, I've been throwing a lot this year, and a couple days off, you know, it feels pretty good.  I'll be ready for tomorrow.

Q.  You've pitched in a couple of clinchers this year and so has your scheduled opponent, (Ervin) Santana.  Can you talk about what you've seen of Santana this year?

FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, I don't worry about him.  I've got to worry about the guys I have to face.  The hitters, they have to worry about Santana, no me.  I've got to face the line-up.  So far as I can see, he's pretty good. 

Q.  You threw a lot of pitches in a short amount of time against Boston.  Was there something that was happening there?  You mentioned maybe too long of a rest between starts and now you'll have the same amount of rest, was there something that happened at that Boston game?

FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, like I said, I'm the kind of pitcher, I like to pitch every five days.  With Boston it was like seven days.  Sometimes that's no good for me.  I think I'll be fine.  I'll throw a couple bullpen before this start, and I think I'll be ready to go tomorrow.

Q.  Several scouts said your velocity was down this year.  If that's true do you have any explanation for it?

FREDDY GARCIA:  Not really, no.  When you throw a lot of innings, you know, if you see the last seven years I've been throwing 200 innings plus, so maybe that's from throwing a lot.  I don't really worry about my velocity.  I can throw hard, whatever, but if I don't hit my spot and I don't throw the pitch I want to throw, that's when I get in trouble. 

Q.  In the start before the last one, you had figured out how to get back to your slider.  Was the slider a problem for you in the last start?

FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, no, not really.  Maybe my control, you know, I throw a lot of pitch.  If I throw 100 pitch, I don't think there's any problem with my slider right now.  I don't think about it.  I've got to go there tomorrow and do my job.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT