AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v WHITE SOX
October 6, 2005
Freddy Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Do you think it's an advantage for you or for Boston that you haven't pitched against them this year?  How do you see that playing out?
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, last time I face those guys was last year.  Maybe, like you say, that's an advantage because, you know, they don't see me pitch this year.  You know, I feel really good right now.  I looking forward to pitch tomorrow.  You know, try to do the best I can.  
 
Q.  How exciting is it for you to potentially be pitching in another clinching game, pitching the divisional one and now possibly here?
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, that's a lot of fun for me.  I never have the opportunity.  I had the opportunity last week.  I'll do my job.  I'm looking forward tomorrow.  I know it's going to be tough.  You know, we play here in Boston.  They play really good here.  They can hit.  You know, you got to go out there and make you pitch.  That's it.  
 
Q.  Why do you think you've had so much success on the road this year? 
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  I don't know.  Maybe it's lucky, you know.  I don't know.  Lucky, I guess.  
 
Q.  Is it US Cellular Field in the summer is pretty much a hitter's park?  Is that part of it? 
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  I think all year long, that a hitter park.  But I go on the road, sometime I got a better start on the road, so here I am.  
 
Q.  Your last two starts, can you talk about how you've turned it around. 
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, maybe I throw better pitch.  Every time I get in trouble, I make an adjustment and throw the pitch I want to throw.  Sometimes, get in trouble, make one good pitch, throw the player out of the inning.  
 
Q.  You have a lot of playoff experience with Seattle.  How will that help you tomorrow?  How have you changed from four or five years ago? 
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, I've been there a couple times.  I want to go there tomorrow.  I don't want to change anything.  I'll go out there, you know, be myself.  I don't want to go out there and try to do too much.  You know, I want to pitch the way I've always been pitching. 
 
Q.  Ozzie often calls you his big-game pitcher, the big-game guy.  Do you like that settle?  Do you like carrying that role? 
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, I never have any pressure.  I like to go out there and perform, especially here.  You know, it's an exciting ballpark to play.  Those people here are crazy.  You know, it's fun to be in those kind of situation.  I like that.  
 
Q.  Whenever Ozzie comes in to talk to reporters like this, he's a very animated, very lively guy.  How is he in the clubhouse?  Can you give us examples of things that Ozzie does that maybe other managers don't do? 
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, it's fun to be around him.  He talk to everybody, joking around.  It's fun.  I never see any manager go to the guys and talk to them like, you know, he go.  He's fun to be around.  
 
Q.  You said you never had a start to clinch anything.  Now you're going to have back-to-back starts to clinch.  How big would it be to actually do that? 
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  For me, you know, I'm really excited.  I'm really looking forward.  I want to go out there and do my best, see what happen.  I don't know.  It's fun.  
 
Q.  It seems you guys have really grabbed on to this whole thing that you're the underdogs and Boston is favored because of what they did last year.  Has that kind of motivated you to knock them out? 
 
FREDDY GARCIA:  You know, you play against the world champion, you know.  You got to give credit to Chicago.  A lot of people talking about us, we don't have no chance.  We're here right now.  We try to, you know, beat those guy somehow.  We looking forward.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT