NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 27, 1998
Leon Barmore
Monica Maxwell
LaQuan Stallworth
Amanda Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH LEON BARMORE:  I'm certainly very pleased of our basketball team.  North Carolina State was coming in after beating two of the best teams in America, Old Dominion and Connecticut.  We had the respect to get ready today.  I thought, once again, everybody on our basketball team contributed.  We've been on our bench a lot of times, but I thought Jamie did a nice job.  But I can tell you, Louisiana Tech is proud to be in the final game. 
 

Q.  I'd like to ask LaQuan, your dribbling, you and Jackson -- that's a big part of your offense.
 
LaQUAN STALLWORTH: Basically, me and Tamicha want to get into a running, transition game, because that's what we're good at and that's what we do. 
 

Q.  The coach referred to your bench.  At this point in the year, after playing so many games, are you immune to the amount of minutes that you guys are playing, what that does?  You don't worry about your legs until the off season?
 
MONICA MAXWELL: I think absolutely.  I think at this point in time, especially in this tournament, the Final Four, that we're running off adrenaline.  You  can't get tired out there.  You're running off batteries, almost.  But I think when we're playing 35 plus minutes a game, we've been doing it all year, and this is no different. 
 

Q.  With all the hype surrounding Tennessee, I wonder if you feel you haven't gotten the respect you deserved?
 
AMANDA WILSON: I think Tennessee is a good team.  And it doesn't make a difference about respect. We're trying to play our best and trying to just finish the rest of our goals that we set this year.  I think we're looking forward to a great game on Sunday. 
 

Q.  For Monica, did it surprise you guys that you were able to build a lead as quickly as you did?  How do you think you did it?
 
MONICA MAXWELL: I think definitely our transition game got us the lead.  Whenever they got in the half court and got set and got the ball to Melvin, she was virtually unstoppable.  I think our running the transition game gave us the lead we had. 
 

Q.  LaQuan, how do you feel about a potential rematch with Tennessee?
 
LaQUAN STALLWORTH: Tennessee is a great team.  They like to run, we like to run.  But it's going to be a great game.  Whoever gets the baskets in  transition or half court set up, that's going to win the game, and rebound. 
 
COACH LEON BARMORE:  I would like to give Arkansas an opportunity to play the game.  So I really don't think our players need to comment on that.  And I don't want to comment either.  I respect the two teams that are playing.  And when the time comes, who we might play, let's address that then, please. 
 

Q.  Amanda, you had to play on Melvin, started out, had to play under her quite a bit.  Talk a little bit about your game, and how does it change when you switched up the assignment?
 
AMANDA WILSON: I think Melvin is a great player.  And we didn't try to stop her, we just tried to contain her.  She made her points and did whatever. I think the only reason we made the switch is because I had two fouls and Alisa only had one. 
 

Q.  LaQuan, did you guys sense that they got tired?  You guys being so fast, they were obviously going to have the game down low.  Did any of the players sense them getting tired?
 
LaQUAN STALLWORTH: If we were tired, we knew they were tired.  But we had to keep on running, because that's our game, and that's how we get most of our baskets.  And coach just told us keep running with  the ball. 
 

Q.  Monica, yesterday you talked about seeing all the banners from previous teams in the gym.  You guys have the Final Four banner now.  What does it mean to be back in a National Championship game and to hang your championship banner in that gym?
 
MONICA MAXWELL: I think I speak for the whole team, when we came to Louisiana Tech, all we wanted was the opportunity.  Sunday we'll have the opportunity not only to hang a Final Four banner, but a championship banner. 
 

Q.  Amanda, Coach Barmore alluded to how much the bench stepped in and helped you.  What is your take on what the bench did today?  What did you think about the bench's play today?
 
AMANDA WILSON: I think the bench was outstanding.  I think that Jamie stepped up when she was supposed to. 
 

Q.  LaQuan, could you talk about earlier in the game you forced turnovers on their first 18 possessions.  How much did that set the tone and affect their play from then on?
 
LaQUAN STALLWORTH: Basically, coach -- before we went out there, coach told us to pressure the ball, so it would be hard for them to get it inside.  That's  what we did, was pressure the ball.  And we got easy baskets off that. 
 

Q.  There was a time when it wasn't so unusual to see six and seven-person rotations for a successful team.  Could you ever envision 1998 being able to be as successful as you are, giving as many minutes to a handful of players?
 
COACH LEON BARMORE:  I think that the reason we are, those starting five, they're outstanding players.  And they all contribute in various ways.  And they really do.  I thought, for instance, tonight the first part of the game, I really thought it was going to come back to haunt us, because they kept giving us opportunities and we didn't capitalize.  Alisa got off to a bad start, but she came up.  I thought Maxwell at least really got us going with some offensive points on the board.  If your starting five is good enough, then - which I think ours are - certainly you're going to get a lot of production out of them, and a lot of wins.  But they also have that trait of being able, like the centers, to run the floor.  Burras and Wilson can run the floor for post people.  And they're not carrying.  In other words, a lot of weight to tire out and wear out.  But they've done it all year, we'll just  have to try it again. 
 

Q.  Leon, you've had a lot of great guards over the years, but have you ever had a quicker pair than what you have right now?
 
COACH LEON BARMORE:  Well, Pam Thomas and Kendra Neal in '94 was very quick.  But when you say just speed and quickness, these are probably two of the best we've had.  And Tamicha is getting better.  She's only a sophomore.  She's really getting herself under control.  She's still getting too fast.  But she's learned to settle down at the right time.  And I want the ball in Stallworth's hands. She has really amazed me this year.  I'll be honest with you, she's had some kind of special year and far exceeded anything I thought she'd do. 
 

Q.  Coach, I know you don't want to concede anything about the game that's being played next, but will your team have to play even better than it played tonight to beat Tennessee or Arkansas or whoever wins that game?
 
COACH LEON BARMORE: I'd like to answer the next question.  You have to respect the game that's going on now.  I don't think I need to comment again. I asked you to do that.  I'm trying to help you people, but it's not fair for me to comment and the other team  wins. 
 

Q.  Leon, the part of the game where you pulled away a little bit, what do you think you were doing? And did it surprise you you were able to get a double figure lead as quickly as you did?
 
COACH LEON BARMORE:  It surprised me.  I thought we were going to have to deal with their size. But I think when you rely on one player, they did so much, it doesn't allow the others to score.  And that was fine with us.  I think that Melvin is a great basketball player.  But we thought Lewis would hurt us a little more.  We thought Erb would.  I thought we played a very good defensive game at the right time.  I thought we did a very good job defensively tonight. 
 

Q.  Now that you're in the Championship game again, will those memories of the last Championship game you were in start coming back to you?
 
COACH LEON BARMORE:  I want to see the person that asked that question.  I thought it would probably come up even before now.  Let me tell you something, that was the most hurtful thing that happened to me in my coaching career.  And I would appreciate if I didn't have to relive that again.  It took me a long time to get over it.  I will concentrate on the winner of this  next game, and what happened in '94 will not be a factor with me one bit.  I hope it's not with you. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT