U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 1994
Tom Wargo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TOM WARGO:  Hello fellows, anyway.  How are you doing?  Nice to be in here.  That means you are doing something  well, right?  We didn't do too much as far as an  exciting round.  It was just kind of down the middle on  the greens, about 20 foot, and then we took advantage of  a couple little putts.  We really didn't have a strong  round where we could knock in a lot of putts.  We just  kind of defensed the play, but when the opportunity came  along, we just made a couple of nice little birdies and  no bogeys, which is a satisfying round.  Anytime you can  play a round of golf with no bogeys; it is a nice round.  But we didn't have an exceptional ball strike.  The irons  were just a little bit weak today.  I could have hit it  in a little closer, I thought.  It is an opening round.  It is a nice round.  We got it posted on the board and  there are three more days.   
 

Q.  Tom, if you might, all week when you guys have  been practicing, the greens have been fairly slow.  I  understand from talking to some early finishers that they  are considerably faster now and also a little spiky.  Did  you have much difficulty adjusting to the faster greens?  
 
TOM WARGO:  Well, I didn't really think that the greens  were that much quicker today than they had been in the  past.  I thought that they were more consistent with the  last couple of days that we had practice rounds.  Now, it  might have been my position on the greens, that is hard  to say, but I didn't think that they had that much over  the last two days.  That was, kind of, nice.  I was  comfortable with the speed of them.   
 

Q.  Would you just talk a little bit about how  soft it may have been out there, whatever condition of  the course, after so much rain in the last couple of  days?  
 
TOM WARGO:  Well, it is a trade off again, the fairways  were soft.  The ball was staying on you in the fairways,  which if you could keep it in line with the fairways, you  know, you were going to stay in the fairway, it wouldn't  run through it or vice versa.  As a trade off, it is  playing a little longer, but also, the greens were  holding a little stronger.  So, one pushes the other a  little bit, versus if you had the longer tee ball off the  fairway, then the greens might be a little harder, so it  is actually a trade off there, I believe, anyway.  I  don't mind the long golf course.   
 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your decision  to join the tour when you thought that you would come out  here?  How long -- was that a plan of yours for a number  of years?  
 
TOM WARGO:  No, not really.  It all came about probably  when we was about 45 or 46, more or less, in the same  token I'd played a lot of competitive rounds with Lohren  and Albus and some of the other club professionals in  Florida.  Being able to match cards with them over the  years, it gave us, I thought, maybe that we might have a  chance to be competitive out here and then the only other  way was going to find out if I was to make it out here.  But that came about four, five years ago.   
 

Q.  Are you a better player than when you won the  PGA Seniors?  
 
TOM WARGO:  I think so, at this point in time we were a  little more consistent and I have improved some parts of  my game.  Our scoring average has been a lot better at  this point in time, which is probably one of the things  you look forward to, as far as, the stats are concerned.  The rest of them I don't pay much attention to.  But,  being able to practice under the fine facilities that  they give us out here, and playing everyday, and  observing the best players in the world, as far as, 50  and over is concerned, if you don't learn anything out  here, then you might as well be picking black berries.   
 

Q.  What kind of feedback do you get from other  club pros around the country?  
 
TOM WARGO:  As far as our success or -- very nice.  You  know being able to play in Florida in the last 10, 15  years, during the club professional series and the winter  program, I made a lot of friends around the country and  whereever we go it is a very nice response.  I get a  chance to go in the shops, see some of them personally  and say hello to them, or they stay in touch with me  through a phone call or a little note in the locker,  occasionally.  It is very nice to.  They are all pulling  for me.  And our family, as we go around, it is very  nice.  Like I said, we have made a lot of friends down  there over the years and it is very nice to just go back  and see them, and see their operation and they are very  nice, yes.  I don't know, words can hardly express the  thanks and the gratitude that they give us.   
 

Q.  Tom, can you talk a little bit about the  different intensity between a regular season or tour  event and this particular event, or any other major?  
 
TOM WARGO:  Well, I don't know if it is intense or not on  my part of it until Sunday's round.  If you can get in  the hunt Sunday, then the intensity will probably begin.  At this point in time, I am just trying to approach it  like any other tournament or any other major, as far as a  tournament is concerned and then we will see what happens  later on in the week.  But, I just -- I am sure -- maybe,  some of the other fellows approach it the same.  I was  kind of optimistic coming in here for the simple reason I  played here once before back in '88 or  '89.  The club professionals had their championship here  in October and I didn't play very well.  It just seemed  like I really had a hard time on the golf course, so I  was, kind of like, I say optimistic about it.  You might  say pessimistic, or looking at this golf course and  coming back here, I really didn't know what to expect,  and I still don't.  I have a hard time, it seems like,  with this golf course with depth perception and so, I  don't know where it will take us at THE end of the week.  Maybe the more we play it, the better off it will be.  So  I didn't know what to expect coming in here for the  Open.   
 
TOM WARGO:  I don't know.  The greens might get a little  drier.  That could be they are spiking up a little bit.  Any time you can get in the afternoon round, you know the  greens are going to get a little rougher.  They are soft  enough, where they are leaving heal prints, spike marks  of such.  The putting might get a little rougher, but I  do not think the fairways will dry up that much.  I don't  even think they had a chance to mow them this morning.   
 
TOM WARGO:  All right.    
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT