MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2010
Tom Wargo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Tom Wargo, 34-31 and 65, bettered your age for the first time on the Champions Tour, and this is your best round since the 2007 Boeing Championship when you had 65 in the first round there. 
 TOM WARGO: How long ago was that? 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: It was a while. Great playing today. Just talk about your round, no bogeys and very nice start. 
 TOM WARGO: Yeah, I got off to a good start. I don't even remember the holes out here, half of them. Birdied the first hole and birdied the fourth hole. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Then the hat trick.
 TOM WARGO: Then we birdied 16, 17, 18. Birdied 2 and birdied 7; 65. Add that up. So no bogeys, that was the key, and we kept the ball pretty much in the fairway, and we missed one green, and we did have it close enough where we didn't really have to threaten any but I think we knocked it on 14, knocked it on there and 3-putted that. Other than that, because up and over that ridge and 3-putt; other than that, that was really the only bad -- and missed the third green. Other than that, it was a simple round, very simple. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: You just want to run through the details of your birdies if you could? 
 TOM WARGO: I just did. (Laughter).
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Length of putts.
 TOM WARGO: I told you, I don't remember the holes. A little wedge on the first hole from four feet. 5-iron on the -- I'm starting on the back -- 10. 
 Then on 13, 5-iron about ten foot and made that. 
 And then we go all the way to 16. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: The short par 4 around the lake.
 TOM WARGO: Anyway, I made three birdies -- (laughter). Is that good enough? 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: That's good. 
 TOM WARGO: I hit a wedge on No. 2 about two foot and then knocked it on No. 7 in two from about 25 feet or so and 2-putted. And by the way, I did shoot my age on the Super Seniors. But that doesn't count. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Official round.
 TOM WARGO: It was official to me. I made a little Monday, shot 63. First break of my age -- what am I, 67. 

 Q. Just talk about shooting below your age, is that a big deal? 
 TOM WARGO: It's not -- it is, but then it's not. To some people it is but all you're trying to do is put a score on the board and whatever it is, if it's low and it matches your age, that's something to yap about I guess. I've shot my age at home, but competitively, this is my first one. Still won't count when I shot 63 in the Super Seniors one year, but other than that, no. 
 Nice to have one on the board because I haven't been playing very good. I'm going to retire. Matter of fact, I took retirement this year so I'm only going to be allowed to play 11 this year, and I'll only play half a dozen next year, and then I'm going to build a tomato patch and a few watermelons and some sweet corn. (Laughter) What are you laughing out over there? 

 Q. You tied the course record here. How do you feel about this course? 
 TOM WARGO: It's a good golf course. It's a little wide open off the tee. It favors the long hitters. There's a few holes out here that you might want to work with your driver a little bit, because they are a little tight but for the most part, they are still wide open and bigger greens. 
 It's going to favor the big hitter out here, plus the only thing that you've got to do is be pretty accurate with your irons, because the greens are so big. You're going to have to hit it in little sections on the green to give you the best putt at it. There are some greens that have real big slopes to them like the par 3, the 13th. You hit an iron in the front and the pin is in the back left and you have some work to do but there's not so many of those. 

 Q. Just wondering, your general perception, first-time event, the setup here; do you like the setup, the way everything is set up? 
 TOM WARGO: Looks like everyone is going out of their way to make the event what it is. They are really doing a fabulous job. Everybody seems to be friendly and trying to help you out a little bit, even though most of us don't speak French. We came up here about ten years ago, we had the Senior Open out east of town, Richelieu. That was a nice event, and I hated to see the English Senior out of Canada -- (laughter) -- I hated to see that disappear because we played some good golf courses and had a lot of fun and I hated to see that go under. 
 I was in Montréal doing an outing for AT&T about ten years ago, also. There's about 20 people from AT&T, we went out on the range and was helping everybody, and 50 percent of them were left-handed. I said, what are you doing up here, are they breeding left-handers up here.
 I come to find out, it's a hockey -- so that was kind of strange. I looked over and everybody was left-handed. 

 Q. AT&T was also the sponsor?
 TOM WARGO: They were. They sure were. I had a good time. People are going out of their way to help this tournament, and I've enjoyed it. Like I said, people, they are going out of their way. 

 Q. Any golf tournament it's important to get off to a good start, but it that even more key in a three-round tournament? 
 TOM WARGO: You mean out of the gate, yeah, it is, it's always nice to get out of the gate because you get settled into a little more of a routine. If you go out and you're bogeying two out of the first three, you know you're going to struggle. So you find that and pretty soon -- if you can find it, and it's always a key, a plus, to have a nice start. 
 You'll notice that probably 75 percent of the field will be par or better here because of the fairways. They are quite generous at this point. And the golf course is in good shape. They have done a good job here with it. It seemed to be a favorable wind today on a lot of the holes. So I don't think any of the hard holes played into the wind, the longer holes. 

 Q. You missed part of last season --
 TOM WARGO: Probably got sick of playing -- no, I've been taking some time off. I haven't been playing really good in the last three or four years, five years. I've just been fiddling around trying to make beer money for a long time here is all I'm trying to do. I've been slacking off and dropping my schedule down a little bit because, you know, 67, you're down that other side of that hill pretty fast and I want to try to go onto some other things with my life before I hit the bottom of that hill. I found out that's two parts to life, young and skinny and old and fat, and take it from there. (Laughter).
 I want to do some other things in my life, some of the things that have been missing. I was a club pro and I didn't get a chance to play much tournament golf, but I worked hard at the job and I went south in the wintertime a little bit to work on the game and play a little bit of club professional events and so I didn't get a chance to do much. I wanted to go onto some fishing and other things. I used to do hunting and fishing and I want to go back to that. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 TOM WARGO: I have ten of them matter of fact, some of the old 1950 models and I restore them. Anybody ride a bike in here? (Laughter). You go straight downhill, you can get the wind blowing in your hair a little bit. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Tom, good luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT