OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE PRO-AM
February 17, 2007
Tom Wargo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH:  72, and you got in, and right now you're right in the thick of it.  Just a couple general thoughts about the round. 
 TOM WARGO:  The round, once again, we played rather well today to be honest with you.  I could have scored a little bit better, but we actually played better today than we did yesterday but the greens gave us little fits out there today.  They start getting a little crusty, and I never did develop the speed for them. 
 But I played rather well.  We had it at even par with two to go and I 3-putted No. 8, finished 1-over.  But overall I can say I'm not unhappy with the way I played.  Just got to do some putting and get it worked out hopefully. 

 Q.  What about getting done, how big is that, knowing that you don't have to come out early to finish a few holes, how much do you think that helps you going into the final round? 
 TOM WARGO:  Well, that's a big help mentally because it's going to be chilly again in the morning, I don't know what time they are going to start, probably 7:30 I would think.  I don't think there's probably going to be much of a frost. 
 They are going to fight that chilly weather and I don't know what stretch of holes some of them have got to play, but once again, 8 and 9 is pretty good golf holes, and you're coming down the back stretch, that back side there, that's a good stretch of holes.  Cold weather could take its effect. 
 Is Bean done, Andy Bean done? 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  He finished way early. 

 Q.  Over the years, how much have you experimented with putter grips? 
 TOM WARGO:  I try not to, let's put it this way, you try not to mess with putters and grips and stuff, but I've changed to a regular conventional to cross-handed and I was -- I had some real good success for a couple of years, but basically I don't mess with it a lot.  I try but sometimes just doesn't work out.  I keep going back to either conventional or cross.  But I wish I could come up with something right now. 

 Q.  A long time ago, it was almost like if you went to left-hand low, it was almost admitting that you had lost your stroke.  What has changed in golf?  And the guys on the other tour are quick to test different things, what about on this tour, are guys more reluctant, and how has the thinking changed that you would tinker with grips now? 
 TOM WARGO:  How is it that I would? 

 Q.  No, as a whole, all players. 
 TOM WARGO:  Well, I found out, you know, I've been through my experience in the game of golf, I felt that I could putt the ball reasonably well, and then all of a sudden I'm looking for something a little bit better. 
 Now, there's a lot of guys out there that are better putters, but they want to get better, so those why they will tinker with it a little bit and look at something.  If I was teaching golf, I would teach cross-handed left-handed low, as you call it.  That's the way I would teach the youngsters how to putt.  I think it's still the best way to putt as far as that goes. 
 But guys were always tinkering, trying to get a little bit better.  I've seen some guys out there and some real good putters, like Watson was a really good putter through his career, and you'll see him out on the putting green once in a while mess around with a little something different, but he always goes back to the conventional. 
 It's really hard to settle in on something unless you, for the record an example when I went to cross-handed putting, I went to it right away.  I didn't have any problem.  I messed around with it on the putting green or about an hour, two hours or so and it just came to me as a natural.  So therefore, I stayed with it for a little bit.  But now I've become where it's not, I fight it a little bit more.  And it's only me, I fight it for the reason I fight it; who knows, now I'm looking for something better yet. 

 Q.  A long time ago guys didn't do that, though. 
 TOM WARGO:  Yeah, they just fought it and fought it.  Of course, now a lot of guys -- then all of a sudden, these new grips are coming around and a lot of guys are like, whoa, wait a minute, maybe I'd better give that a go, try to get a little better. 
 But you're right, but don't forget, years ago the greens were slow, the greens were a lot slower pace you're talking in the 50s, 60s and possibly the 70s.  Now the greens are fast, which makes for better putting because don't have to fight the speed so much.  But years ago, guys were slow putters and they just had to slug it a lot of times. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Thank you, good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT