U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 1999
David Fay
Trey Holland
F. Morgan Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. MORGAN TAYLOR: Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll be seated, we'll begin the
proceedings. Thank you for joining us. My name is Buzz Taylor. I'm the president of the
United States Golf Association, and with me on the dais this morning is Trey Holland on my
right, who is chairman of the Championship Committee of the USGA, and I think all of you
know the man on my left, our executive director, David Fay. We welcome you, and as we do,
I think it's totally appropriate for us all to acknowledge the job that the Pinehurst
organization has done in preparing for this championship. Everything that I have seen, and
I'm sure most everything that you've been able to see so far will be handled as well as
we've ever seen it at a U.S. Open. And we are grateful for the ClubCorp Corporation and
the Pinehurst organization for what they've done in setting up this championship. Our main
purpose here this morning is to talk about the 1999 playing of the U.S. Open. And I'd like
to turn the meeting over to Trey Holland to talk about the course setup at Pinehurst,
which I know will be of interest to all of you. Trey Holland.
TREY HOLLAND: Thanks, Buzz. As all of you know, this year's championship presents an
entirely different appearance than a traditional U.S. Open setup. And obviously, the main
reason for that is simply the golf course architecture that we're lucky enough to have
available to us this week. We have talked extensively over the last year or so about
changing our set up from the traditional setup, so that the nuances of Pinehurst
architecture can shine through. The crowned greens that are here with the large run-off
areas simply won't be of any real utility if the players are having to hack their ball out
of six-inch rough and then carry on. And with the rough cut at three inches, we find
ourselves, I think, in a situation where the players, at least in a lot of instances, may
be tempted to hit a long shot toward the putting green, and on that basis they play have
little or no control over the golf ball and where it ends up is going to be anybody's best
guess. We think that's going to result in a very exciting championship and something that
the fans and the players have not experienced with a U.S. Open setup in years. We're very
excited about it and Brad Kocher and his staff and Paul Jett and his crew, and Tom Meeks
and Tim Moraghan with some input from David Fay have all been instrumental to bringing
this setup to fruition.
F. MORGAN TAYLOR: Now we'd be pleased to entertain your questions. 

Q. Trey, this is going to produce one of the most exciting championships, and the
previous ones haven't been so exciting, is this the course USGA is going to follow in
future events, or you aren't going back to the traditional six-inch rough, sloping
fairways?

TREY HOLLAND: This is going to produce an exciting championship, but I wouldn't go so
far to say other U.S. Opens haven't been exciting. We think they have been very exciting.
The golf course architecture lends itself to this setup, where as others do not. We'll
find ourselves going back to similar, if not identical style, for example, when we go to
golf courses that lend themselves to that style. Our focus will continue to be trying to
put on the supreme test, if you will, for the United States Open Championship, and those
objectives will not change.

Q. Now that you have brought the Open here, is it the matter of getting the greens to
where they could take the speed for an Open. Why haven't you come to Pinehurst before now?

DAVID FAY: That could be a long answer, and there are a number of factors. I don't
think the USGA in years past contemplated, let's say, before the Shinnecock Open of 1986
taking the U.S. Open to places that are fairly remote in terms of being near a major
metropolitan area. In fact, I think the '72 Open in Pebble Beach was the first time we had
an Open at a site that was more than an hour away from a really large metropolitan area.
It had to do with the condition of the course, the grasses, and I don't know if they ever
expressed an interest in hosting an Open there. But I'd rather deal with the present and
the future, rather than the past.

Q. The players have been very complimentary so far, and along with that, they have also
made remarks to say that it was not fair last year, the setup at the Olympic Club. I would
like you to address that. Is that because of the way the USGA set it up or the way the
Olympic Club is designed? Your thoughts on that.

TREY HOLLAND: Well, I think that it's very safe to say that the rough here at Pinehurst
is a little bit more along the lines of what the players are used to. It's not as long.
It's not pitched-out rough consistently throughout the golf course, as it has been with
prior setups. It's hard to -- I think it's hard to make a comment when a player says:
Well, the golf course was set up unfairly. I don't feel that the Olympic Club was set up
unfairly. It was set up the way we set up U.S. Open courses. It's not what the players see
typically every week. We feel the U.S. Open arguably should be the toughest golf
tournament in the world, and we set it up that way. We don't want it to be unfair, and if
players feel that way, that's not our intent. But I think that your comment is right on
par, that we do feel the rough is much more fair, and it's going to allow them to do
things with the golf ball that they haven't been able to do at prior U.S. Opens.

Q. This is the second U.S. Open to be played in the East, are that any future
discussions to bring this tournament back to the East?

TREY HOLLAND: In terms of future sites, we're always in various states of analysis with
clubs and courses around the country, and there are some sites down here in the southeast
that we are looking at for the future.

Q. Can you elaborate on them?

TREY HOLLAND: I cannot elaborate on them.

Q. Talking to the players, it seems that they appreciate the fact that the rough is not
as high. They almost get a little gleam in their eye, thinking that it's going to be
easier than most U.S. Opens. Do you think they're going to be surprised when they get out
there, regardless of the rain or whatever happens on Saturday and Sunday? Do you think
they'll find it harder than they might expect?

TREY HOLLAND: I think a little bit of that is going, obviously, to depend on what the
weather does, and how firm the golf course gets over the next few days. I think our
overriding goal over the last few months has been to make sure that this golf course does
not get away from us. We want the greens to be firm, but fair. We want the rough to be
playable. A penalty, but fair; so that as we talked about earlier, the architectural
nuances of this golf course can shine through. So we're going to do whatever it takes to
make sure that happens.

Q. Get away from you in what sense?

TREY HOLLAND: Well, we don't want the greens, for example, to get so hard that they're
not playable. Or that the rough -- typically in an Open Championship, we might cut the
rough on a Thursday or top it off on a Friday and not touch it until the end. We're going
to top it off three inches every day. What the players have on Wednesday during the
practice rounds, other than the golf course firming up from the rain, they are going to
appreciate and have on Sunday.
F. MORGAN TAYLOR: If I may add, we're talking about Bermuda grass, as opposed to the
grasses that they're normally using at the United States Open, and there's a difference.
If this weren't Bermuda, we wouldn't be talking about three inches.

Q. Obviously, you wanted to set the greens up so they would be fast. With the rain
being forecast for today and tomorrow, any chances the players will be able to go after
pins? Is there any concerns that the greens might be speeded up for later? 

TREY HOLLAND: We started the week at 10.6, and our plan was to gradually speed them up
over the course of the next five days to have them where we wanted on Thursday morning at
6:30. And this morning they were running about 11.3. So we're getting just about where we
think they ought to be.

Q. Just a follow-up on the rain. If we get two inches today, you're confident that the
greens will continue to soften up, it would kind of defeat the purpose of the playoff if
we don't have the opportunity of the greens being so fast.

TREY HOLLAND: Unfortunately, we can't control what falls out of the sky, but we have
something here that will be very helpful in that regard, and that is they have the ability
to literally suck the moisture out of the putting greens with an underground system, and
that's going to be very, very helpful for us maintaining the greens at a level we would
like to have them this week as we enter the latter part of the week.

Q. It's been Pinehurst's stated mission once the whole process of getting the U.S. Open
here and conducted and underway, to get into the USGA's rotation of U.S. Open sites. When
might you make a decision on that, or how much do you want to see this week to make that
determination?

TREY HOLLAND: Well, I guess, first of all we don't have a true rotation of sites, much
like the British rotation is set up. But I think that if this week is successful, and I
can't imagine that it would not be, I'm certain that there will be some ongoing
discussions with the Pinehurst community about coming back at some point. And I can't
begin to tell you when that might be, but I'm sure those discussions will take place.

Q. Do you guys want to address that, also?

F. MORGAN TAYLOR: Excuse me?

Q. Would you like to address that also?

DAVID FAY: I have nothing to add to what Trey said. He stated it properly.

Q. What's the current situation with the equipment in USGA? Where do things stand?
After what happened last year, where exactly are we right now?

DAVID FAY: It's a little less hectic than it was a year ago. This seems to be less
filled with people. I think relatively speaking, things are quiet and under control. In
the area of the spring-like test that was the issue last year, it's been in effect and
understood by the players. With regard to the golf ball, we maintain committed to a new
test, optimization, an indoor test. But I think that anyone who has been through a
renovation of the house can appreciate that sometimes construction delays can just drive
you nutty. And that's where we are now. We really don't have anything to say of any
substance at this time.

Q. I was just wondering, you guys moved up the tee times to 6:30. Are you still worried
about slow play the next couple of days, and how are you combating that?

TREY HOLLAND: We're always worried about slow play. And part of the change in the time
was to help insure that if the players do play in accordance with our pace of play
guidelines, that if we run into some weather delays, which is certainly possible here,
that we've used all the available daylight that we have during the course of the day so we
don't leave players out on the golf course Thursday and Friday. It's not so much a
slow-play issue, as much as it is -- we'd feel bad we had five groups that are out on
Friday, and we need to make a cut, and we started at 7 o'clock in the morning and lose a
half an hour over the course of the day.

Q. With all the storms in the area, and always a threat of lightning, and there does
not seem to be a lot of places for shelter out that, what are you telling spectators to do
if there is a lightening warning or a pending storm? Where are they supposed to go to get
shelter?

DAVID FAY: Well, we have a plan in place. And you're right, when you have 40,000 people
you can't flip a switch and say: Everyone go into an inside area. The key to our process,
and it's followed by all the professional Tours, is an early warning system in the form of
weather alert signs that are put on all of the scoreboards. And we hope to put those in
with enough time so people can take shelter. Now, there's no building, per se. They just
have to -- and there's no fast and quick answer. I think the key is to get those signs up
at a time when people will recognize there's weather coming in, and start moving back
towards their cars, or if they have a ticket that allows them to be inside, get back to a
shelter. That's really the key.
F. MORGAN TAYLOR: We do have a weather station right on the site, of course.

Q. Follow-up on the gentleman's question over here about slow play. I gather that the
pace of play has gotten slower and slower through the years. Would you ever consider
cutting back on the size of the field, if slow play became a problem?

TREY HOLLAND: I haven't been involved long enough that it has slowed down consistently
over the years. In the U.S. Open championship, at least in the last ten years, the pace of
play, I think, has been fairly stable. To be sure we've got some race horses out there and
we've got some guys that would stay out for two days if you let them, to complete their
ruined. And our pace of play policy has certainly evolved over the last few years. And we
made some minor modifications in it last year, which helped. But I think that we will
continue to play late in the day on Thursday and Friday, probably somewhere around five
hours.

Q. Would you ever consider cutting back on the size of the field? 

TREY HOLLAND: The Committee has very briefly considered that as a possible solution,
not so much for a pace of play issue, but simply to help eliminate some of the problems
that arise, again, with weather delays. And you can't get the entire field around, and the
logistical problems, there's not enough support to do that right now. We'd like to keep
this field at 156.

Q. This morning Davis Love says he thinks most of the players would favor teeing off on
1 and 10, and it would help the speed of play. Any thoughts on that?

TREY HOLLAND: We're solidly opposed to that. We believe the Open Championship should be
played the way the golf course architect laid out the golf course, and we'll continue to
use the 1 tee format.

Q. (Inaudible.)

TREY HOLLAND: With respect to what happened last year, we really did our homework for
that. And we knew that that could be a problem. There were a couple of possible solutions,
and the one we picked didn't work out very well. But if we had picked the other solution,
having the three hole locations down in front and one in back, the result may have been
equally as bad with no grass down there. So we knew that we were headed for problems, and
certainly, if we go back to The Olympic Club, something is going to have to be done to the
18th green, to accommodate some additional hole locations. There are no shortage of hole
locations here. And we've continued to use the same process that we used at the Olympic
Club and have used in past Open Championships to determine where those holes should go.
Certainly, after the incident last year, we did what I think anybody should do after an
untoward result. We analyzed it and asked ourselves what could we have done differently;
should we do anything? Should we amend our procedure? And we concluded that our procedure
is solid, and it's the same procedure this year.

Q. Has the USGA given any serious consideration to an alternative to a playoff, other
than a fifth day on Monday, such as the British have done on the three- or four-hole
playoff or a sudden death, and what part is given to the interest of the last spectators,
plus the people who follow it on TV, that wouldn't be able to follow it on Monday morning?

TREY HOLLAND: With respect to the United States Open Championship, there's no
consideration being given to altering the 18-hole playing format on Monday.
F. MORGAN TAYLOR: If there are no further questions, we thank you very, very much for
your attention, and let's have a wonderful United States Open Championship. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT