TMS - MADRID
October 16, 2002
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

Q.  How do you feel?  It was quite close.  You know each other, are the same nationality.  Was it tense for both of you?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes, it's always difficult to play against somebody from your own country, but you try to play your best for yourself.  He played well.  I played well, I think. 

Q.  Even though it was a good match, what do you think about the refereeing in general?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It was okay.  Well, when they made an overrule on the first breakpoint, I didn't find it very fair. 

Q.  You broke the unlucky spell. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes (smiling).

Q.  What happened to you in those defeats after Wimbledon?  On what do you blame it?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  A little bit of everything.  I'm a human being.  I have my victories and defeats.  You're not always in top form.  You go through different stages in your life.  I played in some tournaments that I wasn't that motivated, and others I had to lose because sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.

Q.  The Davis Cup was a bit tense, as well. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I entered the Davis Cup quite injured physically.  Well, the team lost.  If I win, and the team loses, the victory is not so useful.  The Davis Cup is a team.  If one wins, we all win.  If one loses, we all lose.  But it was a pity. 

Q.  You'll have chances in the future. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes, I hope I will play again in the future. 

Q.  Today's match, when you lost the first set, did you keep your confidence? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I kept on playing.  He is coming off of an injury.  He hadn't been playing for a while.  He didn't have good rhythm.  He lost his temper a little bit and the matched slipped away from him. 

Q.  Did you realize in the match that he was not in top form?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, you feel it.  Also the atmosphere was a bit tense, but I think it's normal after not playing for a long time.  Well, all in all, I think he played very well.  He's going to improve again.

Q.  In this stage of your career, you play so many important matches, how do you see a match against an Argentinean?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it's different because we train together, we spend time together.  When you have to play against him, it's a bit difficult.  Each one of us tries to play well. 

Q.  Have you met your expectations?  Would you be satisfied if you lost in the next round?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I try to win every match.

Q.  What do you consider your level now in tennis?  Are you at your best level?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, you can always improve.  It's difficult to measure if you are better or worse than before.  I think I have many things to improve.  I have a long way to go. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT