WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2002
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Could we start with English questions, first, for David. 


Q.  How does it feel to be in the Wimbledon final? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I cannot describe that.  I think this is the best weeks of my life.  This is very great for me.  I'm very happy.  I don't have too much time to enjoy it, but I'm going to try to enjoy it a little bit. 

Q.  Can you tell us about the game today, when you had your service broken in the third game, how tough it was then? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, before the match and yesterday night, I was a little nervous.  And then when I go to the courts, I start playing good.  The break, I think he play very good.  I didn't do many mistakes.  And then I think he was also a little, I don't know if he's tired or something, he do many mistakes when he serve 2-1.  And I think I take a breakpoint on there.  I break it.  And then I start playing good again.  I broke it again.  I can make the difference. 

Q.  And on the moment of victory, you were on your knees on the court.  How was that sensation? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's impossible to say.  It's something  -- I don't know.  It's terrible.  For me, this is a dream.

Q.  How angry were you at the medical break which he took yesterday?  How disconcerting, disrupting, was this for you?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I didn't know exactly the rules.  But the rules say if the doctor have to take one hour, they can do it.  So he was on the rules perfect, and I didn't know it.  But I think the rules is the rules, and you have to do that.

Q.  But I think that is if the condition is not known; in other words, if there needs to be a diagnosis.  In his instance, he previously had this condition, so he should have known. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know exactly the problem, but I think was important problems.  And if he need more time, they have to take it because if he have a very big problems in the heart, maybe something bad is going to happen on the court.  This is so bad.  So I think was perfect.

Q.  How do you explain someone who has never played a tournament on grass before reaching the final of Wimbledon? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know (laughter).  I think I was to play Nottingham before, and I didn't play  - was a little injury on my leg.  But I was practicing too much in grass in Argentina.  We don't have too much grass court on there.  But, you know, I think you have to try.  Is not too difficult like every player say.  So if you're focus and if you're try, you can make it.

Q.  Where did you prepare on a grass court in Argentina?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  In Buenos Aires, in Hurlingham.

Q.  Who did you practice with?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  With all Argentina players, my coach, some juniors sometimes, everybody. 

Q.  Were you beating them?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No.  The first matches I lose with everyone actually.  With everyone I lose.

Q.  And then at the end?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  And the end I start playing a little good.  I still losing, but in the tiebreak.  Before I lose 6-1 or 6-2, and then I have a little more of feeling.  And now I'm in the final here right now (smiling).

Q.  You say this is a dream.  Tomorrow you wake up and you are playing Lleyton Hewitt on the Centre Court.  How do you prepare yourself for that? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think the match is going to be very tough.  He's playing very, very good.  But I think all the players what I play, except Arthurs, all the players was baseline players.  So I play with everyone the same condition.  And Lleyton, I don't know how many match they play with serve and volley players and baseline players, but I think is going to be a tough match.  I think he and me have the same chances to won a tournament. 

Q.  You've never been on Centre Court.  Will that be a worrying situation for you? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I never played on the Court No.  1, so it's same (smiling).

Q.  Will you go on Centre Court this evening before you leave Wimbledon to see what the court is like?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's fine.  I don't need it. 

Q.  You could have got to the final here three years ago, but you missed the match, you defaulted.  How much do you remember of that occasion? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Okay, that moment for me was terrible.  So Wimbledon for Juniors is very big, important tournament, and was default in the semifinals.  Was something terrible. 

Q.  Did you just oversleep or something?  What happened?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, no, no, no.  We was playing two matches the same day because the day before was raining.  I play quarters in the morning, then semis.  In the locker room, the guy in the locker room say, "You play at 3:00, or 3:30," or something.  Then I go to eat, I don't know where, and I come back.  And they say, "No, the match was 2:30."  I say, "Oh, 2:30." 

Q.  There's a list here of about 43 records you've broken today by reaching the final.  I won't go through them all.  Can you speak about what it means to you to be the first player in The Open era to I think get to the final on your debut? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know what say.  I think McEnroe do the same, but he lost in semis the first time he was here.  I don't know what's going to happen in the future.  Maybe I never going to play another final again.  I hope play much more semifinals in the future.  But for me right now, it's pretty important moment.  I'm very, very happy.  I like to enjoy this record, this everything.  And I have to play tomorrow, so I must be focused tonight and tomorrow.

Q.  When you were a boy in Argentina, when you thought about playing in Grand Slams, maybe getting to a final, did you ever think about Wimbledon?  Was that ever the one you thought about?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I start play when Boris Becker won here the first time, so I start playing when I was four years, five years, and he won here with 17.  So I start playing at this time.  So Wimbledon for me, it's very important.  But, you know, for Argentina players, it's very difficult to play in grass.  But I don't know.  Everyones can make it.

Q.  Have you or your coach been watching Lleyton Hewitt on a tape?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, he's the No.  1 of the world.  You have to know it for sure.

Q.  Have you been watching his playing?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes, some matches we was looking, when you are in the locker room or whatever, you saw the match  - I don't know  - a little bit with Henman, a little bit with Schalken.

Q.  Will you play the tournament next week in Gstaad?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I'm going to play next week, but I don't know who, nothing.

Q.  Not too tired?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No. 

Q.  Last time there was a final between two baseliners was Bjorn Borg and Jimmy Connors in '78.  Who will you be tomorrow, Borg or Connors? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  You never know what's going to happen in the finals.  Finals, it's very important match.  I think everything can happen.

Q.  When you started this tournament, how far did you think you would progress reasonably?  Second round?  Third round?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, when we arrive with my coach, we say, "Okay, we are going to won two or three matches, and that's going to be a great tournament for me, my first time here."  I'm very young, I have to do very experience.  I say to my mom okay, "I'm going to be next week in home."  And I'm in the final right now.

Q.  What was the moment during the tournament when you actually thought you could win this, the one moment? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Every ones.  Every moment for me is very important.  Every match is great for me.  I'm enjoyed every match.  The first match, second match, it's great.

Q.  When did you start to believe that you can win this?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Never  -- no (smiling).  No, I think every match you can make different things.  You're feeling a little good every day.  You never know.  When I was in quarters, I play Lapentti.  Was a very tough match.  He's a good fighter.  And you never know what's going to happen in the future.  And then I beat him.  I'm playing yesterday the semifinals.  I think I was starting playing very, very good.  And then we stop for the rain, then we come back; he start playing very, very good.  We stop in the night.  You never know what's going to happen.  So yesterday I was very nervous when I went to sleep.  This morning I can't breakfast, I can't take dinner, I can nothing.  But you never know. 

Q.  Is the final live on television in Argentina?  If so, will the country come to a halt because you're the latest star and everybody will be watching you?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I hope.  I hope the people watch me, enjoy the match.  I think for Argentina, is very important.  The people is not pass a very good moment right now.  I hope they can make different things on the mind, watch my match and enjoy it.

Q.  Have any people from Argentina called you, wished you good luck?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Everyones.  Many, many, many.  But I didn't answer the phone, because if I answer everyone ones, I can't sleep.

Q.  Are any members of your family here with you?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, just my coach.  Yesterday was one friend from France.  Is my girlfriend.

Q.  She's here?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes.  And the wife of my coach.

Q.  What is your strength coming from, your family, your coach?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  From everywhere.  My grandfather born in Armenia.  He left to Argentina.  Well, then my father born in Argentina.  I think is coming from everywheres. 

Q.  Did you just play one year in Juniors here?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, just one.

Q.  So you never lost a match in Wimbledon?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Never (laughter).

Q.  What can you say about your match against Lleyton Hewitt in Barcelona? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think that match was very difficult.  I think he play very good that day.  I think tomorrow is going to be a different match.  He's playing very good also.  But, I don't know, I think I'm playing very good.  In the final can happen many things.  But is going to be a tough match. 

Q.  Argentina is crazy about football.  How much does tennis matter to them?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Not much.  I hope right now is going to be more important.  I think Argentina have many, many good tennis player right now.  I hope the tennis going to be more popular right now.  I hope. 

Q.  Can you remember where you were and what you were doing at the time of last year's final? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Last year?  I was playing challengers in  - I'm not sure  - in Holland or Italy.  I'm not sure. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT