ROGERS CUP MEN
August 13, 2010
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/D. Nalbandian
  6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I guess your unbeaten streak had to come to an end at some point. How well do you think you played today, and how well do you think Andy played?  
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Um, I think Andy play very good, great, aggressive that he -- normally he doesn't, so he played very good. And I feel a little tired for all the weeks, for last week and this one, and I didn't get a rest.  
 But I'm pretty happy the way that I tried to play. In a few games I was close but I did some mistakes, easy ones.  
 But it's part of the game, you know. I have to keep going, keep working, and I know I have a lot of tournaments from here until the end of the year, so I have to keep going in this way.  
  
  Q. Do you think when he plays like that he's even more dangerous? In other words, he maybe should be more aggressive because when it comes off for him it's hard to play against?  
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Well, of course. He had good shots, offensive and defensive, so, yeah, of course.  
  
  Q. You mentioned that you're a little bit tired from the past weeks and stuff. Do you plan on getting any rest before the US Open or Davis Cup or anything to prepare better for that?  
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Still long way to go. I feel tired today, but in a few days I will be fine. So   
US Open, of course it's very important for me. Davis Cup, as well. But still few weeks to arrive there, few days to rest and think about that.  
  
  Q. The mistakes you made in this match, would you blame that all towards fatigue, or do you think parts of your game were just not on?  
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Well, when I have little tired, I arrive to the ball a little slower and a little far away from the ball, so maybe my shots wasn't as good as the other day. So maybe the fatigue was -- wasn't on that way, not completely tired, but when you are a little bit not that fast in this level, it's tough.   
  
  Q. You talked yesterday about the injury and time off giving you more motivation. I was wondering if, during this time, you kept looking back at any specific moments in your career, good or bad, that gave you inspiration.   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: No, not really. Just I miss playing tennis, the adrenaline that you feel on court, but I don't think any good or bad moments. Just the experience to be on tour.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT