ROGERS CUP MEN
August 12, 2010
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. NALBANDIAN/R. Soderling
  4-6, 6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You've defeated some good players since you've come back in July, but Robin is definitely in a different category. How does it feel to beat a top guy like him today?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: I think it's a good victory for me. I don't see this match different category of player than others that I beat last week or even David Ferrer this week.
 But I feel that I'm playing good. Feel good today. In the beginning I had chances and I couldn't take it in the first set, and then I play -- I play very good.
 I'm gonna try to keep going. I been a long time out of the circuit, and I'm really enjoying this time now.

 Q. What changes for you from the first set to the second, third? It seems like you really locked in, you started to hit your spots a lot better, and, you know, played real aggressive off the return. What changed, do you think?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: I play a little more offensive, and my shots was a little better maybe. But I had a chance in the first set, as well. I was break up, and I couldn't hold it. And then I have my chances again, and I take it and play more aggressive, a little better, come to the net sometimes in the important moments. And I think that that's change.

 Q. Is there any comparison to the way you're playing now to when you were playing at your best a couple years ago?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: No, it's tough to compare, very tough, completely different moments. I feel really good at the moment, but it's tough to compare to, I don't know, to 2007 or even before. It's tough. I'm getting older. (Smiling.)

 Q. You just won your 11th straight match and you continue to knock off top seeds. Is there anything you're doing different in your training maybe in conjunction with your rehab from your surgery that's contributed to that?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Not really much. Just motivation. I spend a long time outside the courts, and like I say, I'm enjoying every time I play, try to do my best.
 Sometimes it's enough; sometimes it's gonna be not. But I just enjoying every time that I go out, to play my best tennis. And if I have to lose, that's fine, but at the moment, still working. 

 Q. Sometimes when athletes are out that long and they do come back, they gain a real appreciation for the game, maybe what they missed and they thought might have been fading away from them. Coming back now and being healthy, is this more fun for you being on the tour? Did you maybe take it for granted years ago, or can you explain maybe that a bit?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: More fun than what? 

 Q. Just the fact that you're healthy and playing again. Like you said, you're 28 years old. Maybe a year ago you might have thought your career might have been over with the severity of the injuries and undergoing hip surgery. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: No, not really. I just think like I get a long break, and that's make me think about that I have like, I don't know, two, three, four more years to play at a good level. 
 That stop made me think about that and get more motivation to come, to play, to enjoy it, and work on my last few years on the tour. That's maybe help me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT