MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 16, 2009
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. NALBANDIAN/R. Gasquet
  6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You served very well today. You must be happy with that. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Yeah. I don't think I served good all the match. In the important moments or important points I make a good serve. In the rest, I think I have to serve a little bit better.

 Q. And the conditions, much better than yesterday for you?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Yeah, of course. Much better. Easy to play. A little heat, but not much. It was almost perfect. 

 Q. What did you think of the shot that Gasquet did when you did a perfect lob and he hit it through the legs?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Amazing. It will be one the best shots of the year for sure. 

 Q. So how do you feel about your opponents for tomorrow, either one? Does it matter?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Doesn't matter. Both are going to be tough. It's the first week of the year, so it's going to be tough for both, for all players. 
 I have to keep going and believing on my game and try to do a good match tomorrow.

 Q. Does it bother you day or night, or same playing conditions for you?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: No, doesn't matter. I don't think that makes any difference.

 Q. What's been the most pleasing thing of your week here in Sydney as far as your game is concerned?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: I don't know. I don't get one particular shot, I just been improving game by game or match by match. 
 I feel that today I played much better than the first one and yesterday, so looks like every day is going on I feel more feeling on the ball and on the game. 
 So it's good playing a few matches and be on the finals here.

 Q. You had a chance to look an Australian Open draw?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: No, I didn't see it much. I just see I play Gicquel. I didn't see much. That's it. 

 Q. You played him recently, or met him? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: No. I don't remember. 

 Q. What kind of improvements have you seen out of Djokovic the last couple years? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Nothing, just getting old and more experience on the tour. He always was a very good player and danger when was young, and you could see he will be a good one. 
 But sometimes players come very young to the tour and just need experience and be around playing the good matches. So I don't think he improved just one shots, everything.

 Q. Do you think he's playing a little more aggressively than he did when he first came on because he's more experienced in certain shots?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Yeah, could be. Yeah. 

 Q. How will you prepare for tomorrow? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Same as every single day. Normal day. 

 Q. You're a very experienced player. What motivation do you use at the start of each season? We're right in the first quarter of the year. What do you sort of set yourself for the year? Do you change each year what your thinking is?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Not really much, because the goals are always still pretty much the same: Davis Cup and Grand Slams. 
 So pretty much the same as last year and the years before. 

 Q. Will we see you back next year in Sydney at the Medibank International?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Yeah, I hope. 

 Q. Is it better preparation than, say, Kooyong, an exhibition, or does it not really matter as long as you're on that surface?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: No, I think both are good. This one could be a little better because you play for points and you get more ranking and a little bit better. 
 But Kooyong has that you play in Melbourne, so you stay there and practice at the Open and you can do more things over there. So few pros and not that good for another things. 
 But I think when you play for the points you play a little bit different than exhibitions. 

 Q. Do you get the same excitement going into a Grand Slam that you did when you were younger? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: You get different with experience, more quiet, not that excited as before when you were a kid. I think that's the most important thing. 

 Q. You still passionate about your game?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT