MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 15, 2009
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. NALBANDIAN/L. Hewitt
  7-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. A good win but a fairly frustrating kind of day?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Yeah, it was very tough for both. We couldn't play a good tennis, so it was -- for me it was a bad match. I mean, no good quality on the shots. 
 Not much you can do. So windy you can try to hit close to the lines. It was ugly one. 

 Q. What do you take out of that kind of game? I suppose that kind of game is a little help. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Of course you try to play matches, try to win, of course. But like match like today, you go off the court and you don't know if you played good or bad. So that's the worse thing of this match. 
 But winning always is good. I think I should have win before, or easily both sets. I was break up in both sets, so I couldn't made it in the first one, even in the second one. 
 A little complicated both sets, but I win, so that's important. 

 Q. What did you think when you woke up and it was 40 degrees, beautiful day, and you had a rain delay, wind, there was everything today?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Yeah, it was a very strange day. We warm up with 40. It was so hot we couldn't breathe. Then one minute from another it was completely different: cold, windy, so windy, cloudy. Two tournaments completely different.

 Q. And the storms. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: And the storms. Thanks. 

 Q. What's worse, do you think, playing in the heat or the wind is worse?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: You never know, because in the morning it was so hot. It was very heat, but you could play. I mean, you can do your shots you want, so it's more normal. Just heat. 
 But today you couldn't do anything. I mean, it was better with the weather, but you couldn't serve, it's tough to return, to hit the ball. You go to the net and the ball is coming, I don't know. It's moving around all the time, so it's tough. I don't know what is worse. 

 Q. Do you look forward to the matchup in the next rounds for you? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Well, I played a lot of time with Richard. I think he's a young player, very talented. He's a very tough, so it will be tough, like these both matches. 
 But I don't know how it's going to be tomorrow. If it's going to be windy, heat, you never know, so let's try to play my best. If I do, I feel I have a lot of chance. 

 Q. Richard is sort of the is serve and volleyer. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: He's doing that? 

 Q. He's more traditionally a serve and volleyer than a lot of other guys on the tour. You don't agree? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: I don't think so.

 Q. I was thinking, would you prepare for him different than someone like Lleyton, who's as baseline player?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: Llodra do much more serve and volley than him.

 Q. What do you feel is going to help your game tomorrow? Do you think you have to work on something, take it as it comes?
 DAVID NALBANDIAN: I think always when I serve good all my game it's improving, so it's good. I have to try to be focus on that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT