PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 21, 2008
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  You served for the match at 6-5 in the third set.  Did you expect to close it out at that point?  It had been a pretty tight match. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, of course.  The third set was very tight.  We didn't break each other until the end.  I think he played a very good game at that moment.  He just do one easy mistake and then he played great.  Not much to do, except that maybe I have to play more with the first serve in that moment but he played great. 

 Q.  Were you at all surprised about how well Fish has been playing?  I mean, he had struggled the last few years, and he's having a pretty good start to the year.  Was anything out there about him surprising to you? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No.  He's always dangerous.  On this surface, when surface fast, he's very dangerous all the time.  So it's not -- it's not strange for me that see him play like that. 

 Q.  About you, he just said -- of course, he has to play Federer next.  He said, I just beat a guy who beat him, meaning Federer, the past two times.  I feel like I feel I can beat anybody right now.  Do you feel he's right in that?  Do you feel that Fish is playing so well right now that he could beat anybody? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  You have to see tomorrow what's going on.  It's not easy to win a lot of matches with good guys in a row, but if he play like today, why not? 

 Q.  Would you mind giving us your thoughts about the semifinals here? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it would be tight for all of them.  Rafa and Djokovic was the final last year, so it's going to be very tough, interesting. 
 Federer's match will be more serves and more short points, so it's going to be different but will be tight, too. 

 Q.  You know, it's hard to beat Federer any time.  But how much harder do you think it will be for Fish since Federer didn't have to play today?  He had a day off. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it's tough to say.  Roger, he didn't play long match for all the tournaments so far, and Mardy play long match against Hewitt and against me, so maybe he's a little tired. 
 You never know.  Semifinals you have to serve well to beat all the match.  I don't know.  Have to work on it. 

 Q.  How would you evaluate your performance here in this tournament? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I try to expect to be a little farther, but the first two matches was very complicated both times.  I served two quick matches that made me confidence, and then again with Ferrero I play much better, feel much better on the court, and today could have made it but -- I feel I played good today.  It was a little windy, so it was a bit tough.  I'm going to Miami that I play good tennis here. 

 Q.  2007 didn't seem to start out well for you, but then you really turned it around in the second half of the season and have been playing very well so far in 2008.  What's made the difference for you? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Nothing.  Just playing, be concentrate on the court.  It's normal that tennis players or sportsmen that you can't be always 100 percent on the court.  Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose.  Simple.  The season is so long.  You can't play great all the time. 

 Q.  Were you looking forward to playing Roger again and maybe beating him a third time in a row? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Why not? 

 Q.  Do you have some insight or some secrets on how that's done? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Would you like to share them or something? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No. 

 Q.  So you really think you could beat him again?  You're looking forward to it? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Uh-huh. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT