WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 13, 2007
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How tough has this year been for you after what you did last year and having to defend all these points?  Is it tough going into each tournament having to think about defending points? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think I'm not defending many points now.  I mean, already the points are gone.  So that part is gone now, and it's pretty tough year for me.  I finish very late with a little injuries and I couldn't start very fit. 
 Still getting some problem with the knee and then with the clay season on the back, so it was very tough.  But I feel I'm getting back healthy, slowly, and practicing hard and trying to be back at the same level as last year. 

 Q.  When you're preparing though, how much do you think about, or how aware are you that you need to maybe win these matches to gain those ranking points? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, you never know when.  You have to work hard, and I think -- I mean, I'm trying to be as soon as possible, but it's not that simple.  It's not that easy.  Confidence is gone and it's not easy to get back that kind of confidence. 
 When I play good I feel I can beat anyone, so I have to keep working to try to feel the same things on the court.  I'm doing for a month, but still long way to go. 

 Q.  What was last year like for you, just the way you were playing and getting to No. 3? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I played very good in the beginning.  Very good.  From Australia to Paris I play great, and then I started a little problem with the back again.  That was the first time. 
 I couldn't get the best results, but I put all my goals on the Davis Cup.  We play finals.  We lost in the finals in Russia.  I mean, I think it was pretty good year.  I'm working hard to try to do same kind of things in the future. 

 Q.  How close did today's match feel?  Two tiebreakers. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I feel that I play very good.  Always the important points he play great, especially in the tiebreak in the second set.  He make like two or three aces and didn't miss any first serve.  I feel that I didn't play bad.  It's just that he play a little better than me, and that's make the different. 

 Q.  You were down I guess 4-1 in the second and looked like you were out of it and then you made a comeback.  Did you feel like at that point you had the momentum to come back? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, of course, and I tried to break him again I think 4-All or 5-All and I couldn't, but it was pretty close game again with his serve and I couldn't break him again, so it was pretty close. 
 I was 3-1 in the third set for me, so both sets was a little adventure for someone and then both came back in both sets, so it was very, very close. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT