AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 16, 2012
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. NALBANDIAN/G. Dimitrov
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I guess that was a day where experience counts, because it was tough, tricky with the wind, and a slippery court, was it?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   Yeah.   I don't know if it was that slippery, but was of course very, very tough.   Wind was terrible today. 
I think we don't play a very nice match, but we try our best.   Was very difficult but happy to win.   I mean, obviously is better win than lose.

Q.   What does it mean to you to reach the final here?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   Well, very happy.   I'm playing this tournament a few times, and I never reach the final. 
So happy to be tomorrow on court, and I hope be ready and I hope the condition is better, as well. 

Q.   What do you make of Marin Cilic?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   He's a tough player.   We play a few times.   I know he has good serve, but I think I'm playing good, I'm in good shape, and let's see what happens. 

Q.   How difficult has it been to play two three‑set matches yesterday and then come through in such tough conditions as today?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   It's very tough, but I think this surface help you to do that, as well.   I mean, if I had to do that on clay, maybe it's too much, because here the points are much shorter.   Especially today with the wind, it wasn't a lot of rallies so we didn't run a lot.     It's different in all surface, and I think in this one in particular is one that you can do that. 

Q.   It must have been tough for you, because you have been hanging around sort of Monday and Tuesday and waiting to get on on Wednesday?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   Yeah, I supposed to play Monday.   I don't play Monday.   I supposed to play on Tuesday and canceled.   Next day.   So it was a really tricky week.   It wasn't easy, but unfortunately that's the way it is.   You can't do anything.

Q.   Do you think they could have organized it better?   Because you were supposed to be first on a Monday, and then you were like fifth or sixth on the schedule for Tuesday and you didn't get on.   Do you think it could have been handled a little bit better?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   Yeah, I have two days here without playing tennis since Monday.   I don't know, I was here around 10:00 in the morning or 11:00, yeah.   But that's the way it is. 

Q.   That's your first grass court final tomorrow since Wimbledon in 2002.   Does that feel so long ago?   I mean, that was 10 years ago. 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   Yeah, it is a long time, but I'm happy.   Happy to be there tomorrow.   I mean, I don't think about match a lot.   I mean, doesn't go to the computer and see how long it was that I didn't play a final, so I don't really care. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT