AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2007
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  Easy match for you today.  No problem? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No.  It was very difficult.  Saving three match points is not easy.  I play good from there.  The tiebreak, as well.  Then he has some problem in the leg.  He couldn't move as the beginning, so I push very hard. 

 Q.  Seemed to be a specialist at comebacks.  How do you do that? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Sometimes lucky.  Sometimes I play good.  But today was lucky. 

 Q.  It seems you need two sets to warm up. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, no, no. 
 Honestly, I prefer winning in three sets.  Is not that simple.  Sometimes match are more complicate than I thought, but that's the way it is. 
 I mean, I win.  That's the more important thing.  I will be playing fourth round, so that's good. 

 Q.  Is there an advantage for you when your opponents know even if you're down you have it in you to go five sets? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it's tough to say.  I prefer winning two sets to love than losing two sets to love.  It's difficult to come back.  It's not always you can do that.  Sometimes you miss, you are out of the tournament. 
 I don't know what they thinking about in that moment.  I feel that I can play for five sets like today. 

 Q.  What was tougher, to come back in the first round against Tipsarevic or today? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think today. 

 Q.  Because of Love-40 or something else? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, Love-40 and then it wasn't that heat.  The other day I saw him like when I keep him moving, he's getting tired or something like this.  Today I get really surprised when he couldn't move because was perfect to play. 
 I mean, no heat, no wind, a little bit of humid, but normal.  I surprised when he couldn't move good.  But I think today was tougher. 

 Q.  Do you mean lucky because of the injury?  Is that what you meant when you say you were lucky today? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  When you are three match points down, anything can happen.  I mean, just you miss one or he can play good one point and that's it.  I mean, it's simple. 
 So the injury I think, yeah, a little bit, but more for the situation. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT