DAVIS CUP FINALS: ARGENTINA v RUSSIA
December 3, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  It seemed that your doubles game was like a cold shower for you.  What conclusions did you draw from the doubles game? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Doubles game is in the past.  We are 2-All now.  It's great. 

 Q.  Were you surprised by the slow start that Davydenko made? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I mean, I started playing very good in the beginning.  He did many mistakes.  But then he started playing better.  I maybe tried to just put the ball in in the third set.  That's when he started playing better.  The beginning of the fourth, as well, when he get the break, after that I start playing very good again. 
 I don't know if he start not very good or I start very good - or maybe both. 

 Q.  How much would you say it was you playing well and how much would you say it was you playing tactically a very smart match against him? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know how much, but I think I played both things very good.  I mean, I played very good.  Tactically I played good, as well. 
 Maybe in the third set I didn't play as good as the first two.  I stayed maybe a little bit far away from the court, trying to just put the ball in, wait until he makes an error.  But he started playing better when he had more time. 
 In the fourth set, I come back again more near to the baseline and tried to play my game, hit my shots, and that works. 

 Q.  Do you think the key to the match was to win the fourth set?  If the match would have gone into a fifth... 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No.  I feel I always get control of the game.  Even when I lose the third set, I lose it by mistakes, but my mistakes.  I always have more chance to break him than he has chance to break me.  That's why I feel that. 

 Q.  The coach of the Russian team, Alexander Volkov, asserts that the members of the Argentinian team allegedly use doping.  What can you say? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Nothing. 

 Q.  I'm from Armenia, the fatherland of your ancestors.  All of Armenia was rooting for you today.  Do you feel part of the Armenian people? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I never been there, so is quite tough to feel that way.  Just a little bit, yes. 

 Q.  Do you speak Armenian? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No. 

 Q.  How different is the feeling inside of you when you're playing for Argentina in Davis Cup like this or playing a Grand Slam?  How much does it help you to play in this kind of an environment? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's very different.  Circuit, it's not like this.  I mean, the crowd, the people, the atmosphere, it's not like this. 
 Davis Cup is totally different, great, amazing. 

 Q.  How much does it help you? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  A lot (smiling). 

 Q.  Today the Russian crowd was behaving like a football crowd.  Did it have any influence on you?  How does the Argentinian crowd behave at tennis competitions? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think we're the great.  We're the best crowd in the world. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT