DAVIS CUP FINALS: ARGENTINA v RUSSIA
November 30, 2006
Juan Ignacio Chela
Alberto Mancini
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Captain Mancini, how unexpected for you was the choice of Nikolay Davydenko as the No. 1 player for Russia?  Was it unexpected for you?   
 CAPTAIN MANCINI:  No, no, it wasn't unexpected.  We had a doubt.  In my mind, I thought that Davydenko was going to be the No. 1 player.   
  
  Q.  Captain, same question as two days ago about Maradona.  Any more news?  Do you know if he's coming?   
 CAPTAIN MANCINI:  We don't have any more news about him, no.   
  
  Q.  The fact that Chela has a 5-0 head-to-head with Davydenko, was it a decisive factor in your choice for a singles player?   
 CAPTAIN MANCINI:  The three players are very, very similar in terms of rankings.  They all have a very good condition and shape.   
 That is another point that I took into consideration, of course.   
  
  Q.  Captain Mancini, you're not afraid that Nalbandian will play one singles, then the doubles, maybe he will lose the doubles, and be too tired for the third singles?   
 CAPTAIN MANCINI:  Well, of course, there's a chance for that.  But we have variations to do.  We are okay.   
  
  Q.  Chela, how confident are you to play against Davydenko?   
 JUAN IGNACIO CHELA:  Very confident.  I practiced very well all the week.  I'm ready to play tomorrow, to fight, to try to win.   
  
  Q.  For the whole team, in the semifinals here in Moscow, the Americans were saying that the surface was not very convenient for them.  What do you think about the surface?   
 CAPTAIN MANCINI:  We think this carpet, obviously it's not the one we would have chose in Argentina.  But I think during this week the players adjusted very good.  We just had the indoors tournaments at the end of the year so we are well-prepared.   
 I think we're going to do fine.   
  
  Q.  David Nalbandian, do you feel still some energy left in you towards the end of the season?  Do you still have enough energy to play these finals?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I don't play many tournaments, so I'm fresh (smiling).   
  
  Q.  David Nalbandian, who do you think would favor the draw, which team?  Would you prefer to play No. 1 singles instead of being second on?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, that's fine.  Doesn't matter who play first.  It's fine like this.   
  
  Q.  So it never makes any difference for you who is playing first or second?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, doesn't mind.   
  
  Q.  David Nalbandian, you played Safin many, many times.  You played him four years ago here in Moscow.  How do you think his game has changed over the years?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, he's a great player.  I think I'm not afraid of him.  I beat him last time.  I'm very confident for tomorrow.   
 He's a great player, but I'll be ready.   
  
  Q.  David Nalbandian, you came to Moscow for the first time when you were playing juniors in 1998.  How has the city changed since you played the World Juniors?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Honestly, I didn't see much of the city, but pretty much the same.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT