TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 16, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Was it as easy as it looked?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, in the beginning I play very good.  I did have control of the match.  Then when I break 3-All in the second, then I play very nervous when I was serving for the match.  And then he play good that game as well.  I mean, he push a little bit hard.  He put me pressure.   
 I play good the tiebreak, as well.  The tiebreak looks more for him in the beginning with a mini break, and then I play good again.  But it wasn't that easy.   
  
  Q.  How do you explain you started so fast and so well?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I hit very good shots in the beginning and I think it looks like I give Andy not really wake up like in the second set, and that's why I take advantage fast.  And he didn't serve very good in the beginning or I return more first serves.  I think that was the key.  That's why I go away very fast in the first set.   
  
  Q.  You must feel good that you've given yourself a shot now to get into the semifinals?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I still have to wait, so let's see what's happen.  But I play good.   
  
  Q.  In the end of the second set, all the fans supported Andy.  What do you think then?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, that's okay.  I mean, he's really popular in U.S. or in the world.  That's normal.   
  
  Q.  What did you think at that time?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I have to win.   
  
  Q.  Your nephew passed away yesterday.  Was it hard to play?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it was terrible.  I mean, I couldn't enjoy the match that way I would like it.  Life is like this.  I can do nothing from here.  I try to push as hard as I can on the court.   
  
  Q.  Actually, you needed to win the match.  You made six double-faults in the match, especially on the game when you were serving for the match.  What do you think right now, that you give a double-fault and give Andy a quick point to coming back a little bit?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I say before, I get a little bit nervous when I was serving for the match.  He play good, as well.  But he made his first double-fault in a very important point in the tiebreak as well.  I don't think is normal doing six double-fault, but I play very good and that's important.   
  
  Q.  If you qualify for the semifinal, do you have the feeling a new tournament is beginning or this is a new thing when you arrive in a semifinal?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, of course.  This a very tough group.  Is very tough to qualify here.  If I qualify here, I be ready for semis.   
  
  Q.  You broke Roddick his first service game.  Ljubicic broke Federer out there in his first serve game.  What do you think about that?  Is it possible Ljubicic will defeat Federer and make you out?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Anything can happen, so let's see what happen in the match.  From here I can do nothing.   
  
  Q.  If you do go through, do you have a feeling some luck and momentum will be on your side for the semifinals?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, in this group, it's tough to win just one match.  You don't know what's going to happen on the group.  So maybe I qualify or maybe I not today.   
 But I'm sure if I do it, I be ready for semis.  Two player has to qualify.  We are four, and just two spot.  So it's not luck here.  All we're good players.  The best will be there.  Sometimes is not the best, but the guy who play better in the week.  Sometimes you need a little of lucky sometimes.   
  
  Q.  Andy is well-known for his big serve.  How did you return so well?  Andy is learning to serve and volley.  Do you think it's easy to make some pass shot?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, he's a great server, and everybody knows.  Today I return good.  When he comes to the net, I hit a very good passing shot.  But maybe next time not.   
 So he's put very pressure when he do that.  I think I make it because I play very good shots today.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT