TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  So sorry you lost today.  Your next match will be against Andy Roddick.  The only way to step forward to the semis is to win.  Do you have confidence in your chances the day after tomorrow?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I think so.  I will try my best to win and to qualify, of course.   
  
  Q.  We had four Argentinian players last year here in Shanghai.  This year we only have you.  Obviously, you had another great year in 2006.  Do you think it's a down year for Argentina tennis?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think so, yes.  We're in the Davis Cup final, so that's great for us.   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.)  I want to know what posed the most difficulty to you besides the three aces he had.  What was the most challenging problem you had from this match besides his three aces?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I think was only the serve.  I mean, after, when was playing rallies, most of the point, I win it.  So his big weapon was the serve today.   
  
  Q.  You seemed to be in control for the most part of the first two sets.  What went wrong in that moment for you in your game?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I do few mistakes in 5-4 second set, and I missed two easy shots from the deuce.  And then the breakpoint I miss a forehand.   
 And then on the tiebreak I was down all the time, and save the -- the first set point that I save was very good point.  Made a passing shot.   
 And then I do easy mistakes with his second serve and I couldn't make it.  I couldn't close the match.   
  
  Q.  Your last meeting with Andy was in 2003 including a loss in the semifinals in US Open.  So do you think if you got chance to win the match in U.S. not wasting so much more matchpoints, so you would have a better success in your career?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I beat him after that semifinal, so I believe that I still have a chance to win it.   
  
  Q.  In the opening ceremony interview you said the draw here is almost the same as last year, but last year you went into the final and won the final.  Now you are in a very dangerous position in your group.  So if the draw is the same, what is different?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Last year I win, and this year I lose.   
  
  Q.  Someone said you catch the trophy last year because you are a tough man.  Do you think this year's players are stronger than last year?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, in the Masters all the time are tough matches.  I mean, doesn't matter the ranking.  If the No. 6 didn't come, would come No. 8, No. 9, so is not big difference.  Always when you play these kind of tournaments, you have a lot of tough matches in the group.  So is difficult.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT