TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 12, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  What happened out there?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it start when you play against a guy and you couldn't make a lot of first serves.  I couldn't serve good in the beginning.  Without that I couldn't fight.  I was playing okay.   
 But then in the second set and the third, I fall down a little bit.  Without the help in the first serve, it's quite tough.   
  
  Q.  David, when you got him into the rally, did you feel that you were often dominating the exchanges?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, yeah.  I feel so, yeah.   
 But when he made the first serve, I didn't return a lot of serves.  When he served the second one, I take the chance of almost all the points, and that's make me feel good.  But then he start serving better, and he start playing better as well.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel that fourth game in the second set when you almost broke back was absolutely crucial?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I think so, when I was at that breakpoint and I miss easy return, I think that was very important point.   
  
  Q.  What is it that you think makes him the player that he is?  Is it just his game or his attitude?  I mean, what makes him as brilliant as he seems to be?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, everything.  Everything.  The attitude.  He have all the shots.  I mean, he can make any shots from anywhere.  So almost everything.   
  
  Q.  Did you have a good feeling coming back on to the court here?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I feel it's strange.  It's strange because I served very bad.  Then from the baseline I played very good in the beginning, no? So it's a little bit strange.   
  
  Q.  It's a whole...   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Of course.  Of course.   
  
  Q.  This now sets you up like last year.  You lost the first match.   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I'm still in the fight.  Nothing happen yet, so I have to win the next two ones.  I know if I play good, I can beat them, so I have to work a little bit tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  As you know, in Chinese we call Federer as the eagle's eagle.  You are the first one to have this eagle in this Masters Cup.   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I lose, so that's most important thing.  I don't mind other things.   
  
  Q.  We give a nickname to Federer.  We call him an eagle.  You are the first one to be glad to be beaten by him.  How do you feel?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I already answer.  I don't mind that things.  I mean, it's just part of the game.   
  
  Q.  You slipped three times in the first set and the beginning of the second set.  So what happened?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  I slip a few times.  Looks like the court sometimes dirty, so maybe it's that.   
  
  Q.  Yesterday we heard you talking about your strategy at the opening ceremony.  You planned to serve the ball to his backhand area.  Were you satisfied with the result of your strategy today?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I say exactly the opposite yesterday.  The strategy was exactly the opposite.  I mean, try to hit more in the backhand, not in the forehand.   
  
  Q.  That's the question.  You tried to serve the ball to the backhand area.  What's your comment on the result of your strategy today?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, today that doesn't work very good.  I mean, you can see in the results.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT