WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  On paper, he looked like a very good grass court player, a difficult match.  You seemed to be very comfortable today.   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I thought would be tougher than it was.  But I think I played quite good, I returned very good, so that's help me too much.   
 I didn't feel that I play like hundred percent yet from the injury, so I didn't feel comfortable yet.  But the next few rounds will be better.   
  
  Q.  How are you physically?  You obviously took an injury away from Paris, didn't you?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it's tough to say.  Not hundred percent sure, so maybe sometimes be a little afraid in the serve sometimes, so couldn't hit the ball hundred percent.   
 I think the next days will be better every day.   
  
  Q.  Did the rain affect you in any way yesterday?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, affect because I play today and I play tomorrow.  Even though I play quite good match today, not very long, that's good for tomorrow as well.   
  
  Q.  Would you call yourself a football fan?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  What do you expect for the quarterfinal against Germany?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I hope to win.   
  
  Q.  Are you sure?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I hope.   
  
  Q.  You were obviously a finalist.  Do you think people are looking at other players and maybe not at you so much?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I mean, I can't say that.  You have to ask to the press or to the other people.  I feel that all the time I come here, I play good tennis.  I do quarters, I do finals.  I play quite very good years also.  So I feel that I'm playing good at the moment.  I can play better than this.   
 I think that I have a chance to get to the finals round as well.   
  
  Q.  Does it help if maybe people are thinking of other players and you can get on with playing?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I don't really mind that.  I just be focused on my game, on my matches.  I don't mind.   
  
  Q.  In Argentina, because everybody is focused on the football, are they less focused on the tennis perhaps?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, of course.  I mean, soccer is the biggest sport in the world.  Most of the people are watching the World Cup.  Of course, a lot of people come to Germany to see it.   
 But I think there is a few fans that always follow tennis, so they going to follow the tennis as well, the Argentina people, they don't forget that we are playing Wimbledon, so they want to watch us.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT