INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 13, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Do you think the difference between you and Federer was two points in the tiebreak, or it was something more?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (Through translation.)  No, it's something more, of course.  It was a very tough match.  We fought a lot.  There were lots of break on one side and on the other side.  I lost the second set [sic].   
 I'm happy with the way I played the third, but I had many chances to break him and I couldn't do it.  That's why it went so long.   
  Q.  Is there some consolation for it being such a great match and pushing him so close?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No.  No, no.   
  Q.  Can you confirm that you will not play in Hamburg?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I'm okay.  I have some problems at home so I have to go back, and then I will see in Paris.   
 But I feel good.   
  Q.  Is there anything you would have done differently today?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, try to win of course (smiling).   
 But was very tough.  I mean, for both sides was really close.  I get my chance in the third set.  I was break up, then he was break up.  So was very tough.  Just one or two points was the difference.   
 But in the right moment and then in the tiebreak was very close as well and I couldn't made it.  I mean, I couldn't say if I play hundred percent, I will win.  I mean, I think both play great tennis today.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  You played against him many times.  Have you ever seen him throwing his racquet?  What did you think at that moment?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (Through translation.)  Well, that's human.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  In the third set the quality of the game was much better.  Can you explain why there have been so many mistakes in the two precedent sets.   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (Through translation.)  I think it's because the court was very fast and we were sliding too much.  It was difficult to keep your feets.   
  Q.  (Asked in Spanish and not translated.)   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (Through translation.)  I had a lot of chances, but it's never nice to lose.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  You got a lot of points serving high on his backhand and then going to the net.  In the tiebreak you tried the same thing, but he made a passing shot.  Is it you who served less well, or is it him who had a wonderful passing shot?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (Through translation.)  It's him.  He did what he hadn't done before.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  This tactic that you had of serve and volleying, was it something you decided before going on to the court, or something you improvised?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (Through translation.)  No, it's something I planned to do because I know him very well.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  When do you think that you lost the match, when you had three balls to go 3-1, or with that double-fault in the tiebreak?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (Through translation.)  I think it was in that game when we were 2-1 because it was very long game and I should have done that point to go 3-1, then you never know what can happen.  But that was an important moment.   
  Q.  (Through translation from Spanish.)  What are you going to improve from here to Roland Garros?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (Through translation from Spanish.)  There's always something you can improve.  You can improve your serve, volley, forehand, everything.  I will try to do everything, and everything will come back.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT