INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 10, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  I suppose you must be very pleased with your game at the moment on clay.  Did you do something special to prepare for the clay season?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I was practicing like always, but always is tough to play for me the first tournaments well.  I need playing matches.  So every match that I play, I play better and better.   
 So today I feel much better than yesterday, so that's make me happy for keep going in the tournament.   
  Q.  You're still working with no coach, just a physical coach?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah.   
  Q.  Why?  Are you pleased like that?  Are you searching for somebody?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I believe that I am gonna keep my time to think who is gonna be my next coach, so I don't gonna take nobody for two month or one month.  Just be sure that the person that I'm gonna take is gonna be the right.   
 So I should wait.  I don't know one, two, three, four, six month.  But when I will take the next one, I am sure that he gonna help me.   
  Q.  You often said that one of your problems was the motivation in small tournaments.  You won last week.  Does it mean that your motivation is stronger now than it used to be?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, you improve all the time.  You getting older.  You thinks different sometimes.  So that's good.  And I know that I didn't play the small tournament the same as I play Grand Slams, that's normal.  I mean, I think everybody do the same.   
 But of course the small tournaments are very important to keep improving in the ranking.  I mean, the top players, they won four, five or six ATP tournaments, so they really take points on the small tournaments.  So you need it.   
  Q.  Coming off your win in Estoril and up to No. 3 now, do you see yourself as the top challenger of Federer and Nadal going into the French?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, French always is special.  Is very long tournament, very long matches, so you need to be very fit.   
 I think that I can be one of the guys who is gonna fight for the title for sure.  I am very confidence in my game, playing better every time.  I'm sure that Nadal, Federer and Gaudio, a lot of clay court players are gonna play good on Paris as well.   
  Q.  What does it take to beat Federer and Nadal on clay?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I don't play with Nadal yet, so I can't tell you.  With Federer, I didn't play in clay for, I don't know, four or five years.  So long time ago.   
  Q.  You've seen them, watched them play.   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I know them, so I don't really need to watch.   
  Q.  Federer and Nadal are dominating the circuit clearly, but you are clearly also the third.  You won the Masters, a semi in Australia.  Do you feel it's time to move forward?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I try, I try, but it's not easy.  I mean, all matches are tough.  All players are very good.  So is not easy.   
  Q.  If you are able to...   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, yeah, of course, of course.  I know that I can beat anybody.  But you can't wake up and feel bad that day, you're gone off the tournament.  If you don't play your hundred percent, you are gonna lose with everybody.   
 So it's very tough, what Federer and Nadal do, I mean, win every single tournament that they play.  It's really tough, and that's why they are on the top of the ranking.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT