NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 29, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Where would you rate that match, among one of the best matches of your career?  One of the best, the way you played? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's difficult to say if it's the best or not.  But I feel that I play almost perfect from the beginning until the end.  Just I do few mistakes in the first game in the second set.  But normal, I mean, two mistakes.  I mean, it's quite perfect, so I'm very happy. 
 Q.  When you play like that, don't you feel you should be No. 3 or even No. 2, but why not No. 1? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, is not easy play like this all the time.  I mean, I take too much risk on my game.  You have to be careful in every shot.  I mean, I try to hit close to the line all my game, I try to do it all the time, but it's not easy.  Sometimes I play like this and sometimes I do, I don't know, 80 mistakes like the first match. 
 But I think that I'm more confident every time and I feel I playing better. 
 Q.  Why didn't you play so much between Australia and now? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I play Davis Cup, and then I get a little injury in the abdominals.  I start feeling in Australia.  So after Davis Cup my muscles say "stop it" and I have to stop for a while and come back in Indian Wells. 
 Q.  When you practice, do you think there's something to improve, or is it just the ability to play your best game? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, improve, it's important.  I mean, you don't have to stop improving.  I mean, the guys younger that are coming better every time.  You have to keep going, keep improving, try to do better shots every time. 
 So when I practice, I try to play like this and even improve a little bit more. 
 Q.  So you played the first Davis Cup match today, tomorrow you have the second... 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, no, no (smiling). 
 Q.  You have Ljubicic.  He said before, today, that he felt he was the No. 2 at the beginning of the year. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Who is No. 2? 
 Q.  Ljubicic said he feels that himself at the moment is No. 2 in the world since the last few weeks. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, he played good.  I mean, I think he won two tournaments, one or two tournaments.  He is playing good. 
 Last year also, I mean, he playing incredible all the year.  Davis Cup also, in the first round they beat USA on here.  I mean, he play very good games, very good matches.  I think this year he is playing good again, so it's gonna be a good match.  I mean, good preparation for Zagreb next week. 
 Q.  In which way can he be tougher than Ancic? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  In which way? 
 Q.  Is it more difficult to beat him than Ancic?  What is he doing better than Ancic? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Ljubicic better than Ancic? 
 Q.  Yes. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think it most depends of my game.  If I play like this, I have lot of chance to win.  But I think both has great serve.  And Ancic, sometimes he do a lot of mistakes, like easy mistakes.  And Ljubicic, he's improving all the time and playing better.  So I think he's more complete player. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT