NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your progress through the tournament so far, how you're playing.   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think good.  I think I didn't play my best the last two sets in the previous match.  But I play okay.   
  Q.  You haven't advanced this far in this tournament before, so it's something different this year?  Your confidence is higher?  What's going on?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I always like to play here, but last year I was little bit sick when I was playing so I couldn't do my really best.   
 The match the years before, I don't know who I lose, but is a tough tournament for wind, is windy so is not easy to play.  But I think playing better every time, so try to keep going.   
  Q.  Do you feel like the win in Shanghai changed the perception of you as a player among the other players?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, of course change, yeah.   
  Q.  How?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I feel more comfortable on court and I think that I'm playing very more quiet. I'm feel confidence as well.   
  Q.  You're someone who has made the semifinals or better in all four majors.  It's a nice record of consistency.  Yet you only have four tournament wins in your career.  Why is there that discrepancy?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I like play big tournaments.  Need to have a motivation to play.  I don't know, it's strange things to describe it, yeah.   
  Q.  Do you sometimes wake up in the night and think, "Why don't I have more tournament wins"?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I sleep well - very well.   
  Q.  I know you're concentrating on this tournament, but if I could just ask you to look ahead to the Davis Cup tie.  Just one comment from you about Argentina playing Croatia in Zagreb?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it's gonna be tough.  They are the champions, last champions.  They're gonna put a very fast surface, so it's gonna be hard to beat them.   
 But I think we are ready.   
  Q.  Even though Gaudio and Coria are struggling a little bit right now, do you still feel like Argentine tennis is at a very powerful place in the world?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think so, yeah.   
  Q.  And what about your own chances in a major?  Do you think you can win a Grand Slam?   
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I was close every time, so I can do it once - or more than once.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT