NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  How concerned were you after the first set? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, he started playing very good in the beginning, and I couldn't do my best shots in the first set.  So it was a very close set, very tough.  Both of us had a breakpoints, nobody could make it. 
 And then I start playing better.  My returns come better all the time, and he falls down a little bit and I always, after the first set, play better, better and better.  That's the result. 
 Q.  So you got to feel pretty good about the way you were playing by the end of the match today? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, yeah, of course.  Especially in the beginning of the second one, when I started playing better, I really feel good.  I like it. 
 Q.  When you survive matchpoints early in a tournament, does it sort of change the way you look at the rest of the tournament, almost like you've been given a second chance? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, you try to think match by match, doesn't matter the results.  I mean, if you have to save matchpoints or set points, really doesn't matter how you won.  The important thing is it's won here. 
 Two days ago, I save a matchpoint.  Didn't play good.  Today, I played good.  So that's important.  Every time, every moment that I spend on court playing better and better, so that's good. 
 Q.  Based on the way you came along today and the progress you made, how do you feel about your chances the second week of the tournament? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I feel good, especially now that I'm feeling the ball very good.  I think I'm ready to keep going. 
 Q.  What do you think about the challenge system?  Do you like it? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I answered that question two days ago, but it's nice. 
 Q.  Would you challenge on a ball you weren't sure of if it was late in a set and you still had a couple challenges and there was a ball you weren't sure. 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, if I'm not sure, I'm not gonna challenge. 
 Q.  Can I ask you a question about Roger Federer.  How well do you think he is playing this year compared with last year, for example? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  He's playing good as well.  I mean, I don't see much different from last year to this one.  He always plays good. 
 Q.  As a player who has a good record against him, what do you think is the secret of beating Federer? 
 DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I like to play against him.  I don't know exactly the secret, but I like really enjoy it every time we play each other. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT