AUSTRALIAN  OPEN
January 22, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Heading for a straight-sets win, what happened in the third? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I don't know.  I think I didn't play at the same level as beginning.  Not with the same intensity.  That's why I think I lose the second set -- the third set. 

Q.  Confidence now that the draw's opening up?  Roddick beaten now.  Do you have the confidence now to go to the final?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I'm confident every time I play good, and I play good today so I feel much better than the beginning of the tournament.  So I am very happy.  I know that all the players are tough right now.  I mean, Roddick lost, but Baghdatis is a great player, so is gonna be tough with any one or both.  But first I have to think of Ferrer or Santoro.

Q.  You pride yourself on playing the right shot to each ball.  The first two sets, how close to absolutely the ideal was that for you?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I don't know how close, but I play very good.  With a few mistakes, I mean normal mistakes, because I was hitting very strong shots, very close to the line.  So it's normal if you miss some ones.  But I played very, very good in the beginning.  And in the fourth set as well.  So that's make me confident for the next round. 

Q.  How much more improvement do you think you can make in the next few days? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Always you can improve.  I mean, when you are inside a court, you feel that some shots maybe you can make a winner and not a mistake.  So always you think you can improve a little bit more, a little bit more.  But it's tough because you play long matches, good matches.  And the small things are very thin, you know.  It's difficult to get improve all the time, but that's the idea.

Q.  You had a virus late last week.  Are you over that totally? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Today I feel great.  The doctors told me that every day is gone on it's gonna be better.  So I feel much, much better than the beginning.  So quite good. 

Q.  If you would have to pick one player in your part of the draw, who would be most dangerous, who would that be?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  All of them. 

Q.  You seemed to move quietly through the draw.  People don't necessarily notice, start taking notice until this time, the second week.  That suits the way you play?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, you have to play good in the second week, so I play good today.  I prefer to win easy all the matches.  I mean, I was playing five and four sets all the time, quite long matches, many, many hours on court.  But I feel that today I play very good.  That's make me confident for the second week.  So quite good. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT