AUSTRALIAN  OPEN
January 18, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  That was quite a tight match for a long time.  You were able to come through it quite comfortably in the end.  Was that the sort of game you needed at this stage? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it was a very tough second round.  I mean, he's very young.  He play very good.  He will be more dangerous than today.  Was tougher than I expect for second round, but I get a very good feeling.  I feel that I play very good from the beginning until the end.  So I finish today and I feel that I play very good.  
 
Q.  How did you feel physically after a five-set match in the first round and pulling out of Kooyong? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, today I feel much, much better.  I mean, playing at night maybe help me a little bit with the heat.  So is not too heat.  I feel that next round I will be perfect - almost perfect.  Never you feel perfect (smiling). 
 
Q.  You also seemed a lot more confident on the big points.  You saved a lot of breakpoints.  How much of that was from your Masters Cup win against Roger, how much more confidence have you gained from that?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, when you win that points, everybody think that it's normal because of experience.  But when you lose it, experience go on.  So doesn't matter.  Of course the tournament help me, but I always play good the important points, the breakpoints.  So I always try to play good all points, but is not easy so... 
 
Q.  Do you think you learnt anything about beating Roger in the future?  Did you learn anything about Roger's game that can help you beat him again in the future?  Did you discover any chinks in his armor?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  We know each other very well from long time ago, so we know.  We know very good.  
 
Q.  One last one about your next opponent. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I know Jarkko from Juniors as well, so we play a lot of times.  Difficult match.  Always that we play, we play long and tough matches.  So I don't expect be very quick third round.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT