AUSTRALIAN  OPEN
January 16, 2006
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Is a five-setter like that the ideal start to the tournament? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's not the best way to start, but is good always to win.  Doesn't matter the score.  I know that was longer than I expect.  But I'm happy because in the end I feel playing much better than the beginning.  So I go out the court with a good feeling.  
 
Q.  It looked like you were cruising there.  Do you feel like you slipped a little bit, or did he just find a groove there? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I feel that I didn't feel hundred percent yet.  In the middle of the third set, I lose power, lose everything, and don't feel good.  But, well, that's normal.  I was sick in the beginning of the week, so I thought that I was better than I play.  I expect to be better physically, but not hundred percent yet.  
 
Q.  Was it like a lack of energy?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  What was the sickness, just a flu or something else? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, just try to finish as quick as I can.  I try very hard.  In the third set he play very good.  I ate the bananas, fluid, everything.  I try to do everything.  Wasn't enough to finish it in three sets.  
 
Q.  What do you know about your second-round opponent, Wawrinka? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know too much about him.  I know he's young, he play good.  All rounds here are tough.  You can see it today.  So I have to be ready.  I have to be careful.  
 
Q.  Does the fact that you had a little difficulty finishing it off today, does that make you a little more nervous going into your second-round match? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, no.  I think all rounds are different.  Doesn't matter how you win the previous one.  So anything can happen after tomorrow, so you have to be ready.  
 
Q.  Has winning the Masters given you confidence maybe you can also win one of the Slams? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, of course.  That tournament make you more confidence.  But win a Grand Slam is not easy.  I mean, there is not many players to win a Grand Slam.  So I always be in quarters, semis, in finals.  Always was near.  But after that tournament I feel that I can.  So I am trying my best to get in that goal.  
 
Q.  Do you feel that this is one of your better shots considering that Agassi is not here, Safin is not here, I know Federer and Roddick still are, but it looks like a slightly easier draw than some of the other majors? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  If I play good, I can beat anyone.  So doesn't matter the opponent.  So I have to focus on my game, try to play my best tennis.  If I do that, I have the chance to win everybody.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT