DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL: ARGENTINA v SPAIN
December 3, 2011
David Nalbandian
Eduardo Schwank
Tito Vazquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NALBANDIAN‑SCHWANK/Lopez‑Verdasco
  6‑4, 6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   Tito, I'm sure you always believed in your doubles players today, but did that surprise you how well they won today?
CAPTAIN VAZQUEZ:   Obviously I believe in the doubles.   They have been practicing together very well.   They get along very well.   I think they did an extremely good job, very few errors.   They were in control of the game basically from the beginning to the end.
So I'm very proud of them, yeah. 

Q.   How much extra hope does this give you of winning this final?
CAPTAIN VAZQUEZ:   With your life, every day is a good day.   Tomorrow you start from zero.   We know that Spain is as good as we always thought it was and very difficult singles, but we will do our best. 
Yesterday was a big day.   We needed one of the two points; we lost both points.   Today we won the doubles, and tomorrow we hope to be at least in the tie till the end.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish. 

Q.   It was your debut in a final, and it was the first doubles point for Argentina in the final.   What do you say your feeling is from 1 to 10?   What was your level, or do you think that you were helped a lot by David or that you played at the same level?
EDUARDO SCHWANK:   My feeling is that I am very happy to give this point to Argentina and that we are still alive.   We are playing great tennis.   We have done a really good job, and we have failed very little.
The truth is I feel between 8 to 10.   It was high‑level tennis.   David makes me feel very comfortable in the court.   He coordinates doubles very well.   He helps me with the serve.   He returns very well.   He puts a lot of pressure on the opponent. 
So from my side, I am very happy to give this point to Argentina, and I wish that tomorrow we have a small miracle and we win.

Q.   For David, how was your feeling after not playing for such a long time in clay, both the tennis game and your physical condition?   With your victory, you are now equal with Guillermo Vilas.   What does this statistic make you feel, bearing in mind what Guillermo did for us in the Davis Cup? 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   I feel very good.   It is true that I have not played in clay for a long time, but every time I play for the Davis Cup, I do better than in the circuit. 
So I played a good game with Eduardo.   We played very well.   We were very focused.   We had very little mistakes, and we have played better and better.   We feel more and more comfortable, and we had no cracks in our game.
As for statistics, that's up to you.   I just play all the points I can, to win as many points as I can, and we know that this is tough, but statistics are just numbers.   They don't say much to me. 

Q.   Based on what you said, we can confirm that you feel something special for the cup?   Did you think that the match was going to be longer?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   Was there any doubt about the first question?   So I don't have to answer.   What was the second question? 

Q.   Did you expect a different match, or was it as you expected?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   No, we always expect a tough match at all times.   And I think that we had the luck of breaking quickly in the three sets, taking the initiative. 
As I have just said, we played a solid game.   We made the opponent play hard with the exception of when they did good serves.   Both Eduardo and myself played a very good game, very few errors.   This, at the end of the day, is beneficial for us, especially in the doubles match. 

Q.   This is for Eduardo.   Can this be a revenge of the two finals that you lost in doubles? 
EDUARDO SCHWANK:   What was the question again? 

Q.   Can this be considered a revenge of the two finals of the Grand Slam that you lost this year?
EDUARDO SCHWANK:   When that happened, that was a pain for me.   When you're a kid, you dream of winning big victories.   When I lost these two finals, I felt a lot of pain.   I still do, actually.
Today we won a good match, but the tie is not won yet.   Argentina has the players to win the tie, and we wish we can win tomorrow.
Personally, yes, it could be a mini revenge, but those defeats will never come back to me.   So I hope I have another chance in the future. 

Q.   It was a great match.   I don't know if it's too early to talk about this, but it seems that the captain still has two options for the first match between Del Potro and Nalbandian.   Can you talk to us about this? 
CAPTAIN VAZQUEZ:   That is an obvious question that I never answer.   I am not going to tell you what I am going to do tomorrow.   The reverse singles is Del Potro, as planned, and the second singles was with Pico Monaco, we said.   But obviously the technical team will rethink about it.   We will define the team tomorrow.
But for us to get to the last rubber we need to win the fourth point, which means winning Rafael Nadal, which is not that simple. 

Q.   Spain wanted to win today.   Do you think that they are worried now?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   Today was a good day for us, but in general terms the series is still 2‑1 for them.   They still have two single players of very high level   tomorrow. 
They are very tough, both of them.   I don't know what they are thinking, but statistics talk in their favor, and I think they must be quite relaxed because they have a very good team.

Q.   For the captain, how is Del Potro physically to play tomorrow after the big wear‑off of Friday?
CAPTAIN VAZQUEZ:   I haven't seen him much.   I have been practicing with the boys for the doubles.   Obviously after four‑and‑a‑half hours of playing yesterday, he must surely be tired.
But I'm sure that with the time in between yesterday and tomorrow, he will be ready for the challenge. 

Q.   For David, I'm from Spain.   Would you like at some point to play tomorrow against Nadal, or is this an option that you haven't even considered at all?
DAVID NALBANDIAN:   I said it:   I would have liked to play the five matches, but I can't due to the regulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT