TENNIS MASTERS   CUP
November 15, 2005
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You'll be playing Ljubicic in the next match for a place in the semifinals.  How do you think your prospects are there? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it's going to be a very tough match.  We both need to win to qualify.  We're going to try to do our best tennis on there.  I know that he's very dangerous player.  He has a very great serve.  He's improving his game at the baseline.  It's going to be a tough match.  
 
Q.  How was your performance tonight? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Not the best one, but I think I didn't play great today or same as I play against Federer.  But always is nice to win to keep faith to qualify semis and let's keep going.  
 
Q.  What do you make of all the injuries?  Do you think it's a major coincidence or the result of a long and competitive season?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  For the players that pulled out?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, both.  We are not machines.  Season is too long, too many matches, tournaments, different surface.  And I think that kind of change is very tough for the body.  Is very, very tough for everybody to keep healthy.  I think the best players in the world try to play less tournament and better tournaments.  Let's try to keep playing like that.  If we play all season, it's very tough.  
 
Q.  Is it hard to play against somebody that you've been in the Davis Cup team with or is there a healthy rivalry among the Argentinian players?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's tough because it's a countryman.  We know very good each other.  But on the same hand, nobody wants to lose against your partners.  I think we didn't play our best today.  I didn't play my best.  I'm sure that Guillermo didn't play his best.  But sometimes you share many, many things from very young, and then you have to see his face behind the net.  Of course, you want to win, and of course he want to win, so is tough.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT