TENNIS MASTERS   CUP
November 13, 2005
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for David. 
 

Q.  At 3-1 in the third set, you seemed to have a good opportunity to beat Federer.  So what happened then?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think I get my chance on there.  I feel a little tired.  In the third one, I couldn't serve pretty good.  I miss a lot of first serve in that game.  He break me.  After that, he play really good. 
 

Q.  Before the match, you were not in a hundred percent good condition.  Why did you say that?  And the second question is, if you look at the record, your five wins, Federer loses three times.  Does that give you pressure?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I forget the first question.  Sorry.  She asked me three question in the same moment.  What was the first one? Okay, okay.  I remember. I say that because I feel that I didn't prepare a hundred percent this Masters.  I receive a last-minute call to come here, so I was already on holidays.  That's why I didn't feel a hundred percent. The second question about the record, I didn't feel much pression to beat him five times and he only three.  Every match is different.  We always play very good tennis.  Always when I beat him was very, very tight, very close matches.  So this time I have to lose, and other times I have to win.  So that's part of the game. 
 

Q.  You played really well from the middle of the second set onwards.  This must be good for later in the week where you might yet qualify, given it will be one of you, Guillermo and Ljubicic.  Does that leave you feeling good for the rest of the week?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Much better is win.  I know it's very important to feel good, to win one set.  In the end of the week, it will be very important set, games and everything.  But always better to win. 
 

Q.  I remember in the Australian Open you had an advantage, you had a breakpoint, then Federer had four aces and turned it around.  Today it's kind of the same thing.  Can you tell us every time you play with Federer, you seem to have an opportunity, but finally you always lose it.
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, that's part of the game.  That's why he's No. 1 of the world.  I know that I get my chance in Australia.  I didn't remember exactly.  All the matches are different.  He had a very good serve.  So if he make an aces, it's normal. 
 

Q.  Do you think you should improve mentally?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I always try. 
 

Q.  After winning the second set and being up a break in the third, did you actually think you'd win the match, or do you always take it one point and one game at a time?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, you always have to be careful.  He's a great, great player.  He's with a lot of confidence.  When I take the break, I know that that was a very important game and I try to keep focused, but didn't was enough. 
 

Q.  In the second set, do you think that his level dropped or that you outplayed him?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I think I played very good in the second set, and then third set I start better than him.  But the things can change any moment.  So you always have to be careful.  I couldn't take the chance.  That's it. 
 

Q.  Since Roger just came back from an injury, do you feel he has a little trouble with movement or not at all?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I didn't see that he can move well or bad.  I mean, he can maybe.  He's not hundred percent confidence with the ankle.  But I feel like he move normally. 
 

Q.  How difficult did you control your game against Roger?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Sorry? 
 

Q.  How difficult did you control your game against Roger Federer?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it's difficult to play against him.  Always he play good.  He have a very good serve, very good forehand, backhand, good mentality.  That's why he's No. 1 of the world.  I mean, always, every time that I have to play against him, I feel that I have to play hundred percent to beat him. 
 

Q.  Although you lost the match, you played very well.  Are you more confident to have this close match with Roger Federer for the rest of the week?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  She asked me this question two minutes ago.  The same question. 
 

Q.  There are many of your fans here in Shanghai.  What do you think of the audience in Shanghai?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Oh, that's very good.  Is the first time that I come in Shanghai.  I be in Beijing two times, but never here.  I like it. 
 

Q.  What do you think of the surface of the courts?  Do you feel comfortable on the court?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  The surface is same as Bercy, so the last tournament that we play in the year.  I think will be fair for everybody if the court is not so fast and not so slow.  Well, sometimes the court is not the best for all the eight players who play Masters, but everybody have to come here, whoever is playing the Masters, and try to feel the more confidence as they can. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT