TMS - MADRID
October 18, 2005
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for David in Spanish.  
 
 
Q.  First set was difficult because of the tiebreak.  In the second, you were superior. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah.  Well, actually I was comfortable at the beginning, too.  The advantage came with the tiebreak.  From that point, the match followed the path I wanted it to follow.  
 
Q.  You've got it difficult to get into the Masters Cup.  To get to the semifinal is your goal?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, mathematically I've got chances.  I think I can win this sort of tournament.  If that happens, I will be close to the Masters.  That's why I'm playing right now, to be able to get there.  I'll give my best these weeks.  
 
Q.  What do you think about the surface, about the court?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it is very fast here in this tournament, it's indoors, because of the altitude and the conditions.  But it's similar to last year's.  
 
Q.  Yesterday Chela said that the success of having so many Argentines on the circuit is because of the personal effort of each of you. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes, I think so, too.  Coria and myself had some kind of support, but the rest of the players have not.  It's personal effort mostly.  
 
Q.  The opponent that's awaiting you is Chela or Johansson.  Who do you prefer?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No matter who I play against.  I don't care.  I obviously know more the Argentine.  Johansson has a tough game.  He likes this kind of surface.  Both of them are tough rivals.  Need to be careful with them.  
 
Q.  What is your opinion about doping cases in Argentines? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  They're all different cases.  They're individual cases.  Each of them must be judged separately.  Let's wait and see.  
 
Q.  Do you think it's sort of blackmail against Argentines?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's a very delicate subject.  I don't want to think that's the case.  That would be dreadful.  But as I've already said, every case is different.  Let's wait.  
 
Q.  Do you think Argentines are looked at fairly or unfairly because of these doping issues within the circuit?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, actually I've already said each case is a different case.  Doesn't matter that most of them are Argentines or Swedish or whatever.  You cannot judge 10 people with the same criteria.  Each has its own technical organization. 
 
Q.  They said yesterday maybe Argentina should be considered a big tennis country and must behave that way. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, of course.  But not because of an issue of doping, but because of the quality and the level of the players.  Many things should be improved - not only doping, but many other things.  
 
Q.  However, we are in this moment where Argentina seems to introduce young players. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I'm not really informed about juniors actually.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT