US OPEN
September 8, 2005
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Roger was really tough tonight.  Did you just run out of ideas towards the end there?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I think he play much better than me today.  I didn't serve good, so that was big important thing.  I couldn't find my game.  I couldn't win any free points with the serve.  That's complicate all the time the match. 

Q.  On the final point of the second set, were you ready for the force of that drive at you at the net? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  The last point of the second? 

Q.  Set, yes, breakpoint.  The volley. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Oh, the volley? 

Q.  Yeah. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I was thinking if I take the racquet away or not so...

Q.  You were thinking maybe it might go out? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, a little bit.

Q.  When he's playing like this, Federer, when he's like this, can anybody beat him?  Does Hewitt have much of a chance when he's like this? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  You never know.  Today I think he play much better than the other days.  But I don't know he's somebody to better than another one.  Of course somebody is better than another one.  Federer today is one step up from the other guys, but always when you go out to the court you have a chance to win.  So you never know what's gonna happen.  But of course when he's playing like, it's very tough to beat him. 

Q.  What could you do, I mean, that you didn't do?  What can you do when he's playing like this?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Just held serve better. 

Q.  Do you find it surprising, he's played 44 matches on hard courts and lost just once. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Who? 

Q.  Roger. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Okay. 

Q.  But to go out every day and play at a high level, how difficult is that, without really having a bad day? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it's tough.  When he play good, it's very tough.  You know, he have a very good serve.  You can't see the (top?) of the ball, it's good.  It's difficult to return.  His forehand is very good.  He improve so much the backhand.  So when he play like this, it's really tough to beat him.  Right now that's why he's No. 1 in the world and he lose just a few matches during the year. 

Q.  But can you imagine how difficult it is to go out match after match after match and stay at a mentally high level without thinking, "I'll just relax a little bit today"? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, he's doing very good.  I don't know.  He looks like he didn't relax a little bit in any moment.  Against me, against nobody.  So that's why he is No. 1 and he have so many points difference from the No. 2. 

Q.  When you played, can you go back when you played him in Juniors here and you won, can you tell us what he was like then compared to what he's like now in terms of his development. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Impossible to compare.

Q.  He got so much better?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, he's playing much -- of course he's playing much better. 

Q.  Before the match, Roger said that he would like to play you because he's got an inferior record against you.  Did you kind of feel coming into the match that he was saving his best tennis for you? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah.  I thought that he is gonna play better than the other days, and he do a very good job. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT