WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2005
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Ladies and gentlemen, David Nalbandian. 


Q.  First time I think you've come back from two-sets-to-love down to win a five-set match.  What did you think of that and the quality of your opponent today? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think he start playing very good.  Maybe in the beginning a little nervous.  But then he played very good and is always tough when you don't know too much about the other guy, how he's play.  So was very tough in the beginning.  In the fourth set, when I was break down, was very complicate.  But I knew that if I come back in the fourth, for sure I'm gonna win the fifth. 

Q.  It was very close in the fourth, though, David.  I think three times you had to save breakpoints.  I mean, was that the key part of the whole match? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think so, yeah, yeah.  Two-sets-to-love down and then I win easy set in the third.  And then he break me quick in the fourth.  And then when I break back in the fourth, he have the chance to break me again.  But I think I try to push him to do mistakes, and maybe he feel a little bit nervous on one or two points and he miss one or two easy shots.  And then I knew that if I win the fourth set, everything is going to be to me in the fifth. 

Q.  Why were you so confident that you would win the fifth?  Could you see him weakening? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I saw that he -- maybe he plays less chance in the fourth.  He didn't start to running anymore as the first few sets.  So I knew that I had to keep going at my level, and if he falls down a little bit in the first, I'm gonna win for sure. 

Q.  What do you think of his game, his style of play when he was playing well?  What do you think of him as a player? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  He serve very good and he has a very good return.  Looks like he play very confident on grass courts.  So all the time was tough.  He have a good forehand, good backhand, good slice.  He's fast.  He can see really good how is the games going.  So was very tough. 

Q.  What do you think he can achieve in the game in the future? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  He's too young.  So I'm not a right person to tell you, but I think he need work more.  I think he lose this match for the physic problems, you know.  I think he have to keep going in the physic.  But he's too young, so he have enough time to work. 

Q.  I think when you were 18 years old, you were ranked around 200, 220 maybe.  I mean, what was the important thing then for you to get your ranking up higher and higher and higher?  What was the element of your game or your work or your ethic that got you up into the Top 50 and then the Top 10?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  The mind.

Q.  The mind. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Is very important for tennis player.

Q.  To believe you can do it? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yep, yep.  Of course you need a physic, I was tell you before.  Because you can have 19 years old and have Nadal physic, so you don't need more than that. 

Q.  What did you say to him at the end when you shook hands?  Did you say much to him?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  He do a very good job and very good match. 

Q.  What was it like for you with the crowd, obviously a home crowd, supporting a British player?  How did you find it for yourself? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Good.  I like it.  I like it.  Was of course gonna be that way.  I mean, everybody was cheering for him.  But I know for the beginning that it's gonna be like that.  I just play.  I try to play my game and I feel that I tried my best.  So I really enjoyed the crowd.

Q.  There were some Argentinians around the stadium.  Did you hear shouts for yourself?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah.  Yeah, yeah. 

Q.  Are you very relieved that you came through, because it was so close, especially in the fourth?  Are you relieved that you've come through?  Did you expect it to be as hard as it was for you? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  You always -- you always think that it's gonna be a very tough match.  But he play very good.  I mean, he surprise me a little bit in the beginning.  But then, I don't know, everything is coming natural, you know, set by set.  I started seeing better the game that's he playing.  So if I play with another guy that I play before, so it's better from the beginning.  So that's was the worst part of the game, I think. 

Q.  There were quite a few occasions when you were looking in some frustration down at the grass, down at the court.  Were you frustrated by the bounce of the ball?  You seemed to be frustrated by the quality of the grass. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, sometimes I think the bounce are not good, but of course gonna be like this.  I mean, it in the end of the first week, so many, many matches.  And players are play on that court.  But it's part of the game. 

Q.  Do you feel as good about your game on grass as you did in the latter stages of 2002?  Are you beginning to get to feel as though you could be a contender again?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think so.  I think so.  I feel like I play more confidence now than 2002.  2002, it was my first grass tournament, so I was coming here to see what happen and then I feel great.  But right now I know how it's gonna be when I'm going to the court.  So I feel more confidence now. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT