AUSTRALIAN   OPEN
January 26, 2005
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please. 


Q.  That must have been incredibly energy-zapping.  How were you feeling in the last set there?  It looked like you were on the verge of winning. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I didn't feel bad.  I feel good until the end.  Maybe a little bit tired, but not a big problems.

Q.  What was happening with your backhand for the first two sets?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I didn't play really good in the beginning.  I mean, he played good tennis, solid, and I do many mistakes.  I had a chance at the second set.  He was serving 15-40, and I couldn't make it.  Maybe if I win that game and then the set, maybe the match change a little bit more. 

Q.  Do you actually think that when you made that unbelievable shot in the crucial game, you then played two backhand errors, perhaps actually making that shot took more out of you, your concentration maybe just went?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, maybe a little tired.  The match was so long.  I'm playing very long matches, all ones.  So maybe in that moment I feel a little bit.

Q.  It seemed very tense out there.  What happened at that change of ends where he appeared to brush you?  Seemed annoyed by that.   

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, nothing. 

Q.  What did he have to say after you met at the net at the end?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I has to tell you? 

Q.  We couldn't hear. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  You miss it. 

Q.  Was it a friendly exchange at the end?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Sorry? 

Q.  Was it a friendly exchange at the end?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah.  I congratulate him.  I think he play very good and I congratulate him, so, for the match, for a great match.

Q.  He seemed to be saying something as he walked away at the end. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (Shaking head negatively.)

Q.  "Good luck on the flight home"? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  (No response.) 

Q.  How disturbing was the fact that there were so many overrules, bad calls, tonight?  Did that disturb your rhythm?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, was strange.  So many overrules.  So many strange calls.  But, you know, I think when the umpire is sitting on there, he feel the pression also. 

Q.  Did you have an IV drip after the match?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No. 

Q.  Do you feel that you lost the match tonight, you missed a chance, or do you think Lleyton won it?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  A little bit of both.  I think I have the chance in the second set to win it, and then maybe the match was changed a little bit.  And then in the fifth also I have chances, but also he have some breakpoints when I serve.  I save it.  But, you know, in the fifth set, any things can happen.  I think maybe he was maybe a little bit more lucky than me or not.  But just was few points.  So in the fifth set, it's difficult to say.  But I think both have a lot of chances. 

Q.  In terms of players on the tour that you play all the time, how difficult is he to beat?  I know you haven't beaten him yet.  How hard is it when you're up against him and you know he chases everything, runs down everything, has this fierce determination? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  He's tough because he's a great player everywhere.  If you play clay courts, also is going to be tough one.  But all the times you get in the court and play with the best tennis players in the world is going to be tough.  Doesn't matter who.  If I play Safin, Federer or whatever, is going to be tough also.  So it's not just him. 

Q.  Who would you like to see win between him and Roddick?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT