ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 23, 2004
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish for David Nalbandian.  
 
 
Q.  Too easy today?  At least it seems this way.  What would you highlight of your play?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, first of all, it wasn't easy at all.  I think he won serve easily.  Luckily when I found his rhythm, I took advantage of it.  My serves were a bit complicated, too.  The last set, I was three breakpoints down.  I think it was a really tough match.  I need to concentrate on the return.  
 
Q.  Do you feel well playing? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I'm feeling comfortable.  I think from the first match, I felt well here in Madrid.  Okay, there's a bit of altitude, but I'm taking advantage of it.  I'm taking advantage of this fact.  Playing in Spain is almost like playing at home.  
 
Q.  After such a difficult season with your injuries, does it seem okay?  This tournament makes you happy?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes, it's been a difficult year, with ups and downs, starts and stops.  But I feel well.  I think my performance is acceptable.  I'm improving it here.  I need to improve to get to Houston.  
 
Q.  Not losing a set, is it important to you going into the final?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  The most important thing is to win, whether it's two or three sets.  To win in two sets gives you a little confidence towards the next match.  But next match is completely different.  You start from zero.  Statistics here in the end mean nothing.  
 
Q.  The Masters, is it a realistic goal?  Is it really important to you, to get in?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  There's two ways of looking at it.  One, yeah, it's difficult.  It's very difficult.  We have Agassi and Safin in the semifinals.  I'm not so ahead of them mathematically.  But, on the other hand, it's not impossible.  Mathematically, I have chances.  Of course, I would like to be there.  I would like to play again.  If I don't reach that goal and don't qualify, that is not going to bring me down.  Not to play the Masters is a good thing to be able to rest and prepare for a good year.  As I say, on the one hand, I would like to be there.  On the other hand, I would take advantage to train and start next year.  
 
Q.  Do you have any favorites between Safin and Agassi? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I don't really care.  Both of them are fine.  If they win, it's because they are playing really good tennis throughout the week.  I know it's going to be a difficult match, and I have no -- I haven't got a preference.  It's just a final that one should try to win.  
 
Q.  Could you analyze both of them?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Safin is a very dangerous and complete player.  He does everything well.  He has a great serve.  He returns well.  He plays great behind the baseline.  He comes in.  He's an opponent you should be careful of, be aware of his play.  Well, Agassi we all know is a very fast player.  He likes to play every point.  His play from behind the baseline is great.  He has a great rhythm.  He doesn't come in a lot, but he balances this with his play from behind the baseline.   As I say, both of them are really tough.  
 
Q.  Will you change your play depending upon who you play against? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Some things should be changed.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT