ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 22, 2004
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for David Nalbandian.


Q.  You started controlling the match when your lobs were in.  Did you need strategy to win this match, your mind? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, it's been more of an evolution, I guess.  Started playing more consistent.  I tried to win points.  Well, yeah, there were quite a few lobs.  But I guess consistency was more important than lobs.

Q.  In that 4-1 tiebreak, did you think you could win the set?  Were you thinking about the second set already? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I was fighting for every point.  He served slice very well.  I lost a point with my serve.  But I was feeling like I was putting pressure on him.  Actually, I did. 

Q.  Is that the style of tennis you were expecting?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, he played really well.  It's not easy to play against a tennis player like him because his pace is difficult.  Games are not long, so you have to be precise with every shot.  At the beginning I had some trouble, I guess, but then I started recovering my game and gaining confidence. 

Q.  Do you have a problem with your ankle, because of the wrap you have?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, no, it's just a wrap. 

Q.  Regarding your play right now, do you think you're No. 1, world No. 1, a favorite to win the tournament? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  At this point they are all favorites.  Ljubicic played a great match against Johansson.  His serve is great.  He plays quite well from behind the baseline.  Then we have Safin and the rest, Horna.  They're all dangerous.  At this point of the tournament, anyone can win.  Besides that, Agassi and me are fighting for the Masters, and we all want to be in the same place.  We are all fighting for the same.

Q.  How much influence does the Masters have in your mind when you're playing?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's another motivation one has on court.  Sometimes it's an advantage.  Sometimes it's not.  I personally am feeling comfortable.  I'm feeling fine.  I have trouble if Agassi and Safin are ahead, so I depend on them.  But I'll fight until the end. 

Q.  How do you see your match tomorrow against Ljubicic?  What do you have to do?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Actually, I don't know.  I never played against him.  I've seen him twice or three times, but I know his serve is very good.  He controls it very well.  I'll need to be patient in order to see how the match progresses, to get used to his play.  Here I'm feeling very comfortable playing.  I'll try to move him on the court.  I think he's a bit tired from the rest of the matches he's been playing.  But if I return, I'll have chances. 

Q.  It seems this tournament hasn't been attended by many international stars.  Do you think it's a problem with the calendar?  Does it lack something, the tournament? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, not really.  The tennis here is very tough, it's hard.  This time of the year, some players do feel very tired.  I think there's Masters, Davis Cup, whatever, has kept them away.  They'd rather rest and train and prepare towards the events I just mentioned.  I think this year, well, a few of them were missing, some stars, but they usually come to play. 

Q.  How do you see the Davis Cup between Spain and the United States?  What do you think about the altitude, the fact they took it to Seville? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, of course, the ball goes slower.  I think Spain is favorite. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT