TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 10, 2003
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good afternoon.  We're going to start in English and then we're going to switch into Spanish.  Questions in English for David Nalbandian, please.  
 
 
Q.  How is your wrist?  Tell us about the wrist. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I feel good.  I didn't feel nothing strange on the match, so I'm very happy for that.  
 
Q.  What preparation did you have to make with the wrist over the past week, just rest? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  You talking about this week?  
 
Q.  Last week, to perform here. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Oh, last week, yeah, I take a rest.  Almost I have to do many exercise for... 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, all the arm.  I have to do many exercises on the arm to make it better. 
 
Q.  Everything went your way today.  Did you expect such an easy match? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think didn't was an easy match.  Every time and every point, it's very hard, very good points out there.  I think I play a really good tennis today.  
 
Q.  The condition suits to your game perfectly? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes.  I feel good.  I think the conditions, I don't know if is good or not, but we have this and we have to try to do our best in these conditions.  So I don't care about the conditions.  I think everyones have to be ready for fight every match. 
 
Q.  You've only lost two sets in six matches to Juan Carlos.  Do you find him the type of style player you like to play?  You have a very good record against him. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, as I say, every match is different.  I think I just play two times with him.  One time was in three sets, was really hard, 7-6 in the third.  This one was a little more easy, by the score.  But I think every match is different, every match is very complicate.  Always have to change something in the game.  So I don't know if I like it, but I beat him twice.  
 
Q.  Any idea how many of your countrymen may have turned out for support, come to Houston?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I have no idea.  I think a lot, but I don't know how many.  
 
Q.  In a while you'll be playing Andre for the first time.  Could you imagine still playing a full schedule, more or less, at age 33? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  You never know (laughter).  I think Andre is the best of  -- one of the best of the history.  So he have very good conditions.  You never know what's gonna happen in the future, so I hope try to play many, many years on this, but I don't know secret to how long. 
 
Q.  You said you weren't able to work 100 percent this week.  Were you worried how your game would be?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't feel 100 percent, so I have to be careful every time I hit the ball.  I think I was very focused today and I try to concentrate too much on my game.  I think I do many things very good for this match.  I think my tactic was perfect today.  
 
Q.  Do you think in a strange way not being able to play for a couple of weeks meant you were mentally fresher today? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I think.  I didn't play for long time ago, so I think I'm very fresh and my mind is perfect.  Always, every time I go out the court, I try to do my best.  I try to be very focus every point, every tournament.  More in this tournament, every game is important.  So I think I try to be focus all the time, and that's all good. 
 
Q.  Do you think it is more important at a tournament like this at the end of the year when some players are clearly getting tired?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, of course.  
 
Q.  A very, very important question, please.  In your hometown there is supposed to be a restaurant or a hot dog stand which is named after you. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  How many people you think live in my town (smiling)?  
 
Q.  I would guess... I don't know. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Ahh, okay (smiling).  
 
Q.  Could you tell us about this restaurant, when we come to visit? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't go out to the restaurant.  I always be in my home.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT