TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 9, 2003
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for David Nalbandian. 


Q.  I have a question about your health.  How do you feel? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, of course I'm better.  I was in Barcelona with the doctors, and they told me I'm okay to play this week.  So I'm gonna be ready for fight tomorrow and all of the matches.

Q.  How long have you been practicing? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I practice all the time.  I didn't use the left hand, but I practice all the time.  I start use it the last weekend, so I am practicing one week with the left hand and everything.  I'm good. 

Q.  Okay.  What are your expectations for this week? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, it's difficult.  Everybody is great players, and everybody wants to win a tournament, of course.  I think I am ready to do a very good job and to fight every match and to try to keep the title.  But every players are good players, and everyone are fighting for the No. 1.  It's gonna be an exciting tournament.

Q.  A lot of players say that the season is very long.  What are you going to change in your schedule next year not to play that much and not to get injured? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, of course, it's difficult, you know.  Many matches in the year, many weeks.  I have to see very good the calendar and try to play less tournaments and try to take better results every time I play.  So I have to see the calendar and try to play less tournaments.

Q.  How many tournaments would you like to play?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  It's difficult.  I don't know, maybe 25 or... I don't know.  I don't know.

Q.  A question about the rankings.  What is the ranking you check every Monday morning?  Is it the race or the entry system? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No one. 

Q.  No? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No.

Q.  You never watch the ranking?  You're kidding me?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Seriously, no.  It's true.  I didn't see Monday morning in the week.  I didn't see the ranking or whatever. 

Q.  What do you prefer as a ranking, the race or the entry system?  What do you think is the best?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, you have to see both.  So for us, both are important.  So you have to see. 

Q.  This is the first time you are in the Masters Cup.  What do you think of your play? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, of course I'm very happy to be here.  It's my first time.  But also I come here because I'm playing very good on the year and I want to try to do my best every time I go to the courts.  I think it's gonna be a very, very exciting tournament.  Two players - three players - are fighting for No. 1.  Everyone wants to win this tournament.  So it's going to be very, very tough matches and very good for the people, for the crowd.  It's gonna be a very good show. 

Q.  Just one question about your wrist.  How is your situation now?  How do you feel?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I feel much better.  The doctor told me I am better, I am ready to play.  I don't know if it's 100 percent.  I didn't use my left hand 100 percent yet, so I have to try in the match. 

Q.  You were practicing with your forehand much more than the backhand, no? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I had to try to be careful with the left hand, so...

Q.  There are two Argentinian players, you and Coria.  Do you think Argentina has become a very strong tennis country?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I hope.  Both of us, we are very good players.  We try to do the best in our country and in the world.  So I think this generation is very good for us.  I hope the young people, the Juniors from Argentina, they can take something after us and try to come behind us every time.  So I'm very happy, and I think Guillermo is happy also for to be the best player of our country and try to do many good things.

Q.  (Question referring to Yao Ming)?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's good for me, you know, to be a rookie.  I was very happy for the last year.  Last year was a very, very exciting year for me.  I didn't play Masters last year, but I'm have also very good year last year.  This year is very good for me also.  I'm very happy to be here. 

Q.  How is your wrist? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I just... I just answer. 

Q.  Sorry. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's better.  The doctor told me is much better than like two weeks before.  So I'm not sure if I'm gonna be 100 percent because I didn't try to use it 100 percent.  I had to be careful.  But I'm gonna see tomorrow.

Q.  First time you'll use it 100 percent is tomorrow?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, yeah.

Q.  The draw you are in, was that kind of disappointing?  Three Grand Slam champions in the same draw. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Everyones are good players.  It's the same.  Both groups are tough. 

Q.  Do you wonder what your year might have been like had you not battled injuries all season?  I mean, to have injury problems most of the year and then finish still so high and qualify for this. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, the season, it's so long, so tough.  I think the injuries is the problem of every players.  Is difficult to play all the year without injured.  I think we have to check very good the calendar for next season and try to play less or better each tournament. 

Q.  This is the first time you made Masters.  Are you especially excited to be here? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, I don't know if is exciting, but I'm very happy to be here.  I also, if I'm here, it's because I play good all the year.  I think it's gonna be a very good tournament for everybody - very, very tough tournament.  Three players are fighting for the No. 1.  Everyones want to win this tournament.  So I think it's gonna be very good, and I'm very happy.  A little exciting for each match.

Q.  It was a bit of a surprise for a lot of people that this tournament is being played outdoors.  Do you think the conditions will suit you?  Some people said it's very slow out there. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, it's strange.  I think it's the first time until, I don't know, 30 years or something like that, where it's outdoors.  All the time we're playing many indoor tournaments in this season and last season, so it's tough to change to go out to play the Masters.  So I think  -- I prefer to play indoors. 

Q.  You have Roger, Andre Agassi and Juan Carlos Ferrero in your group.  Looking at this group, the record you have over Roger, when you play against someone that you've beaten so many times as you have beaten him, does it help you during a match?  Do you think about that?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think every match is different, it's completely different.  I think when you go out in the court, it's something special you feel inside.  But you never know.  With this kind of players, every time you go out the court, it's completely different.  Very hard, very tough match.  So every time I play with Roger was very tough match - always three sets or four sets in the US Open.  So he's a very good player.  But I like against him.

Q.  What do you like about his game?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  I feel comfortable when I play against him.

Q.  It seems like you can anticipate some of his shots much better than other people.  Is this something you're conscious of, that you know somehow where he is going to serve?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, sometimes, you know.  I know him, I don't know, five years ago when we was Juniors.  So we have a lot of matches and many years practicing and playing matches.  So I know him a little more than other ones.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT