US OPEN
September 5, 2003
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  David, eight sets in two days.  Coming back tomorrow and playing a guy who is just on an incredible roll.  He's beaten you in both of your encounters.  Your thoughts on looking forward to coming off of all the tennis you've played in the past two days and facing Andy tomorrow?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't care that.  I think every match is different.  I think I not feel very tired for tomorrow.  I think I gonna be ready.  
 
Q.  How would you compare playing Federer and El Aynaoui?  The two matches, you played Federer yesterday and El Aynaoui.  You beat different styles.  How did you approach it?  How do you compare it? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, both, of course, they are good players.  But I think they are difference.  Both have a very big serve, very good forehand.  But then I think I play very good both days.  My return was very okay today also.  So I'm happy to be in semis tomorrow.  
 
Q.  How important was that first set? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, very important because after it's 7-6, then I start to play very good in the second set.  So I think was very important for me.  He made  -- I don't know he have some knee problems or something.  But after the first set, I feel better and I play much better.  
 
Q.  What's the toughest thing about facing Andy, what's the biggest problem he poses for you tomorrow? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, he have a very big serve, so I think that's the more important from his game.  He have a good forehand also.  So I have to try to be focus in my return and then it's gonna be a very good rallies from the baseline.  So I think it's gonna be very tough.  
 
Q.  Will there be added difficulty in that he's obviously an American favorite; you're gonna be on Arthur Ashe court; the crowd is going to be all rooting for him.  Is that going to add to it?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't care the crowd, of course is gonna be for him.  So is normal.  But when you go to the courts, you forget everything.  You try to play your best.  
 
Q.  How important is it for you to do well, to be successful?  Obviously, a Grand Slam is a Grand Slam.  But in New York, in the States, where a lot of the tennis fans here don't yet know that much about your game.  You're playing so well.  How important is it to you to sort of show Americans how well you play, how good a game you have? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  I just go to the court and play (smiling). 
 
Q.  You don't care? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well...  I do my job, is playing.  So maybe the people don't see around the circuit  -- around the circuit or the season and just see for the American guys.  But I just do my job and try to play every match well I can.  
 
Q.  A lot of players the last couple days are concerned about the rain.  You have a situation at home with your parents which is a completely different situation.  Could you talk to us about what's going on down there and what's playing on your mind at this moment?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, the second week from the US Open was very tough for the players.  
 
Q.  Not with the rain, I'm saying with your situation with the your parents back home and their safety?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  They're good.  
 
Q.  How are you mentally dealing with that, though? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, well, I talk to my father and mother many times.  It's perfect.  
 
Q.  You were about to comment on the difficulties of the second week here  - having matches that were postponed, delayed, going out and having to get off the court.  Just reflect a little bit on what the last four or five days were like for you.
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, very tough.  We didn't hit balls for four or five days some days. But I think for everybody else was the same.  Not Agassi, not Roddick.  But for everybody else, it's the same.  
 
Q.  Why do you say "not Agassi, not Roddick," for everybody else it's different?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Because they just play just two matches.  Just play Agassi and Roddick.  
 
Q.  Do you think that's an advantage or disadvantage?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Excuse me?  
 
Q.  Is that a big advantage or disadvantage? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  For who?  
 
Q.  For you. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Disadvantage, of course. 
 
Q.  Do you think that was fair that it was set up that way?  Do you think it was planned? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  You cannot plan with the weather, but you can do better things.  
 
Q.  Such as...? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT