US OPEN
September 4, 2003
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Very clearly, after beating Roger Federer five times in a row, there's something about his game that you like, that makes you play well.  What is it? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Maybe everything.  I don't know.  I think I play good today.  I don't know exactly why I like it, but I think my return is good.  I don't care about his serve and volley or whatever.  I try to press in the second serve, and then try to play more on the backhand, so...  But I like his game.  But I don't know exactly why. 
 
Q.  Could it be you retrieve the ball so well, you get to so many balls, it makes him press, take a little more risk? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, it was tough match ^ check.  Some points was very difficult, on the lines.  But I think the match was change after the second set when I was 5-0 and then I play very good in the tiebreak.  And then I think the game change and started on the third set. 
 
Q.  What do you tell yourself in the tiebreaker after you go up 5-all, he wins the next game, then you have the tiebreaker?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I have to win.  That's the most important thing.  Always you have to try to think about win.  So I don't care if it was 5-0, and then I was playing the tiebreak.  I had to try to won the set.  So you have to keep focus. 
 
Q.  You go into a match against him, do you have this confidence because of the past, that you think you can beat him because of what you've done before?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, you never know.  He's a very good player.  But I know him five years ago, six years ago, when we was Juniors.  I think I know him.  He know me.  I like play against him. But you never know what's gonna happen in the match.  But I think I always play good against him, so I like.  
 
Q.  What do you remember from the Juniors when you played him?  What do you remember from that match? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Which one?  I don't know. 
 
Q.  The final. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Final here at the US Open?  
 
Q.  Yeah. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I remember exactly the score, I think it was 7-5, 6-3 or something like that.  It's almost the same like every match is now.  So he was serving so good and I return so good.  It was almost the same things. 
 
Q.  So all your matches have been very similar?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, yep.  
 
Q.  Do you think that when he looks at you when he's playing and he sees you, maybe in his mind he's thinking...
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Maybe he dreams a little bit (smiling). 
 
Q.  It's not good dreams. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  Ask him. 
 
Q.  Even after reaching the final at Wimbledon, do you feel like you have not received the sort of world-wide respect for your game that you're due? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  I been the Wimbledon finals and the champion of this year.  So I always think I can beat everybody, every court, whatever.  But, you never know.  You enter in the court and then everything is completely difference from what you are thinking in the locker room, so... 
 
Q.  When you come to a tournament like this, it's Roddick, it's Hewitt, it's Roger Federer, it's never Nalbandian?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Where?  
 
Q.  A Grand Slam like this.  Everybody's talking about the favorites.  You never hear "Nalbandian." 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  It's time to start it. 
 
Q.  How much of an advantage do you think it's been for Agassi not to have played for the last two days, Roddick to have missed today.  If you get to the final, you'll have to play four matches in four days. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think was very, very tough for everybody.  So Agassi and Roddick get advantage to everybody else, but I think I'm ready to play four matches in a row, so...  I'm ready. 
 
Q.  He called it "weird" that he can't beat you, Roger.  What do you call it, that you can beat him so well?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  I like play against him.  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Would you have beaten him also if you lose the second set? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Excuse me?  
 
Q.  If Federer wins that second set, do you think you still able to win the match? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, of course.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT