US OPEN
August 27, 2003
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  David, there's been a lot of talk about how successful the Argentines have been.  Why do you think the Argentinian tennis is now so strong?  Tough question. 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, I answer that question every time I do press.  I don't know.  I think we are good talent in Argentina.  We work very hard.  I don't know. 

Q.  Jose Luis Clerc was saying he thinks it's because you're hungry, that there are not a lot of opportunities, especially now.

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Of course is that, of course.

Q.  Is it difficult with the economic situation down there now? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Is difficult for the young people.  So for the young players, they cannot go out the country to play junior tournaments or futures or challengers.  Is very tough for them. I think we have to try to help.  I don't know how, but we have to do something for the future tennis in Argentina.

Q.  Does that worry you that all the success that all of you have brought to the game, your generation, might not continue in the next 10 years? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  I don't want that, so I hope young people is coming.  I don't know too much about the youngest, but I know some names that are playing good the Juniors. But this situation in Argentina is so tough, so I don't know what is gonna happen.

Q.  When you went home after Wimbledon last year, it must have been an extraordinary experience.  Did it make you feel sort of responsible for Argentine tennis?  You had such tremendous success.

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know, maybe a little bit.  But I think after that the people start to playing too much tennis, and almost every kids start playing.  So that's made me happy because I can give to the kids some sports, so that's good. 

Q.  You've had wins this year over Federer, Henman, Schuettler.  Something seems to be missing there to get you that one last step to a championship.  In your opinion, what is it?  What more do you need to do?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I think I'm working very hard right now.  I always try to do my best.  You cannot always do your job, so...  You are with many good players.  Of course they are so good, so you have to try to concentrate every point.  If you lose your mind a little bit, sometimes you lose.  So I don't know exactly what it is.

Q.  When you beat Federer or Henman or Schuettler, is the next match difficult because you're emotionally excited over the victory that you had the previous time?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, no.  I think every match is different, so...

Q.  Given the abundance of top-level Argentine players right now, do you feel like your role as a role model for the younger generation has changed any, or is it something you all can spread out amongst the top-level players?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I don't know.  I hope the young player can see us on the TV or when we are practicing in Argentina.  They can see maybe we're normal players, so they can be good also.  So they just have to work very hard and try to believe that everybody can do something good.

Q.  Do you remember the first time you saw either Vilas or Clerc play? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  You know what year I born? 

Q.  I meant on tape.  I don't think you saw them live.

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Okay.

Q.  I didn't think that.  Do you remember the first time you met either one of them?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yeah, I was very young, but I don't remember it exactly.

Q.  Did they see you play and come up and talk to you? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  The first time, I don't think so. 

Q.  No, you just met them.  You obviously knew who they were?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Of course.

Q.  Did you remember seeing tapes of them on television?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, not much.

Q.  What was your first memory of somebody you saw playing tennis?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Becker.

Q.  It wasn't an Argentine?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No.

Q.  You were talking about a lack of funds keeps the junior players in the country and away from all the international tournaments.  Are you comfortable with the level of instruction the Juniors are getting inside Argentina right now? 

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I really don't know what's the Juniors program in Argentina.  I think they are working, but I don't know how.  I hope they working good for the future. 

Q.  Do you feel separated from that program now?  Do you feel like...

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Of course difference.  I not practicing there, so...

Q.  I understand that.  Do you feel like you owe something to the junior program to try to cultivate that even more?

DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Maybe. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT