WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2003
David Nalbandian
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, Ladies and Gentlemen, David Nalbandian.  Questions in English first of all.  
 
 
Q.  David, the way the draw is going, a lot of seeds are going out again.  Does it maybe bring back memories of last year?  Do you think you can do the same?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I hope.  But you never know.  I think I'm playing good.  I feel really good today.  But I think the next match anyway, any player can be playing good if they are in the third round, so you have to be careful with everybody.  But I didn't see very good the draw.  I think I play the winner of Kucera and Suzuki, I think.  I have to wait and thinking about the next match.  That's it. 
 
Q.  Tim Henman, would that be an exciting prospect for you, facing Tim here at Wimbledon?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes and no (smiling).  
 
Q.  Explain. 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  You have to wait if I play against Henman.  You never know.  You have many surprise in the tournament every year.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you're playing better at this stage than you were last year, or the same?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I think almost the same.  I think I feel better this year.  But I remember last year the second round I play very, very good.  Today was a little difficult, was a little of wind.  The wind changed too much.  But I feel really good today also. 
 
Q.  As the tournament goes on, how much do you think the experience of last year will help you?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Very much.  I think if I continue winning, the experience from last year is better for me because I play last year so good.  I play very good matches with a lot of pression (sic), so I think is better for me.  
 
Q.  Last year you did play so many good matches, as you say, but you weren't as good in the final as you had been in the other matches.  Do you think about the final often, how you might have done it differently?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No, no.  I think you have to think every day, so I don't think about the final last year, the semifinals, I don't think nothing about last year.  I just know I feeling great, and I know how to continue like this for beat anybody.  
 
Q.  How much did reaching the final last year do for your whole confidence for your career?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Well, final last year was difficult to me.  Was my first time, first time on Centre Court.  But I think the experience was very important, very, very big thing to me.  And I think that's helped too much because after that I starting playing better and with much confidence, and I think it's helped too much for this year to me.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like a forgotten man in this tournament?  After all, you were a finalist last year.  There's not that many guys sitting here waiting to talk to you.  How do you feel about that?  Do you think that might be to your advantage? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Yes, I feel great, so I think the people didn't see me the same like last year.  Last year I do final.  It's normal the people watching me a little more.  And I like that.  I feel great with the people.  I'm enjoy it.  
 
Q.  How much do you enjoy grass as opposed to other surfaces? 
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  I like too much. 
 
Q.  Do you like it more than clay?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  Is difference. 
 
Q.  But you have no preference?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No.  
 
Q.  Back at home in Argentina, has your life changed very much because of reaching the Wimbledon final last year?  Do you feel like you're a famous star?
 
DAVID NALBANDIAN:  No.  I think when I'm back home last year was very  -- the people was very exciting in Argentina because nobody never do it before.  But I've enjoy it.  And then I had to continue with my tournaments, so you don't have too much time to enjoy.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT