LPGA NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
September 5, 2007
Audra Burks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you all again for coming in.  We have Audra Burks, who is a local favorite, to say the least. 
 Audra, I know you worked really hard to bring a tournament to Arkansas and now it's finally here.  The reception you've had this week, what's that been like? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  It's been great.  It's great to come back.  This is where my mother grew up.  I spent a lot of summers here, so it's great to be back in Arkansas. 

 Q.  In Rogers? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  In Rogers, yes, my mother did. 

 Q.  What kind of things have you done the last two or three years? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  With the LPGA, the first time we came up here to kind of hold an informal meeting.  I came along to help tell the people up here how great the LPGA was and how exciting it would be and what a great way to promote the state of Arkansas and showcase really NW Arkansas, which has grown a lot over the years.  And then I came back probably three years later with Octagon to do the same thing, and that was our meeting that put us over the edge to get the tournament here. 

 Q.  How is your game this week? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  Pretty good.  My injury is almost not existent anymore and I've been playing pretty well.  Just hope it would come together this week, would make things great. 

 Q.  Has it been giving you problems? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  It does around the golf club.  That's about the extent of it. 

 Q.  How have you found Pinnacle this time around, basically from before. 
 AUDRA BURKS: Every time I come up here, there is a new house or something different up here.  Just trying to get to the golf course now there's so much more new development and everything around.  But the golf course, it's always been a great layout, it's been a great golf course, and that was part of the thing that drew me to point out this golf course for the LPGA to play here, because I think it's a great fit for us. 

 Q.  When is the first time you played here, do you remember? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  Right after it opened.  That would have been back in the '80s, back before it had Pinnacle as a name, I would say.  I won't mention the other one. 

 Q.  What kind of feedback have you heard from the other players? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  I think everybody was really shocked when they got to Arkansas.  I don't think this is quite what they expected.  Everybody has had great things to say about the golf course and the layout and the area.  I think there's a lot of excitement amongst the players. 

 Q.  (No microphone). 
 AUDRA BURKS:  Well, we have a reputation being from Arkansas, we're a little backwoods place.  I don't think they quite expected the area to be what it is. 

 Q.  Someone said yesterday it felt like a little high school traveling around on tour.  Is it even more that way this week? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  Yes, there's a lot of weeks where we're all in the same hotel and see each other a lot more than we do on a normal basis where we're spread out, so I could see where she could get that. 

 Q.  What do you see a winning score to be this week? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  I don't know.  I haven't really thought about that.  I would say somewhere in the mid teens. 

 Q.  Will the rain help? 
 AUDRA BURKS:  You know, the golf course was playing really good before the rain, and I guess it's been fairly dry up here.  I don't know how much the rain is really going to hurt us or help us, because the greens were holding good shots on Monday and Tuesday before we had any rain. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you all very much.  Audra, thank you and good luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT