ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 28, 2020
Lizelle Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Africa - 195/3, Thailand - 82
Q. How did that feel out in the middle today? Nice to put together a substantial innings?
LIZELLE LEE: Yeah, definitely. Things haven't gone my way since we had the New Zealand tour. So it was just good to get a few runs on the board, just getting that confidence back.
Q. And that partnership, 140-odd for the second wicket, was that a conscious effort to push yourselves to see almost kind of how far you can push yourselves in terms of the boundaries and try to get a score as big maybe with half an eye on net run rate in this tight group?
LIZELLE LEE: Yeah, look, I think me and Sune didn't have a good power play. We were a few runs short, and we decided we had to get to 100 at least in the 13th over. We tried to stick to the plan, and it paid off. We just said we're going to try to accelerate from that moment on.
Q. You mentioned sort of maybe lacking confidence in the New Zealand series. Talk about how you deviated from your form.
LIZELLE LEE: It's two different things batting in the nets and batting out in the middle. I think I was hitting the ball very well in the nets, and it just didn't come off in the middle. It does take a little bit of a dip in your confidence. Look, I'm just happy to get the runs on the board and making sure our team wins.
Q. Are you a confidence batter? Do you need to feel that sort of feeling of bat on ball?
LIZELLE LEE: I think everybody needs a little bit of confidence. You can't go out there not having any. If it's your day, it's your day. You have to cash in.
Q. Just in terms of the whole team's performance or the way you backed up that batting in the field, you must be delighted with the campaign so far.
LIZELLE LEE: I have to be honest. Our fielding was very poor. Hopefully, we pull our fingers and do better in the next game. I think the bowlers did extremely well, restricting them to that total. Yeah, the batters that came in, like Sune, Chloe, and everyone did their job.
Q. On the fielding, is there concern it could be exposed against better opposition?
LIZELLE LEE: Look, we know we're a great fielding unit. We normally have one of those games somewhere along the line. I'm just happy it's gone now, and I know the team is going to do better next time.
Q. You're hitting very much in two sort of main areas, over mid wicket and over extra cover. Was that a conscious choice, or is that where the balls ended up going as your hitting area?
LIZELLE LEE: No, that's where the ball went. As soon as I try to premeditate, I usually lose my wicket. So I have a saying, see ball hit ball, and that's something that I did today.
Q. Just back to the fielding performance, when you put up nearly 200, do you feel there's a bit of intensity lost? We saw some catches go down and sort of didn't look like you're taking it too seriously.
LIZELLE LEE: No. Definitely we didn't (lose intensity) -- we try to take it as serious as possible. Every game is a must win for us. It's just one of those days where things just doesn't go your way in the fielding. Look, the fielders dropped the catches probably one out of like 100 times. We definitely know we're going to do better the next game.
Q. Just touching on the World Cup record with the innings, with the bat, did you guys talk about that afterwards? How are you guys feeling after that?
LIZELLE LEE: No, we haven't had a chance to speak about it after the game. We'll probably have a drink tonight to celebrate it. Look, it's just like I said, it's one of those days where it came off for us. We know there's a lot of other teams in the World Cup that will try to break it. I don't think it's on anybody's mind to do that. I think everybody just wants to get a win for their side.
Q. I guess for you, obviously, with a big total, how does it feel for you to kind of be a big part of that?
LIZELLE LEE: Look, I don't mind. I actually spoke to Dane before the game, and I told her, if you have somebody coming up to you before the game and say do you want to score 100 and the team loses or get zero and the team wins, I'd probably choose the zero. It doesn't matter what you score as long as the team wins the game. The team wins, that's all that matters to me.
Q. And how's your week in Canberra been, and what did you think of the Manuka deck?
LIZELLE LEE: It's great. The batting wicket has been very well. We haven't really trained here. We trained at another facility. So it's a great deck to bat on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT