MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 23, 1997
Moises Alou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you describe to me about your second at-bat against Hershiser and if you made any adjustments the third time around and?

MOISES ALOU:   I didn't have very good at-bats, my first or second at-bat.  And I didn't make adjustment.  Jaret and our bench told me to come in and swing, and I did that.  I wasn't looking at the ball, I was concentrating very well, and I stayed back there. I trusted my hand and I got a good pitch to him.


Q.  Did you get fired up after Hershiser made gestures about getting people out before you, and kind of showing you guys up a little bit?

MOISES ALOU:   I didn't see him.  I mean I didn't see him do any gesture.  And if he did, I don't know, you just have to go there.  This is the World Series, you are allowed to make gestures about getting somebody out or getting a hit.  I made adjustments, I swung better my third at-bat bat.


Q.  Moises, how big is it for the Marlins to go back to Florida 3-2?

MOISES ALOU:   It's big, I mean every game is  big.  It's nice to go home up 3-2 instead of down 2-3. But it's not going to be easy, this is -- there's two good teams playing each other, and I mean they showed in the 9th inning they almost came back, and whoever plays the best baseball is going to end up winning.


Q.  Your dad went back to the Dominican, is there a chance he'll be in Miami and if not will you be speaking with him by phone?

MOISES ALOU:   I don't think so, I think he's going to be there for another week.  He's fishing.  He loves to go fishing.  I think he's tired of baseball this year.  It was a long year for him in Montreal. He's probably watching the game on TV.


Q.  Moises, can you just tell us about the pitch, the at-bat, the homerun, and also as a second part the Series you're having, how gratifying it is for you to be doing so well in the World Series?

MOISES ALOU:   Well, that at-bat went very bad.  I really stayed back.  I really saw the ball good, I really trusted my hands and I got a good pitch, actually I got two good pitches.  I missed the first pitch, it was a hanging slider, too, and I felt the ball back.  And I got into 2, 1 and I felt very comfortable right there, and he hung me another slider and I drove the ball.  And the second part of your question, even though I haven't had that many hits in postseason play, I was still driving guys in, and that's what I count on.  I drove a lot of guys in during the regular season and I've been doing it during the postseason, too.


Q.  Just the game you had, when you hit the homerun, you were more emotional than you usually are, and looking at what this game meant to Florida and you, was this the biggest game of your life?

MOISES ALOU:   I don't know, probably. Hopefully I can have a bigger game Saturday.  But I was very excited.  This is the World Series, it's the first time I play in the World Series and I was very happy to pull my team ahead 5 to 4.


Q.  With all the clutch hits Sandy has gotten for Cleveland this year, what were some of your thoughts as he's stepping up to the plate in the 9th inning there?

MOISES ALOU:   I wasn't worried.  I know he's a very clutch hitter, but I had a lot of faith on our closer.  I knew that Robb was going to get the job done.


Q.  Can you talk about how close it is, you're 27 outs away from winning the World Series, as far as all you've been through from growing up to where you are now, if you think about that at all and just how close  you are to winning the World Series and what it means?

MOISES ALOU:   To tell you the truth I'm not thinking about it until it happens.  We've got another big game to play, hopefully just one more game to play.  If not we're going to have another game to play, and when it happens it's going to be unbelievable.  I mean I won the Korean Series Championship, and I don't think that's close to the World Series.  I just want to help the team to win our next game and after that I'm going to see how it feels.


Q.  I heard you might have a touch of the flu tonight, were you under the weather at all?

MOISES ALOU:   I had a cold the first day we were here in the work out and I haven't been feeling very well.  When the game starts I don't feel it or I don't think about it.  I go out there and play. There's a lot of guys on our team that have the flu.  A lot of guys play with injuries.  When the game begins nobody worries about that and just go out there and play hard.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT