MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 18, 1997
Moises Alou
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Could you talk about the homerun?

MOISES ALOU: It was awesome, it felt pretty good. My first World Series and to do
something like that in a World Series against a great pitcher like Orel, I don't think
I've ever hit a homerun off of him. He was with the Dodgers and he made some tough pitches
to me and I just happened to drive one. The ball, I didn't think was going to stay fair,
and I kind of inside out a little bit, and it felt real good. There's no better feeling
than this.

Q. Moises, I think you were 1 for 12 against him at one time. Do you remember
struggling against him previously?

MOISES ALOU: He's a guy that can get you in a lot of 0-for's. I don't remember -- I
remember hitting the ball hard off of him a couple of times, but I don't remember getting
that many hits. I know I didn't get a homerun off him before. His ball is moving a lot. A
lot more than when he was with the Dodgers. And I knew this guy really pitches a lot
better when he's in postseason play. His record shows it. He did tonight. He pitched well
tonight, we just took advantage of a couple of mistakes.

Q. Can you talk about the importance of winning the first game?

MOISES ALOU: I think every game, whether it's the first or second or third, is very
important in the Series. This is the two best teams playing against each other. And it was
big, to win the first one at home, we felt confident, we had Livan on the mound, he kept
us in the game. We hit the ball well. Tomorrow we've got Kevin Brown, he's another guy we
feel real good about, whenever he's on the mound. And I know he's going to pitch a good
game for us tomorrow.

Q. Can you talk about leaving your dad's team, was it about money or about a chance to
play in the Series?

MOISES ALOU: I had no choice. Montreal never offered me a contract when I became a free
agent. It wasn't that hard because I was prepared for it. I knew that moment was coming.
It took maybe a little longer because I thought I was going to leave before, but he knew
it was coming, I knew it was coming, the world knew it was coming, because that's
Montreal's politics. I miss him because he really helped me a lot. My ex-teammates, the
coaching staff really helped me a lot over there. But I'm very happy here. I made the
right choice to come here. And like I said before, like I say all the time, I came here to
be on a winning team, and everything is turning the way that I expected it to.

Q. Is your dad here and will he come to any of the Series games?

MOISES ALOU: My father left today -- no, yesterday to the Dominican Republic, so he
probably watched the game there, if the power didn't go off (laughter.) But I'm sure he's
very happy to see me here. I remembered when we clinched in Montreal that the next day,
there was a very nice article about him saying he wanted to see me in the World Series.
And here I am. I'm proud I performed good, because I think he's very proud of me today.

Q. Do you feel you're getting the chance now you were maybe denied in 1994 with the
Montreal team?

MOISES ALOU: I still feel that we had a very good chance of going to the World Series
in '94. We had the best record in baseball. It wasn't guaranteed that we were going to go
to the World Series, but I really felt and the rest of my ex-teammates felt that we were
going to make it there. And unfortunately the strike came and things didn't work out for
us. But I'm very glad to have another chance here in Miami.

Q. Was your wrist wrapped just for precautionary measures, the ice?

MOISES ALOU: It's for treatment. I need to ice it all the time. The wrist hasn't
bothered me after the second game in Atlanta, after I got that shot of Cortisone here in
Miami, it took only 24 hours for me to be back to a hundred percent. It never hurt. I
couldn't blame my struggle during the postseason against Atlanta because of my wrist,
because I felt good, I just didn't swing the bat good.

Q. Are you aware that your dad or your uncles have never hit a World Series homerun?

MOISES ALOU: I didn't know about my dad. I knew my dad had some power. But I know my
uncles never were basehit hitters, so I kind of knew they didn't get a homerun. It feels
good maybe to be the first Alou to get a World Series homerun.

Q. What name did you choose for your new child and also are there any Alous that
weren't any good at baseball? 

MOISES ALOU: I named him Kirby because Mr. Kirby Puckett was one of my idols in
baseball. And unfortunately the way he left the game, I wanted to name my child after him,
because of that there's a lot of good Alou baseball players. But no one had the luck to
make it to the Big Leagues. And I'm happy that I made it and I'm happy that I'm playing
the way that all the Alous should play the baseball game.

Q. Can you talk about the importance of getting a big hit tonight, maybe from a mental
standpoint after kind of struggling a little bit through the first two postseason series?

MOISES ALOU: It was big. It really felt good. It really gave me a lot of confidence,
but I never doubted myself, even though I didn't hit the ball well in the postseason I
still drove five or six runs. Now I got 8 or 9 with only two hits. I don't care how many
hits I get, as long as we win. And we've been winning, but I'm here to drive guys in. And
I've been doing a good job about driving guys in.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT