IR SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2000
John Jacobs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN JACOBS:   I just tried to put it in the fairway.  I don't know the course that well.  I played yesterday in the Pro-Am.  It was my first time around the course.  Played late in the afternoon and it got a little cold last night, and I played it pretty safe today.  I hit a lot of irons off the tees.  In fact, I probably only hit three or four drivers.   But, it is a nice course.  I just wish they would make it a little harder  -- I mean, longer.  But this is one of the best TPC courses I've played. 

Q.  What are some of the differences between this course and The Dunes Club? 

JOHN JACOBS:   Well, The Dunes Course  -- I shot 69 here, I don't even remember shooting in the 60s four tries around The Dunes Course.  The Dunes Course is a hard course for me to play because the fairways never got real down and crispy  -- it was always muddy and sloppy and gooey and I hit fliers every hole.  These fairways out here are conducive to  -- you can spin the ball a little bit off them.  The fairways are very nice to hit the greens on.  But it was nothing to do with The Dunes course.  It was just the way the weather was every year the last few times I've been around.

Q.  Did you take a look at the scoreboard before you came in here? 

JOHN JACOBS:   Well, just before when I putt on 18 and I looked over.

Q.  There were a lot of trees  -- (inaudible)?

JOHN JACOBS:   If you drive the ball straight  -- if you can hit your driver and drive it straight, the course isn't that long.  The course is set up very short. 

JOHN JACOBS:   The front nine, I pitched up and one-putted both of them.  I probably pitched it two or three feet just on the edge of the green, and (inaudible).  The back nine, see, I chipped in actually on 11, I was only just a couple feet over the green.  It wasn't a real hard pitch.  So the next hole, I drive the green, and it is one of those where I sat interest there and waited and waited and waited for the group to get off .   I finally got up and put it in the hazard.  I can hardly remember the holes, though. 

JOHN JACOBS:   16, I hit a 4-wood off the tee or 5-wood, and I hit a wedge about six feet left of the hole and made that for birdie.  And 18, I didn't know where to drive it on 18.  I didn't know if I hit it too hard  -- I just don't know the course very well.  I hit it up in the trees and I pitched out and made par.  The 5 pars that -- if you drive the ball straight, they are not real hard, if you drive the ball real straight.  That's a big if.  But Allen Doyle, he hits a low hook off the tee; I'm sure he's driving the ball well.  A guy, if he can drive it good, it's not that long of a course.  Next year, it will be a different kind of a course, because the ball is kind of rolling in the fairways.  But they did a good job building this golf course.  In fact, it's one of the best TPC's I've played. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)

JOHN JACOBS:   But he still has to drive the ball.  I guarantee you, when he comes in here, he's going to say:  "I drove the ball perfect all day."  I guarantee you, he's going to say that.  And no, he's not a short hitter.  He can get it rolling out on the fairways  -- he has a little hook out there -- plus, he's a good player.  If they leave the course   how it is now,  you'll see 63's and 64's pop up two, three, four times. 

Q.  You said you played it safe today? 

JOHN JACOBS:   I couldn't hit driver -- drove it so far the bunkers came into play or a dogleg a from where you're going.  I couldn't hit driver if I wanted to hit driver. 

Q.  Do you think now that you've played it, you might have a little different approach later on? 

JOHN JACOBS:   Not really.  Maybe on the 5-par where I can cut the bunker off the side or try to carry it.  There's probably, I'd say, four driver holes on this course for me, and maybe two or three 4-wood holes.  Two 4-woods  -- that's six .

Q.  Is 12 drivable for you?

JOHN JACOBS:   Oh, yeah.   Today I waited 15 minutes for the guys to get it off the green -- wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, and I hit it in the hazard.  I just chipped in for a birdie, (inaudible)  -- that kind of stopped my round.  I felt like I was going to shoot 65 or 66, because I had some easy holes coming on. 

Q.  With the event like this and the caliber of the players in the field  --

JOHN JACOBS:   This should be the hardest course we play all year.  What do you think?  31 guys, the best players supposedly on our tour; and they should make it a little harder. 

Q.  Even with the Super Seniors? 

JOHN JACOBS:   Yeah.  I think what they ought to do is when they -- have two tees.  They should let them play and let them make a decision, either make them play that one or play the other one.  If they want to put the tees up for them, put it up for them and then put it back for us.  I mean, why should we suffer?  I mean, the way they set the course up, it looks like they want a Super Senior to win this tournament.  Does that sound bitter enough?  I mean, I could go out and shoot 80 tomorrow, but I'm not stupid enough to see what they are doing out there.  You've got a good golf course.  Why don't they play it? 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT