FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2000
John Jacobs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOHN JACOBS: That's good. After last week, it drove me to the driving range for three
days, hitting some balls. So I guess it worked. I felt like I could have shot lower. I
missed a few putts out there. But I played with a fellow, Jim Thorpe, which he could have
shot so low, it was frightening, frightening; he played so good.  
 
Q. No putts? 
 
 JOHN JACOBS: No. Never made a putt. Actually, we really played good the front nine. We
didn't read our putts very well. It was like the left edge and the putt broke left; right
edge and the putt broke right. But I made -- I think I only made one bogey, on No. 10, and
that was a happy bogey.  
 
 JOHN JACOBS: Okay. The 1st hole, I hit a good drive. My second shot, I hit it about
eight feet left of the hole and made it for birdie; hit wedge. No. 2, I hit it -- I'd say
15 feet left of the hole and made it in for birdie, or pin-high, wedge. 3, I should have
made birdie. I had a 4-iron to the green and didn't make birdie. Then I went on to the par
5. I didn't hit a very good drive. I put it on the upslope by the bunker. Had to lay up
and I had a 6-iron and I wedged it up about two feet from the hole. 7, made birdie there.
8, I really hit a good shot on 8. I hit it about three feet behind the hole, and I missed
it. Then 9, I hit it almost for a gimmee. Hit another wedge, two feet and made it for
birdie. I like those 2-feeters (laughs). Then 10, I hit a terrible drive in the right in
the jungle, and chopped it back down in the rough in front of the green. And I hit it over
the bunker and I got it 25 feet from the hole, which I was happy, and 2-putted for par --
I mean, for bogey. Parred 11, parred 12. 13, I hit it on in two. 2-putted from about 18
feet, 20 feet. 14, I hit the wrong club off the tee. I hit a 3-iron, but that hole, when I
got around the corner and you walk up the hill, I didn't know I was into the wind back
down there, but I had to hit another 3-iron as hard as I could hit it. I had 235 to the
hole, and I hit it in there about five feet behind the hole and made that for birdie. And
then the next hole, hit it about left feet eight of the hole, par 3, and made that for
birdie. Hit a 7-iron. And then I parred 16. 17, the par 5 I drove it to the right. I just
laid up. Hit a 5-iron. Just laid it up around to the right over there. And I hit a wedge
up about, I'd say, 12 feet right of the hole and made it for birdie. And 18, just 2-iron,
5-iron and 2-putted.  
 
Q. This is repetition from last year, but why are you and a bunch of other ones
shooting so low on what's supposed to be a semi-difficult course? 
 
 JOHN JACOBS: I don't know. You know, who knows. I know that everybody under estimates
the seniors. You look at the Open; they let us get away with a course that they thought we
were some kind of old gerbils out there. 15-under par wins the tournament, you know they
made a mistake, huh? I don't know what they are thinking. This tour out here, they let
four guys finish what, in the Top-30 at the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach? So I don't know
what -- these guys out here can play, believe me. I don't know, 7-under par I shot today.
I mean, I'm getting in better shape, I know that. I pay attention to what I do. And if I
do it, I guarantee these other guys are doing it, because it took me 50 years to figure it
out. But hey, when you have this course is in very good shape and the greens were holding,
when you have those two combinations, I don't care, they are going to shoot low. I don't
care where they stick the pins. They are going to shoot low. And the course is in
magnificent shape.  
 
Q. Is how much of the John Jacobs story is schtick, and how much of it is true? There's
a lot of legend surrounding your earlier days, and I know you perpetuate that?
 
 JOHN JACOBS: I don't perpetuate that. Everybody else talks about it. You don't see me
blowing my own horn. I never did anything to hurt anybody else. I just hurt myself. But I
had fun. I'm not a John Daly type person, believe me. I have my drinks with my friends. I
get a little drunk, I go home. I don't tear the room apart. I don't do anything; I just go
home go to bed. I go to bed happy and I wake up happy. This guy, I almost felt like
strangling this guy a couple weeks ago. He said: The John Daly of the SENIOR TOUR. That's,
I mean , please, give me a break. I mean, you know, my drinking and my having a good time
are with the good guys in each town that I went to, the upstanding citizens of each town.
I wasn't like a -- you know, fall-down-type of deal. The thing that got me behind when I
was a kid is I wouldn't practice. I would go to the range and I just -- you can't get away
in this game playing these great players if you don't go out and practice. It's not that
you can't hit the shots good on the course, but if you don't have in the back of your mind
that you've been working a little bit to hit that shot, you're not going to pull it off.  
 
Q. How much more do you practice now than you did? 
 
 JOHN JACOBS: Well, I never practiced before; so whatever I did is more. But I get in
moods. Like yesterday, I hit balls for four hours. I was out there, chipping, putting,
hitting balls. I mean, I know if I'm going to keep going out here, I've got to do it.
That's just the way it is. You know, when you make the money that we're making out here,
and you only have to go hit balls, and that's something that you like anyway, you've got
to be pretty stupid to not keep going and hitting those balls and practicing. 
 
Q. What problem did you solve on the driving range those three days? 
 
 JOHN JACOBS: Well, at the U.S. Senior Open, I knew that they were going to put the pins
on the right side of the greens; and I went out there and I was trying to hit some high
fades. I thought I was playing good enough that I would have a chance to win. In, in fact,
on Sunday, I got to 7-under after 13 holes, for my round on Sunday, but I changed and to
hit some high cuts, which -- that's not a very -- that's not my typical shot. And then I
didn't hit any balls. I teed off last week, gee, I couldn't hit the ground. I thought,
well, I'd better go to my hook, I don't care where they put these pins. And that's where I
had to go to get out of what I was trying to do at the Open. Last week, I could have
phoned in my scores and they would have said: "Yeah, okay, we'll give you that. 75,
that's fine, take it. Put Jacobs down, 75." But, you know, this SENIOR TOUR, these
guys can play. You go watch some of these guys, you watch Hale; and you play with these
guys, 20 of the most successful guys on the kids tour live where I do in Scottsdale, and
they don't play any better than Hale Irwin. They can play more days in a row and they
don't get as tired, but I'm telling you, there's 10 guys out here that can play their ass
off.  
 
Q. How many of those guys do you see in Scottsdale can play better than you can?
Probably not very many? 
 
 JOHN JACOBS: Yeah, I mean, I don't mind putting my wallet up when we play. I don't
really play that much when I go home. I play with Gary McCord. McCord usually gets the
game and it's usually two guys -- Gary couldn't you get two other guys of this calibre?
Get somebody a little -- I tell you, McCord, they play a nice game. He goes right after
Mickelson. Gary is a helluva player. Gary's hindrance is he tries to do too many damn
things. He's writing books; he goes back to his hotel room, he's on the computer talking
about this deal, that deal. He does the outings on Mondays and Tuesdays; tries to come to
tournaments. I think he's nuts. I think he's got plenty of money. I think he ought to can
the it out and start playing golf. Sign up for CNBC. 
 
Q. You've played well here before and played in well Michigan when you usually come. Do
you just like this place, like this course?
 
 JOHN JACOBS: I think I've played here four times. Two of them I played good. Last year,
I really thought I had a chance to win. I was got over there and I birdied, I don't know,
10, and when I got around the flag stick, I was like 6-under after 11. I got over on the
12th tee and I'm standing out there and Hale Irwin holes his second shot on 11 and I said:
"Damn, this is -- this is too tough." Kind of deflates you when you're playing
as good as you can play and you can't pick up a stroke. I see Bruce, he was 7-under on the
last hole. Bruce is a good guy. Bruce has turned into a wonderful player. He plays good. I
don't think -- if he and Hale get in the hunt on Sunday, he's going to let Hale beat him
by two on the 1st hole again, because he really -- he didn't use his head well that 1st
hole of the Open. You know, Hale is one of those guys, if you give him a little crack,
he'll break the door down. Anyway, I hope I see you Friday -- no, actually, Sunday.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT