IR SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 4, 2000
John Jacobs
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN JACOBS:   Birdie on 2.  I hit it on the front of the green and 2-putted. 

JOHN JACOBS:   11 was the 4-par, a 12-foot putt.  I hit a wedge. 

JOHN JACOBS:   I hit it in the right rough and I had a terrible lie.  I tried to go for the green and I kind of halfway topped the ball.  It was halfway down and I it went about 115 yards short of the green, and I wedged it on about 15 feet and made a birdie.  Should have never went to the green and made a birdie. 

JOHN JACOBS:   15, I made a nice putt there, it was about a foot.   The next hole, I clunked it off the tee on 16.  I mean, a real clunker.  And then I hit another clunker in the bunker and I just  -- I was halfway buried in a lie, and I got up-and-down, I don't know how.  It was like the good Lord wanted me to stay in the last group. 

JOHN JACOBS:   A wedge.  It wasn't three feet.  It was like that.  I don't know how far that is.  18 inches.  17, I had a really good shot with a 6-iron and hit way short of the pin, went up on ton of the mound and went over the green.  I made a good par because I didn't have a very good lie.  It was about a foot and a half over the green, but it was right under that heavy crap.  Made a good up-and-down.  And 18, I hit a good drive and I just chunked my second shot.  It was funny, I'm sitting back there thinking:  "Should I go for the pin, go for the pin?"  And I've got a downhill lie, and when you move lateral  -- a downhill lie is a killer because you can't get the ball in the air.  I should have just played it out right of the pin, forgot about it and 2-putted.  But, you know, my ass was overloading my brains. 

JOHN JACOBS:   I'm happy with 68 because I played better the first two days than I did today.  I played  -- I don't know, I just kind of tiptoed around.  I was just trying to stay in the hunt, because the tournament, you know, after two rounds, you get in a position where you can win, you just don't want to blow out, and I just wasn't hitting the ball good.  I'm happy to be where I'm at, because I didn't play as well.  Hopefully it won't carry over to tomorrow.  You want to shoot a low round, but you just don't want to blow out on Saturday. 

Q.  So you've happy because you were able to shoot 68? 

JOHN JACOBS:   Oh, yeah.  I hit a lot of bad shots.  I mean, I just hit bad shots, like off line, but just not crisp shots.  I was a little off.  Must have been because I read the racing form for five hours last night. 

Q.  Just wanted to ask you, tomorrow you're probably playing with Tom Watson, as well as Leonard.  Does Watson have any kind of edge over you guys with his past experience?

JOHN JACOBS:   Oh, I don't know.  Maybe if he we were 25.  It's a different deal out here now.  You know, he's got an advantage because he's a hell of a golfer.  Nobody is worried about because his name is Tom Watson.  He is one hell of a golfer.  I mean, Tom still plays good enough to play on the other Tour and compete on the highest level.  He's one of the what Top-5 players who has ever played the game.  But, you know, when you're younger, you kind of worry about things like that.  When you get older, you know that you play your own game from tee-to-green and if your own game is not good enough, then it's not good enough.  But when you're a kid, you worry about more things.  30, 35 years of experience kind of tells you:  Just play your own game.  But it's hard.  The first eight, 10, 12 years, and you can see it on the young kids, you can see some great players, starting when they are 22, but it takes them to when they are 30 to get rolling because they worry about little things like that.  But as far as Tom Watson, he is a tremendous player.  That's why he's going to be hard to beat.  And I think Tom  -- I played with him the last round when I shot 64 in Birmingham.  So I think he remembers that and I think he would like to get even tomorrow. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT