OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
Tyler Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're a recent signee the last couple weeks.  What made you want to come here and think this was an opportunity to get something going with the Thunder?
TYLER DAVIS: Well, when I came here for my NBA Draft workout, I could just remember thinking about the people I had met and how well they treated me or whatever, but they took care of me and they welcomed me, and it was just an excellent organization.  It's built well, it's taken care of, and they expect excellence from you as a person, so it's been a good past couple months here.
Q. This was a team sort of thin at center last year.  Grant and Patterson did a whole lot of backing up Steven Adams.  Now there's more depth with Adams and Nerlens.  It makes it tougher for a roster spot, but it looks like it might be better in terms of your development going against those guys in practice.  How do you look forward to going against those guys on a daily basis?
TYLER DAVIS: I mean, I've been doing that every day for the past few weeks, so it's been amazing.  I mean, I watched these guys growing up, watched them in college, watched them when they first stepped into the league, and now I get to compete with them and learn from them and ask them so many questions they get sick of me.  It's been cool.  It's been a dream come true so far, so learning experience every day.
Q. This summer I think you were thinking about playing for the Puerto Rican national team and then that kind of fell through.  What happened with that?
TYLER DAVIS: It didn't fall through.  It was just -- I knew that what I want to do now is more important than that.  Like I'm a two-way guy, so I'm not in a position where I can just leave and miss a lot of time.  Every day for me counts right now, especially being around the coaches and the players and learning.  I didn't want to miss the time that it would have taken for me to go there and practice and play, but I'll definitely play for them soon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT