ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2012
Peter Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETER LAWRIE:   Got off to a good start.   It was quite solid.   Holed a few putts early on.   A little bit sort of slipping on the back nine there, which is the front nine of the course.   Two sort of bogeys.   One shouldn't have been a bogey; one possibly.   Missed the fairway left and got a bad lie and left again, second shot.   Didn't get up‑and‑down.   
But 7 was really a bit silly, you know what I mean.   Missed kind of 3 1/2 feet for par after being short of the green.   Should never have been short of the green in two.   
But in general, if you had given me 9‑under, I would have taken it after two rounds.   You know, I'd have to say I'm quite pleased.  
   
 Q.   And absolutely, you shouldn't be concentrating on the negatives, and with the five birdies early on, it looked easy for a moment?  
PETER LAWRIE:   I wouldn't say it looked easy‑‑  
   
 Q.   It looked easy.   
PETER LAWRIE:   Well, it didn't feel easy, I can tell you that.   I'm struggling with a little fault and I'm trying my best to get out of it.   I'm very conscious of that all the time, you know what I mean, especially on the tee.   
Around the greens, I have been very good this week.   This is probably the best I've putted for a Thursday and Friday that I can remember to be totally honest with you.   I've holed some lovely putts and hopefully that will continue.   
   
 Q.   It's the nature of little faults, they niggle away even if they are not hugely significant, you think about them?  
PETER LAWRIE:   Yeah, unfortunately it's like that little person on your shoulder, just nipping away at you the whole time but we'll try to overcome it and have a good weekend.  
   
 Q.   Playing alongside Ricardo Gonzalez, showing what can be achieved out here once again.   
PETER LAWRIE: Ricardo played lovely, holed a lot of putts and hit a lot of shots in close.   He's a pleasure to play with, and so is Gregory.   We had a very enjoyable three‑ball.  
   
 Q.   Not knowing what's going to happen this afternoon, I take it you're happy with your position on that board going into the weekend?   
PETER LAWRIE:   As I said, if somebody had given me 9‑under starting out, you know what I mean, 5‑under and 4‑under, you very much would have taken it.   The scoring will probably be that Ricardo probably won't lead at the end of the day, especially with Francesco at 10‑under.   But it's very difficult to follow a 10‑under with another good score, so we'll just wait and see.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT