BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2012
Peter Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PETER LAWRIE:   To be honest with you a little disappointing to be honest.   Gave myself a lot of chances on the back nine and didn't really hole anything.   One kind of sloppy shot on 16 off the tee, and made bogey there.   But to be fair, the last couple of holes played very difficult.   That wind kind of switched into us.   We played 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 all into the breeze.   They are all tough. 
I'd have to be‑‑ you know what I mean, a little bit disappointed with 17 but a nice position for the weekend.

Q.   Looked like scoring‑wise everything going as smoothly as the first day, very patient and the birdies came and bogey‑free for an awfully long run?
PETER LAWRIE:   I made that first bogey and was disappointed but I hit a good tee shot off 14, 15, and hit 2‑iron second shot just left of the green and got a very bad lie and chipped out and missed the putt.   You're always going to make bogeys around this golf course.

Q.   Elaborate on the weather conditions, because that wind does seem to be picking up and the forecast is even stronger winds to come?
PETER LAWRIE:   I can tell you it's going to get very difficult especially in the back nine, playing a lot of holes into the breeze, and around Wentworth, it swirls a bit, too, so it comes into, off the left, or into off the right, and makes it quite difficult.

Q.   And that makes your position on the board all the more impressive, doesn't it?
PETER LAWRIE:   It does, yeah, there's a few other guys up there as well and especially big names, we'll see what tomorrow brings and the next day. 

Q.   Any shots different from yesterday to today? 
PETER LAWRIE:   Hard to tell really.   Probably at least one I would have said but not two.   A lot of long shots into greens.   Trying to think now, 12, 13, I hit 2‑iron in there.   I hit 5‑iron yesterday.   And then 15 I hit 2‑iron into the green and I hit 5‑iron yesterday, as well.   Holes are playing quite long. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT