JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 25, 2011
Peter Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PETER LAWRIE: Had to practise early on in the fog which was grand, wasn't able to see where the ball was going, so even better.   
 Struggled a little bit yesterday I have to admit trying to find a little bit of rhythm. Today I found a little bit of rhythm, and today I found a little bit of rhythm, putted quite nicely, and so 4-under was a good score.  
  
  Q. Started off tremendously.   
 PETER LAWRIE: Yeah, parred the first and then holed about a 20-footer on the second for a birdie, which I should have said the 11th, our second hole.   
  
  Q. A little bit trickier after?   
 PETER LAWRIE: Yeah, I hit a bad tee shot on the third hole. I hit it in the bunker. Couldn't do anything about it. Had to chop it out sideways and made bogey there and saved a good par on the next. They have the par 3 playing exceptionally long today but really the whole golf course played very long. We played off the back tees pretty much every hole, and yeah, it was tough.  
  
  Q. Put this in context compared with last week, as well, because clearly you started off superbly and didn't quite keep it going.   
 PETER LAWRIE: Try and do better this week. I try not to get ahead of myself as much. But you know, last week, going into it, I had two weeks off, you know what I mean. It was kind of uncomfortable you know what I mean shooting such a good score the first round. You would have been better off to play into it, but you can't pick and choose when you shoot a score.  
  
  Q. What's it like actually playing with -- I know you've done this repeatedly now because you've won, you've been up there so many weeks but with the TV cameras with you all the time right from the first round, a marquis group today?  
 PETER LAWRIE: No problem at all, you know what I mean. They are not really there. You get used to it. You play your own game. If the camera is there, it's there. And if it's not, it's not.  
  
  Q. Nice playing alongside last week's winner?   
 PETER LAWRIE: Yeah, delighted for Oli. He's a lovely fellow and he struggled a little bit last year and just delighted that he won.   
  
  Q. 66 in the first round last week, 68 this week; what's the key to these fast starts?   
 PETER LAWRIE: I don't know to be honest with you. You know just try to get out of the blocks today. I hit a lot of shots in the fog this morning, and found a little bit of rhythm, which I had been lacking, especially sort of Friday, Saturday, Sunday of last week. And you know, got it going again and played quite nicely.  
  
  Q. Give us a feel for how the golf course is playing today.   
 PETER LAWRIE: Exceptionally long. They have us off nearly every back tee. We played that 4th hole, the par 3, and hitting in a hard rescue into that hole and then the 9th there is playing right off the back tee. It's three good shots to get it home.   
  
  Q. This is your ninth consecutive year on Tour and you've never had an issue with trying to keep your card; you've always been quite comfortable but your best finish is 36th. How do you feel about your career so far?  
 PETER LAWRIE: I think typical school report, could be better. The putter has never really worked in any of those nine years, to be honest with you, as well as it should, or as well as I think it can, anyway.   
 I changed a couple of things coming into Ireland this year with my putting, and it seems to be working a little bit better.   
  
  Q. You putted very well today; do you feel comfortable on the green?  
 PETER LAWRIE: I do. I just have a routine now that I'm very happy with. It's very basic and give myself a lot of chances.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT