ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 20, 2013
Peter Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts after four days here in Perth?   
PETER LAWRIE:   I'm just glad it's over to be totally honest with you.   I've never felt so much pressure the last eight weeks.   Can't sleep, can't eat properly, just it's horrendous.   I wouldn't wish it on my worst enemy.  
   
 Q.   And the pressure on the home stretch?   
PETER LAWRIE:   Well, I got off to a great start, so it wasn't that much pressure.   But geekers, just coming down trying to get the job finished without making a mental error or doing something stupid, even finishing bogey, bogey, disappointing I have to admit because I was right in the tournament.   
But the end of the day I came here to keep my card and that was my main aim.   Got myself into a nice position, could have finished it a bit better.   It's easier to win a golf tournament without a noose around your neck, and I certainly had the noose hanging around me today.   
   
 Q.   Your gut feeling, I've seen the sheet of paper in your pocket, looking at all the permutations?  
PETER LAWRIE:   Well, typical, trying to work out the permutations of people finishing here there, or ever where.   All I needed to do, I knew if I could go out and shoot a couple under, I would be okay.   Finishing anywhere in the 20s I reckon was going to get me to keep my card.   But it's not easy, I can tell you that.   It is not easy.  
   
 Q.   Can't relax just yet, either.   
PETER LAWRIE:   I'm that type of person that when the last putt goes in, then I can go and be happy for a change.   
   
 Q.   You can do without Brody Ninyette or another unknown Australian winning this, could you?  
PETER LAWRIE:   That would be nice, for personal reasons, of course.   I don't wish anybody bad on the golf course in any shape or form, because I'm out there to win‑‑ even if I miss by one, I've given it my best shot and I couldn't have given it anymore today or this week and it's as simple as that.  
   
 Q.   What's the plan now?  
PETER LAWRIE:   Hopefully fly home and probably sleep for a change.   Go home and be with the family and stop being grumpy.   I've been that soldier for the last while.   Sit back, just wait and see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT