BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2013
Peter Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on 4‑under par around here?
PETER LAWRIE:   Very happy, really.   I've never played the golf course before.   I haven't played this event.   I played when we were in the Jeju Island.   I've never played it here. 
So arrived late on Tuesday, so unfortunately didn't get a practise round.   So 68, I'm very happy with.

Q.   What do you think of the course now that you've seen it?
PETER LAWRIE:   It's difficult, very hilly.   You need to be fit I have to admit.   It's going to be a long slog for the four days around here, you have to be up‑and‑down hills.   But the golf course is very good.   You have to position yourself off the tee and your iron play has to be very good with undulating greens.

Q.   Having played Jeju those years ago, you can appreciate what the weather can do around here and you got up mega early, very cold, a lot of rain. 
PETER LAWRIE:   We had all the seasons today actually.   We had cold, rain, fog and then a little bit of sunshine. 
So yeah, it was a little bit difficult early on.   When we got that break, it was time to relax and when I came back out, I played quite nicely when we came back out. 

Q.   I get the impression this would be a tricky course regardless of the weather, but certainly doesn't help when you can't see anything. 
PETER LAWRIE:   No, no, especially on the fourth tee box.   You're really hitting‑‑ it's like Madeira, you're hitting off the 11 tee like Madeira, down into quite a narrow fairway.   Unfortunately I hit it in the water there today, but yeah, we escaped with a four. 

Q.   Put this round into context, looked like in the Spanish Open last week you were getting there. 
PETER LAWRIE:   Slowly but surely.   Working hard on the driver, trying to keep it in play.   And I hit a lot of good tee shots today, which was great.   Then my iron play has been great.   So, yeah, we are getting there, slowly but surely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT