UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 16, 2012
Peter Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PETER LAWRIE:   It was difficult but very happy.   I've been coming here for the last nine years, and this is probably the most difficult it's ever been, condition‑wise; it's exceptionally windy out there, but the wind is not coming from just one direction.   It seems to be coming from all directions. 
So you've got to try and manage your way around, just plod your way around the golf course and accept that par is going to be a pretty good score. 

Q.   Swirling in the trees and the rough seems a little thicker than usual?
PETER LAWRIE:   The rough, you get flyers out of‑‑ you know what I mean.   It's not that you can't get it up on to the green, but the ball flies and it's very hard to control.   The greens are nice and firm.   To be honest, as I've said, it's the toughest I've ever seen it.

Q.   Is that a nice reward with 4‑under after two rounds, two solid rounds? 
PETER LAWRIE:   Two solid rounds.   Came into the week, unfortunately‑‑ well, fortunately, or unfortunately, whatever way you want to look at it, being in 60th position, I've been moving down the board all the time for the last five weeks, not getting into tournaments.   And then you know, it's quite difficult to get that out of your head playing this week. 
But you know, really, you have to think about one week at time a time and forget about next week and if I make it, I make it; and if I don't, I don't.   But two 68s now really put me well up the leaderboard.

Q.   Sounds like easier said than done. 
PETER LAWRIE:   Yeah, it is, you know what I mean.   As I said to a few people at home, I have to try to play mind games with myself this week to get past it.   I was in a similar position last year and we got through. 
So hopefully it won't be a recurring place, Groundhog Day, so we'll just keep it going.

Q.   Have you looked at figures? 
PETER LAWRIE:   I attempted to do figures on the Monday when I got here and I ripped it up straightaway and I said, don't even go there, Peter. 
So you know, just got to think about this week and play on. 

Q.   To a degree, it's further complicated by South Africa, out of your control, finishing six hours later?
PETER LAWRIE:   Yeah, you could be on the plane to Dubai thinking you've made it and all of a sudden you haven't.   But sure, we'll just way and see.

Q.   And essentially in this position, you can think about the tournament and think about winning and everything takes care of itself?
PETER LAWRIE:   Exactly, if I shoot another two 68s, you know what I mean, I won't be a million miles away from the winning score, and the winning score won't be as low as it has been the last couple of years.   And the weather conditions will be pretty similar I think for the next two days. 
You know, the way I look at it is I put myself now in a position to have a chance, so might as well try to take it.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT