BAY HILL INVITATIONAL
March 17, 2001
Chris Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS PERRY:   You really wanted to be top of the leaderboard because the forecast doesn't look too good.  Kind of had the same feeling going into the L.A. Open, where you wanted to be leading, but from what they are saying, I guess it might be okay in the morning.  So we'll see what happens.  You know, I'll just be one of the guys in the threesome, I guess  -- 
 

Q.  The other guy?
 
CHRIS PERRY:   Goydos and I today, we felt like it was a practice round.  Being the last group on a Saturday, that's a little unusual.  I struggled on the two par 3s on the front, a couple of bogeys.  But shot 4-under on the back nine to get back with a chance to finish off the tournament. But there's so many guys that are playing well, you're going to have to shoot a good score to win.  
 

Q.  Do you think all of the focus will be on the other two guys? 
 
CHRIS PERRY:   Oh, sure.  I was in the last group today and other than coming in on the grandstands on the way in, I was kidding with Roger Maltbie.  He saw me on 16 tee and he goes:  "Is this unbelievable?"  I said, "The guy, he's winning the golf tournament and the other guys are playing well."  Paul and I were struggling a little bit, and it's  -- you know, it's Tiger's show out there right now.  Since they played their match against one another at Big Horn and the PGA a few years ago, I'm just going to be  -- hopefully, just kind of sneak up on them tomorrow and shoot a good round.  But it's all about  -- you know, I've been out here a long time.  It will be a good experience for me to play with these guys.  And the times I've played with Tiger, I've only played with him twice, the last round of the TOUR Championship two years ago and in the second round of the TOUR Championship last year.  So, you know, he's fun to play with.  He tells you "good shot" when you hit a good shot and makes you feel as ease.  But he's a fierce competitor, as is a lot of guys out here and he's going to be tough to beat.  
 

Q.  What's up with the headware? 
 
CHRIS PERRY:   The headware is  -- I got paired with Mr.  Palmer the first two rounds and turned out a few endorsement opportunities.  And I said, what the heck, being paired with him, as a tribute with him and what he's done to the game; and we're at his tournament and playing with him.  I did it as a tribute to him and thank him for -- if it was not for Arnold Palmer, a lot of us would not have any endorsement deals and it's a thank you to him.  I played quite well; so it's hopefully a good luck charm. 
 

Q.  Does he know your dad or uncle from back in the day, through the baseball and the sports and all that?  Does he know any of the family at all?
 
CHRIS PERRY:   Oh, yeah.  My father is a member out at the Tradition out in Palm Springs, and I've spent some time out there practicing.  I played with Mr.  Palmer in 1982 in a practice round at the U.S. Open, the one that Tom Watson  -- I had met him once before, but I had played with him in a practice round there.  Probably six or seven other times, but never in competition.  So it was kind of nice to play with him.  But I spent a lot of time when I'm out west at the Tradition, which is a fabulous place that he's designed, and my father is a member out there.  So that's where I've played most of my golf with him.  In fact, the last time we played he shot his age.  I shot 66 and he shot 70.  That was kind of neat. 
 

Q.   Are you among those who thinks that tales of Tiger's demise are greatly exaggerated?
 
CHRIS PERRY:   Of how he's played this year?  Is that what you mean? Yeah, made too much of it.  The guy is clearly the best player.  Like he said, he has not had the breaks at the right time and he really has not putted all that well.  That's why he has not dominated so far this year or has not won.  But even when the guy is a little bit off, he still finishes  -- he has not finished worse than 15th in any one tournament.  You know, we've got our work cut out, and we'll see what happens. 
 

Q.  Is it definitely threesomes tomorrow?
 
CHRIS PERRY:   Definitely threesomes tomorrow.    
 

Q.  Those are pins?
 
CHRIS PERRY:   Yeah, little stick-um pins.  
 

Q.  Did you buy those in the pro shop?
 
CHRIS PERRY:   No.  The course design guy gave me one and then I went upstairs and got a few more of them from his secretary.  So hopefully we won't need them tomorrow.  They will be on the hat, but I mean, the real umbrellas.  
 

Q.  The autograph will run if you get that thing wet. 
 
CHRIS PERRY:   He'll sign another one for me.  A lot of offers out there.  Not so much today, but Friday.  A lot of offers:  "I'll buy that hat off ya."  He signed it before.  I said:  "We're paired together.  Would you mind signing my hat?" On the first tee he said, "That's a great looking at."  I said, "I won't tell everybody you're giving me $1  million for wearing it." 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT