THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY
October 30, 1999
Chris Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 CHRIS PERRY: Today was a tough day to play just because of the stopping and starting,
with the rain. It wouldn't make up its mind today. I really don't prefer to play in the
rain because of the hassles that you have of toweling your glove off and grips and all
that type of stuff. The course is just in great shape. Reason we played lift, clean and
place this afternoon is they were a little worried that if they got a lot of rain -- and
it was a few places was starting to puddle in the fairways. Greens were fine, but they
probably made the right decision because if it started to come down like it did just ten
minutes ago -- but I think tomorrow if it doesn't rain too much, we will play the ball
down again.  
 
Q. Was it a little easier today emotionally after yesterday?
 
 CHRIS PERRY: Jim, it was very difficult as everyone knows. Payne was a friend of all of
ours. Obviously, Paul Azinger and Scott Hoch, Mark O'Meara the guys in Orlando were very,
very close. I knew Payne. Payne came to my house in 1986 when I was first on TOUR, and we
had a little cookout. Was my first year on TOUR, and he was complementing -- it was on the
-- it was the best hamburgers he ever had in his life. He was a great guy. And an
incredible service, both Thursday morning -- if I would have had to tee off as Duffy
Waldorf did 30 minutes after that, I don't really know that I would have played very well.
I need little bit of time, because Tom Lehman and I are pretty good friends, and even when
they said -- when Commissioner Finchem introduced him, I pretty much lost it there. He was
a great guy. The TOUR and the world is at a great loss but if there is any good that can
come out of a tragedy like that, you can see that yesterday and what happened in the
service. When all those TOUR pros lined up -- everybody was fantastic who spoke. It was
both funny and very, very emotional. They handed out the tissues; we all needed them. I've
needed them several times. My wife went with me. We through over in Nick Price's plane.
Very saddened. I am a very focused person. We are never going to forget him. As you can
see, my hat has stuff all over it. I have the plaid on the back. He is truly going to be
missed, but I think he is going to change a lot of peoples' lives because of what
happened. I know he is going to change mine. 
 
Q. Do you feel like you get some closure with everything that has happened with
yesterday and --?
 
 CHRIS PERRY: No, I don't think -- no. I don't think closure yet. It is going to be a
long, long time before that happens because of how much he meant to everybody. The
service, as I said, was incredible. He was wonderful. You have got to enjoy life to the
fullest. I am a very focused and hard worker and grinder on the TOUR, trying every shot.
Probably got in my own way too, too much. After what happened, you know, this year has
been great for me. I have played super all year, very -- more relaxed. I am still intense,
but just do my best and whatever happens, happens. I shot 64 in the first part of the
morning round. Played just about the same in the afternoon. Missed a few more fairways,
but what does it all really matter? Yes, it is a huge tournament, but there is more
important things in life that are important. I have -- really have come to realize that in
the last few years that, yeah, golf is very important, but family and friends and the
legacy that you leave behind is what the most important. 
 
Q. You mentioned focus. Can you talk about how your focus helped you get through today,
both your thoughts of Payne and the thoughts of the weather?
 
 CHRIS PERRY: I thought it wasn't supposed to rain until 4, 5 o'clock. The pants I have
-- it was fairly humid today. Greens were a little stickier than they were on Thursday.
They were a little slower; so you could be more aggressive. Weather did play a part --
really tricky on a few of those shots -- wind made 180-degree turn from the time we teed
off on No. 1 'til we got to the 4th hole. It was -- you felt 15- to 20-degree difference
on the 4 tee shot. I just -- my focus was there. I think once you got to the putting green
and to the range, when you get into your routine, that is when it all kind of -- you start
concentrating on what you have to do. As I said, I have played super this year. My driving
has been great. Putted the ball well. I didn't hit it as well this afternoon. I missed few
too many fairways, but was able to make up with some good up-and-downs. I am looking
forward to tomorrow. Whatever happens, yes, it is a big tournament, but we are all real --
still in mourning thinking about Payne, too.  
 
Q. You said that he is going to change your life?
 
 CHRIS PERRY: Well, what I mean by that is I -- priorities -- priorities for me have
still been family and stuff, but I think to just rethink things a little bit; that I have
three children: 6, 3, a boy six-and-a-half, three-and-a-half and two girls. I do play a
lot on the TOUR. I have a fantastic wife who understands how hard we have to work out
here. And I have played, I believe, this is my 29th or 30th tournament, which is a pretty
full schedule. They travel probably 12, 13, 14 events. So I'm by myself quite a bit. So
she has a lot to do at home. As you know, my father was a professional baseball player. By
the way, it is his birthday today. Happy birthday today. 63 today. He is here. I grew up
in that atmosphere where my father was gone a lot because of playing baseball. Be on the
road two, three weeks at a time; so are we. I try to get home -- not more than two weeks
be gone, and then get back home for at least a couple of days. I want my kids to be able
to come to me when they have a problem; do school work; go to the soccer games. And I just
-- I do that, but I want to do even more with my children after -- and the faith that I
have in God; I need to adjust that in my life-style, as well. 
 
Q. If I am not mistaken, something like an 8 shot pick-up on the total of 27 holes, if
I am not mistaken, or was it 10, something like that. But anyway, did something happen
early when you were playing, or did you feel a good round coming, or did something happen
early that made you get that focus and concentration?
 
 CHRIS PERRY: As I have said, I have had pretty good focus the whole year. I haven't won
this year, which is basically my goals for the year were to finish in the Top-30. After
the two years that I have had previous, finishing, I believe, 46th and 38th on the money
list, my No. 1 goal this year was to finish in the Top 30. No. 2 was to win a tournament,
which I haven't done yet. I have two more chances because the Mercedes Championship was
just a nice way to start from a kid from Minnesota who saw 50 inches of snow in January,
to be able to go to Hawaii for two weeks is pretty special. I told my mother growing up
that some day, I am going to win that Golden Pineapple at the United Airlines Hawaiian
Open. I thought that was pretty neat. Really, when I got on the putting green -- I have
always been a good putter. I noticed they were a little bit slower. I think because of the
humidity you had to be more aggressive. Greens are holding, but the pin placements are --
some of them were pretty tough. And when the wind kicked up, it played fairly hard. When I
get off to a good start, I get into a good rhythm on the range, started off well and I was
it is a continuation of the round. I was 3-under going into my first tee shot today. And
then I ended up shooting 4-under to shoot 64, par 71. Just continue to go, just continue
the focus and have the swing thoughts, and really play what I call conservative --
conservative/aggressive is how I play. I don't take a lot of unnecessary chances where I
am going to make a big number, but I do make a quite number of birdies. 
 
Q. Playing Tiger tomorrow in the final round.
 
 CHRIS PERRY: Haven't had the opportunity to play with him. I know Tiger, talking with
him right, now, obviously, he is the best player in the world, and it will be a treat and
honor to play with him. I have asked him to play a couple of times in practice rounds. I
just missed him at the U.S. Open in San Francisco at the Olympic Club by one player on
Sunday. I was one group in front of him, I think it was. But what a year he has had. David
Duval, I mean, there is a number of guys that have played outstanding. To win out here,
you have got to have a lot of talent, and you have got have -- Tiger obviously has the
focus that you have to have, and there is no weakness in his game at all. I like the golf
course here. I think it sets up well for how I am playing. I have been driving the ball,
as I said, really well. My iron-play, if I do miss a shot, usually, here you are still on
the green, and I have always been a pretty good lag-putter. And as I said, there is a few
birdie holes I think for me -- just going to depend on the weather and how much rain they
get tonight. 
 
Q. This is a tough course, but a fair course and rewarding course. Have you found any
holes out here that if you needed to really, really be aggressive or charge, you could?
 
 CHRIS PERRY: I think the front 9 is where you can make a few birdies. Seems to play a
little bit shorter if the wind comes out of the southwest, which is kind of downwind on 1
and 2. 3, I have birdied, I believe, three days in a row. No. 4 is very difficult. That
was probably toughest shot today because that -- as soon as we were on 2 green, the wind
totally switched and came into us and just dropped ten or fifteen -- ten degrees at least.
Then 4 was a very difficult shot over the canyon. Tomorrow, I know the pins -- they have
had a couple pins in the corners. No. 8 was probably the toughest shot today because of
the swirling winds. Even though it was the shortest shot of the day; there is not a lot of
room for error. 146 over the water, and only 159 -- you don't have a lot of room there. If
you come up short you -- marked yellow, it is a water hazard you have to rehit. If you are
long, you have really tough bunker shot; so that was very difficult. But if you drive it
well, keep it in the fairway and -- you can't hit it in the middle of the greens because
you are going to have to have 65-foot putts; you can't score from there. You do have to
play fairly aggressive. I just think the front 9 is where you can make a few more birdies,
depending on the wind. If the wind is normal, that makes 14, 17 and 18 dead into the wind,
which are pretty tough finishing holes.  
 
Q. Birdies?
 
 CHRIS PERRY: I got it up-and-down on No. 1, drove it in the rough on No. 1 was short of
the green; had a real good chip to about six feet made that to start the day. To finish
the second round. Hit three feet with a wedge from 129 yards on No. 2. Hit 8-iron to about
two feet on No. 3. 15 feet straight in, made that. The par 3s are tough here because they
are pretty long, especially that one. The par 5, I hit a good putt. Just missed a birdie
there. Just missed that. It was really pouring on 14. 15, Hit lip-out, big one both of us,
a total horseshoe around the hole. 16, good putt, but laid it -- hit the ball short of the
green. Chipped it about five feet by. Made that. Made about 12-foot putt for par on 17.
18, hit a good shot, but misjudged the wind a little bit. Came up birdied in the front
bunker. Blasted it out about seven feet, that lipped out. Parred No. 1. No. 2, chipout,
drive to the left in the woods instead of going -- played the conservative route. Hit it
out to 94 yards. Hit it about twelve feet. Made the putt for par. Made about a 15 -,
16-footer at 3 for birdie. Made about a 6-footer for par, up-and-down at 4. Made about a
15-footer on the par 5. No. 6, drove it to the right. Had to chip that one out to the
fairway. 80 yards, hit a poor wedge, 2-putted. Actually, made about
three-and-a-half-footer for a bogey. 7, good drive, 30-footer just missed. 8 was very
tough, as I said, just right of the green. I hit a putt that broke two-and-a-half feet,
downwind, downgrain and half the ball was in the hole. I don't know -- at this moment
Herron and I looked at each other, how could that not go in. 9, good drive 217, hit a
4-iron to about 35 feet, 2-putted, ran that about 4 and a half, five feet made it by to
finish the day. So key for me is just to hit the fairways and I know I am going to make a
few putts. I am going to be a few behind whatever Tiger is, so he is not going to -- he is
not going to back up; you are going to have to go get him. There is a few guys that have
got a chance. I will do my best. Thank you. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT