NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SABRES v STARS
June 15, 1999
Geoff Sanderson
Dixon Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Geoff, have you ever used that before -- 99 times out of 100 he just buries his head
(inaudible) --

GEOFF SANDERSON: That was the first time, yeah. I have been stuffed quite a few times
just going down shooting it. It was kind of good. I had to come down the wing on a
different angle; gave me the opportunity to put a little deke on him.

Q. Coach said this game was all about emotion. It wasn't about anything technical, it
was emotion and passion; do you agree?

DIXON WARD: Yeah, it was. That is all, I was trying to do -- go out there and play the
hardest game you have ever played. I think we did a pretty good job of that.

Q. For both of you, please, did the shorter shifts make a significant difference in
your ability to maintain throughout the game?

GEOFF SANDERSON: Yeah, absolutely, that was part of our game plan going in was to
shorten our shifts up, driving the intensity level up on them.
DIXON WARD: I think just the shift automatically shortens up when you are working as
hard as you can. I think Game 3 we didn't work as hard as we could have or should have
consequently we got out there in long shifts. Everyone was going as hard as they could go
tonight. 30, 40 seconds is about all you can go.

Q. Talk about both goals being unassisted and the fact that they were on turnovers and
how you took advantage of that?

GEOFF SANDERSON: Really that was two mistakes that their defense make out there. We are
lucky we finally capitalized on it. I don't know if it was the ice or mishandling of the
puck, but it is nice to capitalize on the so few mistakes they do make.

Q. Do you think this was your best game of the series so far, the team, overall?

GEOFF SANDERSON: Well, it is right up there with Game 1, no doubt. I thought for the
most part we had momentum for the majority of the game even though in the third period
they took it away and came at us pretty hard, but for the most part we had the momentum of
the game.

Q. What is it about Game 4, in particular, that brings out the best in you guys; you
have yet to lose one in the series?

DIXON WARD: I don't think it makes any difference what game it is. It is just a matter
of rebounding after a sub-par performance which we have done pretty good throughout the
entire Playoffs. We have had a few games we weren't happy with and found a way to get back
to playing the way we want to play and this was the biggest game of our lives, no question
about it. We don't win this game we are in trouble - big, big trouble. So we had no choice
but to throw everything out there.

Q. For Dixon, there have been a couple of stories in the paper, you have been a well
spoken guy throughout the Playoffs and in this series. Do you feel it was important for
you to achieve something like a winning goal in a game that turned the game around as it
did tonight?

DIXON WARD: It is only important for me to help the team. I don't care what you people
say or anybody says about me or my personality or -- that doesn't matter to me. I don't
think -- anybody that knows me knows that I don't really care about that. I just care
about helping this team and if I am the one who is well spoken or getting coded more than
anybody else, then that is not my fault. That is your fault. So take it for what it is
worth.

Q. For Dixon or Geoff or both, you guys did a lot of the objectives talked about the
last couple of days where there was defensemen pinching or forechecking, showing more
emotion, getting more wristers and not just winding up the big slappers. Both you guys got
your goals on a deke; then a wrister; then you seemed to meet all those objectives
throughout the game. Do you feel that you did that -- basically you did what you had set
up to do after watching the tape and such?

GEOFF SANDERSON: I don't think we had nearly enough shots on net. I still think we
could probably shoot the puck more whether we are faking it or not, you know, our shot
total was just too low in the game and we are not going to win too many games unless we do
get some more rubber on Belfour.

Q. Dixon how important is the success of your team when your line scores? Lindy talked
about needing some production from you guys.

DIXON WARD: I think it is important for us to contribute in every area. I know we have
always taken that approach. We are never happy when -- even if we are playing real solid
defensively, we are never happy and that is with contributing offense as well. I think we
took it quite personally the last couple of days and I think that it is important for us
to score. That helps everybody else and we get one or two more goals from other lines,
then we are in pretty good shape.

Q. Dixon, on the give-away by Ludwig, he drops a ton of shots. You knew he would go
down more than any other defensemen probably because he blocks them. So you were waiting
for him to go down?

DIXON WARD: I knew he was going to go down on one knee. The way he blocks shots, he
goes down on one knee and lays one leg out in front of you. Only way to get it by him is
to go over his leg. I didn't look at the them. I was looking at his leg to see where I can
get the puck by him. Fortunately, it was in the right angle where it went in the side of
the net. So came very close to dropping it back to Varada who was yelling behind me,
fortunately I just shot it, tried to get it by Ludwig and, fortunately, it went in.

Q. It is for both guys. What did it mean to this team when Hasek said before the game,
you guys go, I will be here for you in the back end?

GEOFF SANDERSON: Well, gave us a little boost, definitely. I mean when Dominik's
telling the team to be more aggressive, don't worry, I will bail you out, if I give up the
odd man rush, but, you know, he did that tonight. He made some great saves for us and he
held us in the game in the third period and you know, he is our leader back there and we
generate a lot of chances just from him making big saves and us going down the other way.

Q. Dixon, Geoff briefly mentioned the items. Was it a factor at all in Ludwig's
give-away to you?

DIXON WARD: I don't know. It -- it was not very late into the second period. I don't
know what the time of the goal was, but I think it wasn't even half over the second
period, so -- it may have been. The puck was rolling when he got it. I knew it was rolling
because Peca had flipped it down the ice. I was just trying to track it down and hope for
-- just try to steer the play one direction and another, and it just flipped over his
stick and that happens to everybody and it happens to the best of them. Unfortunately for
him, but, obviously, fortunately, for me that I was able to get it.

Q. Dixon, you didn't throw your hands in the air. That looked like a celebration of a 6
goal in a 7-1 game as opposed to the difference between a 2-2 or 3-1 series. Could you
explain the lack of that?

DIXON WARD: No. (LAUGHTER) Some day I will explain it to you. I was too tired. Tried to
be less flamboyant; just trying to do my job.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT