U.S. OPEN
September 10, 1995
Paul Annacone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ANNACONE: I never had this many people when I played.  Except when I beat John here. 
 

Q.  What did you do to help?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: I wish I could take a lot of credit, but, you know, Pete is a great athlete, and Andre has had a terrific summer.  I just thought that Pete had a good chance because he has had a good tournament, hasn't been on the court a lot of hours and I think that he has worked really hard to prepare for this event, although he didn't have great results for him this summer, and I thought that if he turned it into more of an athletic match where they were both moving around a lot and kind of stayed away from getting into pattern play then we'd have a good chance.  Obviously, he has to serve well to eliminate Andre's returning strength. 
 

Q.  Did you speak with Gully at all during the course of this tournament?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: Yeah.  
 

Q.  Before today's match?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: Yeah. 
 

Q.  What did you discuss?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: Well, same thing we basically discuss in all the conversations, you know, you can make it complicated or as simple as you want.  It is not really rocket science.  I think that, you know, you are dealing with someone who is an elite athlete.  You are not constructing a lot of things.  There is a couple of things that Pete needs to continually needs to work on and be reminded.  He is a great athlete.  I don't think he takes advantage of that.  Tim agrees.  He needs to put more forward pressure on his opponents.  Needs to use his ability up at the net and use a variety in his groundstrokes.  He is one of the few guys that can do just about everything.  I always tell him that if you don't use it, there is no sense in having it.  And, you know, today, he used it a bit more, and I think that, you know, it is always a bit of a grind when those two play.  I just think Pete might have been a little mentally fresher today. 
 

Q.  Paul, he is playing the guy who is ranked No. 1 in the world.  He gave the sense of overwhelming him today.  Does Pete just do more things better than  anybody else out there?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: I am a little bit biased, obviously, but, you know, I think -- I think Pete, when he is playing his best tennis, is a dominating player. I think he is one of the few guys that when he plays well, it doesn't matter who he is playing.  And I think that most of the people who are tennis aficionados have that same type of sense about his ability.  But I think at some point, so much talent can be a liability, in that when you play guys like Andre, and certain players, you don't know when to use what; what weapon. I think that all comes with time, and the maturation process and Pete obviously has a relatively successful record against Andre and I think that whenever you can win a match like that, like he did today, I think you just want to sit back and enjoy it. 
 

Q.  Today you felt that he was using --
 
PAUL ANNACONE: First two sets he did.  I thought the first two sets he was pretty good about moving the ball around, and using different variety, although he chipped and came in a couple of times and was passed.  I think you cannot beat Andre Agassi doing one thing.  He is just too good.  You have to be able to do everything.  And it sounds easy and it is easy to sit here and say that, but there are very few human  beings that can do that at the level that Pete --  I think that is what makes him difficult for Andre to play when he is playing well. 
 

Q.  What is your title, are you co-coach?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: Human being. 
 

Q.  Well, that too.
 
PAUL ANNACONE: Well, I have been a friend of Pete since he was 17, and when Tim became ill, we all just kind of decided that I should help out for a while, and the quotes have been "interim coach" which has been flattering.  That is fine as long as I help and Tim starts feeling better and Pete is winning matches, that is what is important. 
 

Q.  We will call you interim coach.
 
PAUL ANNACONE: Whatever you'd like, as long as it is not derogatory. 
 

Q.  Watching the last point of the first set, did you go through various emotions as you went through watching that 22 stroke rally?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: That is one of the best points I have ever seen in my life.  I mean, before the match I told Pete to try to get into as many athletic points as he could get in.  And I think that was about as quintessentially athletic as you could have a point.  You saw two  superstars come up with, I don't know, how many different shots, I thought, were point ending, until ultimately, Pete came up with the one that did win the point.  So I kind of sat there in awe, as many of the other spectators did, after that one. 
 

Q.  Were you at all concerned that Pete was tiring in the latter stages of the third, early fourth?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: No, he was a little bit stiff but I think it was because it was cold.  I actually think it was kind of hard to play.  I know from past experience, when I played, when it is cold like this, you actually get stiffer, and physically, I think he felt okay.  He was just a little stiff because of the cold weather. 
 

Q.  Have you ever coached anybody before?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: I have helped a young New Jersey boy a little bit by the name of Justin Gimbelstob (phonetic), who I have spent a little time with him, but not on a permanent or regular basis. 
 

Q.  What is coaching Pete like?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: Like I said, it is not major construction.  I think that at this level, you don't -- I have never been a person -- my brother coached me; helped me a lot when I played, but I knew that, you know, inevitably, it is up to the person on the court  and I am very fortunate, especially in this situation, when the person on the court is one of the best players that ever played tennis.  So I think there is little things, that no matter how good you are, you cannot pick up when you play.  And Pete knows that and realized that if he has, hopefully, someone that knows a little bit about the game, that has got an easy going personality around, and that can help fill the void a little bit while Timmy is gone, then it can make it easier for him to improve.  That is what struck me most from the beginning of my relationship with Pete, even since he was 17, and specifically, in the last nine months, is this guy wants to get better.  He wants to win as many of these Majors as he can, but he wants to improve. 
 

Q.  Do you have to be Gullikson's shadow or are you Annacone?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: I hope I am my own person.  I have been playing for 12 years on the Tour.  I have won a few tournaments.  I have been ranked 11 in the world.  I think most of the players know me as my own person.  I think Tim and I have a good relationship and I have with Tom, his brother and with Pete have had good relationship.  I think it was a mutually beneficial situation.  I think that it was the easiest  way to get something positive out of a very difficult situation and I think that there is no egos involved. I think no one feels threatened and I think that, you know, Tim and I talk about it all the time, the biggest guy is for Timmy to get healthy and for Pete to continue winning tennis matches.  If I can play some type of role, however small it will be, I think I will feel happy going to sleep at night. 
 

Q.  Pete and Agassi seem to genuinely appreciate this rivalry and that it brings the best out each of them.  How unusual is that?
 
PAUL ANNACONE: I think it is very unusual.  I think people in the states are used to everybody hating each other and I think that when you get two rivals that respect each other, but have very different personalities, I think it is a little difficult for people to grasp on to.  But Pete and Andre are very different.  They realize that, but they both respect the talent levels that each of them possesses.  I think that they know on any given day it can be a flip of a coin.  So I think that brings out the best in both of them. 
 

Q.  Some people said that Pete doesn't have the confidence to attack a lot of times.  How come he had that confidence today?  What is the difference? 
 
PAUL ANNACONE: We spoke a lot about it and I think he heard it from Tim as well and I think he realizes he has to do that.  Andre beat him three out of four times this year.  There has to be a reason for that.  And I think Pete realized that he had to do something a little bit different and fortunately for him today, he was able to put the pieces together. 
 

Q.  Could you just comment --
 
PAUL ANNACONE:  Big man.  Show time. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT