AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2017
Tony Romo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Tony, great to have you back at Lake Tahoe.  Your last trip here was 2012.  We understand you have a new job now these days.   
TONY ROMO: Yep, I understand that, too.  (Laughter).   
THE MODERATOR: You are listed as co-favorite with Mark Mulder at 3-to-1 at Harrah's and Harveys Race and Sports Book.  First time in a few years you've been here.  Competitive golf, we know you've been playing.  But tell us about what you're thinking this week has in mind for you.   
TONY ROMO: I'm excited.  I'm excited to play golf, compete a little bit again.  I've been practicing a little bit.  So usually I come here trying to find my game, but I feel like I at least have a chance to hit it somewhat solid this week.  We'll see what kind of scores I can put up.  I'm excited to put the game under the test and get out here and hang out with the guys and have a great tournament.   
THE MODERATOR: In the years you've been here obviously you finished in the top 5 and top 4 number of times, finishing second three times.  That's when you were playing football full time.  Now you have more time to play.  I have to think that's going to affect your performance.   
TONY ROMO: Oh, yeah, I'm going to win for sure because of that, so ...(laughter).  As you can tell, I'm joking a little bit.   
But I do like the fact that I've had a little bit more time and getting ready to play, it's made it a little bit easier obviously not having to go to OTAs and mini camp.   
I've been grinding with CBS and getting ready for that.  And that part has been actually very exciting.  I'm excited about that subtle improvement each week.   
And the same with golf.  I think it's been fun getting ready to play an event and compete.  And it will be a good test for me to see where I'm at this week.   
 Q.  What has the preparation for CBS been like and how has Brad Sham helped you in regards to calling games?  
TONY ROMO: The preparation has been fantastic.  We have almost a boot camp setup in the sense that there's just a lot of little things, when I started -- when I took this job I really didn't know operationally how anything worked.  I just didn't know like:  Where do you look during the game?  Do you watch the field?  Do you watch the television set?  And so all these little things that you had to learn the nuances of it, some people can tell you, but I really just wanted to experience it and go through it.   
And we just figured out, and I give CBS credit for finding an avenue to make that happy.  And we've done a great job with that in Dallas.  And then part of that was there's -- so many little parts to it.  Part of that has been working a couple times with Brad Sham, and that's been fantastic.  Brad's gone out of his way to be kind and nice to help with that.  And he's obviously a legend in the Dallas community.  It's been great.   
Obviously I've done games with Jim Nantz.  Not much to be said there.   
 Q.  Obviously these guys were your teammates just several months ago.  And now your new employer is going to want your opinion.  So to be short, is it going to be tough to be tough?  
TONY ROMO: Well, it's funny you say that.  The first two games I did, actually some of my bosses there at CBS told me, "You know, we don't need to be quite that harsh."   
So I think that part of it I probably have to find a fine line, because the standard for playing this game is just -- it's high.  And to win and win a championship or to get there, I never got a chance to obtain that.   
And that's something that I'll always regret.  But at the same time I understand what it takes to like be kind of good and get yourself in position to make the playoffs is hard, then to win games there.  And to do it like how Tom Brady does is astronomical.  Doesn't compute to most of the players because you're trying to win one.   
And so the standard to get to those levels are just -- that's the standard.  It's those players.  The Tom Bradys, the Peyton Mannings.  That's what you're evaluating.  And now I have to understand that and come back to that and know that there's certain things that are easier for some others and just talk about it.   
 Q.  What is your take on Kaepernick and maybe why he doesn't have a job yet?  
TONY ROMO: I think the NFL has two real approaches, most organizations that I found they try and go by.  One, they want to collect as much talent as possible.  Two, they want to make it about the team, the team, the team.   
And so with Colin Kaepernick, I firmly believe if they viewed him as their starting quarterback on day one he would be on a team right now, I believe he would be.   
But I think that -- I believe he's good enough, no question, to be a backup in the National Football League.  But when you're the back-up, part of that is playing a role on that team.  So I think organizations sometimes view that as being part of the team.  So when you step out and do something, that can be almost talked about a lot and it's not about football, sometimes that can go either way.   
Now, that's not for anyone to evaluate from an organization, but before they choose you to come in, they're going to think of those things.  And I just feel like right now they're not viewing him as a starting quarterback.   
Believe me, he'd be in if a team thought he would allow them to have a chance to win a championship.   
Saying that, should he be on a team?  I think there's no question that he's talented enough to be in the National Football League.  And I think he will be.  I just think it takes time.  And there might be an injury or there might be things that take shape that just soften some of the feelings toward it in the sense of the team aspect.   
Right now there's 90 guys on each team.  And they're trying to just weed that down.  And they're not thinking about adding, necessarily, unless it's really going to make your football team better overnight.   
When someone views him as improving their football team overnight, they'll bring him in.   
 Q.  This came out today:  Free agent running back DeAngelo Williams said he wouldn't join the Cowboys because he grew up a 49er fan and they, quote, "Just don't ever show up during the playoffs."  And he doesn't like the fan base.  
TONY ROMO: Who said this?   
 Q.  DeAngelo Williams.  He said, apparently, they just don't ever show up during the playoffs.  That's why he won't sign with the Cowboys.  And he's a 49er fan.  Anything you'd say to him?  
TONY ROMO: No.  Listen, we all grew up as fans of certain teams and you just have feelings and stuff.  I think you notice that the 49ers and the Cowboys have a pretty good history in the playoffs.  I'm not sure there's too many organizations with more Super Bowls.   
 Q.  CBS, of course, they cover a lot of golf over there.  Have you had a chance to play with Jim Nantz, Peter Kostis, or any of those guys and have they given you any swing tips along the way?  
TONY ROMO: Kostis has given me plenty over the years since I've been there.  Swung a couple times with Jim.  And the whole CBS group are just special people.  And they're in a position to help me and they've been great, all of them all over the place.  The best guy has been that guy Doug Pederson, look at that guy, home run.   
 Q.  Would you have any interest in taking your broadcasting career maybe to the golf side as things evolve?  
TONY ROMO: No, I'm just trying to improve in football right now.  There's so much in front of me with football that it's time for me just to try and figure out how to be good at this.   
It's been a great, enjoyable, fun grind these last few months, putting my head down trying to improve it, being an analyst.  And I've enjoyed it.  It's been good.  And I still have a little ways to go.  But I'm seeing signs of life.   
 Q.  What's it like knowing that you don't have to get ready for an NFL training camp?  Gotta be different for you, right?  
TONY ROMO: Yeah, but it feels a little bit like I'm training for something.  As an analyst I'm having to learn a lot.  And I'm trying to create as many opportunities for myself to evaluate myself as I can.  And that means doing it.  And it's just hard to find new avenues to do it over and over again.  But I'm finding those, and it's keeping the competitive nature in you going.   
It's keeping me obviously close to the game, which I'm passionate about.  So it kind of, like right now, it doesn't feel that different because I'm still involved in football a lot.   
And the only thing that will be different is my body will probably feel better at the end of August.   
 Q.  The National Fantasy Football Convention is this weekend.  You want to talk about that a little bit, the excitement around that, and the job Andy Alberth had to do with that?  
TONY ROMO: Andy has done a great job.  He's put a lot of time and effort into this.  I know some of you guys know him.  He's excited about this weekend.  A ton of players.  It's going to be a great event and a lot of fans coming up.  Great setup.  I'm glad they're doing it have a chance to have the fans meet some of their favorite players.  Cool to see that it came to fruition.   
 Q.  You appeared with Justin Timberlake today.  You had like a scary moment on the 17th when this lady got hit by a ball.  And I was shocked to see Justin Timberlake run over.  He was like one of the first responders.  But somehow I wasn't surprised.  Could you talk maybe how you weren't surprised playing with him that he would be one of the first guys to help that lady out?  
TONY ROMO: No, he ran over and sang her a song right away.  (Laughter) She was crying because obviously she got hit in the stomach.   
And I told Justin, I said, "You don't want to be the first one to get there because if you are she's going to think you hit her."  (Laughter).  He didn't catch that part.  And sure enough he showed right up and he was right there, right at the end she's like can she talk to you afterward because you hit her.  He's like, "I didn't hit her.  Like I was coming to be nice, like help."   
Then he turns and tells the crowd "I want everyone here to know I didn't hit her." (Laughter).   
So obviously he did, he hit her.  I'm just kidding.   
 Q.  Could you talk about the budding bromance with you and Justin.  Hope I'm not putting words in your mouth but seems like you got along instantly?  
TONY ROMO: Yeah, we just became best friends.  It's instant chemistry.   
 Q.  What are the chances we'll see you do the Carlton this weekend, the dance?  
TONY ROMO: Very little, unless you've seen me at about 10:00 at night in a private room with me and my four buddies.  We'll see.  My wife is going to join in on Thursday, so maybe that night, we'll see.   
 Q.  Since we're in Northern California, wonder if you could give us a quick assessment on what you think of the Raiders offseason and the 49ers as well.  
TONY ROMO: I think we're just starting the process of seeing what everyone's doing.  I think the Raiders have a chance to be a really good team.  To be honest with you, I really hope they are a good team, because I have a funny feeling we'll be doing a few Raider games.   
And they've got a lot of really good players come back.  And Derek Carr took a very big step last year to show what kind of level he's capable of playing at.  And their job really is to start over.   
You don't get to just pick up where you left off last season.  You've got to kind of build it back up from the ground.  And the veteran leadership I think they have in there will show.  And I expect them to be pretty good.   
And then you asked about the 49ers?  I think you saw the turnover in the general manager.  I think that's a great job bringing in John Lynch.  I think he's very smart.  I think he's astute.  I think he has a great vision.  I think he'll do a great job there.   
His hire at head coach was probably the first coach I -- if I was in a position like that, I think Kyle Shanahan is a home run.   
I think what he does with offensive football is ahead of the game, it's ahead of the curve.  Bill Belichick was doing that years ago defensively.  I think Kyle has a little bit of that in him offensively and makes him a special and unique talent.  When you get a guy like that, it's almost like having a quarterback.   
They don't have to have the best quarterback to be good offensively.  He's that good.  And so I thought that was a great hire.  And then they need to be healthy.  They've had a lot of injuries.  Some of these young defensive linemen are good for the Niners.  They have a chance to get better fast.  But they just need some of these offensive skill set guys to improve.   
 Q.  How is your back, neck, everything?  How is your health?  
TONY ROMO: Good.  My neck as never been bad, so hopefully it continues to be pretty solid.  But my back has had issues.  So you got me there.  But it's been good.   
 Q.  Your best Stableford round was a plus-31 in 2011.  You were on fire on Sunday.  
TONY ROMO: That was the Sunday round?   
 Q.  Came in second that year.  And all those years you were playing as an amateur.  Still playing as an amateur?  
TONY ROMO: Yeah, I'm still playing as an amateur.  Yeah, I'm going to play in the Western Amateur actually in probably two or three weeks.  So that will be my big amateur event this year.  So I like that, they were nice enough to allow me to be in and trying to get the game right for it.   
 Q.  Number one color commentator and starting quarterback, which one did you feel more pressure, or do you feel more pressure going into a season with?  
TONY ROMO: They both have their unique traits.  But "pressure" is a unique term, too, in the sense of it kind of is what you make it to be.  I think when I was young in football you were so nervous about trying to achieve this goal and be good at this thing you chased your whole life and all of a sudden it's there in front of you, and those feelings I don't know if they'll ever be duplicated in anything.   
But I've learned over the years, if you want to have a chance to be good, when you step up there, you gotta own it.   
So it's like anybody who is going to be A on TV, be the quarterback for an NFL franchise, if you don't like step up and own it and really believe that you belong and that you have a chance to be successful, you're not going to be successful.  And so I think I'm probably in a little bit more of a right frame of mind or mindset to be a little bit more successful earlier than I might have been in football.   
Now saying that, it might take me nine years to be decent.  But I like to think it will take me a little bit less time in this.  And I'm excited about this.  I know that there's a learning curve and that's going to be there, but I think I've got a chance to hopefully just provide some cool insight on some stuff.   
 Q.  The course has changed since you last played.  8, 9, I believe is a little bit different.  How did you do today, and what does it look like from your eyes for a golfer?  
TONY ROMO: I liked it today, but I was hitting the driver well.  So those holes were great, because I pounded them up right by the green on both of them.  If that maintains I'll just keep hitting driver 40-yard, 50-yard sand wedge.  So those are two of the shorter holes on the course now.   
You just have to hit the ball straight off the tee.  But I'm going to be aggressive on those holes this week.  If I can take advantage of that, I think that will help.  So hopefully I can take down that 31 number I had a few years back.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT