AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2011
Tony Romo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Tony, thank you for coming up. I'd like you to share your second round as opposed to your first. It was a great second round.   
 TONY ROMO: I appreciate it. Yeah, it was a good day today. I got the ball rolling on the greens a little bit, and I've been hitting it pretty good the last couple of days, and I just didn't get anything out of it yesterday.  
 Some misreads really, some tough looks. But today they fell, and we're off. So I think we're in second right now. Could be fun.  
 THE MODERATOR: I think you got yourself in the last pairing for sure, which I know you're competitive. Is it an advantage to see who you're playing against?   
 TONY ROMO: I'm very competitive. You know, I don't know who is going to be in the final group. I know Jack's probably leading. So it will be a good test. He's a good player. And I know he's done well in the past in this tournament. And I think I gotta come out and play good golf tomorrow. The way I've been hitting it I feel confident we'll be able to put up a score tomorrow.  
 THE MODERATOR: Did you work on anything. Yesterday you said your putting was just letting you down.  
 TONY ROMO: Yeah, the putting was terrible yesterday. The putts that I hit good, I just misread. And then the ones, every once in three, four holes, I'd do something and just miss the line. But today I hit the line consistently. A couple of putts I missed were just speed-related or just a little bit off with the read. But I hit the target a lot today. If I continue to do that, I think I'll have a chance tomorrow.  
 THE MODERATOR: I don't want to overstate it, obviously, but what would it mean to you to win?   
 TONY ROMO: I just think being a competitive individual, whenever I show up to play, whether it's basketball, football, soccer, golf, whatever it is, I enjoy sports. I enjoy competition, and I don't show up to finish second and third. So you try and go out and win. And I know you're not always going to win. But it's just more enjoyable to get the job done.  
  
  Q. Tim Tebow the other day said that he's come here, he's obviously a young player, and he said he's come here and he looks at the field and has trouble digesting the fact that he can't win. He kind of realizes that he can't win it. He has trouble digesting that, because he's so competitive. Do you kind of -- can you like understand the way he feels? You're obviously a quality golfer, he's not. And he like walks in, like: I can't believe I can't win this weekend.   
 TONY ROMO: It's hard when you're competitive and you're pretty good at what you do obviously on the football field and it carries over. For me it's not really enjoyable to go out and be the 32nd best whatever it is you're doing. So I could see that.   
 I think the competition for me is what fuels the passion of winning and losing. I mean, just competing is what I enjoy doing every day when I wake up.  
 So if I get that opportunity to do that, it's an enjoyable day usually at the end of the day, if I was able to compete. And I do that every day in football, and the time left over you sprinkle in other things.  
  
  Q. One football question: You get four and a half hours out there of not knowing, it's sort of an anonymous situation of what had gone on with the negotiations. Do you know anything more about it now? How do you feel about it, and what are your expectations over the weekend here?   
 TONY ROMO: I can't wait for this thing to get over and get out and do what we love to do. And for me personally, it's just I'm passionate about the game of football.   
 I actually love training camp, because if you didn't do well or whatever, you get another opportunity three hours later to go back on the field and compete again.   
 So two days for me kind of feels like you're a kid going to camp. Granted I'm not one of the guys who hits and goes toe to toe every day, has to do it the second time in the evening and put their bodies completely on the line like that, so it's different from the quarterback perspective. I'm more or less having a great time trying to improve and get better and get out there.   
 So whenever this gets over, hopefully it's in the next few days, I'll be ready to rock and roll.  
  
  Q. Is there anything that you'll do, checkers or anything you do, where it's okay to lose or you're not that competitive?   
 TONY ROMO: No, I'm pretty competitive. I would say this: I understand when I lose, you know, that it's a part of the process, it's just not enjoyable while it's going on. So afterward I can reflect and have a good understanding of what took shape. But during the process, anybody who knows me, knows it's not -- it's just not as much fun. But I do love competing.   
 I love getting down playing chess, things of that nature, just to see how good you can be. And to me that's part of the enjoyment of sports is to know whether you won or lost. And I feel bad for Jack, he just lost by a little bit tomorrow. (Laughter) No, I'm kidding. I know Jack well. I lost by 10.   
  
  Q. Tony, talking with your colleagues out there during the round, after the round, are there any things that changed conditions-wise that you could do better yesterday that you couldn't do today or vice versa, based upon what the conditions were on the course?  
 TONY ROMO: Well, I'll let Jack talk a little bit, because he's been coming here for a long time. But I thought the rough was a little higher this year than it's been in years past. I thought the tournament did a great job setting that up, and allowing -- I don't think the scores are nearly as low and putting up such great numbers because of that a little bit.  
 The greens have been in pretty good shape. I think that's something you always worry about a little bit. And I don't know that there's anything crazy different. Personally for me I made some putts today that I misread yesterday. So hopefully I can keep that going and make Jack at least have to play golf tomorrow, we'll see.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT