AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2010
Tony Romo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Okay. Tony, why don't you take us through the round quickly, and then we'll turn it over to the media.   
 TONY ROMO: It was kind of like the whole week really, in general. Stretches were really good and then hit some terrible shots. But I didn't play much coming in, so I didn't expect too much and kind of played that way.  
  
  Q. Did you think that you had a progression that might allow you to win this week with the 11th, then 3rd then 2nd last year?  
 TONY ROMO: You have to put time in. I know that from experience obviously in other sports. But I hit balls about a week and a half before the tournament, and that was the first time I touched them in two or three weeks.  
 So it's just part of the process. You gotta be able to go out and play and practice. This time of the year it's tough for me to do that.  
  
  Q. Did Billy Joe's play this week, was it -- what's the adjective you would use? Amazing? Surprising?   
 TONY ROMO: No. I think when Billy Joe is going, he's a tough player to beat. He shows you today, he's a long hitter, hits it straight. He doesn't make many mistakes. Doesn't have a lot of weaknesses in his game. And I think it showed this week. When he's on, you gotta play some great golf to even get close.  
  
  Q. Tony, Billy Joe didn't really light it up early in the round like he normally does. Did you have kind of a number in mind that you thought you'd have to shoot today, or did you think you were out of it?  
 TONY ROMO: Realistically, I started the day with 40 total points. So I thought I needed help from Billy Joe, but I thought 76 would be something -- that's putting up 36 points, which obviously is going to require about, going 8-under par. But I had a chance on 4. I had about a 6-footer for eagle and I just missed that.  
 If I make that, we're off to a real good start there. But I was behind the number all day and finished with, I don't know, 25 or 6 points or something today. And you need a lot of help from him, and you had to play a great round of golf, really, something.  
  
  Q. What about John Elway? He really came back in this tournament and had a nice showing. What about the way he played, because you got to play with him?  
 TONY ROMO: I played with him twice. I thought John hit the ball great. He didn't really miss many shots. As you get down late and you know you've lost, I think the double on 18, it's not indicative of how he played all week.  
 Really, he hit the ball really pure. He putted good. Good speed. And he kind of really left some scores out there, really, with how well he played. So it's good to see John playing good golf. He's a great guy. He's fun to be around.  
  
  Q. Jack Wagner said earlier this week that he was contemplating Champions Tour Q-School; and John Elway just turned 50, what do you think about those guys competing at that level?  
 TONY ROMO: I've never competed at it, so I'm not sure really what level that's at. I know that they definitely, from the times I've played with them, which has really been in this tournament, they've got a ton of ability.   
 It's definitely a matter of, at that level a lot of it is short game. I know John and Jack can definitely hit the ball with anybody. And Jack's got a pretty good short game. So does John.   
 So you really gotta work at it, though. If you're really going to take it to that level, you've really gotta be doing it every day, and you've gotta be trying to really not make a mistake. You can't just give away a shot here and there with an 8-iron in your hand or a pitching wedge.  
 And it would be fun to watch, I know that. I think if I was them I would try that.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT