AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 9, 2019
Tony Romo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tough conditions out there.  How was it for you out there on the course?  
TONY ROMO: Kind of shifted about halfway through.  Maybe I think we stood up on 5, 6 and wind started howling.  Made it difficult.  It was fun.  Hit a lot of good shots.   
Hit some wayward tee shots on the back-9 that cost us coming in 9 as well.  So I thought you just -- not clean enough but, you know, lot of positives, I thought some good things.   
 Q.  You got the eagle did you think I can build some momentum here and those kind of things?  
TONY ROMO: Really -- couple of the tee shots really cost me just because they're penal in those areas.  You can't miss them there.  Like I said, the separation between these guys is the ability to do it for long stretches, consistency.   
I think just a few tee shots really cost me the round today and then just being able to keep going and move forward.  But made a good run early.   
 Q.  You were pretty fired up at that point, playing the crowd a little bit.  What's going through your mind when you think that and hey I'm under par in a PGA event?  
TONY ROMO: You work hard enough to put yourself in a position to hopefully continue to improve.  I've improved from two months ago.  I got to continue to get more consistent and trust it.   
I think sometimes a little bit out there there's a trust factor of letting it go.  When you play at the highest level of sport you're going to let it go and play intelligently.  Their swings are freed up.  I think that as the day moves on you need to continue to do that.   
 Q.  Did you feel like when you started, you know, you got the chip-in, you're under par, did you feel like you were starting to validate -- there was a lot of naysayers.  
 Do you feel like you were validating you could play well out here?   
TONY ROMO: I think I could play well.  Just the consistency aspect.  Takes time.  It's going to take -- you know, like I said, I've been practicing at this over a year.  Like anything, you got to continue to get better and improve.  You have the ability and you know how you to improve, you can get there.  So, there's signs of life.  We'll say that.   
 Q.  Five, six fairways.  Were you driving it better coming into this tournament?  
TONY ROMO: That was disappointing.  I thought I was going to drive it much better than I did. That's why we weren't able to continue to keep the pace we had early and, you know, that's going to be the key moving forward is just getting yourself in position to attack these pins and some of these holes.  Otherwise, you're trying to fight against the grain the entire time.   
 Q.  The crowd today, lot of people.  
TONY ROMO: It was fantastic.  It was really enjoyable.  I could feel the energy and just feel them pulling for you.  Made me feel good inside.  Nice gesture by the fans today.   
 Q.  Does it help you when things are going not your way sometimes or put you more on you because you don't want to disappoint them?  
TONY ROMO: I want to make everyone have an enjoyable experience for sure but I think you're just grinding, trying to hit good shots and it's not quite as clean off the tee as you want.  It makes for a difficult day especially with this kind of wind and that's kind of what happened on a few shots there that cost me.   
 Q.  What's your mindset going into tomorrow?  
TONY ROMO: Go low.   
 Q.  Jordan was up here earlier talking about how this course is a little bit easier 1 through 8 and gets substantially more difficult the final ten holes.  Your round mirrors that to that extent.  How stark is that difference?  
TONY ROMO: It depends on the wind direction.  When you get the wind direction of today it definitely -- 9 through 13 become very difficult and you know, you played that way but I think 9 and 13 were the two doubles I had and I missed a couple little putts coming in.   
I feel like it was a little more emotional feeling like you didn't quite have a great day.  I got to stay committed over those the same way I did all day.   
 Q.  I think earlier in the day you said 9 you can't miss.  Did anything in particular happen on that drive?  
TONY ROMO: Yeah.  I went left.  I think -- I even know you can miss it 30 yards off line right there and still be okay.  It was mostly just the feeling of thinking that you were able to swing away and just kind of stop the body and that happened a little bit on the back-9, I felt technically I wasn't quite as sequenced as I was earlier, had been coming in.   
But I think knowing that, once again, every time I play in one of these rounds it really does show me exactly what kind of pops up here and there.   
I think chipping, putting all that stuff improved from the last tournament.  I think it's now the way to keep going low is just you got to hit the fairways over and over again.   
 Q.  What is your feeling now, do you feel deflated, do you feel kind of encouraged?  Do you feel kind of --  
TONY ROMO: I think right now I feel -- I feel like -- I don't know.  I guess I'll tell how I feel tomorrow after the round.  Either be deflated or feel great.   
 Q.  Do you go to the range now and try to work on it or do you -- got an early tee time and --  
TONY ROMO: Normally it's a long day, it's a long week and then you probably -- just -- I got to go hit some tee shots that really feel good about tomorrow because, if not, I won't sleep tonight.   
 Q.  Those Titleist No. 9 golf balls, are those custom made or lucky draw?  
TONY ROMO: I just made them at home.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT