BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2019
Tim Miles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Nebraska - 68, Rutgers - 61
COACH MILES: I've got a lot of respect for Steve Pikiell and Rutgers.  I think he's done an excellent job building them into a formidable team in the Big Ten, and this league is as strong as any in the country.  We were fortunate today to come out and ride a hot hand, and get some defensive stops and get the win.
Q. Do you have an injury report on yourself after that fall?
COACH MILES: I'm fine.  You know, I've just -- the wires they jumped up and got me.  I thought I was a better athlete than that.  But I'm old, I'm old.
Q. Can you just describe what happened?  It wasn't pretty, but...
COACH MILES: For anybody that doesn't know, I fell down waving at the crowd, running down the hallway when I was leaving.  I think it got caught on TV according to everybody that's rubbing it in on me.  So, yeah.  I would say that's a lot of exhilaration, but, yeah, just enough clumsiness to keep things interesting.
Q. You guys were down I think 46-51 in the second half, and you go on a 15-0 run.  What changed and what did you tell your guys that was different?
COACH MILES: I thought that we were soft coming out the second half in terms of they didn't have an offensive rebound in the first half, and they came out and got two the first two possessions, scored five points.  We missed an inside shot that we were going fading away.  So we took a long time out.  James, I thought, played pretty strong after that.  But they were rolling pretty good.  Then we just got defensive stops.  I think Johnny got a couple steals, Roby got a couple blocks.  They didn't get any second shots.  Palmer hits the three.  Roby gets four free throws.  We get a couple things.  Glynn makes a play.  And now all of a sudden you're feeling like you have a little rhythm.
But it all really started with this team; I thought we were rock solid defensively the whole night.
Q. Johnny played a lot and he seemed pretty valuable.  Is it surprising to you at all that he's been as productive as he's been when he's played?
COACH MILES: I hope he makes me look as dumb as he can.  It's so cool to see him out there.  The guys believe in him.  Nobody is judging or saying, oh, how come we're playing whoever, whether it be Thor, Johnny, Brady, anybody.  So if we have to change the game plan a little bit when one of those guys is in there, nobody blinks.  Johnny has done so well just playing without any fear, just fearlessness.  What did he have, four steals?  And knocked down one of those foul shots.  I think that he's one of those guys that he comes in and he makes us better, and he does as good a job as he can.  He was staying in front of guys, made a couple errors here and there, but nothing nobody else had made all night.  So I'm very, very proud of Johnny Trueblood.
Q. There's been a lot of speculation about what might have happened at the end of the season.  How do you tune that out?  And how do you get the guys to tune that out?
COACH MILES: I just told the guys, you know, this is a big-boy business, and whatever will be will be.  I want to be the coach of Nebraska.  I love Nebraska.  The decision is out of my hands.  So we just to control what we can control.  I told the guys, you can control if you're in stance.  If you're ready.  How hard you're playing.  I can control how well I coach and how well I prepare.  We just go about our game plan.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT