BIG TEN CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA DAYS
October 11, 2018
Tim Miles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are joined at the podium by Nebraska head coach Tim Miles.  Miles is in his seventh season at the helm of the Nebraska program.  Nebraska returns nine letter winners from last year's team, which finished fourth in the Big Ten standings.
Coach, we'll start with your opening statement, then we'll open the floor for questions.
TIM MILES: Thank you.
Happy to be here.  It's that time of year.  We put our suits on, my summer golf regimen allowed me to stay in the same weight class as last year.  A lot of good news.  Last night at dinner, at least three coaches weren't going to win one game all year, so the Huskers are moving up the notch.
Great to get together in the Big Ten Media Days.  We have a nice nucleus coming back.  Should be a lot of fun.  Kind of a stiff crowd, so good morning (laughter).
THE MODERATOR: We'll open the floor for questions for Coach Miles.
Q. I know you talked about this before, but you were in the situation a few years ago pre-season top 25.  What makes this team more equipped to handle those expectations?  Why are you confident this year will be different than it was the last time you were in this position?
TIM MILES: Well, the last group was a good group.  We had some things go monumentally wrong during the season, whether it be injury or illness, whatever it might be.  So I think it's hard to compare the two.
Jim Molinari always told me, comparison is the thief of joy, so maybe you should pay attention here (laughter).
But at the same time I feel like we're just better equipped.  This is a good group, a group that has I think a high ceiling.  When you look at James Palmer Jr., Isaac Copeland playing better than I have ever seen.  Glynn Watson, I think he realizes where he fits in with this group, after having to carry a big load for a couple years as a younger player, then fitting in later in life.  Isaiah Roby is getting better and better, too.
Q. James Palmer was named to the All-Conference team.  Can you talk a little bit about his growth, also kind of how he's accepted being the lead guy for this team.
TIM MILES: James has been very impressive.  As he came from Miami, he's gotten a lot stronger, his ball skills have improved, his jump shot has improved, which I think is important, his three-point shooting has to be better this year.
I think it's just his everyday habits are really, really good.  I think that's what's going to be a lot of fun working with him.  One of the smartest players on the floor that I've coached in a long, long time.  He knows everything that's going on, knows where everybody is supposed to be.  You can tell him something on a counter and in a quick, small amount of time, he picks it up, executes it just like you've been practicing it all week.
Q. Something you said during a radio interview over the summer, you said you felt like you have top-four talent.  What do you like with this group?  What can get you to the top four in the league?
TIM MILES: Well, pretty sure we were fourth last year, too.  I like this group because I really think that all of these guys are getting better.  So we have four guys I think anybody in the league would take.  That's not always been the case.  We might have one guy here or a guy there.  We really have guys that I think have a lot of talent, can carry a team.
I just like the direction of their work ethic, of their leadership.  That's why I feel so strongly about them.
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you.
TIM MILES: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT