ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 2004
Bob Kennedy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Why did you drop out, Bob?
 
BOB KENNEDY:  I don't really have all of the answers.  But, you know, I felt fine through 10, 11, right on the pace I wanted to run and felt very comfortable.  And then, you know, started to feel some fatigue which didn't necessarily surprise me.  It wasn't a concern, but then when we hit about 13, about halfway, I could tell that I wasn't going to be able to hold the pace I was running, so I tried to relax, find the rhythm, even a few seconds a mile slower and see if that's the rhythm I could hold and just kind of got progressively worse.  I ran 4:30-something for the 18th mile and things were shutting down, and it just wasn't worth going on at that point.  
 
Q.  Can you reflect a bit on your year as a whole, your disappointments are obvious, but is there anything positive in the season?
 
BOB KENNEDY:  A personal best in the 10,000 meters in the springtime, and I won a national cross-country championship, which right at this moment in time seems insignificant.  But if I had to pull some positives, I guess that would be it.  
 
Q.  Do you have plans to run a marathon again?
 
BOB KENNEDY:  I had not thought about it.  Let me get through tonight.  
 
Q.  What was your plan going in?  What were you trying to run?
 
BOB KENNEDY:  I was trying to run anywhere between 2:50 and 2:10:50.  I knew I had to be conservative early and I was, because I wasn't really in it in the beginning and that was by design.  So, that was the plan.  
 
Q.  Did you learn any lessons from this, Bob?
 
BOB KENNEDY:  Well, I'm sure I have.  I just don't know what they are yet.  (Laughter). 
 
Q.  Do you think with the altitude, it could have been more taxing on you? 
 
BOB KENNEDY:  I don't think so.  I think the altitude is new for me this year, and certainly this year and the year after would be a better situation from the altitude.  But we took that into consideration in preparation, and I was recovering properly and effectively between sessions and efforts.  And my intensity was very high at the end of the training cycle, so it didn't seem to be a problem.  
 
Q.  Do you take any solace in that a lot of people can't do this at a point in your career when a lot of people would give up on it?
 
BOB KENNEDY:  No.  You know, it's a challenge, and it's a challenge that I failed at the first time.  It doesn't necessarily mean that it's not something I'll try again.  But, in fact, it might motivate me to try again even more so because I'm not a lay-down kind of person; and I'm a competitive and aggressive person when it comes to athletics.  I'm sure the disappointment for the rest of today, tomorrow and then the -- if you want to say anger and motivation kick in from there and see where I go.  
 
Q.  Bob, what's the longest road race distance that you've completed?
 
BOB KENNEDY:  Road race, ten kilometers.  
 
BOB KENNEDY:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT