AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 13, 2004
Kevin Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just your thoughts on having to pitch in Boston Friday night? 

KEVIN BROWN:   It's a lot better than going home and not pitching at all.  You know, this time of year, anywhere you play is going to be supercharged.  You're going to have a lot of intensity with the fans.  But again, I've said it before, once you walk on the field, you usually have a tendency to kind of forget about all that kind of stuff and your focus, you're trying to do what you've got to do to get guys out. 

Q.  You're a guy who has always used emotion so much as to why you've been successful.  What did you learn in the past month about using your emotion, obviously not hitting a wall again? 

KEVIN BROWN:   Well, gee, probably some of the same things that I've learned over 15 years.  I mean, it's just a matter of being able to harness it and use it.  You don't see me show a lot of emotion on the field; that doesn't mean it's not there.  It's just a matter of, again, trying to control it and trying to use it. 

Q.  You've had to pitch with a bad back, other injuries in your career, we're hearing now about Schilling's tendon and his ankle; can you talk about some of the things you've pitched through and what you do to adjust and cope?

KEVIN BROWN:   To be honest with you, that's not something you want to talk about.  At this point in time of the season, you know, you look toward the goal, you try to ignore everything else you can and do what you can to be as good as you can and try to go out there and get the job done. 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the Red Sox lineup.  You struggled obviously your last start at Fenway, it's easy to look at them, the big two, Manny and Ortiz, but obviously there's more to the lineup.  Can you talk about what you'll be looking for?

KEVIN BROWN:   They have a great lineup up and down the line.  I think they scored most runs in the lead if I'm not mistaken, by mistake.  They have a good lineup from top to bottom.  They don't allow to you have any easy outs.  You have to go out and concentrate and work on every hitter, keep guys off the base, keep them from having big innings.  I think Moose did such an unbelievable job last night, he was sharp and he had guys off-balance all night long, and he allowed the team to go out and establish a lead, get our feet on the ground and that's what you're trying to do as a starter at any point in time. Obviously he did it very well for a very long period of time last night, but that's your objective with any team.  Especially one that adds much power and as much intensity as the Red Sox do, to keep them off-balance and keep them off the bases.

Q.  I know you don't want to talk about ailments, but just the last six weeks, the emotion, can you sum up what it's been like for you?  

KEVIN BROWN:   If you know I don't want to talk about it why did you ask it?  (Laughter.) Emotionally, it's been tough, it's been up-and-down.  It's very difficult, again, going through what I went through.  I think the whole season has been difficult.  Having an opportunity again to be here in this situation, in post-season with a great group of guys that have played their hearts out all year and to have comeback after comeback after comeback all season long, it's an honor and it's a privilege.  You know, I'm going to do everything that I can.  I think we all have seen this game enough to know that no matter how good you are, there are no guarantees for success.  The only thing I can guarantee you is I'm going to go out there and give it my all and, you know, Lord willing, it will be enough to give the team a chance to win. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT