NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PADRES v BRAVES
October 8, 1998
Kevin Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How would you stack this one out against the 16 strikeout game in the Division
Series?

KEVIN BROWN: I would say that the -- obviously. I don't think I had quite the stuff I
had that night. But from the standpoint of just trying to make adjustments as the game
went along and trying to use what was working at that moment, pretty good. You face a team
like those guys have over there; they can hurt you from top to bottom. So you've got to
try to minimize your mistakes against them.

Q. What was working for you best tonight?

KEVIN BROWN: Probably the fact that -- a variety of stuff. Not trying to stay with any
one thing consistently. I think I threw everything but the kitchen sink out there tonight.
So just winging it, just making stuff up as you go, really.

Q. How much did that extra day of rest help you in this game?

KEVIN BROWN: I can't tell you, because I don't know how I would have thrown if I threw
yesterday. But obviously, the decision turned out to be spectacular the way it turned out
tonight. The team fought and scraped and found a way to win last night. And the way things
turned out tonight, what else could you ask for?

Q. Kevin, how do you explain your mastery over Atlanta in postseason?

KEVIN BROWN: You don't. It's just a matter of when things go well, you really try not
to question them too much. You just try to keep focused and do what you're doing and don't
look back. You keep your focus and do what you've been doing.

Q. Kevin, when you're out there, you know you have the stuff that you have, can you get
outside yourself, outside the concentration you're doing, and just kind of feel that --
feel the momentum of your start as it builds? Can you get a sense of yourself upon
reflection while you're out there?

KEVIN BROWN: Not really. It's something that when I'm on the mound, I'm trying to stay
so focused as far as taking little steps. And I'm trying not to get ahead of myself.
Trying not to think about the next thing, trying not to think about the next hitter. It's
hard to back off. I don't want to back off and look at the big picture. I want to stay
focused on the little things. You have a chance to look at the big picture when it's all
said and done. So again, it goes back hand in hand with again trying to have success with
a team like this. You try to do the little things right and minimize your mistakes.

Q. If this series goes to a 5th game Monday, would you be comfortable going out on
three days rest, if Bruce asks you to?

KEVIN BROWN: Depends on how I feel tomorrow after I scrape the blood off my knees. If
everything feels good tomorrow, if they want me to do it, I'll do whatever they need.
Whatever is the best approach for the team, I'm going to do whatever they want me to do.

Q. When you slide head first into third, do you pick yourself up and go: Did I just do
that?

KEVIN BROWN: Well, I picked myself up and said: What an idiot I was for misreading that
ball. I thought it got past him further than that. Obviously, it was a misjudgment on my
part, and I'm just glad that it didn't cost us the game. If I stay on second there, we've
got a chance to extend that inning, and it was a base-running error on my part. And thank
goodness I had a chance to redeem myself. And we got a little bit of a lead and a little
cushion in the 9th inning.

Q. Can you afford to worry about expending too much energy on things other than
pitching, or once you get out there you're just doing whatever you can?

KEVIN BROWN: Obviously, I don't think I've ever been one to pace myself. I pretty much
let it all hang out. And when I run out of gas, I get off the field and let somebody else
try it. I don't know, that's the nature -- obviously that's the mindset I have on the
mound, it's kind of obvious with the way I was running the bases. Discretion would have
been the better part of valor there, but I was trying to be aggressive.

Q. Kevin, after your trip around the bases in the top of the 9th, did you feel strong
still in the bottom?

KEVIN BROWN: I definitely felt a lot better when I walked out to the mound than I did
as soon as I hit the dugout. I think I was sucking wind pretty bad right there. It was a
combination of the adrenaline, and the situation, you're so pumped up. Thank goodness the
inning was extended long enough for me to catch my breath and go out and have a chance to
finish out the night.

Q. You had five fly balls tonight. Is that a good indication that things are going good
for you when everything is on the ground?

KEVIN BROWN: Well, not necessarily. In the past, I'd say yes, but there have been all
the games this year, because I've kind of changed my approaches, depending what's working.
There have been a lot of games where I had more fly balls than I would have in the past
years. But as long as you're getting them out, I don't care. I don't care if they're fly
balls, ground balls, strikeouts.

Q. How important is the 2-0 lead going back for you?

KEVIN BROWN: What more could we want at this point? It's huge. It's a heck of a lot
better than being down two games, and it's better than being a split, 1-1 right now. I
think it's a real moral victory for us to come in here and play against this caliber of
team, and face the pitching we were going to face. I think it really just speaks to the
heart and soul of this team to come out and not be intimidated and not be discouraged and
to keep scrapping and fighting.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT