U.S. OPEN
September 9, 2018
Ashleigh Barty
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BARTY-VANDEWEGHE/Babos-Mladenovic   
3-6, 7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You seem kind of happy.  Not a whole lot of Grand Slam experience together.  You beat two top players in the world.  Talk about what you've been able to do in this match and in this tournament.  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think we have experience with separate partners, but also as singles players also.  We've gone far in a lot of different events separately, but we've had good success this year together when we have played together.   
I think it's finally the first time we've played together at a Grand Slam.  I was just dying for it.  She was great to play with for two weeks.  I had an amazing time out there with Ash.   
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, obviously we've only played a handful of tournaments together this year, but we've had pretty good success right from the get-go.  This last fortnight has been really fun on and off the court.  We've been relaxed.  We're very hungry to go as deep as we could.  It was really nice to be able to play a pretty clean tournament.   
 Q.  I know you both have to be well aware of what happened last night.  I'd like your thoughts on the situation.  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: I actually didn't see it, to be honest.  I was still heading back.  I've only really seen what's come across social media and everything.  I can't really comment on it because I didn't see it myself.   
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I'll keep it simple.  I thought it was ridiculous.  I thought it was a poor call from the umpire.  I think he should be held accountable just like the players are.   
 Q.  Do you think Serena should be held accountable in any way?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think the players are always held accountable.  It's time for the umpires to be held accountable.   
 Q.  You've never been penalized a game point, never defaulted?  How far has it gone with you?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Just a point.   
 Q.  Never a game?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Just for being late to walk out, I've been penalized a point.  Australian Open.  You can watch it on YouTube.   
 Q.  Never been penalized a game?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Never.  Never been penalized a point for breaking a racquet either.   
 Q.  You've been in a situation where you feel like you're getting out of control, but you're able to rein it back in?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No, you know what I think is the umpires, they antagonize a lot of players.  There's certain ones that need to be checked.   
But I think they need to be held accountable for the mistakes that they make and the calls they do make, whether they're right, wrong, or indifferent.  But this time it's been wrong, I've dealt with the wrong side where they think they hear something, they don't hear something.  The whole crowd thinks you're the screw-up, which is incorrect.  I think they need to be held accountable.   
 Q.  Just to clarify, where did you think the umpire screwed up?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yesterday?   
 Q.  For the coaching or giving her the game penalty?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think that's for the ITF and the USTA, if they collaborate on that decision, I think that's their decision, not mine.   
 Q.  Down three match points.  What was going through your mind?  How important was it to stay focused and patient?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I mean, the one I remember clearly is the match point that Ash saved on her serve.  I thought she hit a backhand.  I was, like, That's the biggest lace of a backhand I've ever seen.  She's like, No, that was a forehand.  I was, Thank God.  We're all good here.   
It was unbelievable nerves from Ash.  She basically has ice in the veins right now.  That was so clutch, I'm floored.  I am floored.   
 Q.  What did you make of the atmosphere out there?  A lot of support?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, it should be.  It was an American playing in the championship.  I'm just bummed we didn't have any sort of award ceremony.  We couldn't thank anyone.  I think that was poor form.   
Maybe we'll get another moment sometime, we'll have another Grand Slam at Australia.  Maybe they'll do us right in Australia since the U.S. couldn't do me right.   
 Q.  Have you committed to playing?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Now I think I forced you into it.  She can tell me at any point.  It's fine.   
 Q.  What was the reasoning given for the rush?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: The men needed to start.  To be honest, I don't think they would have worried if they were 10 or 15 minutes delayed.  I think it would have been nice for us to be able to thank our teams and all the people that make it a possibility, and to thank the crowd, as well.  They were absolutely phenomenal; they really were.  They were a little bit confused as to why we weren't given the opportunity.   
But at the end of the day, I mean, we still played a really good match and get to celebrate with our teams after.  I think it would have been nice to voice that straight after the match.   
 Q.  The thrill you both felt, what was the reflex reaction or emotion from both of you?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I mean, it was the whole time.  The whole time we were talking to each other through the whole match.  There were so many ebbs and flows through the match.  I told Ash, Listen, there's no one I'd rather be out here than with you right now.  I believe in you.  We're going to get this done.   
We've been talking about this moment.  For me personally, I wouldn't have dreamed this possible at the start of the week of how I entered into the event, not even close to 100%.  Even questioning if I was going to play the event.   
So I definitely didn't think this was going to be a possibility.  I'm so happy to be here now at the end with a trophy.   
 Q.  Looking back, when you took some time out and went to play cricket, how beneficial was that to your career?  
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I mean, I think my six months in cricket is pretty well-documented.  The time I had off is well-documented.  That was a long time ago now.  Yeah, it's a long time ago.  It's behind me.   
I feel like, yes, there are certain aspects of it that helped me to get to where I am now.  But we've done a hell of a lot of work in the last 18 months and two years to get to this point.   
I needed to have that break.  But, you know, in the same breath, we've done everything kind of the way that we've wanted to.  Now we get the reward.   
 Q.  Do you feel this win is going to propel you to a better year next year?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, of course.  I think that's why I play doubles.  There's a lot of things that happen in singles on and off the court.  But I play doubles to give myself motivation onto the court, to get match experience, to get match time, which is what I was really looking for.   
When you win, it's always going to propel you no matter what sector you're playing in.  When you're winning, you're feeling good, you're confident in yourself, it's going to propel you forward.   
 Q.  You have to lose in the singles, of course.  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, well, hopefully next time it's in the singles and doubles.  I'll be very selfish.   
 Q.  Are there any other inconsistencies you would like to talk about?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No.   
ASHLEIGH BARTY: No.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT