HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 31, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. VANDEWEGHE/S. Peng
3-6, 6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Seemed like you were playing really well by the end and trying to pump yourself up.  What do you think was the key to turning things around in the end?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Today was a survive-and-conquer kind of day.  I really was playing not so well, very below average for the standard that I'm used to playing and competing at.
I think it was, you know, just a matter of, you know, focusing on the next point at hand and just moving forward.  I mean, it's a tough part of the year and it's a tough event.
Q. How do you feel when Chinese fans say, "CoCo, let's go"?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: It's nice to have fans here in China.  I met one of my fans that's running my Chinese Twitter.  At least I can try and be famous here in China, because otherwise I can't do anything.  My WeChat got blocked.  I can't do anything in China.  I'm no fun (smiling).
Q. This event at the finale of the tour, very last and a very long China swing toward the end of the season, can you talk about how challenging it is to compete during this period of time in the tour?  If so, is there anything positive you can take out of the China season to see really the game, the rise in this part of the world?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I don't really feel I can speak to how this is helping tennis grow in this part of the world, because I only see a glimpse of it.
But, yeah, for me, this is probably the toughest part of the year after the US Open.  I kind of feel like there's nothing more to play for.  I mean, it's silly sometimes for me at certain junctions.  I know there is Singapore and I know there is this tournament.  But, I mean, after US Open -- we play for Grand Slams, and for me, I also take Olympics as a huge priority.
I think after US Open, it's kind of -- it's rough.  There is no secret about that.
I kept constantly playing because of the Fed Cup Final.  I really take playing for my country very seriously, so I played a lot of tournaments I normally would never even fathom playing.  I was going to miss most of China in general, anyway, Wuhan and Beijing, just because I was exhausted after the US Open.  Emotionally I didn't want to play any tennis.
For people that don't ever experience it, it's very difficult to come back emotionally, more so than physically, after a Grand Slam.  So the fine was too much, so I showed up in Beijing because it cost less to fly there and play than actually it was to get fined.
Q. How are you feeling about going up against Sloane and Kerber?  And do you think you've got a chance of winning?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, we're still in the round-robin play.  They have to do their job in their section and I have to do my job in my section.  I'm not really looking that far ahead at all.
Q. I take it that means for next year, have you kind of looked for next year and how you might feel about your prospects of doing next year, generally?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Doing next year what?
Q. How you feel you might go next year, not on this specific tournament but just in general next year.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: You know, I don't really -- I have a reflection in the holidays.  I usually take a morning and have a cup of coffee and usually I'm somewhere by the ocean to really spoil myself.  I write out the goals for next year of what I want.
Obviously I'm not on a beach anywhere right now, and I still have one more goal to reach as far as what I wanted this year and that's Top 10.  Hopefully I'm able to achieve it here this tournament.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. Can you comment on your opponent today, Peng Shuai.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, yeah, the match was very difficult for me.  I wasn't really making good contact with the ball, wasn't really making enough balls in court, and I was just very sloppy at the start.  That allowed her to start well into the match, and I just had to keep fighting my way back.  So I hope that answers your question.
THE MODERATOR: Question in English.
Q. A question about Vesnina, having to play her.  You have played her earlier in the year.  Any thoughts on that?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, she's a tough player.  She hits very aggressively, returns well.  Hopefully I can play a little bit better than I did today.  If I do and compete hard for every point, then, yeah, I hope it's a W next to my name in that match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT