U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/C. Vandeweghe   
6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough match, obviously.  How much of that was not being there?  How much of it was the occasion?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: None of it had anything to do with the occasion.  It was more Madison played an unbelievable match.  I didn't really have much to do with anything out there.   
 Q.  Walking out there, obviously big occasion, big night on Ashe.  How were the butterflies walking out?  How exciting was it?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Like I said, I wasn't overwhelmed by it.  I think it's hard to look back on it now, the way I'm feeling right now, but it's an amazing experience to be in the semifinal, to be here playing for my country and to know that I worked this hard to get here, but it's a pretty crummy feeling right now.   
 Q.  It's so fresh after a loss, but is it too soon to maybe take a lot of positives about what you were able to accomplish after the last week and a half?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think this whole summer and most of this year -- I mean, the year's not over.  I have made a lot of strides into what I want to be as far as interim goals of this year.  It's a step closer to where I want to be, but definitely not, by any means -- by any means, it's not the end.  I think this year has a lot of positives to it, for sure.   
 Q.  At what point during this match did you have the feeling that it might not go your way?  During the first game or first two games, or when did that maybe set in?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, she was playing a great first set.  I thought at some point she might start running a little bit colder than what she was doing.  I mean, it's really not over until the last point.  I was fighting as hard as I could for as long as I could, but she stayed hot the whole time.   
 Q.  What was going through your mind during the medical timeout?  Were you trying to stay warm?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I don't know what was going on.  I don't know what her ailment was.   
I was just -- you know, it's still a regular tennis match where you have to go through what you normally would do in a situation like that where an opponent takes a medical timeout, which is try and stay warm, especially in a night match.   
 Q.  What are you most proud of from this fortnight?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I'm most proud of how hard I fought through every round.  Even today, as much as it was on Madison's racquet, I think to get to this point, to have this opportunity, was all about heart and desire.  That's what I can be really proud of through these last two weeks.   
 Q.  How proud are you of this year at the Slams?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, my Slam's not over.  I still have got some winning to do on the mixed doubles end.  Hopefully I'll be really happy at the end of this Slam.   
 Q.  Is the disappointment an opportunity lost?  Is it just because it's a loss?  Can you articulate kind of how you're feeling at the moment?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think it's a combination of the occasion of how I lost.  I guess that equates to more of it's a semifinal at the US Open, U.S. tournaments, and also, it's a little bit frustrating right now how I'm feeling of that it wasn't so much of my say-so.   
I don't feel that way very often in my tennis, so I think it's a little bit of an opportunity lost for me, but at the same time, there's going to be more Grand Slams.  Hopefully I set myself up for more opportunities.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT