THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 11, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. RYBARIKOVA/C. Vandeweghe   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You played so well up till today.  What happened today?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: That's why Grand Slams are the hardest tournaments.  They're over two weeks and you have to play well for two weeks.   
 Q.  I saw the second-to-last point.  Could you state for us what kind of happened there with the umpire and the line call?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: The umpire stated that the call came in my swing, which the baseline umpire called it out.  Then it was a challenge by me, and the ball was in.  So she said 30-Love, which if the call comes in your swing, that's a hindrance, which is what I argued to the umpire.   
She seemed to disagree that a call in your swing was not a hindrance, so then it's 30-Love.   
 Q.  Seemed to be also from what the TV cameras picked up she admitted that, and then you tried to go back to let her know?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, that's what I just said.   
 Q.  How would you describe your opponent's performance today?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think she's playing the best tennis of her career right now.  She's won a lot of tournaments.  She's playing really well.  She's in the semifinals.   
 Q.  Could you imagine playing at such a high level coming off what she's come off of, seven months out, wrist surgery, knee surgery?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Hopefully I'll never have to experience that.  I'm not quite sure if I want to go thinking that route.   
But all credit to her for coming back and sticking with it.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts about what Venus Williams is doing here?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think it's great.  She's a great player.  I think it's great for American tennis to keep progressing through Wimbledon.  Hopefully Sam can kind of pick up on the men's side tomorrow.   
 Q.  Did you register any kind of complaint because it might have been an interpretation of the rule?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Of what, sorry?   
 Q.  On that second-to-the-last point.  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I think if there's a hindrance during a motion, if someone yells out in the middle of a swing, that's a hindrance call, and usually you replay the point.   
 Q.  Did you talk to anybody about it afterwards?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I literally stretched and came right here.   
 Q.  Do you plan to?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No.  I think the TV evidence will show what actually happened.   
 Q.  Any factors about playing a match on two courts?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think this is the first time I've ever done that.  But no.  It's part of tennis.  Especially with an outdoor tournament, there are a lot of factors that come into play, wind, rain, sunshine, still day.  I think that's great about tennis, is you have to play through all those factors.   
It shows mental resilience, quite honestly in tennis, of how mentally strong we have to be as players to be, quite frankly, ready for anything.   
 Q.  How early in the delay were you told about the possibility you both could finish on Centre Court?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: After the first set of Halep and Konta.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT