THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. VANDEWEGHE/M. Barthel   
7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  Can you just talk about your overall performance today, how the game went for you.   
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think the most important thing is I came out with a victory (smiling).  I don't think it was the best nor hopefully the worst.  I think coming away with a first-round victory is difficult in itself.   
 Q.  Can you talk about Pat Cash and the effect he's had on your game thus far?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, he's introduced me to a lot of '80 rock bands, which before I wasn't quite familiar with.  I keep having to remind him I was born in '91.   
But other than that, I mean, he's on top of me about mentally staying with it and everything like that, and it's a constant harping on that one.   
 Q.  Is there anything specific in terms of your game and your style that he's really making you focus on?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, come forward and definitely put my presence out there.  I think he said that a bunch of just, Your presence can sometimes get you through difficult situations, so I think that goes along with mentality.   
 Q.  What does a July 4 holiday and the opportunity to perform on that day mean to you?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I had to make sure I had an American flag T-shirt, the only one that I brought.  I was talking about what's the most American thing we can do today to celebrate the 4th?  Unfortunately, couldn't find any fireworks online or sparklers or anything like that.   
You know, I think the 4th of July is something special.  I think it's for the patriotic bunch that are here, it's special for us.   
 Q.  Looking back at this week, usually the championship round you used to watch at home, is there something that sticks out like a match or a player?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: A championship match in particular?   
 Q.  Yeah, when you would watch this tournament at home as a kid.  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I actually didn't watch much tennis growing up.  No, sorry.  Sorry to burst the question's bubble.  I didn't start watch watching tennis until I was actually kind of competing more seriously just because it wasn't a big sport in my family.   
So I guess to answer that, the match that I remember -- I don't even remember who Venus was playing, but the last time Venus won the title.  I don't remember who she was playing in the final, but that's the last one, I guess, as-a-kid moment that I would remember.   
 Q.  You were seeded I think 24th here.  I think probably everybody thinks you're higher than 24th, among favorites to win here with how much success you have had here on grass, other places.  Would you like to see the women have the same seeding formula as the men?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: That's not for me to decide.  That's for the committee.   
 Q.  Going back to Pat for a second, it's 30 years since he won.  Find any magic or symbolism in that?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, I heard maybe yesterday that it was a 30-year anniversary for Pat.  I don't know -- I mean, I hope there is some magic that runs off on to me, but hopefully the All England Club does something special for Pat, because 30 years is a nice number to have a nice celebration.   
 Q.  A swing through Europe wouldn't be complete without an NBA question.  What's your take on the Knicks?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: For what?  There is a lot of things happening.   
 Q.  Yeah, but your takeaway from the meltdown and firing of Jackson?  Do you think they can possibly rebuild or...  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I mean, I hope so.  As a fan, I hope so.  I would like to see the Knicks in title contention.   
 Q.  You had said before that when Craig left it was a surprise.  What was the surprise?  How did that go down?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: That he wanted to quit (smiling).   
 Q.  Can you share why?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Like I said, it's just, from what he said when we sat down, was it was just a relationship that wasn't working anymore.  I mean, it wasn't my decision, so it's all what he decided.   
 Q.  How important do you think coaching is at this stage of your career?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think it's different style of coaching comes in different stages of each player's career.  I think what I needed when I was starting is different from what I need now.   
I think it's important for me personally, I can't speak to anyone else, because for me I have never been -- I'm hard on myself, but it's kind of the hand holding of directing me to what I have to do.  Once I get into the project of what I'm working on, I work very hard.   
But it's more I couldn't, by myself, decide, Oh, I need to work on my backhand more, or something along those lines.  I wouldn't even know where to start there.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts yesterday, if you had a chance to see Venus Williams' remarks and her press conference?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I did not, sorry.   
 Q.  And Serena Williams not being at a tournament, how does that affect the field being open and maybe the mentality of all the other players, do you think?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I can't really speak on all the other players.  I mean, for me I go into a tournament focused on myself and going past the first round, and then if that happens, going past the second round.   
 Q.  Could you ever see yourself wearing a checkered headband?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: It's not allowed here at the All England Club.  I was told by Pat it wasn't allowed here.  Too much color.   
I have dabbled with the idea of a headband to try out that look, but I don't know if I'll ever succeed in that.   
 Q.  How would you describe Pat's personality?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I would say he's actually on the side of dorky a little bit sometimes.  I mean, he's just -- it's a different generation.  So for me, it's like sometimes the things that he says are like references he goes to, it's like, Dude, that's a dorky reference.  It's a fun, jovial light he has to himself.   
 Q.  Have you spoken to Sloane or her thoughts since her first tournament back in almost 11 months?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No, I haven't spoken to Sloane.   
 Q.  Regarding Fed Cup, could you share a favorite Fed Cup story that's fun or different?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: For me personally, there's a photo circulating around of Kathy Rinaldi after one of our roller coaster adventure in Tampa, and it's kind of poking fun at her.   
I sent it to the group chat from that Fed Cup tie, with a slogan of "Never forget."  It's a good one.   
 Q.  And Kathy's magic that she brings to coaching the team?  She's had a good record so far.  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think it's more just her relationship with the players that works so well.  I think that's the magic behind it is her relationship not just now.  It started way before when we were essentially nothings, to put it that way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT