AEGON CLASSIC
June 23, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MUGURUZA/C. Vandeweghe
4-6, 6-4, (ret.)
THE MODERATOR: Questions for CoCo.
Q. Commiserations, but firstly, how are you?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I'm scheduled to get an MRI tomorrow.  So we'll find out exactly the root of it.  But I mean it's unfortunate, the timing, but hopefully I can recover as soon as possible.
Q. Was it a preexisting injury or was it the combination of that and the ankle twist as well?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I had tweaked my foot in the first round and was recovering.  I mean I felt like out of ten I was pain wise three out of ten and did another move again first set.  I got retaped just to reinforce it, but pain was just couldn't move anymore.  So felt sort of potentially maybe even doing something more or causing another injury or something, might as well just, unfortunately for everyone else, just to stop.
Q. Did the fall hurt the same injury again?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No.  It didn't hurt the same injury again.  It was more the injury itself caused the fall.
Q. I mean in terms of Wimbledon and your game is well suited for grass here, is this a concern for you or are you hoping that a week off is going to just help?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I mean both.  I think any injury is cause for concern, but I think once I get kind of the exact information, I can make a collective decision as far as rehab and being as prepared as possible for Wimbledon.
Q. Will you be at Eastbourne?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I mean as far as this goes?  No, I'm not going to be at Eastbourne, but I'm waiting for the scan tomorrow to officially decide.
Q. CoCo, given the fact that you did have injury and you still managed to play fairly competitively, how encouraging is that, that when you do have an injury, that you can be competitive?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I'm glad I was competitive.  No, I mean I was dominating her for a full set.  And then, you know, only reason I kept playing was because I was getting sniffs at that second set.  So there was no other reason why I was still playing after that.  But unfortunately for the crowd I had to pull out, and that's always a disappointment for me that I couldn't show the best of my abilities to the fans out there that come to support us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT