AEGON CLASSIC
June 22, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. VANDEWEGHE/J. Konta   
6-1, 6-3   
 Q.  That was a hell of a first set.  I know it's not all done Cashy.  But it's nice to see him watching one of your matches for a change, isn't it, especially with a performance like that?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah.  I had the racquet, unfortunately for Cash.  No, it was a good first set.  It was executed well, and I played solid, and that's all you can ask for is coming out there being focused, solid and executing the game plan.   
 Q.  You really took it away from Johanna.  She was almost sitting there at the end of the first set asking her coach, you know, I just can't get into this.  You really sort of used your power, didn't you, to dictate?  Does that give you even more confidence going forward now?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: That's typically my game.   
 Q.  That's the world No. 7 you just sat on her back side.  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I -- that's your words.  But you know, like I said, it's my game.  It's how I'm going to beat opponents.  I mean that's kind of how I've played my best tennis, you know, in Australia being Kerber and Muguruza and those players and things like that.  But I'm not going to be out there grinding on especially a grass court.  That's just a little asinine.   
 Q.  What's the secret to a performance like that?  How do you prepare yourself to come out and just play superbly throughout?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I'm a big believer in routines.  Whether it's a good day or a bad day, routines are kind of my go-to to settle if things are going bad, if things are going good, because emotionally you're trying to keep as much of an even keel as possible.  So that's -- I guess I would relate it to routines, but you practice for days like this and you also practice for bad days and to come out of bad days as well.   
 Q.  And was it a conscious plan to attack Johanna's first serve as well as the second serve?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No.  I wasn't really attacking it.  I mean I was just trying to get it back solid, and I was getting her on her back foot pretty easily.  So I mean if it looked like it was attacking, that wasn't my intention.  I was just trying to get it back solid in play.   
 Q.  And looking ahead, you're playing Muguruza next.  What are your expectations for that match?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: It's a new day.  I'll go watch some film again and kind of go over my notes that I have on her and go out there and compete hard.  That's all I can ask for.   
 Q.  You talked about routine and emotions, and you've been on a bit of a roller coaster, ending with Craig, trying to get to know Pat.  Has that affected your routine or has it been quite easy to sort of keep that going while bringing Pat into the team?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No, it hasn't been easy.  With a new coach comes different wants and asks of the player.  And so it's kind of adjusting around that at the start, but we had a week in Holland to kind of manage that and figure that out.  But Pat's pretty simple in what he wants for me.  It's more just kind of managing the rest of it and him kind of getting into my routine, both ends of it.   
But definitely ending a relationship with a coach doesn't put you in the best mind frame or area, but I had -- like I said yesterday, I had to get myself settled, and then from there it's going and finding a replacement.  And I was happy that Pat was more than willing to kind of fill the role.   
 Q.  And obviously he's an Aussie, so has he starting hitting you with some specific Aussie phrases yet?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Aussies always abbreviate everything.  But I think I'm a little bit more used to different English slangs than probably any physio is.  He's Argentinian.  He's like, I can't understand a word he's saying.  I know, I don't blame you sometimes.  Sometimes the abbreviations even get me to have to kind of think about it a little bit, but no, it's been good.  We were making fun of "Crocodile Dundee" while I was stretching out just this afternoon.   
 Q.  So give us an example of what he's said that's like flummoxed you?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Smashies.  We call them overheads in the U. S.  But Julian, my physio, had no idea what that was.  I knew what it was because I've heard Aussies say smashes and things like that.  So I got the gist of it.   
 Q.  Garbiñe was in here talking about contenders for Wimbledon and saying it's very open.  What you get this sort of momentum that you're building up, you always believe you're a contender anyway, but do you feel you've got a little bit extra maybe that others haven't going into Wimbledon?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I don't know.  You know, I think as I've learned the more Grand Slams that ^ I've played, you need a little bit of luck, especially when the weather has such a play at Wimbledon.  And I've had experience so far this year going a step closer than my previous best, which was quarterfinals, to semifinals.  So all you can ask for is to play match by match.  And for me I've never really looked in front.  You can ask me who I'm playing in the next round, I can't tell you until someone lets me know because it doesn't really matter who you're playing in the next round unless you get by the first one.  So I just focus on the first round and continue doing well here at Birmingham because when you win matches and you're riding confidence, you're always going to play better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT