AEGON CLASSIC
June 20, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. VANDEWEGHE/C. McHale
6-4, 6-2
Q. Well done today.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Thank you.
Q. Was it really important to sort of improve your level a bit after a tough loss in the first round at ^ Hertogenbosch last week?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: That's a loaded question.  Yes, I mean Christina is a difficult opponent and so is Witthöft, but it wasn't like I was completely a mess out there playing in ^ Hertogenbosch.  So I mean I had match point.  So it's not like I played a bad match.  First matches on grass are always tricky.  And it's not a bad thing.  I had a really good practice time and played doubles, so I did end up getting some matches on grass.  But I knew I had to be sharp against Christina and sharp early.  And I think I did a really good job of being on top of myself most importantly.
Q. Does it make it tougher to take when you have a close loss where you've had chances to win as you say?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think it's very few that you lose with a match point.  I can name the other two matches that I had.  One was actually here against Kristýna Plíšková in qualis way back when.  And it's a little bit more heartbreaking, I think.  But it's still a loss and there's still things to work on and improve on the same as if you have a win, there's still things to improve on.  That's the great thing about tennis, you can't ever be perfect at it.
Q. So you felt good out there today, felt like you were hitting the ball well?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Not necessarily, but well enough and controlled everything around me well enough to get the job done today, and I think that's what's important about tennis matches.
Q. Johanna thinks you played in juniors, but you haven't played at the senior level, have you?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No idea.  Don't remember.  If it happened, I don't remember.  What would she be doing in America playing juniors if she's British, Australian or what?  I don't know.  No, at the time in juniors, I don't remember what she was at that time.
Q. And playing her now, obviously she's 7 in the world.  Have you been watching how she has made that leap up into Top 10?  Have you seen anything in particular in her game that you have to deal with in particular?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I mean it's not like I've been focusing on her specifically at all.  I think I've -- tennis is an individual sport, and so I focus on myself more so and what I can improve on and how I can improve in every tournament against different opponents.  So no, I can't necessarily say that I've been focusing on what she's been doing.
Q. Coaching wise, Pat's on board now for the grass.  Is he here?  Do you talk on the phone each time before you play, after you play?  How does it work?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: He's actually commentating in Queen's right now, but if I play an afternoon match, he said he can make it here on time if they let him off.  It was close today.  He was debating it, but they're making him commentate two matches, so I told him to quit the slave labor and come out here and watch me play tennis.  But yeah, he was in ^ Hertogenbosch with me.  That was our first week together working, and it's been enjoyable, that's for sure.
Q. What in particular -- Pat is someone to help you -- obviously he's a champion, but anything in particular about the way he played and his attitude in life?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, actually, I didn't even know that he was available or considering coaching at all.  I had -- when Craig and I split, it was kind of a huge surprise for me, so it was more just getting myself in order.  You know, when you have a good success with a coach, I think it's a disappointment when the relationship ends.  So I think first and foremost I was getting myself in order and then getting my ducks in a row after that as far as tennis wise, and sat down with my agent, and he suggested three people, including Pat.  And I was like, well, obviously Pat's the most intriguing one, being -- I've been around him at an exhibition or two and things like that, and I have actually practiced with him at Indian Wells.  And his personality and the way he kind of doesn't leave a stone unturned even in just himself, which at the time I was just, you know, listening to him focus on himself more so than looking outside for as a coach and just listening as a former player and a former champion, which I always enjoy doing, hearing about how they did it and what worked for them.  And that was kind of the way he went about things is, I didn't leave a stone unturned as to what I could do to improve and get myself better, get myself healthier or get myself fitter or whatever the scenario was.
Q. He hasn't suggested a really good headband at any point to wear?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I've tried the headband look.  Only in Asia when you're basically at the end of your rope in the season, just to kind of mess around.  But it's -- I don't know what it is.  I think I've worn a visor for so long, I find myself grabbing for the visor and it's not there, and I feel like I look like a complete dunce.  So I haven't committed to the headband look.
Q. You had a really good grass court swing last year.  Do you feel like a disruption in your coaching situation will hinder you at all or do you think you can do even better?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, the tour is not over, but it's definitely -- it doesn't help things.  That's for sure.  I don't think anyone could say a coaching split helps anybody.  But you know, because you just lose that comfort level.  I think even if you go and the next coaching relationship ends up a huge success, it's still a learning curve of learning each other, learning how to speak to each other, kind of their lingo and everything like that.  So it definitely wasn't helpful, but I am a big believer that things happen for a reason, and I have a really good feeling about working with Pat, and just kind of his energy and aura and just how we've been communicating and working together, I think it's been a really huge positive.
Q. This is presumably a really important week for you with ranking points to defend and practice for Wimbledon.  Would you agree with that?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think every week is important.  I mean we don't go out here to lose.  So I think every week is important.  I don't really focus too much on defending the points and things like that.  I never have been about that.  I've been more about improving for the Grand Slams, and that's what we play for is for the Grand Slams, not to run and chase points.  At least that's not how I play.
Q. And do you have a specific aim for Wimbledon when it comes around?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: A game.
Q. A specific aim for how far you want to get through the tournament.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think I'm focusing right now on Birmingham, but my goals for this year is to make another second week of a Grand Slam.  Whether that's a Wimbledon or US Open, there's two more Grand Slams to go forward.  And my other goal is to make Top 10.  So to do well at Wimbledon will definitely help it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT