ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. RYBARIKOVA/C. Vandeweghe
6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. (Off mic.)  Do you think something didn't translate or you were surprised that, for whatever reason, things weren't working today?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No.  Today is -- this is tennis.  Tennis is tennis.  Someone wins, someone loses.
Q. Did you feel like you were coming in here and feeling well today and you played enough?  Too much?  Not enough?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No.  I mean, I had a week of training and came in fresh.  But, you know, you can't win every day.
Q. Sorry.  I mean, when you got on the court, did you feel like things were not happening, or did you do anything to take you outside of your rhythm?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I mean, being down 5-0, I'm not feeling like things are happening too well.
But, yeah, I think she's a tricky player to play and definitely was surprising with certain shots, certain plays.  But, no, I really wasn't playing well today.
Q. What did she do that surprised you?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, numerous amount of things, too many to list off.
Q. Obviously, your consistency has been one of the things you've worked on in the past years.  Where do you go from here in terms of improving that even more so that this doesn't happen again, I guess.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Good question.  I mean, it's a different position to be in where I am going -- that I was going into this tournament, winning some matches on clay.  Normally, that doesn't happen.
So, you know, it was -- today was definitely surprising for me as far as my quality of play.  But, you know, to not allow this to happen again, it's hard to say.  I think everyone's human and allowed to have a crappy moment in their profession.  And I think hopefully they're few and far between in the whole year.
And, you know, I still have doubles and mixed doubles to play.  So hopefully I can find some more rhythm and some more confidence from those next events.
Q. As you said, you weren't used to playing so many matches on clay and winning.  Will you be able to look at this whole period positively, do you think, eventually, after a while?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Maybe when I get to reflect, but right now, no, I'm not thinking too positively right now.
Q. But it sounds like you feel like you got your head around the red clay a little bit more this season and that's got to feel good, no?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: You want to perform in a Grand Slam, and I didn't perform.  So I don't really care what else happened.  I want to perform in a Grand Slam and I didn't.
Q. Do you think at all playing this past week might have helped instead of resting?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: This past week, I played a long match.  I played one match.
Q. In the lead up to the tournament.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No, I don't like playing the week before a Grand Slam.  I usually don't.
Q. Do you think when it came to scouting, if you're saying that you didn't -- or she was doing things that surprised you, if that sort of threw you off in this match?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: You have to ask Craig that.
Q. Okay.  And then going into grass now, obviously, that's a favorite surface of yours.  Schedule-wise, are you going back to the Netherlands again, and what are your plans and hopes for the grass season?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I'm not even thinking about the grass season.  I have two more events here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT