BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2018
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. VANDEWEGHE/K. Kanepi
6-0, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You were down set point at one point.  What happens?  Walk us through the turning point in the match there.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Oh, I didn't even realize I was down set point.
I mean, there wasn't really a turning point in that match.  It was a tough second set, and it was more -- I mean, I know what type of player she is.  She can hit a really big ball.
You know, Pat said something similar that happened in her first match she played.  I didn't watch it.  But she kind of played similar.  She starts slow in the first set and then came out whaling.  And so I was definitely expecting it.  I saw her play at the US Open.  She had a great run there.
So it wasn't like too much of a turning point of the match.  It was more staying even.  It was high-level tennis.  I'm happy with how both her and I played in that second set and, you know, just stayed tough and pulled it out.
Q. How are you enjoying the conditions out here, then?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I have always been back and forth with it (smiling).  I like it, and then I don't like it all that much.
The courts are super gritty and slow, but the air is super thin and fast.  It's like a crazy weird contrast that takes a good amount of time to prepare for.
I have been out here for a week with a little stint to New York, but just because I was -- it was freezing in San Diego.  I was like, I'm going to come to warm weather.  Also the fact that I know it's just super difficult to adapt to out here.
Q. Would you say that practicing in a relatively similar climate gives you some advantage, then, in the adaptation process?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I wouldn't say that San Diego is so similar just because it's such a huge contrast of the court difference to the air difference.  It's hard to really describe until you see it.
But, I mean, I was listening -- because I was watching Serena's match last night -- to Lindsay Davenport commentating, saying the same thing.  She was saying the court grabs and you really have to get up to the short balls.  That's really the case.  It takes time to adjust to it and takes a lot of practice.
Q. Would you say that generally in tennis, aside from climate where you all are traveling all the time, practicing all over the place, is there such a thing as home-court advantage like we talk about in basketball and other sports?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Definitely, I think it is.  I definitely feel like I have been able to relish in the home-court advantage in Fed Cup and be able to harness it in the way I would like it to.
It definitely overwhelmed me when I was playing in the States, and especially here and New York, where I wanted to do so well because I have friends and family that come out.  And it's very few times that they're able to see me live in person.
So it's getting use to it and getting more comfortable with it, and hopefully I get better and better as I keep playing.
Q. This is a draw that has so many people coming back but working their way back into form.  How do you feel about that and just your chances this year as being an opportunity?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I definitely think there is an opportunity for me to do well here.  That's definitely one of my goals this year for me to do well here and in Miami as well.  Pat and I have talked about that a whole bunch.
But, I mean, I can't really speak on the other players.  It's great to see -- just because I was spending time with Serena with Fed Cup and then also at Madison Square Garden -- to see great champions come back and play.  And that's really exciting for the tennis community as well as the tennis fans.
Q. You're one of the more known to be enthusiastic Fed Cup players.  Would you welcome changes like that are being proposed to Davis Cup in Fed Cup or are you happy with the structure the way it is now?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, actually the Fed Cup is changing next year to the single site.  I hate it, personally.  I think it's a terrible idea.  I think Fed Cup needs that home-court advantage.  I think that takes away from the aspect of Fed Cup and Davis Cup being home and away ties, and I think that change is terrible.
What other changes are going on at Davis Cup?  I think they are changing it to two out of three, I'm not sure.  I think that's okay.  I'm not a male player, so I don't know what it's like to play three out of five.
But for the women, the fact they are changing it to a neutral site I think is terrible.  I think they are also playing it one week, which I also think is terrible, especially at the end of the year.  We are all dying, anyway.  It's so stupid, so stupid.
Q. Working with Pat, what is working about that relationship and the chemistry that you have?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Oh, it's a good chemistry.  I think Pat's definitely at the -- at the start, I was listening to such a legendary player and icon in the tennis world and kind of getting used to his expectations.
But I think as we've evolved more as a player/coach relationship, he's definitely been more of like a father-figure relationship to me.  I think that has worked well with the respect factor between each other.
Q. Can you just say a couple words about meeting the hockey team?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Oh, that was so sick.  So we were actually all lined up and Daniela was standing next to me, and she's like, Those are Olympians, right?  I think it's the hockey team.  Because we were far away.  You couldn't really see.
It was really sick to have them there, and they were definitely celebrating what they have achieved, and to be an Olympian is something special.
So for myself, I can definitely relate to that.  You know, they're icons.  Any gold medalist is an icon.  It's something I want to be and I can look up to.  So it was really cool to have them there front and center and definitely get to be one of the girls with them, I guess, is the easiest way to say it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT