BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS CZECH REPUBLIC
April 22, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. VANDEWEGHE/M. Vondrousova   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Coco.   
 Q.  Your seventh consecutive Fed Cup match win.  Do you think you're getting the hang of this Fed Cup stuff?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think that number just states how much it means to me to play for my country, even if it is a detriment to WTA singles.   
But it's important to me.  I want to play.  I'll continue to keep playing as long as I'm called upon.  I think more people should take that as a priority because Fed Cup is such a great atmosphere, such a great kick-starter to a career.   
It's such a great momentum builder for a lot of different things to build on for the rest of the season and moving forward from there.   
 Q.  How much do you think that's an effect of the culture that your mom was an Olympian?  I know Andre Agassi and a few other players came from that kind of background.  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think to each their own.  I think that's definitely what's influenced me.  I wasn't a really big tennis player as, like, my major sport growing up.  I never knew what Fed Cup, Davis Cup, any of that stuff was.  I just knew what the Olympics was, and what playing for your country meant.  That's where I kind of take it from, and why I play now.   
 Q.  A little bit about the match.  Obviously first set went really well.  She kind of gained a little confidence maybe in the second, maybe you cut back a little bit.  Give us your opinion.  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, I mean, I definitely had a huge mental lapse, which happens from time to time.  But I was able to keep coming back because I had a really good beat on her serve.  I really was reading it well.  It was very predictable at times.  I think I used that to my advantage when it came to important points.   
Off the ground I was feeling comfortable.  I just got a little bit lazy, a little bit lackadaisical.  That was kind of the story of why it was so close in the second set.   
 Q.  You are a veteran of several Fed Cups.  What was your impression of today's atmosphere?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I thought it was amazing.  This is one of the best ones I've been a part of.  I really take to heart kind of leading this team.  I've always dreamed about doing that, being a leader of a team like this.   
I think it's really something special to have home-court advantage.  I'm so glad that the people here in Florida came out to support us as well as they did, and hopefully it continues through Sunday.   
 Q.  How would you assess the way you served today?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Mediocre.  I don't think I served particularly well through about the beginning, middle patch of the second set.  Probably last two games of the second set I served pretty darn well.  I found my rhythm again of kind of the cadence of my serve.   
First set I wasn't really impressed with myself either on the serving aspect.  Whatever, I won, so it doesn't matter.   
 Q.  When you're playing a teenager like this making a Fed Cup debut, is there anything you can do to take advantage of those nerves, especially when they start slowly?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: You know, the only thing I can do is control myself.  I think everyone, no matter if it's their first match, first tie, their 20th match, 20th tie, you're going to be nervous going out and playing for your country.  I think that's kind of a wash for everyone.   
But I think she's actually coming in on a high from winning a tournament last week.  So she should be the in-form, confident player, more so than I am.  I didn't win a match in Indian Wells or Miami.  I feel like she should have more confidence going in than I would.   
I just was more focused on myself, doing a good preparation week, doing the things I know I can control.  That's the only thing I can be proud of myself going into Saturday and playing matches on that day.   
 Q.  After each of you broke serve in the middle of the second set, how important was it for you to finish off the match in the second set and not have it go three?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, I mean, it was a little bit ridiculous in the second set.  I wasn't really impressed with myself at all.  I was kind of lackadaisical, like I said earlier.  A huge mental lapse, which is inexcusable where I am right now in my game.  That was really disappointing on my end.   
 Q.  What's the biggest positives you'll take from that match?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: That I won.  That's a big positive.  Putting USA up 1-0.  Hopefully Shelby can turn her match around and get a 2-0 lead, put huge pressure on the Czech team for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT