AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. VANDEWEGHE/A. Kerber   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  In terms of career wins, how did tonight rank?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: This question again (smiling).   
No, this is high.  It's the first time I've ever beaten a world No. 1.  And especially at a Grand Slam, I think it makes it that much sweeter.  So it's pretty high definitely.   
 Q.  Angie has been struggling with confidence recently.  Did you get any sense out there that she was nervous or fragile at all?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I can't really speak for her emotions and feelings.  I can only speak for kind of how I played out there.   
I just felt like I was really executing my game well, keeping her on the back foot, and just kind of playing within myself.  So that's what I felt was going on on the court.   
 Q.  You were clearly very aggressive, hitting 30 winners.  Is that when you're playing your best tennis?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: We're two totally opposite players.  I would expect myself to have more winners as well as more unforced errors than she would have.  So in that fact, I mean, that's kind of an expected stat that I would have more than she would.   
I mean, what the number would end up being is kind of up to how well I'm hitting my spots and how well I'm playing out there against an opponent.   
 Q.  What is your surprise level, if at all?  Is it something you expected tonight or are you pleasantly surprised?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think that goes along the lines of pretty much every time I've been asked a question like this, of going out there and playing an opponent, any opponent, I go out there expecting to win.   
It's just another person that's in front of me, whoever it may be, if it's No. 1 in the world, No. 130 in the world, it doesn't matter, it's still an opponent to get in my way of achieving my goals.   
 Q.  Was there still much of an atmosphere out there coming on so late after a five-set match when people are starting to head home?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Actually, the first time I was on Laver was after a five-set epic from Hewitt.  I believe he lost that one.  I was playing Sam Stosur.  I thought the atmosphere was fine.   
It was a little bit different style of match than against Genie where it was a little bit more of a tight thriller, with a third set.  When a third set happens, I think the atmosphere gets a little bit different.   
But, yeah, I enjoyed it out there.   
 Q.  When you say you go out there expecting to win against any opponent, what is the emotional reaction, like, if you don't?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I mean, it depends on how I played out there.  If I don't execute what my coach and I have set up for the said opponent, I kind of take it inwardly.  I'm very disappointed in myself that I could have done something better.   
I think anyone who does anything, and they don't achieve to the highest of their abilities, and they feel like they underachieve that day is going to feel pretty crappy about themselves.   
If someone outplays you, which can totally happen, it's kind of like a shellshocked feeling, I would say, where it's like, Okay, well, that was totally unexpected.  How can we not allow this?  I say 'we' because it's a collective team.  How can we prevent this from ever happening again?   
I think every loss is a learning process.  It's always been like that for me.  I usually sit down and think of three positives from the match and three negatives from the match.  You look at the three negatives - I've done this since I played plenty of other sports - you go out there the very next day or that afternoon and work on the three negatives that you thought you didn't do well.   
But it's important to have the positives along with it to keep kind of a glass-half-full feeling about it.   
 Q.  You came into the Australian Open having lost seven of your last 10 matches.  Is that ever up and down on results or is that something that's unflappable?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I mean, it's a new year.   
 Q.  You've got Garbine next.  What are your thoughts on that matchup?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: It's an interesting matchup because she holds a different aspect to a playing style of she's an aggressor, as well.  She is going to play that way, and no other way.   
For me it depends on if I can match it, as well as if I can beat her to that punch of getting first strike, first play.   
 Q.  Do you think if you make the final you might be able to get that selfie with Scott Eastwood?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Maybe.  Maybe if he's still in Australia filming or whatever he's doing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT