AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2017
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. VANDEWEGHE/E. Bouchard
6-4, 3-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did you pull that one off?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I hit a backhand down the line for a winner.
Q. Anything else happen besides that?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No.  Like I said in the press conference on the court, it was more just getting the match back onto my terms and kind of playing the way I wanted to play, and if it resulted in a loss or a victory, I was going to feel a lot better in just competing the way I wanted to compete on my terms.
Q. Where does this rank in good wins in your career?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Actually, not that high (smiling) now that I think about it.  I hadn't even thought about it.  I think there are different moments in my career that I have, my short career, that I enjoy, different wins for different reasons.
I think probably my favorite match that I won -- well, I probably have to say tournament, is probably my first WTA title would be my favorite.  Then after that, I had a really good run at Montreal where I beat Jankovic and Ivanovic back to back, and that was the first time I ever beat two -- I believe they were top 10, both of them, at the time, first time I had ever done that.
So this one isn't that high for me.  It was kind of expected, in my mind, to get the win and to get the victory and to move a step closer to achieving what I want to achieve for this year and also this tournament.
Q. Talking to somebody during your match, an expert, specialist guy, and he was remarking how many things you do right in your technique that a lot of players neglect or miss.  Just wondering where that came from or if it was all natural or putting the pieces together was a process at any point?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, if he's an expert, I guess you have to listen to the expert, right (smiling)?
I don't know.  I just throw the ball up and hit it.  Pretty simple.  Not much to it.
Q. It all came pretty natural to you?  Biomechanical things?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: What's the expert say?  Does he say it looks natural?
Q. Well, he says there are different checkmarks, and you check a lot of boxes.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I'm glad I'm hitting them all (smiling).
Q. I guess it's something you...
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No, I work on it every day.  I work on my serve every day.  I work on it to be that good, to be that easy, and to be that clutch when I need it.
Q. Do you feel like confidence flows from that shot to the rest of your game?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yes and no.  I think earlier in my career it did, but I think right now, last two, three years I have been riding such good confidence from playing from the back of the court as well as having more confidence in my returns from playing more doubles that it's not such a hit-or-miss for me.
Q. You said your win today was expected in your mind.  At what level of opponent do you not expect yourself to win the match when you step on the court?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, for me, if you go out on the court already thinking you're going to lose to anybody, you have already lost before you have taken a step out there and played the first point or started the warmup.
I guess nobody.
Q. Obviously not thinking you will lose, but do you expect to beat everyone, then?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, it goes hand in hand, I think.
Q. The break points she had in the second-to-last game, obviously serving is a big part, what are you thinking when you're hitting the first serve in all four of those points?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I was thinking I was doing more damage off of the second serve against her.  She wasn't handling my kick serve that well, especially later in the match.
I got a little sloppy sometimes when I had the hold points in that game.  Sloppy and stubborn, I would say, to both.
But, you know, I'm not too concerned if I don't make a first serve.  Obviously the first goal is to make the first serve so you're not constantly playing off of a second serve.  That's never any fun, even if you do have utmost confidence.
But for me, it was more just being ready for the first ball, whether it was the first or second serve, because in her game style, she's taking a swing at both.  You just have to be ready and kind of deal with what she gives you a little bit, as well as choose and plan what you want to do.
It's kind of like hand in hand as to what happens if she gets ahold of it or not.  It kind of depends there, too.
Q. How did that kick serve come into your arsenal?  A lot of women even in the top of the game don't really have one that...
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Vic Braden taught me it.
Q. How important and how beneficial is it for you to have Martina in your box?  You have been playing doubles with her.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, no, it was kind of surprising.  She asked me today after she warmed me up for the match if I had an extra ticket for her to sit in the box.  I was like, Yeah, sure, talk to Craig, deal with that.
I mean, it's beneficial to have anyone behind you cheering you on.  I think she is very invested in my results, because obviously I'm going to be happier when I go on the doubles court if I'm winning rather than losing.
But also, I mean, she's a great person in that regard, too, where she will take the time out of her own day.  She has no reason to be out there besides that she wants to be out there and wants to see me do well.
Q. The late Vic Braden is sometimes dismissed by some as being more of a comedian or often this theory or that theory.  Talk about him, talk about your working with him, and do you think he should be into the Hall of Fame or not?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Oh, I didn't even know that was debatable.
Yeah, I think he should be in the Hall of Fame.  I actually got introduced to him by my grandfather and mom.  My mom, during the '84 Olympic team, was training in Coto de Caza, and Vic Braden saw my mom playing volleyball and said, What are you doing?  You should be playing tennis.
She thought he was crazy.  I don't know for what reason, she introduced me to him.  But I went there and would go see him and talk to him on the phone probably in my lower moments of struggles, I think, as a sounding board.
And honestly it was quite disrespectful to hear that you said he's a comedian, especially when he's such a great individual and has been nothing but helpful for many tennis players, as well as changed the game in so many different ways.
So, you know, I think his legacy definitely belongs in the Hall of Fame.
Q. First of all, to be clear, I have the highest regard for Vic.  I think some...
COCO VANDEWEGHE: It shouldn't be in the same sentence.
Q. Okay.  Well, I stand by what I said, but having said that, my question is what was his college like back in the days?  Was that a special place?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I wasn't there when it was in its heyday.  I was there when it was a little bit quieter.
Q. Genie is ranked 47 now.  Does it feel like 47 or top 20, top 10?  How did you feel playing on the other side of the net from her?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I don't know.  I mean, I think she's a quality player.  I think any player within the top 100 is going to be a quality player, especially now that they have a few matches under their belt.  They're going to be feeling comfortable and confident.
But no, I mean, I don't really take rankings that much into consideration as far as when I go up and face an opponent, if I'm ranked higher or lower.  Whatever, you've still got to go out there and beat them.
Q. Kerber just won.  I'm assuming you will relish the chance to play a No. 1 defending champ on that kind of stage?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, it's going to be nice.  I have only played her one time before at Stanford a few years back.
But, yeah.  It's going to be fun and interesting.
Q. The inauguration ceremony, I think it's in the early hours around 4:00 AM.  Will you watch any of that tonight?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: If it's at 4:00?  No chance.
Q. Replay in the morning?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No chance.  There is no TiVo here.
Q. What do you feel about this new year for America?  Are you excited about it, or...
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No, I don't like to talk politics.  Thanks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT