AEGON CLASSIC
June 18, 2016
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. STRYCOVA/C. Vandeweghe   
2-6, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions or CoCo, please.   
 Q.  Commiserations.  You seemed very affected by something even though you'd broken back to get things back on serve.  What happened out there?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Good question.  I'm not really a crier, which is funny.  I don't know.  Just everything hit me all at once, just the buildup you could say.  It wasn't one particular thing.   
I mean, it's an emotional game and emotional sport.  I've been playing a lot of matches, a lot of tennis.  A lot of things happen in every single match.  Sometimes it just compounds and you get a result of some sort of emotional flares.   
We're all human.  I definitely showed it out there, which is, I don't know, I'm still trying to pull myself together a little bit.   
 Q.  Could it have been a combination of the disappointment of the Olympics and having gone deep into two tournaments in a row?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, that's like what I said.  I mean, it's just a compound of a lot of stuff.  You know, besides tennis, you have life in general.   
So it's just a lot of things that happened on and off the court.  It wasn't one thing in particular.  I can't point anything in particularly out.   
 Q.  I appreciate that it's fairly quick, but it's been a fantastic couple of weeks on the grass.  You have Eastbourne as well to come.  How confident do you feel by the time you hit Eastbourne and then ultimately Wimbledon?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I mean, there's no reason not to feel confident.  I've had really great results these last two weeks.  I think the rest of the field knows I'm extremely dangerous no matter who I play.   
It's just tournament by tournament.  I have to kind of let this one settle a little bit before I can move on just for my own frame of mind.   
Sometimes it takes a really hard beating to kind of pick yourself up and rise to the occasion for the next time around.   
 Q.  I know you feel disappointed with the result at the moment, but do you think when you look back on this week, you'll be happy with how you played, how far you got in the tournament?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah.  Craig was trying to talk to me a little bit as I stretched out and cooled down of how proud he was of me and everything like that.   
For me, it was kind of I'm still pretty much a bottle of emotions right now, so I didn't take any of it in, what he said as far as encouraging and the accomplishments that I've done.   
I've never achieved anything like this, of winning a tournament and then coming back the next week and performing again, especially at a premiere event.  This was the furthest I've gotten in a premiere event.   
I mean, I've reached some goals as well.  I got my seeding for Wimbledon, which was a huge goal of mine.  Through the whole year, making the seeding of a Grand Slam was one of my goals for the year.   
So, I mean, I've marked off a few milestones that I was definitely looking at.   
 Q.  So all in all, it's a huge step in the right direction?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Correct.  Yes, I mean, there's no cutting it short that what I've done these last two weeks has been really good, as well as kind of the whole season.  I mean, it takes a whole season to get to where you are right now.   
It shows the time that people don't see.  The hard points, the great points, the in between of when you're training and no one is looking.  I think that's what shows in results.  That's kind of the most satisfactory thing that I think I can pull away from this, is validation of the work you put in away from everybody and it shows.   
I mean, it shows in results and it shows on how you conduct yourself and how you carry yourself.   
 Q.  In the second and third set, you seemed to be coming forward a lot more.  Is that something that you were doing more today to try and throw Barbora off her game or is that something you might use over the coming weeks, particularly on grass?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No, I think with Barbora's game, at least for me, I'm more comfortable taking those slice balls out of the air.  Sometimes she forces you to come in.  I mean, if I hit a good shot, the obvious answer is to move forward and punish her for giving me a floater ball or a defensive ball.  So that's just the natural game style, I guess.   
 Q.  Seemed to be a moment, I think it was the second time she broke in the third.  She chased down a short ball.  We thought that it bounced twice.  You seemed to stop as well.  No problem with that?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Umpire didn't call it, so...   
 Q.  Strapping on the right ankle that we didn't notice at the beginning of the week.  Is that just a precaution?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, it's just, I mean, you play for two long weeks, you're going to have some nudges of pain here and there.   
 Q.  Obviously, this week's been a good step for you.  Does it change your expectations going into Eastbourne and Wimbledon?  Do you feel you need more matches under your belt?  What are hoping for from Eastbourne and Wimbledon?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think the most important thing with all these tune-up tournaments is to peak at Wimbledon.  That's what the name of the game is right now.   
I mean, sometimes when you're coming onto the grass courts, you don't get the matches.  Either you lose early or, I don't know, you don't enter the tournaments or whatever it may be.  So you're hustling for matches.  I've played plenty of matches, so I'm comfortable on the grass, so you can check that off the box.   
I mean, for Wimbledon, I expect to do well.  There's no reason not to.  It's just like any other tournament.  Eastbourne, as well, I don't expect not to do well there either.   
I mean, it's one match at a time.  You have to just look at it periodically like that, of how you're improving in your game.  I think that's kind of what I'm looking at most, is how I'm improving in my game.   
Like you said, I'm coming forward more.  Yes, it doesn't pay off all the time, but sometimes it does.  So maybe I'm improving there or in some other facet of my game.  It's figuring out what I'm going to focus on what week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT