AEGON CLASSIC
June 17, 2016
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. VANDEWEGHE/Y. Wickmayer
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions for CoCo.
Q. You seemed to be playing much better.  You seem to have more confidence oozing from every pore.  How did you feel out there?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Today was rough, I have to say.  I mean, yesterday, I finished so late because I played doubles indoors.  I didn't probably finish with dinner and everything till probably 10:30, 11, which is supper late for me.  I'm usually, as exciting as I like to pretend my life to be, I'm in bed by 9, 9:30.  I'm an early bird special.  So yesterday was pretty late.
Playing two matches today isn't easy.  We had a two-hour break and then to go out and compete again, because we both had full matches to play.
We were facing the same conditions, which is good when you're playing an opponent that is in the same predicament as you are instead of a fresh opponent that hasn't played a match that day.
I think I definitely have the confidence.  There's no reason I shouldn't.  I haven't lost a match yet.  That definitely helps in the big moments. I'm not panicking.
Q. How did Court 1 feel out there?  It looked at times a little bit slick.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I think so.  I played on it a couple years in the past.  Had two pretty good falls on it.
Q. How spectacular?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Not that spectacular.  One, I landed face front.  The other one I probably laid back down.
I remember the face plant one because a buddy of mine sent me a picture of it, I guess, on Livestream.  I was just lying there.  That one I remember.
I think it's definitely a little bit more slicker.  I don't think it gets the sun that was peaking out as much as the other courts because you have the trees and the shade.
The courts are always going to be slicker when they haven't been played on.  The realty of it is, today was the second round.  These courts have only had one match on them, maybe two.  The grass is going to be a little bit slicker there in that sense.
Q. You seem to be very animated on court.  It doesn't actually seem to affect you.  Is that something you've always done?  Do you actually feel it helps you?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No, no, I haven't always had that.  I think it's actually come with my maturity of realizing where I'm comfortable and what I'm comfortable showing on the court.
It's definitely kind of like my B personality out there on the court.  I'm a little bit, I don't know, I think abrasive sometimes.  I'm a little bit confrontational.  So I think it's kind of my B personality.
Q. It doesn't seem as if you are confrontation.  It's more towards yourself, not towards anyone else.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: If anything, if I'm talking to somebody else, it's all in good humor.  At least I find it funny, so that's all that really matters.
But it also helps me.  It's a cue to not wallow in myself and to focus on outside things, which has always helped me.
Q. I think it was the end of second set in the tiebreak, and I think you missed a short ball.  Did you offer your racket to the ball boy?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah, well, I missed a swing volley.  It was her last service game, I missed two swing volleys that were actually kind of important, so I said, Why don't you hit the swing volley for me?
I did the same thing twice.
Q. Did he get a reply?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: No.  I think he was actually too shocked that I actually spoke to him.
Q. We discussed the schedule and the draw with Madison Keys today.  There's no seeds in your half of the draw?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Well, I took out one.  I already played one.
Q. Do you feel your path to the final is easier?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I don't know.  I don't look ahead in the draw.  I take it match by match.  If you told me that somebody was seeded and somebody else was not, obviously I know who is going to be seeded or who should be seeded.  But I think all players deserve credit to getting to where they are.  They had to beat a seed to get there or if they're the seed, to get there, they're obviously doing something right.  So you have to take everyone pretty seriously.
And Keys has had the luckiest time ever.  We're friends, so I told her this today, I said, Jesus, you're the only one that finished every single day and doesn't have to play two matches.  You're so lucky.
She actually gave me a swat.  That's how sympathetic she was.  She's been pretty lucky and I told her so.
Q. If you end up playing Madison in the final, is that a chance you'd relish?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I don't think we've played before, not really even in practice I don't think.  We both have to get there.  I think the semifinals is the first obstacle to get over.
Q. You've now won s-Hertogenbosch.  You're in the semifinal here.  At what point do you feel invincible on grass?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I'm not immune to social media.  I've seen the stats, the SAP stats and whatever of me on grass versus other surfaces, so I only have one comment to that.
They take a grass court season, that's so small, there's only three tournaments, excluding Wimbledon, to play, four if you include Wimbledon.  So four tournaments out of the year I'm playing, those stats are taking off hard court that's two-fourths of the year, and then clay that's one forth of the year.  I think those stats aren't quite where I'd -- I kind the scoffed at them a little bit.
My stats would probably, if you took my best four hard court tournaments, I think they'd be up there as well.
Q. That still has to make you feel good?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Absolutely.
Q. How much attention do you pay to the stats?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: I look at my stats after every match.  The most stats I look at are first serve percentage, wins on first serve, and second serve return percentage - myself returning.  Those are the three stats that I really take a look at that you'll have for every match.
Q. Why those three in particular?
COCO VANDEWEGHE: If I'm making a high percentage of first serves, and on top of that, winning a high percentage, which is usually -- I win matches at probably 60% and up winning after first serve.
When I'm receiving, if I'm high 30s and up, I'm usually winning a match, so...
Q. We'll keep an eye on your stats.
COCO VANDEWEGHE: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT