ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2014
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. VANDEWEGHE/J. Jankovic
  7‑6, 2‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Two super long matches in two days.   Two big wins.   You came all the way from qualifications.   How do you feel physically?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Right now I feel like I need a nice good sleep because last night after the match, didn't finish till after 1:00.   I didn't get to sleep until probably 3:00 in the morning 'cause you have to, you know, take care of all the things you need to with the physios, stretching, everything like that.   It takes time.   
Then to get back to the hotel and be able to fall asleep after all the emotions in a match, it's not always easy.   I didn't have much time to really come back.   I mean, I did have a 'not before 4:00', but it still feels like I was just here the other day and then I have to play again.   
Hopefully now I'll have a little bit more time.   I've trained hard before coming into the hard court series.   Hopefully I'll be able to recover as quickly as possible.   
   
 Q.   You beat two top‑10 players back‑to‑back.   How does it feel?   
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   One of my goals after coming from Europe, I set up a new set of goals, was to beat a top‑10 player.   I played one in Stanford, Kerber.   I didn't win there.   I lost in three sets.   
I played Ivanovic.   I beat her.   I realized what I did.   I accomplished one of my goals I set for the rest of the year.   I was very happy that I was able to achieve that.   
At the same time, you know, my coach and I were talking, he's like, Listen, you did achieve one of your goals, but let's not be satisfied.   You have another match to play.   There's plenty more tournament to be played.   You've trained hard to keep competing in this tournament, and don't be satisfied with one win, get two.   
That's what we were talking about before.   
   
 Q.   You haven't played the quarterfinals in a premiere event in two years.   Last time was in Stanford a couple years ago.   How does it feel?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   It's a completely different feeling because when I did it in Stanford, it was almost like a fluke.   I hadn't really beaten any good players.   I never really had any consistent results.   I even lost in the qualifications in the tournament.   I got in as a lucky loser.   It wasn't a sure thing.   It was more of a fluke I think in my mind.   
I was close this year in Miami.   I qualified and lost in the Round of 16 to Serena.   I've been making progress in each and every tournament.   I won my first title in 's‑Hertogenbosch.   
The progress is there.   I'm really happy with how my season is going, all the obstacles I've come across, I've been able to meet, challenge and beat most of them.  
   
 Q.   American tennis for the women is coming up stronger.   The Williams eventually will retire.   There's a strong field of female players coming.   What is it to be part of that?   Do you think the Williams sisters are big shoes to fill?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Definitely.   I mean, any American great tennis player are big shoes to fill from Billie Jean King, Chris Evert, Lindsay Davenport, Jennifer Capriati.   Those are household, Hall‑of‑Fame names, as well as Serena and Venus eventually.   
To be a part of the conversation that could possibly step in when they are done playing is very nice to hear.   Being a singular sport, it's nice to have a couple of girls along with you that you feel like are pushing you at the same time but also a camaraderie of all being Americans.   
Shelby and I are really good friends.   Torso, it's great to see her have a good tournament.   I always enjoy my friends playing well.  
   
 Q.   Are you ready to take on Djokovic now?  
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Yeah, no, I mean, I was joking with my coach this morning.   He said his father called him.   He said, Listen, she played Ivanovic, now she's playing Jankovic, she might as well tomorrow play Djokovic.   I thought that was really funny.   
I have a good sense of humor about myself even.   I can laugh at myself all day.   I thought it was a good point to point out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT