SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 24, 2014
Coco Vandeweghe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/C. Vandeweghe
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you approach a match mentally when you're a qualifier and you're going up against the No. 1 player in the world?   Do you dream of stunning the world, or... 
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Well, I don't know if it's fortunate or not, but I have played her two other times:   in a final and also first round at the US Open on Arthur Ashe. 
So whether or not I, you know, kind of can use that it kind of depends on the day.   I mean, I warmed up today and I felt good going out there.   Just went about my routine.   I mean, I have played so many matches so far that it's kind of like it's another match, and that's how you have to think about it. 
It's another match, and, you know, whether it's Serena or someone else on the other side of the court, you have to play your game accordingly to the player across the net.

Q.   You had a very good month in Indian Wells and here.   What do you think has been the key to that?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   I mean, I have been working hard since the offseason till now, and, you know, I think it's just‑‑ you know, one tournament can be, you know, what it takes to put it all together.
You know, I think Indian Wells helped, playing against Kvitova in the second round.   She's a tough opponent to play against, and, you know, I took what she kind of did to me very seriously.
And that's the whole ‑‑everything I worked on was kind of based around what Kvitova was able to make me feel and, you know, kind of implement against me.
That's kind of what I used in the week or couple days that I had to prepare for here.   When I came in here, I just felt, you know, super confident.   You know, and it helps when things are firing pretty well early.   And beating, you know, good players in close matches, I think that helps as well.

Q.   Talk about the training.   Were you doing things markedly different than before in your career?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Definitely.   I have a new coach, so I think everything is a little bit different, from just kind of taking ownership of the amount of work I put in on the court, from effort to time, and also kind of specifically what we are working on.
You know, I think everything is a little bit differently, and also the work in the gym.   I think everything has been structured pretty darn well.

Q.   He used the word to show your Coco‑ness or something during one of your...   What's that mean?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Well, Maciej has three things that characterize me.   One is I can always sleep.   I'm always able to go to sleep.   I can take a nap anywhere.   I mean, I have been sleeping on these couches in the players lounge a couple times. 
No. 2, I'm always hungry.   I can eat any time. 
And No. 3 is I'm always stronger than somebody and I want to prove that I'm stronger than somebody.   It's kind of like that mentality.
So just kind of implementing that and just being myself out there with the Come ons, showing, you know, fist pumps and different things going‑‑ you know, being a little bit risky but, you know, intelligently risky. 
Just taking advantage of the opportunities and that I'm getting out in the court.

Q.   The second set Serena upped her level, it seemed, at the end.   What did you feel at that point?   What were you thinking at that point?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Which point in the set?   I mean, I had like three different thoughts going through my mind.
From the start of the second set, I actually didn't feel too bad.   I mean, I had those couple break points before the rain delay, and then it kind of went back and forth on her serve that game.
Then the next game she served it out not relatively comfortably, so I felt like I was getting into her return games a little bit better.
So I just, you know, was telling myself that, you know, Be patient; you're going to get your opportunities again; just stick with it; keep hitting your shots; don't go for too much.
But she definitely kind of took the match a little bit out of my hands at the start.   She kind of hit a few of my second serves for winners, where she missed a couple of those in the first set.
I missed a few balls at not opportune points in the match.   She still served unbelievably.   I think that's what kind of held her in the first set especially was her serve.   She was able to get free points, aces, or just unreturnables, and she started to serve even better in the second.

Q.   So what are you happy with at the end of the day here?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Well, I'm happy with all the matches I was able to put together.   I mean, beating two, you know, top 20 ‑‑well, Anastasia is 21, but players and going through qualifying and winning those tough matches I think was a big step.   You know, just improving from there.

Q.   Have you ever played as late as you did the other night? 
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   No, I don't think I have.   But, you know, it was great to get that win against Stosur because she beat me at the US Open a couple years back, the year she won.
Get a little feeling of revenge is always fun (smiling). 

Q.   Did it take anything out of you playing that late?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   I think any match takes something out of you, but I was really happy to get through that match and get that second win and have the opportunity to play Serena.

Q.   How did you find Maciej?   How did things wrap up with Jan Michael Gambill?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   It wrapped up really well.   I mean, I have been getting messages from him not only this tournament but the other ones.   You know, Good job and everything like that. 
I mean, we're friends, so we message all the time.   He's in London right now.   As clean as it can be, I guess (smiling). 

Q.   What did Serena say to you after the match?   Seemed like... 
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   She said she wanted to play doubles with me (smiling). 

Q.   Are you going to try to make good on that?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Of course (smiling). 

Q.   Have you ever played tennis or basketball against Kiki?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   I have done both.   I have played H‑O‑R‑S‑E against him with ‑‑ my older brother and I against Kiki, so it's two against one in H‑O‑R‑S‑E.   So he had to get both of us ‑‑   

Q.   Who won?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   He kill us in basketball.   But in tennis he has a winning record against me, but he only played me once when I was like 12 years old.   He won't play me again because he knows he can't beat me now.

Q.   What do you make of Serena as sort of a player, person?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   I mean, I think she's a great champion.   You know, I think she is what encompasses being a professional.   She goes out on the court and performs to the best of her abilities. 
Some days it's not great and other days it's a lot better.   The way she's able to win, you know, you can you say ugly, is definitely something to pay attention to as, you know, someone that's, you know, going up in the rankings and stuff like that.
But I think she's, you know, a great player and a great person.

Q.   How much connection I guess do the younger American girls have to her?   Is there any communication there, or is it more from afar?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   Well, when I see her she always says hello to me.   When I beat Anastasia she said, Good win.   I saw her in the locker room.   She said, Great win.   Good job.   I have nothing but friendly conversations was her.

Q.   Where do you think you'll play doubles?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   I don't know (smiling).   I think I have to get through Venus first to be able to play doubles with Serena.   Whenever she wants I will play doubles.

Q.   Was it your serve?   Was it a long conversation?
COCO VANDEWEGHE:   No, she said, Listen, you played so well.   We've got to play doubles somewhere.   I'm serious.   We'd do so well.   We've got to play doubles.   That was kind of the ins and outs of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT