THE BARCLAYS
August 26, 2016
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The back is tough out here, but you finished strong, 3-under through the last five holes, including a birdie on the tough 18.  So what worked for you back there?  
SEAN O'HAIR: You know, I played really well on the front nine, and it was a little bit shaky on the back.  Got to 1-over par for the day, and I just kind of stayed patient.  I was hitting a lot of greens at that time and just continued to do that.  I thought I would have some good chances if I hit the greens coming in, and that's what I did.   
 Q.  This course is a long course, but you're Top-25 in driving distance on the TOUR, so is that helping you out this week?  
SEAN O'HAIR: I think so.  It doesn't really matter how far you hit it if you're not hitting fairways out here.  The rough is so thick.  It's not necessarily long.  It's just really, really thick.  You're not going to hit greens and if you're not hitting greens out here, you're going to have a short week.   
That was kind of my game plan is:  If I don't feel comfortable off the tee, to put the driver up and get something in the fairway, just keep it in play and give myself an opportunity to hit the greens.   
 Q.  Would you have taken 69, 69 for the first two rounds?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Absolutely.  Difficult golf course.  Anything under par on this golf course is a good day.   
 Q.  You had a little trouble on the back but you bounced back.  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, the front nine, I played solid.  Hit eight greens on the front nine, which is always a good thing.  I 3-putted 12 and followed up with a bogey on the par five.  That was disappointing.  I just told myself I was hitting the ball well and not to get greedy.  I think if you try and get a little greedy off the tee and get greedy into the greens, it makes for some big numbers out there.   
I just stayed patient and I was fortunate enough to hit a couple nice shots and made a couple birdies.   
 Q.  A little extra time before the turnaround tomorrow.  
SEAN O'HAIR: It wasn't too bad.  It was nice to have the morning round off No. 1 instead of No. 10.  We have to give ourselves 20 minutes to get to No. 10; I took that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT