THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2007
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You were right there, and just like this golf course almost dictates, one swing can change anything?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, you know, I played well.  The shot on 17 wasn't a bad shot.  I guess I hit too hard.  I was right on my line.  I thought it was good.  Then all of a sudden I heard the crowd moan, and all of a sudden it was in the water.  Then my pitch shot I'm trying to get close.  I'm not trying to play for double on that hole.   
 I played well.  I can't let that hole or the last hole dictate how I played this week.   
  
  Q.  A couple of other chances, too.  The putt on 16, you could have put some heat on?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, I had a good putt on 15.  I had a good putt on 16.  15 I took more break than I thought.  16 I didn't take any break.  What can I say?   
  
  Q.  How do you think you'll remember this tournament?  Will it be for 17 or for being in contention and playing right there with Phil most of the day?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I think this course fits me and I like it.  I think I'm going to win here.  I don't think it's an if, I think I will win here.  I'm not going to let this bother me.   
  
  Q.  Does it boost your confidence in your total game to be able to get in with that last group and play like you did and be competitive?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I'm just going to move on with today.  The thing is I had the opportunity, and it didn't happen.  I can't sit there and drop the ball in the hole.  I gave myself a good opportunity on 15.  I gave myself a good opportunity on 16.  I made good putts, and if those go on, 17 is a different story and 18 is a different story.   
 But like I've told everybody else on 17, I'm not going to play for the middle of the green, take my two-putt and take second place.  I was in a good spot to win and I definitely tried to win, and unfortunately I got kicked in the teeth.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel good about your round?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I felt like I was hanging in there well.  I made some good clutch putts and made some good clutch shots.  Unfortunately it just didn't work out for me.   
  
  Q.  Did you notice how many people were rooting for you all day and the standing ovation you got on 18?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  That was great.  The fans were great all day.  It was kind of fun.  It was kind of fun playing today against Phil in the last group.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT