THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2007
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Sean, how does this rank among the rounds of golf you've played?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Considering the circumstances, probably one of or the best round of golf.  That kind of put me on the spot right now, so I can't really think of all the rounds of golf, but that definitely ranks up there.   
  
  Q.  The first time in the final group in a tournament of such magnitude?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, it's going to be a lot of fun.  It's going to be a lot of fun.  I'm not going to get too caught up in it.  It's just golf and I'm just going to keep doing what I've been doing, and that's just play one shot at a time and have a good time out there.   
  
  Q.  All the hoopla that comes with playing with Phil Mickelson?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  The crowd is going to be a little bit rowdier, and he gets basically an ovation everywhere he goes, which is a lot of fun.  The crowd should be into it.  It should be just a great, great day tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  How will you get the job done?  What do you have to do?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I've just got to get in my own little world and play my game.  I can't get caught up with the fact that I'm playing with Phil or playing in the final group.   
 I just need to go out and play golf and have a good time.   
  
  Q.  Did you find, unlike a lot of guys, you seem to find a comfort zone out there?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  A lot of guys don't get comfortable on this golf course?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I don't know if you want to call it a comfort zone.  I guess when we're playing 30-some-odd events a year, one or two or three events, obviously the better you are the more events you're going to feel this way.  But every so often you're going to feel pretty good and you're going to play pretty good.   
 So I'm just trying to play one shot at a time and get my mind off of it between shots and I'm just going to enjoy the moment and play some good golf.   
  
  Q.  Birdie, birdie, birdie finish.  16 is a birdie hole, but you thought you had hit it in the water on 17?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I thought I hit it a little too hard.  I saw Peter, he hit 9 and he barely cleared the front.  I just thought it was just a good solid 9-iron.  I hit it exactly the way I wanted to but as I hit it I felt the wind die.  I was like, "That's in the water."  I was expecting the wind to kind of hold it up.  So luckily enough the wind kept it out of the water and it ended up being a great shot and I made a birdie out of it.  It was a bonus.   
  
  Q.  What killed your drive on 18?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  That was a 3-wood, actually.  I didn't feel comfortable with the driver so I just kind of hit a low runner 3-wood and just nutted it and had a nice number in.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT