THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2007
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Kind of in order to ask you about the birdie on 10 to start out.  How good was that?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  On 10?  It was really good, especially with that drive, kind of flailed it out to the right there and caught a really good lie, had a perfect line to the green and just hit one of those great shots.  I had the wind working for me, so it was easy to hold the green and just pull off a great shot and made the putt.   
  
  Q.  Were you on this stuff?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, I was on the -- (indicating toward the ground).   
  
  Q.  For the 17 holes, forget about 18, but how good did you play today?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I felt like I played really well.  I feel like the last couple days I've played very steady.  You know, I've had a few bogeys here and there, but on this type of golf course, under these conditions, you're going to have that.  You're not going to have the bogey-free rounds very much.  So I feel like I'm playing very well.   
  
  Q.  When was the second baby born, January?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  February.   
  
  Q.  Middle of February?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  It was January, sorry.  I'm getting confused.   
  
  Q.  The other one was February?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, January 11th is my son.   
  
  Q.  Could that possibly account for your slightly sideways start this year when you had sort of trouble finding a rhythm?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  No, I don't think so.  I played well when -- it's tough when you have two kids out there.  You know, you're trying to get a feel for it, and I'm sure that had a -- it's a little more hectic than normal, but I think I just was playing bad.  I just think I just didn't have it.   
  
  Q.  You're still probably one of the two or three youngest guys out here.  You're about the age you'd be coming out of college or so right now.  How have you been able to balance playing in the big leagues and getting married and having two kids and stuff that some of these guys put off until they're well into their 30s?  Is it a challenge?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  You just deal with it.  I look at my family as a support group, so I almost feel like I'm better off having them than being out here alone.  You know, I mean, it's nice to have company because I'm not the type of guy that's going to go out and try and find a girlfriend or whatever.  You know, I'd be -- if I wasn't married, I'd still be in the hotel room watching TV.   
  
  Q.  You're not down in the hotel bar?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Exactly.  So I think they really help me out a lot, and they help me deal with a lot of things, and it's been -- you know, it's a little bit of adjustment here and there as far as lifestyle, you know, but that's the PGA TOUR, playing on TOUR.  Family life is always great.   
  
  Q.  How many hotel rooms are you guys booking with the in-laws along, two, three?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, my in-laws have to do their own thing, but they --   
  
  Q.  He's on the payroll, right?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Exactly.  But they help out a tremendous amount.  We couldn't do it without them.  I mean, they -- I couldn't imagine doing it without them.  They're a huge help.   
 And then having the two kids now, my daughter does a good job through the night, and so you kind of want her to be in -- she normally has a bedroom to herself, and then my wife and I and the baby are always in the bedroom.  We normally get like a two-room suite.  It seems to work out.   
  
  Q.  Why do you have such apparently a pretty good learning curve or a pretty quick learning curve on this course?  How does it set up well for you and why do you think --   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I don't know, I would like to think that every golf course sets up well for me.  I think it's just a matter of feeling comfortable and just seeing your shots, and during the practice rounds do a good job of trying out the course and whatnot.   
 For instance, last week I wasn't feeling too great, so I didn't play a practice round, and I was playing -- and I played awful.  I wasn't obviously feeling well.  But that right there is a perfect example is if you just do your homework and hit the right shots, I mean -- it's like what Tiger was saying the other day, your spots might be 30 feet right of the pin or left of the pin and it might not be the pin, and if you know those spots and you can hit them there, then it should fit your game.   
  
  Q.  How much did you watch this tournament as a kid growing up?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Oh, this is one of "the" tournaments to watch.  For me I watched every one, every golf tournament I was watching.  But this is one of the big ones, yeah.   
  
  Q.  What did you think of this one as a kid, 16, 17 and 18?  Were those the kind of things that you --   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  When I was real little, you never think -- you always work hard for it and you dream and all that stuff, but, you know, if somebody told me, I just would be like, "shut up," or something.  But it's neat.  I mean, 17 is a signature hole, and everybody knows 17 if they're decent at golf.   
  
  Q.  So if you're not playing, you enjoy watching train wrecks just like everybody else?  Sounds like that's what you're saying.   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  No, actually I like watching good golf.  But it's -- I don't know, I never like watching 17, those guys hit in the water.  It's a lot tougher in person than it is watching it on TV.   
  
  Q.  Most of golf is, though, right?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  But, you know, it's actually -- like some courses you watch on TV, and you're like, how in the world do those guys hit the fairway, it being that tight?  And then you play it and it's not that bad.  But here it's just brutal.   
  
  Q.  Is there a tournament here or a player or a winner or a shot that you remember on TV vividly from when you were a kid?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Well, I mean, Hal Sutton, "Be the right club today," you can't forget that one; Tiger's putt in '01 on 17; Craig Perks' last three holes, a few of those, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Do you have the high shot, the low shot, the left to right?  Do you have a lot of these shots because of how much mini-Tour golf you played, maybe the conditions weren't optimum, the courses weren't pristine?  Did you learn how to hit a lot of those shots because of where you played?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I don't think it was the mini-Tours.  Just golf, period, it feels like we've been playing the wind every single week.  I just think that as a kid, I was taught to hit those shots.  You know, I think that's one thing that you don't really see today is you see the kids always working an their swing.  They're not out there hitting low shots, they're not hitting cuts.   
 I remember at the Leadbetter Academy, they made us hit 7-irons to a green that was 70 yards in front of us and try to stop it on the green.  How do you do it?  Just figure it out.   
 That's one thing that I think you see with Tiger.  I mean, Tiger is just an artist with that stuff.  It's almost like an artist painting a picture.  It's just -- it takes talent, it takes vision, it takes imagination.   
 You've just got to practice that stuff as a kid and enjoy doing that, and I thought that was more fun than just beating balls because beating balls kind of stinks in the Florida weather.   
  
  Q.  Kind of tedious?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  17 play easier today?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  No, I thought it was maybe -- it was in and across.  I thought it was the same wind as yesterday, just maybe two, three, four yards shorter.   
  
  Q.  Was it changing as much as yesterday because yesterday it seemed to kind of --   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yesterday, when I seemed to step on the tee it died and then it gusted and then it died and gusted, so I stepped away probably four times.  And today, yeah, it seemed a little more consistent.  I guess, yeah, it probably was playing a little bit easier.   
  
  Q.  When you're playing a practice round out here, do you ever go to the drop area?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Do I ever go to the drop area?  No.   
  
  Q.  Why?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Why would I want to go to the drop area?   
  
  Q.  Don't want to think about it?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  That's like saying I'm going to hit it in the water.  I'm not going to hit it in the water.  If you do, you just deal with it.  You could sit there and say that's smart, and I wouldn't do that.   
  
  Q.  I mean, have you ever played with anybody in a practice round that's gone to a drop area and you wondered what they were doing?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  No, I think guys would actually make fun of somebody doing that, I really do.   
  
  Q.  Did you talk about the two eagles on 2?   
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, that's like a par 3 for me right now.  No, that was awesome.  You know, yesterday I hit an 8-iron, then today a hit a 6-iron.  Last year I really struggled with that tee ball, and the last two days it just fit my eye and just felt good over it.   
 When you're hitting 8-iron and 6-iron into a par 5 with this wind helping you out, it makes it a lot easier.  But, I mean, it's a completely different hole obviously if the wind is different and all that stuff.   
 But it was a nice way to -- I bogeyed the first hole and then I made that putt for eagle, and it was a nice way to kind of start off the day.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT