84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 15, 2006
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Sean O'Hair after a 3 under 69 in round 2 of the 84 Lumber Classic.  Sean, you made your eighth consecutive cut this week.  You've really been playing well, particularly over the last month or so, five or six weeks.  Talked about that continued good play today.
SEAN O'HAIR:  I'm just a little more consistent with my mental approach.  I've been, as I said before, working pretty hard with Rotella and reading a lot of books and stuff.  That's helped quite a bit.  I'm just trying to keep things very much business out there, very much out there just to have fun, really, and the putter is working.
TODD BUDNICK:  You kind of got into a little bit of the sophomore jinx early in the year.  When you look at the season now, are you happy with the way it's been so far?
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, I can't sit there and say that whatever    I can't even tell you what I've made, but I know I've made over a million dollars.  I don't know if that's a sophomore jinx.  Definitely at the beginning I wasn't playing well, but I wasn't playing well because I was trying to change things.

So I made the adjustment at Doral, got a new guy that was instructing me, Gary Gilchrist, who's very much more of a coach than he is an instructor.  He's just kind of guiding me along and teaching me about my swing and how to do things that I want to do with it.  So that's been going great.

I just feel comfortable.  Especially the last month, I've been feeling really comfortable on the golf course because I've got my father in law back on the bag, and I always feel comfortable with him being there.  I'm just playing well.  It just feels good.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's jump to today.  You got off to a great start with two birdies.
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah.  You know, I kind of pulled my drive on 1, but unfortunately it just stayed down the left side.  Hit a pretty good wedge shot, it was a little more conservative than I wanted it to be.  It was about 15 yards left of the pin and made a good putt there.

I hit a great drive on 2, probably the best drive of the week, and a great second shot to about a foot or so and made that.

Just kind of was cruising along.  It was a great start.  What did I do next?

No. 8, birdie, I hit a pretty good drive.  It was a tricky little second shot.  It was almost like a baseball swing a little bit with a 3 wood, and I was talking to Steve, and I said, "Do you feel comfortable with this?"  And he's like, "yeah," because the layup is a difficult layup.  I went ahead and hit it to the right side of the green, which is where you need to miss it for that pin.  I hit a pretty simple chip shot, good up and down.

9 kind of shocked me because I've been hitting the ball so well and I just made a bad swing, just flipped the hands, was trying to hit a draw and just flipped my hands, went right in the water, and made a great, great save for bogey.  So I was pretty happy with that.

And then made a great birdie on 11.  I think that's the toughest layup in golf, that layup, because there's no place to hit it.  I hit it in the middle of the fairway, which is probably the first time I've hit that fairway, and with that wind blowing towards that water left to right, if you push it a hair it's in the water, if you pull it it's in the water, if you hit it fat it's in the water.  So I was like, I really hope I hit this well.  I nailed a 3 wood and left myself a nice little    just a little pitch shot.  It was 77 yards to the pin.  It went beyond the hole, sucked back and I made the putt, so that was great.

13, made a good birdie, hit a nice little 3 wood and kind of a half 9 iron.  I've been hitting a lot of half 9 irons or half shots because the greens are so soft trying to control my spin and made about a five footer or so.

And then 15, kind of the same thing as on 9.  I'm hitting all these great shots and then all of a sudden I hit a little waiver, pushed a 3 wood out.  I actually had a shot and I had about three options, and I think I took the wrong option.  I tried to go high and tried to cut it around a tree, and I probably should have went low and left it short of the green, and I hit it in the left side of the bunker and had a tough up and down and missed about an eight footer for par.

And then I missed a pretty makeable putt on 17.  It looked like a pretty much straight uphill putt from about    where was that, like seven feet or so, and it actually broke right on me.

But all in all, I'm pretty pleased with how things are going.  I left about two or three shots out there.

On 5 I had a pretty simple putt that J.D.'s ball was kind of a little bit farther back but on the same line and his went right, and I played mine left center and it broke left.  So there was a few putts that kind of did that today, that kind of threw me for a loop, but all in all, I'm pretty pleased.
Q.  What led to Steve getting back on your bag?
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, we decided, I think it was after MCI, to take a break, and I used a couple caddies, and I guess it was a good experience but it just didn't feel the same, and I thought that after a break and we started talking, and I said, "Hey, what do you think," and he's like, "Well, I'm willing to do whatever, I think we'll do well," and we talked about it, and here we are.
Q.  What's it like playing with John Daly?
SEAN O'HAIR:  It's fun.  I mean, great guy.  You know, he's got a different approach to the game, which is kind of refreshing, to be honest with you.  He's just a nice guy, very down to earth.  He very much appreciates, I think, the crowd.  You know, the crowd really takes to him, and I think he really appreciates it, and it's nice to see somebody get the recognition and appreciate it because I think a lot of guys, you know, they get so used to people cheering for them out here that sometimes they don't appreciate it as much as they probably should.  It was a pleasure playing with him.
TODD BUDNICK:  All right, thanks, Sean.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT