84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 14, 2006
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAURY LIVSEY:  We welcome Sean O'Hair with a first round 67, coming off a nice tournament last week in Canada, continued good play.  Talk about today a little.
SEAN O'HAIR:  Well, I felt like it was playing pretty tough today with the wind, and as long as it was playing, it felt like it was playing forever.  I started on the back nine and just played some pretty solid golf.  I bogeyed I think it was my 12th hole, the par 3, hit a pretty good shot, pretty good chip, pretty good putt, just didn't make par.

Other than that, I played pretty solid, just hit some good drives off the tee and some good approach shots and made some good putts.  Overall I'm really pleased.
Q.  How much longer was it today than say Monday or Tuesday?
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, it wasn't really rolling that much Monday or Tuesday.  The greens were a lot firmer, and so you are hitting more club.  It seemed like every pin today was in the back of the green.  I don't know why that was, but that's the way it felt.

So I felt like I was hitting some pretty good drives off the tee and I still had 3 , 4 , 5  and 6 iron into the greens.

The back especially played very difficult, I thought.  14 was ridiculous.  It was 470 straight into the teeth of the wind all the way back and the pin all the way back.  It just played like a par 5 today.

You know, there wasn't that much difference as far as probably    maybe five to ten yards I would say in roll.  It's not like it was rolling 20 or 30 yards.  But it definitely was playing a lot different because when I played my practice round Monday, I'm thinking to myself as undulating as these greens are and what I'm hitting into the greens, I don't know how I'm going to play this golf course.  I'm actually happy that it rained so you could go at pins a little more aggressively and feel comfortable doing it.
Q.  Was there much mud on the ball?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Oh, yeah, there was a ton.  I'm going to be interested in seeing what they do tomorrow because obviously the course hasn't dried up that much.  I think we're going to get some more rain here shortly, and it's not like it's hot out and it's not like it's going to go away, so it's just going to be the same conditions tomorrow.  I really hope that they will play it up tomorrow, as well.
Q.  Would you be expecting the scores this afternoon to be any different than the ones this morning?
SEAN O'HAIR:  I don't know.  I'll tell you what, though, I'm pretty surprised how many low scores there are because I felt like I played about as good as I can play.  There's maybe a few putts here and there that I could have made, but I felt pretty solid about today.  I mean, there's just low score after low score.  I think it's probably because these greens are so pure.  I mean, the greens are rolling perfectly.

I think the scores will be higher in the afternoon because the greens are going to be a little chopped up because they're so soft right now, they're even getting a little choppy.  On No. 9 they're a little bit choppy.  It'll probably be a little more difficult to make some putts later on this afternoon.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Can we go over your card?  No. 2, par 4, birdie.
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, I hit a great drive, but I thought I picked the right line and hit left into the rough and got a good break, had a great lie and hit a nice shot in there to about eight feet, made the putt for birdie.

And then 4, I hit a nice drive, the pin was kind of in a tricky spot, back right, and I had like 111 into the pin, and I hit just a really soft chip 9 iron and knocked it to about, I don't know, eight feet, as well, made the putt.

And then 5, I hit two great shots, reached it in two and made like    ran my first putt by about four feet and made the putt coming back.

7, my wife was telling me I should hit the hole, hit a low draw 5 iron because I didn't think I had enough club.  I'm glad I hit the hole because it probably would have gone over the green.  It ended up about 12 feet from the hole, and I made the putt.

Bogeyed 12, hit a 6 iron.  That's a really intimidating tee shot because the pin is short after the carry of the water, so if you push it at all, it's in the hazard, and if you pull it at all, you're in the collection area.  So you basically have to hit a perfect shot.  I figured that it's better dry, so I pulled it and I didn't make a putt.  I think I had like a 12 footer for par, didn't make it.

Let's see, 13, I made    I hit my 5 wood left in the rough, got another good lie, hit a great shot to about ten feet, made the putt.

14, made a great par save, made about a 12 , 15 footer for par, which was huge.

16, dropped a bomb from about 30 feet for birdie.  It was a nice, good solid round of golf.
Q.  What do you think of the changes from last year to this year?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Well, I'm happy that they removed that bunker on 14 (smiling).  If you're good enough to hit it and carry it 320 over a huge bunker, I don't think there should be a pot bunker there waiting for you.  So I'm glad that they removed that.

But I didn't play here last year.  I got here and I played a practice round.  I withdrew from the Pro Am and then I got really ill, so I had to withdraw from the tournament, so I didn't really play it the whole week so I don't know the course that well.

But there's some interesting features to the golf course.  There's a lot of undulations in the greens; there's some crazy bunkers; and it's a long, long golf course.
Q.  Is interesting interchangeable with the words Pete Dye?
SEAN O'HAIR:  I was a little bit shocked that Pete Dye designed it.  I didn't play it and say, all right, Pete Dye.  The only thing I recognized was maybe some of the collection areas and then the railroad ties for steps.  That was about it.

My favorite Pete Dye course is PGA West.  I love that place.  I like Pete Dye.  I think he does a pretty good job.  I'm not saying I don't like this golf course, but there's some interesting features to it.  I'm just not used to playing a golf course almost 8,000 yards long and with greens that are so demanding that    because it's just a very demanding golf course, and there's some really tough, tough holes out there.

That's what I was saying about I was surprised by the scores.  The back, it just felt like every golf shot was the toughest shot I've ever had to play.  That's my take on it.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Thank you, Sean, appreciate it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT