CANADIAN OPEN
September 10, 2006
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Sean O'Hair, thanks for joining us here.  Nice round today.  Looks like you're going to come up a little bit short, especially a tough finish there with the lip out there on the 17th hole.  But overall a good week and it looks like your game is really coming back.  Maybe some opening comments about the day.
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah.  It was a little bit of a frustrating day, as well as I hit the ball.  I felt like I was in such control of my ball flight today.  With the wind, there was a lot of cross breezes, and I was able to shape it up against the wind, ride the wind, control my trajectory, and some of those pins were hard to get to.  But my short game kind of let me down a little bit on a few holes on the front, and I misjudged the wind on 2, and I actually hit a good shot and I played the best I could today, and unfortunately it was a little bit short.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Looks like you made good putts there on 17, and on 18 you made a good run at it, too.
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, I don't see how that one at 17 missed.  I mean, that thing was in the hole and then just dove and missed low.  That was a little bit frustrating because I actually felt like I was playing more break than I needed to, and I just was trying to get the right speed so it would take the break, and it broke more than I thought.

I hit a great drive on that hole, and unfortunately I hit a poor second shot.  But if you're going to hit bad shots    I made a great bunker shot and made a great putt and ended up making par.  That was pretty much it because if I put myself in the position where I've got to make birdie on 18, I know that more than half the time I'm going to do it.  That was very frustrating.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  And then knowing you were two shots back on 18, what do you do there?
SEAN O'HAIR:  It was a tough shot because I just    the wind was going pretty hard left to right, but I wasn't going to play it into the bleachers and hopefully the wind takes it.  I didn't feel like that was the shot.  I wanted to play kind of a low draw up against into the wind and I just kind of came out of it a little bit.  That was actually my bread and butter this week was that little punch draw.  I was doing it all day today and I felt great over the ball, I just made a bad swing.

That was a tough bunker shot and I managed to hit a little chunk and run, which was nice.  I wish it would have ran out a little bit better.  But I played my heart out on the back nine.  That's all I can do.
Q.  You're frustrated now.  How long does this last?  Tomorrow morning will everything be normal or are you still going to be reviewing shots in your mind for the next who knows how long?
SEAN O'HAIR:  I'm not going to take this as a disappointment.  I've played good this week, and this year hasn't been the greatest year for me.  Things are starting to come around, and I can't look at this as a negative.  I mean, this is only a positive.  I've got to move on with it and go from there.
Q.  You obviously didn't have a chance to see what was going on with Furyk, but to not be able to catch a guy like him cannot be all that disappointing.  He looked like he was in pretty good control of his game, as well.
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, he's    I mean, his play this year speaks for itself.  I don't think anybody is uncatchable.  You know, I'm not even close to being the caliber player yet that Jim Furyk is now.  But if I'm out there thinking that he's uncatchable, I might as well pack it in.  I thought he was very catchable, and if I just    a few putts fell for me on the back nine, and if I made a few better decisions on the front nine, I'm right there.

You know, in a way I'm a little bit disappointed with as well as I hit the ball today that I only shot 2 under, but this week is an absolute, 100 percent positive, and that's how I'm going to take it.  I'm not going to look at it as a negative.  Like I said, I played with everything I had and just was a little bit short, and I'm going to learn from it and hopefully take it into next week.  I'm playing next week, and you never know.
Q.  Are you the type of guy that takes something like this not into next week even but as well into next year?  What I mean by that is when you look at your schedule at the end of this year, you see the Canadian Open coming up next year, different day, different venue.  Do you think back on what this was as a positive experience, and does that influence your thinking about whether you play or whether you don't play?
SEAN O'HAIR:  In a way it does, yes.  I know that it's at a different golf course and I'm not familiar    this is my first trip here, so I don't know how that golf course suits me or how that golf course plays or whatever.  But Canadian Open is a top notch event in my opinion.  It's the National Open for Canada.  I look at it as a big event.

I haven't really looked at the schedule for next year yet because I'm still trying to finish this one out, but I really hope it fits into my schedule, and if it does, I'll definitely play.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT