CANADIAN OPEN
September 9, 2006
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Sean O'Hair, thanks for joining us after a third round 66 at the Canadian Open, one shot off the lead heading into the final round.  Maybe some comments about three good days for you.
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, you know, today was really good.  I felt pretty solid out there with ball striking and I felt like the putter was working really well.

You know, last couple days have been struggling a little bit with my ball striking.  But, you know, I'm just trying to hit    shape my shots a little bit better and commit to my shots.  If I do that, I'm all right.

But it was fun today.  You know, everybody in the group played well.  Good bunch of guys.  We just had a good time out there, played some good golf.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Questions.
Q.  You like being in this position, just back, so the spotlight is off you for tomorrow, take the pressure off a bit maybe?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Sure.  You know, I'll take this situation any way I can get it, whether it's one shot lead or tied for the lead or one shot back.  Just nice to be in this situation.  It beats starting off the day at 7:30 tomorrow (laughter).

You know, it's a great golf course.  We got some great, great players up at the top.  I'm not really thinking too much about, I need to shoot this to win or even thinking about winning at all.  I'm just going to go out there and hopefully play we'll and see where I stand at the end of the day.
Q.  I think you made a pretty good sized par saver at 17.  The way the board is packed up for tomorrow, how important is it to be in the last group?
SEAN O'HAIR:  I don't know if I'm going to be in the last group.  I think Bart Bryant might be in the last group.  You know, it was nice to make the putt because, like I said, there's so many top notch players right there.  Especially bogeying a par 5, you feel like the whole field just passes you.

It was kind of an unfortunate situation.  I hit a great drive and got some mud on it.  I didn't put a good swing on it.  It really curved on me.  Obviously it plugged.  It was just nice to make that putt for par and kind of gave me some momentum in the next hole.  Almost made birdie on the last.

It's just a nice way to end the day.
Q.  Any difference between American crowds and Canadian ones?
SEAN O'HAIR:  No, not really.  You know, they're great.  I think they're rooting for Justin, but that's all right.  But it's a great, great bunch of people.  I played with a good group in the ProAm.  They were great.  I've got quite a few friends who are Canadian.

It feels like being in the States, to be honest with you.
Q.  Please talk about the changing weather conditions, how the course has been different every day.  What kind of adjustments did you have to make today?
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, every day has been pretty wet.  The first day was about as sloppy as it's been all week obviously.  I don't think it's really played that different.  The weather was beautiful the first day.  Yesterday it blew a little bit.  Today was a little bit colder, still blew a little bit.  It hasn't really played that much different.  I'm hitting the same clubs off tees.  I'm hitting it just as far with my irons.  The ball seems to be reacting on the greens the same.

To me it hasn't really felt that much different.
Q.  You like the way this year is coming to a close as opposed to the way it started for you?
SEAN O'HAIR:  It beats missing cuts, I guess (laughter).  I really was struggling at the beginning of the year because I was trying to change my game.  I was trying to change my swing.  For what reason, I have no idea.

I've talked to a lot of veteran players.  For instance, Olin Browne I talked to this week.  He's been great to me.  I've played with him quite a bit this year.  He told me that there's no reason for you to change.  You won with what you have.  It's just a matter of finding what you have and building on that.  He's a hundred percent right.  I had to learn that the hard way.

You see that a lot with the guys out here.  They might win or get some success early in their career and they feel like they have to change their swing or change their game to be better players.

Obviously for me it wasn't the case.  I have kind of gone back to what got me here.  I'm finally starting to play my game.  It's getting better.  I'm working hard with Rotella.  That's helping a lot, too.

I'm liking how it's ending and hopefully we can end it off with a win or something like that.  That would be nice.
Q.  (No microphone.)
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, I would have loved to play for Tom.  He's going to be a hell of a captain.  I would like to say that we are going to win this year.  I really believe in the team this year.

Yeah, it's unfortunate.  You can't really look at it like that.  It was a good lesson learned.  If I didn't learn it now, I'm just glad I learned it now.  If I didn't learn it now, it might have been a couple years down the road.

All these things happen for a reason, I believe.  It just was lesson learned.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Sean, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT