CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2006
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SEAN O'HAIR:  It was tough because there were a lot of crosswinds.  This golf course isn't the widest golf course in the world.  It's tough because I had a lot of good draws, sneak in the rough, because the wind is blowing either right or left.
Q.  Anything under par today is probably a good score?
SEAN O'HAIR:  I think it is.  You know, it was a little bit disappointing in my round because I probably could have made a few more putts here and there.

But, yeah, you're right, anything under par, you don't lose any ground.
Q.  You kind of turned your season around the last couple months.  What are the kind of things you've worked on?
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, at the beginning of the year I was trying to change my swing and try different things 'cause, you know, I wasn't quite a hundred percent happy with where my swing was going.  I just learned that it wasn't right for me.  So I've just learned to, you know, accept that I've got my swing.  I know what makes it work, what my faults are.

I've been just trying to work on my game instead of trying to be    you know, do somebody else's swing or whatever.  So I've just been trying to, I guess, play    I guess play my game, yeah.
Q.  Was there something you were trying to eliminate?
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, I was just trying to get the swing a little bit tighter and a little bit flatter because obviously you see the straighter hitters, they've got at flatter swing and a little more rounded swing.

My fault is I get high and I drop it in, and sometimes I get stuck.  I was trying to fix that fault.  You know, I'm just naturally    I've got long arms and I'm tall, so I'm going to be a little more upright than most people.  I just need to learn how to control the drop, make sure I don't get stuck.

It's not perfect.  It will never be perfect.  But the thing I need to learn is, you know, it doesn't matter whether I hit the ball well or not, I still got to find a way to get the ball in the hole.  I'm doing a better job of that the last couple months.
Q.  Was that a tough decision to make after what you did your first year on TOUR?
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, I think the problem with me is that, you know, obviously I proved last year that what I had was good enough.  I don't know what it is, but sometimes with some guys out here, they have a good year, they win, they feel like to get better they've got to change stuff.

It's not the case.  If anything, it proves to you that what you've got is good enough, just refine it.  You know, you don't have to change it, just refine it.  That's kind of what I've done.  I changed instructors at Doral from Leadbetter to Gary Gilchrist.  Gary has been working with my swing, just trying to teach me about my swing so I can learn it and learn how to fix it a little bit better.

You know, that's really what it is, is last year just was kind of a snowball effect.  I was just riding off the momentum.  This year has been kind of, well, I started off awful, now I've got to build it from scratch up.

Basically it just takes a lot of hard work and understanding.  You got to understand your game.  I think that's what I've done this year really well.
Q.  What do you think of the current class of rookies this year?  Trevor Owens is a rookie, but J.B. Holmes, all these young guys coming up that are playing well.
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, you know, I think you see a lot of the rookies this year keeping their cards.  You got Nathan Green, Bubba, Camillo, all those guys, they've played really well.  They've all kept their cards.

You know, it's just    I think it's a matter of time for a lot of those guys to win.  You know, Nathan Green seems to be playing well.  Camillo had a great start.  He's a great player.  Obviously, Bubba has a lot of talent, too.

You know, it's just    the rookies are only going to get better and better and better.  You know, you got the Nationwide Tour, you got the mini tours which are tougher.  That level is only going to get better.

When guys start coming out here, they're going to start being able to contend more when maybe back five years if you're a rookie, you're just trying to keep your card.  These guys are definitely able to win.
Q.  Ryder Cup has come and gone as far as the team process, but The Presidents Cup also in Canada next year.
SEAN O'HAIR:  That always would be a pleasure to play in, either Ryder Cup or Presidents Cup.  I'd love to play in it.  I've got to look at it as it's just a bonus for good play.  Unfortunately, you know, I somewhat put myself in position early this year, you know, to try and qualify for that Ryder Cup team.  I just didn't play well enough.

If I just keep plugging along and learning and playing, gradually get better and better and better, you know, I think that will take care of itself.
Q.  Did you learn anything from the other guys like Lucas, the couple other guys that really talked about how much pressure they felt to make the Ryder Cup team?  Did you learn from that?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Absolutely.  I mean, you see a lot of the guys, like Zach, he hasn't played bad all year.  Coming up, maybe he got a little bit tight about it.  But that's natural.  There's nothing wrong with that.  I'm happy for him because, I mean, we definitely need a guy like Zach to play on the team.  Lucas was playing awesome.  Struggled a little bit once the Ryder Cup got closer.

It's natural to start    whenever you're in this situation, to start thinking about it.  You can't start thinking about it.  You've just got to go out and play 'cause at the beginning of the year I'm sure those guys really weren't thinking about it as much as they were, you know, when the Ryder Cup was a couple weeks away from being chosen.
Q.  Maybe make it more of a reward than a goal?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, exactly.  It's more of a bonus than anything.  In this game, you just cannot put pressure on yourself, at least for me.  I mean, I can't see how Tiger does such an unbelievable job handling it 'cause, I mean, people are expecting him to play and win all the time, and he does it.

You know, for me it's more a matter of, well, let's just play and see how it goes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT