THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 25, 2016
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  1-under 69 the first round, is that a good score today?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, it's a really good score.  You know, this course is already tough as it is with the length and with the rough being the way it is and the greens are pretty quick, but then you're adding 30 miles an hour winds.  It's pretty challenging.  Just seemed to be moving around a little bit.  Wasn't a consistent wind in one direction.  It's kind of constantly, you know, changing and then you get a gust, so it's hard to club it.  Especially on the back nine, I felt like it was really hard to hit some -- put your distances in the par 3s.  So I'm very happy with that round.   
 Q.  In six holes, you've got 2-over par, then made a bunch of birdies?  
SEAN O'HAIR: You've just got to be patient.  Really, I know it sounds cliché, but this is one of those courses where it's just old school golf.  You've got to hit a lot of fairways and greens, and you know, you're not going to hit every single one, so you've got to expect that you're going to have to make some up-and-downs.  So you want to miss in the right spots.   
I didn't feel like I was playing that bad when I was 2-over.  I just told myself to just stay patient, and I was really pleased with my mental side of the game, because like I said, with the conditions being the way it was, and getting to 2-over, I could have forced things or get a little bit impatient and I just kind of hung in there.   
 Q.  What is your least favorite of the conditions, the mud balls, the wind?  
SEAN O'HAIR: The mud balls are tough.  You sometimes question that.  From a rules standpoint I question that.  With it being as challenging as it is and then you're hitting fairways and you're getting penalized for that.  But everybody's got to deal with it.   
It's just there's some shots where you have a mud ball and you're going over the water, and there's really not many places to miss it.  You know, it's just one of those things.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT