THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 2, 2005
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What did you think first time around?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Well, I think it's a great golf course.  It fits my eye.  I mean, it's definitely tree lined and fast greens.  I mean, there's nothing really much not to like about the course.  And this is a lot like back home.  There's a lot of courses back in Philly that are like this.

Just old school, and hit it straight and make some putts.
Q.  Is there anything that wouldn't fit your eye right now the way you're playing?
SEAN O'HAIR:  No, not really.  I mean, I'd like to get a little more comfortable with the driver on some cross winds.  I think my nemesis right now is a right to left wind off the tee, and I'm going to just try to work on that a little bit and hopefully keep on hitting the ball and putting the way I am, and hopefully we'll keep on playing well.
Q.  You were in the first couple of groups out there, the pace setters.  Was the wind swirling out there a little bit, the greens?
SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, the conditions were perfect for I'd say the first 11 holes, and then the wind kind of started picking up a little bit, and then it's kind of difficult to see where the wind has gone.  The wind was blowing a little bit on the front but not much at all.  It kind of kicked up on the back to about a club, club and a half, like on that bunker shot from the fairway, it kind of kicked up on me when I hit it.

You know, it played a little bit tougher on the back.  It's definitely going to play tougher for the guys who tee it up later.
Q.  Talk about the aura of this place, Jack's presence and things.  Anything so far you've seen in the locker room or
SEAN O'HAIR:  I haven't seen him.  I actually saw him on the golf course on one hole.  I think he was on 12 or 13 or something like that.  But it's just an awesome, awesome place, awesome venue.  It's just an honor to play in this event.  I mean, everything about it, walking in the clubhouse, walking in the locker room and just being on the golf course.  I mean, this is probably the best course I've ever played, and it's definitely the best conditions I've ever seen.

It's just an all around awesome week.
Q.  Not since the first Memorial did a first time golfer win this event.  It hasn't happened since.  As a first timer, there's a good group, a dozen or so of you rookies out there?
SEAN O'HAIR:  There's a lot of good rookies out there, Greg Owen to name one, and a bunch of them.  There's three rounds left, and I'm going to just try to keep on focusing on what I need to focus on, and hopefully I'll be there on Sunday.
Q.  I know you get tired of all the questions about your dad.  Do you sense that it's something that's totally out of your mind?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yes.
Q.  How do you deal with it?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Don't think about it.
Q.  You really had it going until, what, like 11?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yes.
Q.  Can you go over 11 again?
SEAN O'HAIR:  I hit driver    the question was hit driver or hit 3 wood.  It was slightly downwind, 290 to the bunker on the right so driver is not going to really hurt me, and I pushed the driver out a little bit.
Q.  You had a big drive, too?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah.  I mean, it hit    the thing probably flew about 320 and I didn't hit it good.  So that was a little bit of a surprise to me.  And how it hit the cart path and didn't touch a tree, I think it went by about 50 trees to go out of bounds.  I asked the guys if it touched a tree, and they said it didn't touch a tree.  So a little bit of back luck, but I made a lot of putts I probably shouldn't have made, and it all equals itself out.
Q.  You went back and
SEAN O'HAIR:  I had to re tee and hit it with a 3 wood and was in the right rough and ended up lipping out for my bogey.
Q.  How long was the putt?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Probably 12 feet.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SEAN O'HAIR:  It's a pretty easy bunker shot actually.  It was on the up slope.  I told my caddie, this is a pretty straightforward bunker shot, and it was just right up the hill.  I hit a good bunker shot and kind of played it perfectly.
Q.  What did you do on 7; 40 feet, 9 inches?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, yeah, I hit a pretty good drive there.  I hit a good 3 wood, but the wind took it a little bit on the right side and I hit a terrible bunker shot and got away with it, and that was kind of one of those putts I shouldn't have made.  It probably swung about six feet right to left and just barely dropped in, so that was a lot of fun.
Q.  I know it was 40 feet, 9 inches because of ShotLink.
SEAN O'HAIR:  Oh, yeah.
Q.  Do you guys look at that just for the stats?
SEAN O'HAIR:  I think some guys do, you know.  I'm not a huge fan.  I mean, I kind of know my stats and the things I kind of pay attention to are fairways, greens in regulation and just the amount of putts, and that's all I really pay attention to.  But you know, stats can sometimes lie to you.  Most of the time they do.  Some stat might look off, but it's because you're doing something else that has nothing to do with it.  So I really don't pay attention too much to that.
Q.  Back from where you stand from 40 feet, 9 inches
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, I don't pay attention to that stuff.
Q.  (Inaudible).
SEAN O'HAIR:  No, actually him and I are pretty close, and we work very well together.  The only problem is if we have a problem, I can't fire him.  That's the only problem (laughter).  No, but we have a good time out there.
Q.  You haven't come close, have you?
SEAN O'HAIR:  No, no, he's been probably close to firing me, but I haven't been close to firing him.
Q.  Is he a good player, too?
SEAN O'HAIR:  He's not bad.  He definitely hasn't played as much as he used to.  He used to play probably three or four times a week, but now he's always on the road with me.  When he's playing well    when he's playing a lot, he's probably a 3.
Q.  What's his name?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Steve Lucas.
Q.  Is he a former athlete?
SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, he actually played AAA for a couple years, three years.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT