SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2016
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sean, let's talk about today.  Very consistent.  Very similar to yesterday, don't you think?  
SEAN O'HAIR: You know what, I didn't really hit the ball that well compared to yesterday.  Yesterday I hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens.  My front nine, just really struggled hitting some fairways and had to make some tough up-and-downs and did a good job just kind of hanging in there.  And I hit it a little bit better on my Back 9 and kind of got a better feel about it.   
But you know, pulled a few scoring clubs coming in.  I kind of was licking my chops on 8 and pulled my 9-iron, missed the green there and kind of gave up a chance there.  But all in all I did a good job hanging in there on a day that I didn't quite feel as comfortable as yesterday.   
 Q.  You're driving the ball well.  Here you have to to put it in position.  I think that's a real positive heading into the weekend.  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah.  You know, I did.  I drove it really well yesterday, and I hit a lot of good shots off the tee today, even some of the holes that I missed the fairways, I hit good shots.  But you're right.  You gotta hit fairways and give yourself opportunities on this golf course.   
 Q.  I know you wanted the eagle here on the last hole as you were right on line, but nevertheless only three back heading into the weekend.  You're really in a good spot.  Talk about where you are what you have to do maybe this weekend.  
SEAN O'HAIR: You know, I feel good about my game.  I felt good coming in.  And you know, I think kind of what we're talking about is just hitting a lot of fairways and a lot of greens and just giving yourself as many chances as possible is the name of this golf course.  It's just a very traditional, straight out in front of you kind of golf course, and you just gotta play traditional golf.  And if you're uncomfortable on a tee shot, maybe instead of hitting 3-wood, hitting a 4-iron, getting it into play and take a longer shot in.  And if you're on the greens, you're going to have a legitimate birdie chance.  The greens are small, so I think it's just fairways and greens.   
 Q.  Good luck this weekend.  You're playing good.  
SEAN O'HAIR: Thank you.  Appreciate it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT