SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2016
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sean, a good start to 2016.  Are you pleased with the five-under round?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Absolutely, yeah.  I felt like I really struck the ball well today.  Didn't make a ton of putts outside of 10 feet.  I think I only had one putt outside of 10 feet.  But I can't complain about five-under.   
 Q.  How was the course playing out there?  The wind seems a little bit down.  Was the rough up a little bit?  
SEAN O'HAIR: The rough is definitely up.  You gotta hit fairways, which I think is why I played solid today.  I hit the ball really well off the tee.  The course is very gettable.  If you hit the fairways, you can attack some of those pins; and the greens are receptive enough to get aggressive with some of the tricky pins.  The greens are running really nice.  Good speed.  It's not like they're too fast or too slow or anything like that. Yeah, it's in great shape.   
 Q.  Five-under to get things going, how pleased are you kicking off 2016 with a solid round?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah.  It definitely beats shooting 80.  I played really well today.  Struck the ball well, and I was very happy with how I played.   
 Q.  The wind came up on your Back 9.  What adjustments did you have to make and how did this golf course maybe play a little differently coming in?  
SEAN O'HAIR: The finishing holes were tough.  You kind of had to flight your tee shots as opposed to on the front nine it just felt like you could just fire away.  There wasn't much thought involved.   
The trickiness about this golf course is you have some very tight fairways that curve and then you have some crosswinds, so when the wind got up, you kind of had to start controlling your ball play, whether ride the wind or hold the wind and control your trajectory.  So it was a little bit trickier coming in for sure.   
 Q.  You've had success on this golf course.  How much of an advantage is it coming back to a place that you know you've played well in the past?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Well, I guess I'm a veteran out here now, so hopefully I've got success on every course.  I like this place.  I like coming here and starting my year off here in Hawaii.  The people are great, and the golf course is always in great shape.  It's fun with the family, I got the family out this week, and it's just nice to be here and playing some good golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT