DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2015
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good solid playing here coming down the stretch.  Had to be fun out there today.  It was getting a little tough in the afternoon with the wind?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I thought it was hard with the wind because it was kind of switching all over the place.  One hole it would be into you and the next hole it was supposed to be down, and it felt like it was into you coming from a totally different direction.  You really had to pay attention to the wind today.   
 Q.  How important was it hitting it in the fairways today?  The greens started firming up a little bit.  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, this golf course is one of those courses you can get if you're hitting the fairways, especially if they're firm.  But if you're in the rough all day, it's going to be a difficult golf course.   
 Q.  What's going on with tomorrow, supposed to be a warm one, you looking forward to it?  
SEAN O'HAIR: It's always nice to be in the hunt come Sunday.  So, yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  I felt like I kind of fought it out today.  I didn't quite feel comfortable on the greens.  I thought I did a good job just kind of hanging in there all day.   
 Q.  How would you assess how this day played out?  
SEAN O'HAIR: I felt like I hit the ball fairly well.  I missed a few short putts I wish I could have back.  All in all I felt like I fought it out pretty good today.   
 Q.  You talked throughout the course of this year, especially in the spring when things were going extremely well there, it was part of the process.  How does this all fall into the process, giving yourself a chance to win coming into the last day?  
SEAN O'HAIR: You know, it's what you work hard for.  All the hard work and kind of the missed cuts and trying to learn from your mistakes.  This is what it's all about.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  What have you learned from the recent close calls that might help you in the final round?  
SEAN O'HAIR: You know, I've just got to play my game.  Tampa I felt like I really did a good job just kind of staying in the moment and just playing my game.  Even if you're in the hunt going into tomorrow, it's going to take a low score.  Out here these guys are shooting low scores out here on this golf course.  There's a lot of birdies.  You've just got to play your game, and hopefully you've got a shot going into the back nine.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT