DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2015
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under 67 in Round 2 or 7-under overall.  Is this where you want to be after two rounds here?
SEAN O'HAIR: I won't be missing the cut, that's for sure.  Yeah, I played well the last couple of days.  I'm sure I could have made a couple more putts or hit a few better shots, but I felt like all in all the game is pretty good.
Q. You came in 66 in FedExCup points, you're projected right now at 39.  Are you just positioning yourself --
SEAN O'HAIR: It's the second day.  Sitting here talking about it doesn't do anybody any good.  There's a lot of golf yet and on one of those courses guys can do really well.  Even if you're in the hunt Sunday you still need to shoot a low score to give yourself a chance because there's a lot of birdies out on this golf course.
Q. Do you like this course?
SEAN O'HAIR: I do.  I think it's a very playable golf course, which makes it fun.  You don't get on the tee shots and feel like you can't miss it.  You feel like you can give it a whale and you go find it and the rough is not too bad.  Just kind of allows you to play a little bit freer.  And I think that's why guys are making so many birdies out there.
Q. What's been the key to your play for the first two rounds?
SEAN O'HAIR: You know, I think just maybe a little bit more commitment to my shots.  I'm putting a lot better.  I've been struggling with my putting the last couple of months.  So at the beginning of the year I was putting really well, and I think that's what kind of got me back into a groove.  And this week I made a couple of adjustments and I feel really good about it.
Q. (Inaudible.)
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, it feels like a lifetime ago.  But those were great memories for my wife and I.  Just traveling around in our RV and playing New England Tour was a lot of fun.
Q. Which doesn't exist anymore.
SEAN O'HAIR: No, it doesn't.
Q. How old are you now?
SEAN O'HAIR: I'm 33.
Q. That was 10 plus?
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah.
Q. What kind of adjustments did you make in your playing?
SEAN O'HAIR: Just process stuff.  I was seeing -- I see the line well from behind the ball, but when I get over the ball I've been making adjustments and I just kind of decided to stick to what I see behind the ball, because it feels different when I'm over it.  And I guess kind of second-guessing myself a little bit and not committing to the stroke.
Q. Is that hard to do?
SEAN O'HAIR: It is hard to do.  It is hard to do.  Because I'm very much a feel player.  When it doesn't feel right it's hard to pull the trigger.  But it's just a matter of committing to that, committing to that process.
Q. How long ago did you start that?
SEAN O'HAIR: This week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT