THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 23, 2018
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A couple of 3-woods you hit, 3 was really good?
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, 3 was really good.  I think it hit that hill and just kind of rode it around.  3-wood has definitely been something I've struggled with all year.  I feel like some of the things I'm working on in my swing, just really starting to feel a little bit more shallow which is helping my long irons and my fairway woods.
So I think those are probably two of the best 3-woods I've hit in my career, and it just was nice that it was in the same round.
Q. You missed the putt on 17?
SEAN O'HAIR: I did.  I saw Sam's putt, and his broke quite a bit.  I mean, his came in around 7:30 and mine went dead straight, and I thought if anything I wasn't playing enough.  I hit it with dead speed.
I played a little bit more and hit it with dead speed and just stayed dead straight.  One of those things.
Q. Your form coming in, how would you describe it?  You've been in situations in good spots, medium spots, bad spots.  If there's ever a year to get to the BMW, this is your year I would think?
SEAN O'HAIR: It's been a bummer this year.  I had knee surgery in the fall and didn't really play in the fall, so I felt like I was kind of behind the 8-ball beginning of the year.  Just played a lot, early, and got kind of burnt out, and starting in San Antonio, I was going to play eight in a row and I was just going to keep playing until I kept my card.  Finished second there.
After that, I kind of just checked out mentally because I just kind of knew I was save and kind of lost my drive a little bit.  I wasn't really working that hard, and took a month off, right in the middle of summer, which I've never done since I've been on TOUR and tried to clear my head.  I haven't played much since that time off.  I think I've played maybe three events, and I've played very average at best.
You know, like last week, I actually hit the ball pretty good.  I was happy with that but I putted like Stevie wonder.  It was hard to score.
Q. What's your motivation level?
SEAN O'HAIR: I would love to be there.  It would be a total bummer, but I've never played well with putting pressure on myself to do it.
You know, I think really, I've kind of -- witness I got in the Playoffs, I was kind of like, you know what, I can't wait for this year to be over with and hopefully start off to a good fall.  I've been working on:  What are some of the things that I need to do to improve, and there's a lot for next year.  Ball-striking-wise, the last two weeks, I've seen a lot of improvement, so I'm pretty psyched about that.
Like I said, the putter was just awful last week and so I worked hard on Sunday with my caddie back home.  Worked hard these last few days on certain things and I putted really well today.  I made a lot of putts.
Q. What about long-term to next season?  Does it free you up for these events then?
SEAN O'HAIR: I think so.  For me, I'm always a perspective guy.  I think I play better when I've got like an easygoing, not necessarily don't care attitude, because I can't do that, but more just kind of go with the flow and just take what golf gives you.  I'm happy that I got my card.
I'm obviously very disappointed that I'm not in a better position, but I'm kind of in charge of my destiny.  If I play good golf I'm just going to work into the next week.  So you know, it's kind of a freeing situation.  It's either do-or-die.  It's not like, hey, I need to do it, I need to do this to play Aronimink.  I'll play Aronimink after the tournament.  I think I've got a member guest the following week.  So I'll play there soon enough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT