ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2015
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Sean, by the skin of your teeth there at the 9, but I know that's not the way you wanted to finish the round, but polished off another round under par. 
SEAN O'HAIR:   Yeah, I actually hit the ball okay.   Just distance control into the greens wasn't very good today.   The air seemed to be a little heavier, and I didn't do a very good job adjusting, and I just couldn't make any 30 footers.   That's what I had basically all day was 30 feet, and I couldn't get anything to drop.

Q.   You got off to the ultimate heater yesterday.   How hard is it to keep that momentum going when it's so good for you that early? 
SEAN O'HAIR:   You know, I honestly didn't really try to get off to a start like that, so why try.   Just keep doing it.   I'm just going to play golf and let the chips fall where they may.   That's really kind of how I got to this point.   You know, I'm playing good golf, and I think as long as I see my shot and hit my shot, I like my chances.

Q.   So much is made about your perspective and the change in the attitude the way that it's sort of brought back your game.   I want to talk about the game on the golf course.   What to you has been the best bounce back in your game? 
SEAN O'HAIR:   You know, I think just playing the game as opposed to playing the golf swing.   For two years I felt like there is a secret formula to me being a good ball striker again.   I just think my brain was getting in my own way, really. 
You know, I think when I was playing really well, I was trying to get better.   I was trying to make adjustments to being a better player and really it just came down to I messed myself up.   It's taken me some time to kind of get back to that, but I feel like I'm playing the game for a change.   I actually feel like I'm playing the game better than when I was playing really well.   So, you know, I actually am kind of obviously optimistic about it. 
But I feel like my best golf is ahead of me.   I feel like these last couple years have been an eye opening experience for me, and right now I just feel really good about my game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT