ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2015
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Sean, a long day.   5‑under, get back out there after the delay, and 7‑under total.   Worth the wait?   
SEAN O'HAIR:   You know, it was a long day.   The ground being soft, it's kind of tough on your back doing all the walking and everything, but I was very happy with the round, obviously.   Played really well early in the round and played solid on the back, just couldn't get a putt to drop.   It was nice to finish with a birdie.  
   
 Q.   When you have conditions like this, how much do you press a little bit knowing this is maybe as good as you'll see out here?   
SEAN O'HAIR:   Yeah, I kind of caught myself pressing a little bit on the back nine.   Once I got to 7, I was kind of pushing a little bit.   I think I was just forcing a little bit on the greens.   But, you know, I just kind of reminded myself, hey, I didn't try and eagle the first hole and do all those other things.   It just kind of happened, so I've got to let it happen.   As I said, it was nice to get the birdie.  
   
 Q.   Continuation of your great play over the last month, how satisfying is it to see this continue to happen almost every week?   
SEAN O'HAIR:   You know, it's nice.   Obviously, it's still a long way to go, but I just need to continue to work hard and be patient at this point in the game.   The game is right there.   It's all right there.   You know, I think the worst thing I could do at this point is put a lot of expectations on myself because I think I'm playing well at this point.   I've just got to do what got me here and just keep working hard.  
   
 Q.   7‑under 65 in the first round, really good playing.   What was your key today?   
SEAN O'HAIR:   You know, really it wasn't like a special key or anything.   I just went out and played golf and got off to a quick start.   Just really, that's all.   I think I struck the ball well.   I made a few putts out there and I was patient.   Obviously, very satisfying to shoot 7‑under par today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT