FRANKLIN TEMPLETON SHOOTOUT
December 8, 2012
Sean O'Hair
Kenny Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   Kenny and Sean, you have a two‑shot lead going into the last round.   
Sean, you want to start off talking about the round.  
SEAN O'HAIR:   Yeah, we kind of started off slow not birdieing the first hole today, but we just kind of played a solid front nine; and then starting on 13 we got pretty hot and birdied every hole coming in.  
Kenny did a great job when I wasn't in the hole to do his job; then I did a pretty good job when Kenny wasn't in the hole, I did mine.   
So we kind of ham and egged it.   Yesterday I thought we both played really well.   Today we just did a good job of ham and egging it pretty good.   
MARK STEVENS:   Kenny, talk about tomorrow's format.  
KENNY PERRY:   Tomorrow is fun.   The scramble format is fun.   You can see a lot of everything.   In my two wins, I don't think Scott or John Huston, we didn't really go that low on Sunday to win.   I've known a couple to go pretty low on Sunday to win.   
Just got to kind of play it long, see how it's going, kind of look at the leaderboard a little bit and see where you're at.   But Sean is driving it beautifully.   If I can just do my job and get it in the fairway and let him get after it a little bit, we're going to have a little bit of an advantage overall.   
MARK STEVENS:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   What was the rain delay like?   
SEAN O'HAIR:   You have to keep your momentum.  
KENNY PERRY:   It was great for us.   It was huge.   Sean chipped in on 13, and then I never been so wet in all my life.   I mean, it just dumped on it.   It caught us.   In all my years of playing on the TOUR, I've never been caught in something like that where we didn't have evacuation where we get into a van or somewhere.   We were just getting drownded out there.  
Then everybody looked at the forecast and said 20% chance, so nobody had umbrellas or anything else with us, so we all got soaked.   
But it was amazing.   We come back right out of the hopper and birdie the last five holes.   I thank God for the rain because it really helped us.  
We got in there and Sean did a great job.   I think I birdied 14 and 15, he birdied 16 and 17, and I birdied 18.   We did a great job just staying in the hole.  
The other guy wasn't out of the hole, it's just we weren't close for birdies.   The one that was close for birdies seemed to end up making it.   
It was nice to know that you didn't have to just lag it up there.   You could actually put a little heat on it and actually run it a little bit and not worry about the outcome.  
That's nice when you got free runs at it.   
   
 Q.   I was just going to say, Kenny, looked like you did complement each other well because I saw a couple things on TV where you got yourself in some deep trouble on a couple holes.  
KENNY PERRY:   Exactly.   Well, I did.   I hit a good shot on 16, and it hit that green and it was gone.   It ended up in a really bad spot.   You know, when you hit a good shot, you don't think it's going to end up ‑‑ I was definitely out of that hole.   
He hit one of the pretty shots all day in there six feet the hole.  
SEAN O'HAIR:   I think we did a good job though of giving ourselves two opportunities at birdie.   That's why we shot 11‑under today.   You know, that was one hole out of 18 holes where he wasn't on the green, but I think pretty much every other green we were right there and had a good opportunity.  
So I think that was the trick the last couple days, is just we've given ourselves a ton of opportunities.   If one doesn't make it, the other one has a good chance at it.   You got that par set up already so you can be aggressive with that second opportunity.   
   
 Q.   Especially with the scramble, guys can get off to a fast start.   By the time you're hitting into 1, somebody could be right up there or maybe just tied with Davis and Brandt.   Talk about that.   
KENNY PERRY:   We need to get out there and do our job and get out there and shoot a low round of golf, because somebody is going to go low.   It always happens.   Two or three teams may go really low.   It's nice to have the lead so if we go low they can't catch us.  
It's just a matter of us doing what we been doing all week.   Just be patient.   Nothing's really upset us.   I've loved our temperament out there, our mentality.   We're both in our own little zones out there playing smart golf, and it worked.  
For two rounds it was fun.   To me it was pretty stress‑free.   Tomorrow is going to be a lot of fun.   Just going to have to keep doing what we're doing.   Hopefully we'll get off to a good start and have momentum in our favor and really enjoy a nice Sunday out here.   
   
 Q.   Playing with Davis and Brandt again, what's that going to be like?   You say they were chasing you or you were tied today for most of the day.   
SEAN O'HAIR:   I don't think we're going to worry too much about what any other team is going to do.   Kenny is spot on:   if we just go out there and do our job, everybody is gonna have a hard time catching us.  
Having a two‑shot lead is nice, but if we don't go low we don't have a chance.   So it's kind of just like a one‑day shootout, to be honest with you.   I think we have a great opportunity just because Kenny is a great driver of the golf ball.   I've got a little more distance.   
So if we can get a ball in play, you know, just allows the other person to get a little bit more aggressive.   You know, we got two pretty good games for this golf course.   We're both fairly long and good putters.  
I think we got a good shot tomorrow.   
MARK STEVENS:   Thanks a lot.   Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT