MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible)?
SEAN O'HAIR:   I was not happy, but you think you played as good as you play and then you (inaudible) but that's kind of the way it is this week.   I think everybody is having to deal with that a little bit.   You have kind of just got to roll with the punches today.

Q.   How chilly was it in the warm‑up when you were out there?
SEAN O'HAIR:   It wasn't cold.   It just was windy.   But it's still windy, so it's obviously warmed up a little bit but it wasn't that bad.   The wind was chilly.   But once you kind of get on the golf course, it ‑‑ the trees do a good job of kind of blocking it out for you.

Q.   Was that an issue early on, though?   It seems a few people had trouble the first couple of holes. 
SEAN O'HAIR:   The balls aren't going anywhere because obviously it's cold.   And then plus it's soft conditions and windy conditions, so 18 is playing really, really long.   You get a few holes where it's just ‑‑ the wind is not helping you that much if it's behind you because it's such soft conditions.   So you are not able to take advantage of the wind. 
So conditions like this really hurt you on the par 5s.   I feel like normally most of the par 5s are very reachable for me.   And this week I haven't gone for one par 5, I don't think, once.   It definitely affects how we're playing the golf course.

Q.   Were you tempted on 15 to try this time? 
SEAN O'HAIR:   No, I wasn't tempted.   A lot of wind up there.   So I thought I would play it smart.   I gave myself an opportunity for birdie.   I didn't chicken out like I did yesterday on the wedge shot so I was pretty happy with it.

Q.   What about 16? 
SEAN O'HAIR:   16, I hit a little chippy 8.

Q.   What's a more difficult third shot 13 or 15?
SEAN O'HAIR:   Today I thought 13.   With that pin in the front left, if you camp it just a little too hard, it goes down and it kind of (inaudible) and it's a tougher up‑and‑down.   But you know you want to give yourself a realistic chance at birdie, too, so you still want to be aggressive. 
You have just got to really pick your spots, though, because this place can really bite you.   Par is not a bad score out here today.   So it was kind of the my strategy. 

Q.   You birdied two of the par 3s, right? 
SEAN O'HAIR:   Yeah, I birdied 16 and then ‑‑ did I birdie another one? 

Q.   6? 
SEAN O'HAIR:   Yeah, I did birdie 6, man. 

Q.   Have you ever had ‑‑ let anybody play through when it's not been ‑‑
SEAN O'HAIR:   No, no.   You know, I felt like they probably should have had them tee off first since they were the two some.   O'Meara, Mark withdrew because he hurt himself, so even the guys on the tee said we probably should have done that.   But I just figured why not just ask because those guys were waiting for us on every shot yesterday and I didn't want to make them wait again.   It was just more of a courtesy thing than anything.

Q.   Where did they play through?
SEAN O'HAIR:   They went through on No. 4.

Q.   What does a day ‑‑ is a day like this, you know, someone might look at the score and say 70, but does a day like this really keep you in the hunt with the conditions and stuff? 
SEAN O'HAIR:   Yeah, I mean ‑‑ I don't think anybody is going to really run away with it on a day like today.   You get a guy ‑‑ I mean, say Westwood has a good day today, I don't think he is going to get to 10‑under.   I think a good score, like I said, is 1 or 2 under par.   So if he plays really solid today, I think the lead will probably be around 7 under par or 8 under par. 

Q.   Let me ask you about 18.   There are a lot of double bogeys.   There were moving fans left and right over there, patrons, I'm sorry.   Balls were going left of the green.   What is the challenge on 18?   Is it just the ‑‑
SEAN O'HAIR:   You know, I think there's a lot of challenges this week.   I mean, I don't think they would ever play the ball up here or neither would the USGA in a U.S. Open no matter what the conditions are.   The conditions are really soft so there are a lot of shots where you are getting mud balls.   It's an issue. 
If you hit it in the fairway, you know, it's already a pretty difficult shot up the hill.   Then you have got to wind to deal with and then you have got a mud ball, which you really don't know where the ball is going to go.   So you just ‑‑ it's more of saying you know what, I'm going to try to hit it up there and where the ball goes, I'll just get up‑and‑down.   Like I said, everybody has got to deal with it.   You just try to deal with it as best you can. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
SEAN O'HAIR:   Generally they say that if the mud is on the right, it goes left.   If the mud is on the left, it goes right, you know.   So I don't really find that necessarily true.   I'm just hitting out to be honest with you.

Q.   Everyone has got to play it, so you are okay? 
SEAN O'HAIR:   It is what it is.   I mean, you can sit there and bark about it all week and it's not going to get you anywhere.   Or you can accept it for what it is and just move on with it.   Like I said, everybody's got to deal with it and everybody's getting it.   Everybody is getting it.   It's just something you have got to deal with. 

Q.   Are you happy with what you did today?
SEAN O'HAIR:   I'm really happy with how I played today.   I played really solid.   I wish I hit a few more greens out there, but my short game really saves me out there and a few really good putts today that dropped for me.   So it was nice to play well. 
I hit some nice shots out there.   It wasn't like I didn't hit it well, but the short game was really good today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT