RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2011
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Sean, 4-under 66 gets you to 2-under par. Tell me about your day today. You looked like you were having fun out there?
 SEAN O'HAIR: It was a lot of fun. I played great today. Drove it nice off the tee which you have to do out here. Had some nice shots coming into the green. So gave the putter a lot of looks, and that's what you have to do out here.

 Q. There hasn't been a player all week that hasn't said that the driver of off the tee, whatever club it might be, is such a key out here. You just can't play from this rough. 
 SEAN O'HAIR: I don't think we've played a tournament like this yet this year. I can't really recall in the last couple of years playing a tournament like this. This was probably a lot more difficult than the U.S. Open played this year. You know, it's all about the rough this week. Fairways aren't the widest in the world. You know, it's a beautiful golf course how it shapes your shots off the tee. You've just got to hit a lot of fairways and do the best job you can.

 Q. With the conditions out here, the greens seem to have firmed up a little bit. Is the speed getting to where it seems like it should be? It seems everybody has been struggling with their speed going into today? 
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, the greens are beautiful today. Obviously, being first off, you get the best greens of the day. But they were rolling beautifully on the front. It was such a pleasure to putt on them, you know, because they were so smooth and perfect speed. So, yeah, they definitely are firming up. Just trying to fix your ball marks is a little bit of a task. It's a difficult golf course. It's definitely challenging.

 Q. It's been a little bit of a struggle this year. Is there one thing you can put your finger on that's maybe better this week all year or is it multiple things? 
 SEAN O'HAIR: I think it's multiple things. The swing is starting to get back to where it should be, and I'm able to, you know, be confident in that I know where the ball's going. You're going to have your good days and you're going to have your bad days, but the swing is definitely better. I just think I'm thinking better. Confidence is a little bit better. I'm just being a little bit more patient with myself. 
 It's been a struggle this year. It's been a lot of, tough, tough days. It's definitely been up humbling. But you just try to learn the best you can from it, and hopefully it makes you a better player.

 Q. Have some fun out there. 
 SEAN O'HAIR: It's nice to finally be back in this position on a Sunday. You know, I'm playing nicely. I've been playing nicely for a while, and I just quite haven't gotten much out of my game yet. So it's nice to see the putts fall this week, and making some birdies.

 Q. How tough is the course playing? 
 SEAN O'HAIR: It's tough. It's like a U.S. Open is how I explain it. Maybe not quite as long, but it's not allowing you to hit driver off every tee, which out here is kind of the case. You know, fairways are kind of a necessity to play well. You know, guys are missing fairways and still scoring, but I don't think that's going to last the length of the tournament.

 Q. It looked like the rough may have been cut a little bit, did you notice anything?
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I think they cut it yesterday, they said. Actually, I think it makes it tougher, because the rough is just standing straight you up outside the fairways, so the ball just sinks right down to the bottom. I don't think I've gotten one good lie out of the rough unless I was way, way off line and got lucky. But it's challenging. You know, you've got to be accurate this week. If you're not, you better have a good short game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT