AT&T NATIONAL
June 30, 2011
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Any one thing out there that was just kind of --  
 SEAN O'HAIR: It's ball-striking. That's all there is to it. You can't play this golf course and not hit fairways, and off the tee on a scale from 1 to 10 I was a 2. I might have hit one good drive today, and everything wasn't quite in place. Early I was missing everything right, and then on the back nine I was kind of missing everything left. It's just kind of going back and forth.   
 You know, the swing wasn't monitored well at the end of last year and the beginning of this year, and I'm paying the price right now. It's just a struggle. I'm going out there on the golf course a little uncomfortable, and like I said, it's been better but it's still not there clearly.  
  
  Q. It seemed like the greens were a lot faster than they were even yesterday. Did you sense that out there?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: You know, the greens were fine. I actually felt like on a few holes they were a little bit slower and on a few holes they were a little bit quicker. I think they were just a hair inconsistent. The firmness was a little bit inconsistent, but I think that's what you're going to get when they've dried out so much over the last two days or day and a half.   
 I think the golf course is in great shape, and if you hit fairways you can score out there, but out of that rough and with the greens being as quick and as firm as they are, it's just tough to score.   
  
  Q. Is there anything promising that you found in your swing?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: You know, I just hit it a little bit better, missed some putts on the back nine. I didn't make anything out of the opportunities I did have. So it's just -- I think my timing was just a little bit better. I was getting a little quick on the back side. I've just got to go on the range and just beat balls and figure it out.  
  
  Q. Do you take anything away from this round?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I think I just ignore the first nine and try and take the fact that I scored well on the back nine.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT