AT&T NATIONAL
June 29, 2011
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the first pitch last night.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: It was awful. I think I hit the camera guy right in the head. I think the worst thing about it, I didn't even ask how he was doing I was so nervous. But it was fun to be there. I had two of my kids there, and the whole experience was great. I wish I would have thrown a little bit better pitch, but it's not what I do for a living.   
  
  Q. Coming out here, obviously a guy that lives in West Chester with your kids and your family, a lot of support, what does this tournament mean?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I think it's great to come out here, home course in front of a home crowd, relax, and it's just kind of a little bit more fun week for me. Somebody was asking me would you rather win this event or a major, and clearly I'd rather win a major, but I think it would be probably more fun to win this event. Just to do it on your home course in front of the members and in front of your friends and stuff would be a special experience.  
  
  Q. You said you can be a little bit more relaxed. Is that going to help you because you've had your struggles on TOUR, having this kind of support where you don't have as much pressure maybe?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Sure. This year I've definitely had a difficulty being comfortable on the golf course, just a little bit uncomfortable with my game, and I think my game has turned around. I saw a lot of good things last week, and I think the fact that I'm comfortable this week with being home and in front of everybody is definitely going to help me out quite a bit.  
  
  Q. As well as you know this course, how much can that help you?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I think it's definitely a course that the more you play it, the better it is. You know, it's a pretty straightforward golf course. I don't think I have a huge advantage over everybody, but the fact that it's my home course, I'm probably a little bit more relaxed than everybody else is I think going to play in my favor.  
  
  Q. I know you heard the support here last year from the local golf fans. What does that mean to you?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Oh, it's great. Like I said, it's nice for people to -- to have that support. It's a heck of a lot better than having them boo you. It's just very enjoyable to come out here on a course that I love and play in front of everybody.   
  
  Q. What's it like watching your baseball team right now and the way they're playing?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: They're playing some great baseball. It's nice to see them winning again. I think it's kind of hard to beat our pitching. We've got a great rotation, and that speaks for itself. Again, you still have to hit, and I think that's what kind of messed us up last year. Our pitching was great, we just couldn't hit at the end of the year. It's nice to see them playing well. They played great last year, we've just kind of got to get in that right flow.   
 I think it's a lot like golf. You're going to have your good times and your bad times, it's such a long season. It's nice to see them playing well. They're doing all the work, but you live and die with them, and a true fan, I guess, does that. Wintertime with the Eagles, I was sitting there screaming at the TV. Hopefully we can pull out the World Series and do something -- hopefully football comes back this year. It would be fun to watch Vick be healthy and play some good football.  
  
  Q. So much made on your TOUR right now about the European golfers winning the last five majors. Are we going through a swing?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I was talking to Ernie Els about that a little bit, and he said, you know, every 20 years you kind of see it flip flop every now and then, and I think he's right. I think there's a lot of young up-and-coming Americans, Americans that are playing well right now. Golf is one of those things that you're not going to play well all the time, and if you're a top player, you can only play bad for so long.   
 You know, the Europeans are playing well, and I'm not going to say that -- the credit is due for them; they're proving themselves. But I wouldn't count the young Americans out if I was me.  
  
  Q. A lot of guys are hitting the ball a lot longer --  
 SEAN O'HAIR: You look at guys like Nick Watney and the guy hits it a mile, Bubba Watson hits it a mile, J.B. Holmes. Golf is a different game than it was 15 years ago, and it's a lot more exciting, I think. The equipment has had a great deal to do with that. Obviously I think guys are also hitting the gym a little bit harder so they're stronger and everything. You know, I think the only thing golf is missing is Tiger. I think golf is a better game with him playing, and it would be nice to get him healthy and get him back out here playing again.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT