MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SEAN O'HAIR: I was 2-over through 11, and wasn't quite hitting it well off the tee, so I was a little bit shaky. But then started hitting it better from 12 on and made some nice putts. You know, stroked it nicely today on the greens, a couple of them kind of slid by, but I was very happy with overall how I played.  
  
  Q. Now, 11 you bogeyed?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I just kind of blocked it a little to the right and I was blocked out by a tree so I had to punch out, hit a nice wedge shot and just misread the putt.  
  
  Q. What did you play the last six holes, 4- or 5-under?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, something like that, 4-under.  
  
  Q. Wow, okay.   
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah.  
  
  Q. So birdies on 13 and 15 to get --  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, birdied 12, birdied 13, birdied 15, and then birdied the last.  
  
  Q. What did you hit into 12?  
SEAN O'HAIR: 12 I hit a little 8-iron, a little low cut 8-iron in there, and then made a nice little putt. And then 13 I hit it on in two with a rescue, nice two-putt.   
And then 15 I hit a fantastic wedge shot, pulled it left, blocked out so I had to hit it out of the trees, hit a nice lob wedge to just a couple inches.   
And then hit a great 7-iron into the last and missed the putt. So could have been better, could have been worse. I'm pretty happy with how I played.  
  
  Q. How did you like the early tee time?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Loved it. You know, fresh greens, and tough to try and keep pace, you know, because these guys are trying to get you to keep going, trying to keep the pace for the rest of the field, but I loved having the fresh greens and felt like you owned the whole place, you know.  
  
  Q. How about the weather?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I was making some good swings, just my cuts weren't quite cutting and my draws weren't quite drawing. I was just basically hitting these straight shots, and the strike wasn't quite right. So I changed my ball position just a little bit, and it helped out a lot.  
  
  Q. How comfortable do you feel on this course? You've played some fairly good golf here and you've been around here a couple times. How comfortable do you feel here?  
SEAN O'HAIR: I love the place. I mean, I love the golf course, feels comfortable, you know, I just love the whole feel of the place. I think it's a very special atmosphere out here, and I just think either you love it or you hate it, and I just love it. It's just a very kind of -- I don't know, fairy-tale type feel out here.  
  
  Q. Did you feel the greens were significantly faster than yesterday?   
SEAN O'HAIR: Not too bad, no. They were a little bit quicker, but I think we all expect that. They tend to not quite cut them as well as they're going to on Wednesday, but no, it wasn't drastically different.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the eagle?  
SEAN O'HAIR: What eagle?   
  
  Q. Did you knock one up like this far?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, that was almost an eagle. That would have been nice if that was an eagle. That was a birdie.  
  
  Q. Did I miss one somewhere in there?   
SEAN O'HAIR: No, I birdied 12, 13, birdied 15 and 18.   
  
  Q. You pitched out?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I pitched out on 15, yeah.  
  
  Q. You have a long ways to tomorrow. Do you like the morning --  
SEAN O'HAIR: It's not that bad, you know? I'm teeing off at like 10:35 or something like that. It's not like I've got the last tee time. I get a nice kind of day to go practice a little bit, and then I still get to do some fun stuff with the kids later on. And then tomorrow I get to sleep in.  
  
  Q. Who's all down here, everybody?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You had two of your children yesterday at the par-3?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What was that like?  
SEAN O'HAIR: My son Luke wasn't quite interested in it. He got a little tired of it. He wanted to play. And my daughter took it really seriously. I was proud of her, she really behaved nicely, and she enjoyed it. It was fun going out there.   
She loves the signing autographs. She wanted to sign autographs, so that was fun watching her.  
  
  Q. You took Luke in a bunker somewhere?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, Luke's attention span is not quite there yet, so we've got to work on that.  
  
  Q. You've come down here a few times and get a bigger house every time.   
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, this year it's a lot lower key than in the past. We have a couple friends from back home, but they have their own place, so it's just me and the in-laws and the kids, so four kids, yeah.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I think we have been here ever since where we have one, two, three and four. We can't even manage the four. I don't know how it's going to work later on when they get older. Molly loves it, though. It's fun watching her get into it.   
  
  Q. Is it pretty close to perfect out there playing-wise, condition-wise?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, you can't really get much better conditions. The first nine it didn't blow at all. It's starting to pick up a little bit, but it's so light, and the greens are fairly receptive, and they're rolling perfectly. I think they're a perfect speed. They're not too fast, they're not too slow. Yeah, really good playing conditions I think out there.  
  
  Q. So if the weather keeps up like this it could get dangerous by the weekend?  
SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I think Goosen is probably going to be at least 7-, 8-under by the end of the day. I played with him yesterday. He's playing well, and scoring conditions are definitely out there.  
Back nine was very playable today, and I like that. I think the players like that. We don't want to play a golf course that's impossible, you know, and it's nice to make birdies, and especially on the back nine. You know, it's kind of -- it makes it anybody's game, especially on Sunday going into the back nine. I hope they continue to play it like this. It's quite enjoyable.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT