AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2010
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How is the back feeling?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: It hurt today. The left side hurt, and actually it's been the right side the whole week. So I don't know what the deal is with that. I don't think it affected the ball-striking or how I played or anything like that. It just obviously hurt a little bit.  
  
  Q. Someone said you were having trouble breathing out there.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: No, I've got really bad sinuses right now. I got them at Pebble, and I almost went blind out there yesterday; I couldn't see. I haven't had a good week health-wise, but it's okay.  
  
  Q. How was your play?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I struck the ball pretty good. On a scale from 1 to 10 probably about a 7 today, so definitely I struck the ball good enough, I'm just not making anything. It's not so much that I'm hitting bad putts, either. It's frustrating because I know these greens, and I haven't seen these pins really too much. But it's frustrating because I'm hitting good putts and I'm all over the hole.   
 Today I wasn't over the hole as much as I was the last two days, but I still had a lot of putts around the hole, and they're just not going in.  
  
  Q. How do you manage to stay patient?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Well, there's no other way to play. I mean, you've just got to -- it's either going to get to you or you're just going to say, hey, look, I'm playing as good as I can, just keep going. And I think that's what I've been doing. Mentally I'm strong right now. I'm staying patient out there, and I'm not letting it get to me too much.   
 Yeah, I mean, is it frustrating at the end of the day? Yeah, it is, because I'm probably hitting the ball just as good as anybody out here this week, especially with the way my body feels and everything. I think I've had the game to win. But the putter is just keeping me out of it. I've had three three-putts this week, and I haven't made a thing.  
  
  Q. How hard is it to stay out of the -- like I've got to fix this?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Actually I think that's the thing that has kind of got me putting well is that I'm not thinking about all that stuff. I'm not thinking about my stroke, all I'm thinking about is speed and the line. And I feel like I'm doing a decent job at it. I had a lip-out on 16, had a couple short putts that were right around the hole, but my speed was a little bit off. It's frustrating. You're giving yourself plenty of opportunities and you're just not taking advantage of them.  
  
  Q. Is it wearing on you mentally at all?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: No, I think -- I've got one more day, so I'm just kind of focusing on tomorrow, and I've got a week off. I was planning on playing next week, the John Deere. I've won there before. But just because of where I am health-wise, I just thought it would be better to take that week off.   
 I'm going to give it my best tomorrow and try and shoot as low a number as I can. I definitely think it's out there. If I can get that putter hot, hopefully they'll drop tomorrow, and you never know.   
  
  Q. You're always playing for something.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I don't think shooting a low round tomorrow is -- I mean, who knows? That might be good enough to win, win the golf tournament. You're going to have to go really low, 61 or something like that, but it's possible.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT