THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 7, 2009
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you lose your money on the golf course or ping-pong table?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: On the golf course.   
  
  Q. How many did you have to give him?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I had to give him 12. I lost most of my money on a nine-hole bet. I had to give him six. And then we had some betting yesterday that I kind of gave the old gag on 16.   
 But yeah, it's been a lot of fun. Just I think, to me, it's worth the money, you know, by like what H said about this thing. It's a memory that I'll have for the rest of my life and I'll be telling my grandkids about it. It's been a lot of fun the last couple of days.   
  
  Q. Did you have any sense of why he's taken such an interest in you? He made comments yesterday that he thinks --  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I have no idea. You know, I don't know if he feels that I need the most help out of anybody out here or what.   
 I don't know. He just came up and we played Monday, and just kind of started talking a little bit, and, you know, he's got a lot of good insight. It's mostly all attitude on believing in yourself and self talk and stuff like that. And obviously he's performed at the highest level, he's the greatest of all time at what he did, probably one of the greatest athletes of all time. So it's awesome to pick his brain.  
  
  Q. In a way it's like having your own Dr. Phil out there.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: It's different than a psychologist. I would take him over any psychologist any day. You know, a guy who is sitting there telling you, hey, this is what you should be doing, and if he's basically sat behind a desk his whole entire life, that's all well and good, but you have an athlete who performed at the highest level and is the greatest at what he did, it's just like Tiger sitting down and talking to you about golf and how to think and whatnot.   
 So you know, you take somebody who is so accomplished and you know you're going to take his word for it.   
  
  Q. Had you met him before Monday?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: No.   
  
  Q. What's his alleged handicap?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: His alleged? I would say -- I think he said he was like an 8, which was the biggest crock I've ever heard in my entire life.  
  
  Q. Did they warn you or set you up?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: He won the bets on the first hole, let's just put it that way. He is a good player, though.  
  
  Q. What did he shoot, ballpark?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: He shot below his handicap, let's put it that way. It's like Hunter said, the guy, it's not the prettiest thing in the world, but he knows where it's going. He actually struggled a little bit on the putting green, and so it would have been ugly if he putted a little bit.  
  
  Q. So Michael came in with an 8 handicap on Monday; how many shots did you give him?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I gave him 12 total.   
  
  Q. And so you lost that match on the first hole?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yes, I did. I think it was kind of a betting error on my part.  
  
  Q. Have you made any other betting errors this week?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Many, many. I'm down heavily. My pocket is getting awfully light.   
 But it's all on the golf course. I'm the much of a ping-pong table player, so I kind of sit and watch and just talk crap. I've got to do a better job of kind of sealing the deal on the first hole.  
  
  Q. Any card-playing going on or any other sports?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: No. I think we might play some gin though tonight.  
  
  Q. How is your game there?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Below average. Below average.   
  
  Q. The learning curve there, as well?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I'm going to go to go to the bank before I go back to the hotel.   
  
  Q. What does it mean to you to play on a team event, being from an individual sport, finally you get to play with guys and feel part of a team concept.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I think it's fantastic. I've never had that much experience with it. I didn't go to college, so I didn't have that experience, but I played in high school a little bit. I think these guys, you're playing with the best players in the world, and I'm playing with one of my idols of all time, Freddie Couples, and having Jay Haas and guys like that, MJ, it's just great. I think the buzz that was kind of with our team right now is fantastic. We are all joking around and having a good time, and I think a lot of our games -- I think we are having to have a great week, having a lot of fun on and off the golf course, and that's what it's all about.   
  
  Q. As a rookie, you have to bring the donuts or carry anybody's bag or anything?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: No, they have actually been pretty cool about that. No hazing or anything. It's been good.   
  
  Q. Have you had to take a low-key approach?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Honestly, I try to keep my opinions to myself for the most part. You know, at night when I have a few scotches in me, that kind of takes over.   
 Other than that, I try to just let the veterans take care of the stuff. You know, I've been asked who I want to play with, but I think Freddie has got the approach of -- he makes you feel like he's -- he's at least made me feel like I've played on 15 of these things, and I think that's what the cool thing is about how Freddie has done it.   
 I think I'm not the only one, but I thought he was going to be a lot more kind of, you know, not so much ho-hum about it, but a lot more relaxed about it. He really is taking it seriously, and he's done a fantastic job. He's done his homework and he's worked hard.   
  
  Q. Have you witnessed any of the better ping-pong table battles yet?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I have. I tell you what, some of these guys can play.   
  
  Q. Lucas is pretty good.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Lucas is great. I think Zach -- Phil wouldn't like this, but I think Zach is our best player. Even though he got hammered by Phil, Phil hammered him last night. But I tell you what, Tiger is really good.   
  
  Q. Has the Phil/Tiger battle happened yet?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: It has.  
  
  Q. What was the result of that one?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I'll let them tell that story. But there was a lot of swearing involved and a lot of frustration. It was actually quite hilarious.  
  
  Q. Is there a chance you would go against the Internationals on a ping-pong table?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I don't know. I think we are just going to kind of keep it to ourselves. But it's pretty entertaining. So I just sit and have a few BV' s and talk trash.   
  
  Q. Did Tiger make anybody take their shirt off?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: No, I don't want to see that but the hats are on backwards, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: No, nothing like that but it's pretty funny.   
  
  Q. Would you comment on the caddies wearing the Giants jerseys?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I was assigned 11. I have no idea who that's supposed to be.   
  
  Q. That's Carl Hubbell.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: That goes to show you. Yeah, I thought it was really cool. From what I hear, I think they are going to charity, which is pretty cool, and I know the caddies were definitely pumped when they pulled his out today.   
 I'm a Phillies fan, though, and I'm missing the ballgame right now.  
 You know what's funny is my caddie's favorite number is 11, so I don't know if that was on purpose or what.   
  
  Q. I think what caught our eye is Lincicome is the big star here.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I have no idea. To be honest with you, I don't know if Phil is a Giants fan or not.   
  
  Q. Harding Park, kind of the pride of San Francisco, but it's been known to be scruffy around the edges at times. What do the world-class players think?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Well, I think they have done a great job. I heard they struggled a little bit with the greens not too long ago and they have done a fantastic job bringing them back.   
 You know, all in all, I think the golf course is in fantastic shape. When I played this in 2005, it was definitely one of my favorites that we played on TOUR. You know, I think for this format, the layout, the rerouting was suitable. I like the original routing better for a golf tournament, but I think it really fits this event well, and I think it's going to be really exciting.   
  
  Q. You don't play too many traditional 1920s style, is it refreshing from the modern courses?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: When we played Winged Foot in the 2006 U.S. Open, that is basically my favorite golf course. You know, I wish we played, on a weekly basis, courses like this one and that one. You know, just that more traditional style.   
 What you're seeing is we are playing a little bit more modern on occasion, and I'm not a huge fan of that, but it makes coming to courses like this a treat, and this week is definitely a treat.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT