THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 27, 2009
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can we get your thoughts on your playing partner's performance today? He shot 65, the best round by two pops and kind of took it early and ran off with it.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I don't think he made a bogey today, did he? I don't think he did.   
  
  Q. None that springs to mind.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I think that says it all right there. It played very difficult today. The wind was tough, sloppy conditions in the fairway and the rough, and he drove it really nicely, which allowed him to be aggressive, and he putted really well. So you put all that together, you're going to play well.   
  
  Q. Seems to be pretty fearless old Phil on the greens, not only today but that's pretty much the way he's been putting this week.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I wouldn't call it fearless because his speed control is really good. It's not like he's blowing it by five feet. His speed was beautiful, and he hit a lot of solid putts. He actually could have shot a little bit lower round today.   
 He just played fantastic, and the chipping-in on 16 kind of sealed the deal a little bit. He did a good job just hitting his spots on the last couple holes and a nice save on the last. It was a solid round of golf.  
  
  Q. Being out there between the ropes and trying to do your job, were you able to divine what was going on with the FedExCup?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: No, I wasn't really focused on that. I was kind of right there for a while, and my problem today was I just didn't have my driver. I was hitting a lot of rough, in the rough a lot, and just catching the fliers and the sloppy conditions, wet and everything. You can't get it close to the pin. When you're struggling to try and save pars, it's hard to compete when somebody is making birdies.  
 You look at what he did, he hit his driver beautifully, and I didn't.   
  
  Q. What about the format? Do you think it added to --  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I thought it was exciting. I thought it was very exciting. You know, we'll see what changes or whatever, if they do make changes next year.  
  
  Q. From a PR and marketing standpoint, do you think the TOUR could be much happier than having Phil and Tiger standing out there together at the trophy presentation?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I don't know. Did Tiger end up making par there?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: So he won the FedExCup then. So yeah.   
  
  Q. Phil won the battle, Tiger won the war.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I'd prefer, I think, the 10 million bucks in my pocket.   
  
  Q. So you think Tiger wins today?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I think Tiger wins today.  
  
  Q. (Question regarding The Presidents Cup.)   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I'm looking forward to it. I'm playing well, and next week I'm looking forward to some time off and playing a little bit and have a good time.  
  
  Q. What does it mean to represent your country?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: It means a lot. I think it's just a great situation to be in, and I like the guys who are on the team, and I'm looking forward to just a great week.  
  
  Q. Your perspective on this week and your play aside from everything else? How do you think everything went?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I think if you were to tell me third place at the beginning of the week, I would have been happy with that. You know, I played solid, and I had some chances. I was feeling the nerves a little bit out there, which was great to feel. I just didn't get it done. I didn't have it today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT