THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 26, 2009
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SEAN O'HAIR: I think if you were to tell me at the beginning of the week that I was going to be in this situation, I definitely would have taken it. You know, that was kind of a crappy way to finish off the day, because I really played well today. I really didn't make anything. I mean, I had a lot of putts that were right around the hole that I hit really good putts on, especially on the front, and was sitting nicely at 2-under for the day. 
 Bad swing on 17, I think the wind made it look a lot worse than it really was. But you know, it was tough to do that and then not make that putt on 18.
 But I look forward to tomorrow, and it's really going to be based on how I putt, because I'm hitting the ball good enough. You know, I'm going to have a lot of opportunities tomorrow, and if I can get that putter hot, I'll have a chance to win tomorrow.

 Q. Are you surprised at numbers like 64 showing up on the leaderboard today?
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah. Today if you got the putter hot, it's out there. But it's all about the putter. If you can give yourself a lot of opportunities and you make a few bombs here and there and kind of make a few 20-footers, and then all of a sudden you're 6-, 7-under par. You can definitely see it out there.

 Q. Your facial expression on that hit on 17, it was like, what happened? What did happen?
 SEAN O'HAIR: Actually I didn't feel like I made a bad swing. It was kind of one of those swings where you pull it a little bit and it cuts back, but the wind was big time right to left, so it never cut back into the wind.
 I was trying to play it just inside the bunker and try and hold the wind, and I think I just pulled it a little bit and then the wind took it. It really wasn't a terrible swing. I mean, I pulled it, but it just was one of those ones that came at the wrong time. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SEAN O'HAIR: No, I think you've just got to focus on playing the shots. They've changed the format, and I think they've got what they wanted, kind of a showdown on the final day. So it'll be fun tomorrow.

 Q. Does it make it more interesting for you, too?
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I think so. Part of me wishes that the Top 30 on the Money List would be here because that's kind of in my opinion what the TOUR Championship is all about. But when you're looking at the FedExCup, it's a completely different division, completely different deal. This is like football and basketball, it's not about what you did in the regular season, it's all about what you do in the Playoffs. 
 You know, it's going to be exciting tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT