BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 13, 2009
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It looks like you're going to be able to control your destiny now.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I did the same thing yesterday. I just played really solid yesterday and today and just was patient and for whatever reason birdied some of the toughest holes coming in. It was nice to finish that way, and it helps me going into next week.  
  
  Q. What does this mean for your confidence that you can go into the TOUR Championship and control your destiny?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: It's awesome. I mean, it's awesome. Tiger is obviously playing well, and he's going to be really tough to beat next week. But I'm just happy that I put myself in that position in the last few years finishing the way I did. I played really tough today, and it's been one of those rounds where you strike the ball well real early but you're not making any birdies because the pins are so tough. But just was really happy to finish the way I did.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I need a haircut, but I might keep the beard going.  
  
  Q. Can you just sum up your week here? Obviously great play, but the top guy was pretty good this week.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, Tiger, when he's on, he's on. It's actually a little bit embarrassing. He's just so good that it makes us look like a whole 'nother league. It was actually good to finish the way I did and make a good week out of this and kind of put myself sort of in the mix of things with the FedExCup. You know, I'm looking forward to East Lake.   
  
  Q. Did the course get maybe a little easier to play this weekend as you got more familiar with it?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: No, I actually thought it played tougher today than all week. You know, it played firmer and faster. The pin positions were a joke today. I mean, they were so hard, it was practically impossible to have a tap-in for birdie, unless you hit a good shot going into a par-5 or something. It was tough.   
 I mean, the greens were very difficult. They're very undulating, and when it's firm and fast like this, you hit the wrong side of a hill and you go from a good shot to 40 feet away.   
 You know, it was just a tough week this week.   
  
  Q. Can this be a U.S. Open course?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Um, I don't think so. I think it has the length, but I just don't see how -- with U.S. Open conditions, I think it would be a little bit ridiculous, to be honest with you. These greens are way too undulated for U.S. Open golf in my opinion. You know, these greens didn't play that fast. They were firm, but they weren't that fast, and if it was U.S. Open-style, 11, which is what they play, maybe even 12 or 13 on the weekend, this place would be in my opinion unplayable. I don't know, I mean, it's not my place to say. That's just my opinion.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT