QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2009
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Sean, some really good play lately continues to be rewarded. 
 SEAN O'HAIR: Thanks. I've been playing solid, working hard on the golf swing and hitting the ball really nicely. I'm just putting it together. 

 Q. This is a fun golf course it seems in one respect, because you can get on some runs. You had a couple of combination birdies, back-to-back, three or four of them today. 
 SEAN O'HAIR: I played solid today. I just actually had a few mental errors on the greens. I think I had three three-putts and missed -- one of those three-putts I missed was a little tap-in, so it wasn't too fun. But like you said, it's one of those courses where there's a lot of birdies out there. 
 I think they did a great job setting up the golf course. It almost has a little bit of a feel like Augusta out here with the rough the way it is and the greens the way they are. So it's a lot of fun to come out and play.

 Q. Do you like the shorter rough?
 SEAN O'HAIR: I do. I actually wish layouts like this would do this more often. I think it's more exciting golf to watch on TV, it's more exciting for the fans, it's more exciting for us. There's plenty of courses out here that beat us up, so it's nice to kind of get a break every now and then.

 Q. And still, with all those birdies that can be had, 8-under par. 
 SEAN O'HAIR: Exactly. I think because the greens are very demanding, they're firm, they're fast, and like I said, I had three three-putts today and I didn't feel like I putted that bad. You know, it's definitely challenging enough with the rough the way it is. Like you said, you can come out and make a lot of birdies, but you've got to kind of pay attention on some holes because they can really come out and bite you.

 Q. Does somebody have to go crazy on Sunday to win this thing?
 SEAN O'HAIR: I don't think so, just a good, solid round. It really just depends on whether the leaders are coming in at the end. But I think we're expecting some weather later on tonight, and it'll be interesting to see how it holds up tonight and on into tomorrow morning. 
 Depending on the conditions and whatnot, you might have to go low, you might not have to.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT