PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2008
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk about your round?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: It's a pretty difficult day today. I really didn't hit the ball that well starting out. Made a double on my first hole, and made a pretty ridiculous bogey on 12.   
 But on the back nine, I really hit the ball nicely, and just couldn't make any putts. The greens out there on the back nine were really crusty and pretty bumpy.   
 So it just was a day of patience out there.   
  
  Q. Is it nice to finish the way you did again for the second straight day?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, it was just a long, long day. It was almost six hours on the golf course, and under tough conditions and you're just grinding all day. You see the scoreboard before you play, and it's like if you don't play, you're going to be at the top of the leaderboard by the end of the day. So it just was a long, long day.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about where you're at, even though --  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I feel like I'm in a good spot, like I'm in a really good spot.   
 It would be nice tomorrow to hit the ball maybe a little bit better starting out, kind of get some momentum. Starting out double, par, bogey, is not the way you want to start out on a golf course like this.   
 So I did a good job just kind of hanging in there and fighting my way to a decent score today.  
  
  Q. The physical challenges of the golf course, do they affect you mentally?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: They can if you allow it. I think that's where you've got to just sit there and say, you know what, everybody is playing the same course and doesn't matter if it's, you know, wet, dry, windy, calm. It doesn't matter. Everybody is playing the same conditions and you've just got to sit there and accept it for what it is.   
  
  Q. How much tougher do you think it will get over the weekend?   
 SEAN O'HAIR: I was actually a little surprised. I was kind of expecting a little softer conditions today, especially after everybody's complaining yesterday.   
 Like I was telling you guys yesterday, I was shocked how dry it was and how firm the greens were yesterday. I was thinking that they are going to have to water them quite a bit last night to keep them going. Apparently, they didn't water them that much, because they were even firmer today. Obviously the wind blew early, early afternoon, the wind dried down and the greens, they are pretty crusty.   
 I don't know, I think that they are going to just kind of surprise us one way or the other. I think you've just got to get your rest and come out tomorrow and just get a feel for it and see what it's like on the practice range and maybe look at a few holes out there and kind of play it by ear.   
  
  Q. Is the course shaping up like a true test of golf? Some people are saying it's extremely difficult with the way the scores are posting.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Well, it's playing like a major championship. I'm not the guy to ask that question, because, you know, this is only my fourth year out here, so it's not like I've played a ton of major championships. This is my fourth I think PGA, and this is by far the toughest PGA I've ever played. You know, the conditions are U.S. Open-style. Today's conditions felt like Sunday of a U.S. Open, and it's just tough out there.   
  
  Q. Do you think even or under will win on Sunday?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I think over par. Yeah, I think over par's going to win. If the conditions stay the way they are, you know, who knows. It really depends on the conditions. But I don't see the conditions really improving for scoring that dramatically to where, you know, under par is going to win.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT