MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2008
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A few thoughts about your round. You started strong.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, I played well on the front nine. Kind of the start I needed today. And unfortunately just made kind of a mental error on 11. It was a bad swing and you just can't err to the left there and I did and so I made double there. Kind of lost some momentum.   
 And 13 actually hit a pretty good shot out of the pine straw. I think I just caught a little -- I hit it perfect, but I think there was a pine straw in between the ball and the club and it didn't quite come out right. So I made par there.   
 Then 15 just kind of made a stupid bogey there and that was about it.  
  
  Q. What did you do on 15? How did you make bogey?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I hit it left and then I had to hit over the trees to lay up and then I had I think 98 yards and just hit a little bit firmer than I wanted to and went over the green. And it went over quite a bit. So I kind of had a tough up-and-down there.  
  
  Q. Then you birdied 17.   
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, that was nice. I hit just two really nice shots and had a pretty makeable putt, so I just put a nice stroke on that.   
 And I was trying to get that other birdie coming in, but unfortunately it just didn't work out.   
  
  Q. What were the conditions like out there?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I thought it was very scoreable today. I just kind of went about my business on the front nine and felt like I didn't play that bad on the back, I just made some mental mistakes. But I thought that 6, 7-under was out there today.   
  
  Q. And then going into the weekend now you're at 2-under, what can you tell us about that?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I feel good with my game. I'm going to need some weather, I think, to kind of get the wind kicking up and get the greens a little bit firmer and faster, which hopefully that happens tonight. And then just go out and play well.   
 Hopefully the wind, I think the wind's supposed to kick up about 20 miles an hour and I feel pretty comfortable with wind. And so hopefully weather kind of goes my way and I have a good day tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT