MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round.  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I don't know, but I wasn't quite ready to play today, I don't think. I practiced real hard and I didn't really do anything different, but I just didn't quite start off the way that I guess I wanted to. And 3-over through 4 and then I just kept telling myself to hang in there and it took a really long time. And I just got to do a better job of getting ready to play.   
  
  Q. You had a bad break on 1. Did it start with that?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah.   
  
  Q. You got to 3-over, were you starting to panic at any point?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Wasn't really panicking, I was kind of like what exactly am I going to have to do to kind of get this back. Because obviously it was a very scoreable day today, the condition of the golf course was great and the weather was fantastic and the greens were holding.   
 So I'm just actually surprised the scores aren't a little bit lower than they are, but I just didn't really panic, I just kind of kept telling myself, hey, you need to wake up and concentrate on doing what you do.   
 And I just hung in there and start hitting some decent shots. I just didn't quite have my swing today. I'm hitting the ball cleanly, nicely, it's just not quite, my draw is not quite working as well as I would like. But it's not something -- but it's something that I can work and get fixed in five minutes probably.  
  
  Q. You didn't look terribly comfortable putting early. Did you feel that way?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: It wasn't really -- no, I actually felt really comfortable. I mean, the putt on 1 was good, the putt on 2 was good, the putt on 3 was good.   
 4, you know, the first putt was just, that's just a crazy putt. You can either leave it way out there where I did, eight feet short, or knock it off the green. And it's easy to do that. It's just kind of one of those Augusta putts.   
 I felt like I putted pretty decent. The only one I was disappointed with was the birdie putt on 8. It was pretty makeable, only about five feet or so. Maybe less than that. And I steered it left. And that was about it.  
  
  Q. Are you happy with even par, considering your start?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Considering my start, yeah, absolutely. Because I feel like 4-under is leading and I didn't play well at all, so, yeah, I feel good about today.  
  
  Q. What do you do tonight?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I'm going to hit some balls on the range real quick. Try and get more comfortable with my draw and go from there.   
  
  Q. How was it playing with those guys?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Yeah, Trevor's a great player and so is Boo. They're good guys to play with. And I was lucky to get a good group.   
  
  Q. Did you talk to them much during the round?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: A little bit. Here and there. It was a pretty relaxed round of golf, really. I mean, I don't know, Trevor was playing real solid, and Boo and I were struggling a little bit. And that's about it. There wasn't a whole lot of chatter, but it was a good time.  
  
  Q. I was walking with Steve and all the other guys from home. Are you aware of where they are?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: I kind of watch the board and try and find them.  
  
  Q. Are they nurturing at all?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: Sure, sure. Yeah. Yeah. It's nice to have them out there. It's nice to have the support and it's nice to, off the golf course, to go have fun and have family and friends around.  
  
  Q. What are you going to do tonight?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: You know, once I get done practicing I'll probably go to the IMG house and have a quick dinner and play some Xbox tonight. I haven't played in a while.  
  
  Q. What game?  
 SEAN O'HAIR: We just beat Army of 2. That's a good one. It's a good one. And I got to finish Call of Duty 4. I'm kind of in the middle of it, so.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT