DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2007
Sean O'Hair
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Looks like your ball-striking numbers were pretty good.  What worked for you out there today? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I hit the ball really well today and just made a few putts here and there.  I guess I didn't do anything really too stupid out there.  I just kept it in play and made a few birdies. 

 Q.  Are the greens starting to firm up at all? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I felt like they've been firm the whole week.  Yesterday they were really firm in the afternoon, and today they seemed just as firm playing in the morning.  Some balls held a little bit better on the front, but on the back, it seems like the back is a little bit windier.  I think the course is playing tough, though, overall with the greens like this. 

 Q.  Did you have any number in mind to start the morning, just go out and -- 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  No, really just kind of hit fairways and greens and kind of just have good speed on my putts and just kind of see what happens has kind of been my strategy. 

 Q.  Is your positioning in the FedExCup something that plays in your mind at all?  It's early obviously and it's only halfway through, but is that something you pay attention to? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, I try -- with results I try just to kind of play good golf and let my good golf take care of everything else.  For the FedExCup standings, there's a lot of different things to take into account.  You know, I think there's so many different guys that if they play well or if they miss the cut or how they finish, it's just there's too many scenarios, so I just try and mind my own business. 

 Q.  Best thing to do is just play, right, no matter what the format is? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, it doesn't matter if it's the FedExCup or a major or the Deutsche Bank.  It doesn't matter, it's golf, and you've just got to play. 

 Q.  It's a fun way of keeping score, isn't it? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I guess.  I find it more you guys' job than mine. 

 Q.  You're lazy, you just want to make us figure it out? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Exactly (laughter). 

 Q.  What's your strategy going into the weekend? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Just keep doing what I'm doing.  I feel like I'm hitting the ball well, I feel comfortable with my swing, just keep working hard on my speed control on the greens, and I think if I do those things, I'll be fine. 

 Q.  Do you notice the scoreboard and Mickelson making a move and things like that? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  Yeah, I saw that he had a good round going.  I guess he started out 1-under and he's 8-under now, so he's playing really well.  Besides the wrist injury, he's had a really good year, so I expect him to keep playing well this weekend.  I don't like to look at it too much.  I just took a look at it on the 18th there.  I'm just excited about being there on the weekend. 

 Q.  How would you characterize your year? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, I think there's been some highlights here and there.  It's been a little bit of a disappointing year for me.  The last couple years have been a little bit disappointing.  I haven't quite contended as much as I would like. 
 I think I just need to work on a few things here and there and just kind of get comfortable with myself and with my game, and I think when I do that, I'll play well.  Hopefully I'll -- 

 Q.  Anything in particular? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  You know, I think putting has always been kind of my nemesis since I've been on TOUR.  I think as a kid that was the best part of my game, and it's just sometimes you miss a few putts here and there, and you lose some confidence and then you struggle with it. 
 It's not that I'm a bad putter, I just think I kind of doubt myself sometimes, and I'm just trying to get away from that. 

 Q.  You're obviously focused on what you've got to do on the whole.  Do you feel like if you play well, eventually do you feel -- it's a pretty strong field here, that eventually you'll deal with some of those guys? 
 SEAN O'HAIR:  I hear what you're saying as far as dealing with guys, but it's just -- the thing is it's not a team sport.  It's not like I'm playing against Tiger and Phil and Vijay.  I mean, if I was, I would be screwed right now (laughter). 
 You know, the fact of the matter is I'm just playing a golf course.  I'm playing the TPC right now, and that's my opponent.  I've got to remember that. 
 You know, it's hard to think of it that way, but that's what I've got to do. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT