BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2020
Peter Kuest
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Peter Kuest to the Barracuda Championship.  If we could just get some comments about your PGA TOUR start here and what the course is looking like.
PETER KUEST:   Yeah, a little slow start to the year.  I've had weekends off so it was a little different, but it's been good to get out and play and compete, and to play on the PGA TOUR, it's a real treat.
THE MODERATOR:   Of course the Barracuda Championship moved to this course recently, Old Greenwood.  What are your initial thoughts of the course?
PETER KUEST:   Yeah, we only got four holes in yesterday before it started raining, but the course looks awesome.  It looks really cool, tree-lined and the ball goes forever up here, so it should be really fun.
Q. You've had a pretty stellar college career at BYU.  Now moving to the PGA TOUR with some sponsor exemptions, how has that transition been like?
PETER KUEST:   It's been good.  You've just got to make a lot of birdies out here, and I haven't been able to do that, but hopefully this week changes.  But it's been really good.  Knowing you're out here competing with the best, it's a really good experience, and I'm just trying to learn each and every day.
Q. Has there been maybe a most difficult part of coming on to the TOUR after playing so successfully at BYU?
PETER KUEST:   Not really.  I mean, probably more so just staying within yourself and honing in to what you can do and what you do really well and just sticking to that.  I mean, my college career and how I played in college got me here, so there's no reason for me to really try to go out of my way to really change anything.  If I just stick to my game plan and try to play the way I know I can play, then I think I'll be able to compete out here.
Q. Currently playing on sponsor exemptions.  What are your ultimate goals for your golf career?
PETER KUEST:   Ultimate goals is definitely win some majors and be No. 1 in the world.  You've just got to take it one day at a time, trying to get better each day.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about your past experiences?  This is your fifth PGA TOUR start.  How have the other four tournaments been for you?
PETER KUEST:   You know, they've been a little slow.  I've kind of gotten behind in tournaments at the start and trying to have to catch up in events.  So this week hopefully I can start making birdies early and then just keep it going and just keep the foot on the gas and just have fun.  That's what I'm trying to do each and every day is have fun and learn and see what happens.
Q. Last year Collin Morikawa won this tournament and kind of in a similar position as you are to win his TOUR card.  Does that motivate you to have a good performance this week?
PETER KUEST:   Yeah, definitely.  It was really cool to watch him win, especially a couple weeks ago.  I got to play a couple -- a practice round with him, so it was cool to hang out with him.  It's cool to see all the young guys doing that, and it's a big motivator for sure, knowing you're able to do that, as well.
Q. Have you had any experience around this golf course, Old Greenwood?
PETER KUEST:   No, not at all.  I've only been through Tahoe just driving from Utah to Fresno, so I've never really stopped up here.  But this place looks awesome.  Should be fun.
Q. You grew up in Clovis I understand?
PETER KUEST:   Yeah.
Q. Did you have any interaction with Bryson DeChambeau who grew up in the same town?
PETER KUEST:   Yeah, definitely.  I think it was maybe his last year at SMU or when he first started he'd go back to Fresno and work with a swing coach there, and I'd get out to the same course as him.  But he's a really nice guy.  He's a really cool guy.
Q. Since you've made it out to the TOUR have you had any interaction with him out there or has he given you any advice?
PETER KUEST:   Yeah, I've talked to him a little bit.  I've just talked to him about trying to keep up with him hitting the driver.  But no, it's more so just he's walking one way, I'm walking the other way and we just say hi, and he's offered if I need any help just let him know, but he's a really cool guy.
Q. Just your game, what do you think the strength of your game is and maybe the weaknesses, things that you need to work on and things that you excel at?
PETER KUEST:   Yeah, I feel like I'm a really good ball striker, and distance has always been there.  The last couple weeks the driver has been a little off, so it's put me in some difficult positions, but usually that's a strength of mine.  As always the wedges need to get a little better and you need to make more putts.  That's just what it comes down to.
Q. Your dad played soccer at Fresno?
PETER KUEST:   Yes.
Q. Did you play soccer as a kid?  Is it something you wanted to follow him doing?
PETER KUEST:   Yeah, I mean, I played soccer from probably since I was born until when I was 12 or 13.  I just got a little bit burned out on it.  I'll still go in the backyard and play with my brother every now and then, but yeah, we grew up playing soccer and he was a little bummed when I decided to give it up.  And then I switched to golf because I played baseball and ended up breaking my arm and golf was the first thing I could do, and then I just took it from there.
Q. Does he get to follow you now on the golf course at all, now that you're out here playing?
PETER KUEST:   He's all in for everything me and my brother do, whether it was baseball, soccer, anything.  It was all in, and he gave us opportunities to be the best we could be, and so we just had to take advantage of those opportunities.  I'm really grateful for both him and my mom and the sacrifices that they made for me and my brother.
Q. Just finally, what would be a realistic expectation for you to be satisfied at the end of this week?
PETER KUEST:   Definitely I think top 20.  I really want to win.  I want to win each and every week.  That's what you want to do.  You don't play for top 20s.  You just try to win and do everything you can to do that.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for your time.  Good luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT