CFP NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
January 11, 2020
Dave Aranda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: I see great big athletes that can make one-on-one plays. I think throughout their league there is a lot of off coverage. I think Ohio State pressed them, and I think they made adjustments as the game went to have a little bit more success in those match-ups. They're going to fully see us as a man press team, rightfully so. And so there's rubs and picks that come along with that. So we're anticipating that.
We got some of that in the second half of our Oklahoma game. You know, the kind of adjustments, the corrections, the guessing game there is going be a big part of it, I believe, You know, in terms of off and press and all of it.
Q. Do you think they're as challenging as Alabama has been in the last couple years and how are they similar?
DAVE ARANDA: I think they're similar in that there's RPOs, and that there is a real explosive and dangerous running back. I think they're similar in that the receivers are match-up problems. I think that's probably where it starts, I imagine. The run game is such that you have to have a certain number of people in the run game, and then once you do that, the math is against you on the perimeter and so it starts there.
The quarterback and his ability to run, I think -- there is an underground of plays with Clemson that shows up in big games. So whether it's playoff games, championship games, the quarterback run element shows up strong in those games. If you separate those games from the season, it's a different approach. So we're -- we saw that the last time out with them versus Ohio State and we're anticipating that. You know, we have a history versus quarterback run struggles and that, so all of that makes sense. But it makes it so that it is difficult because it adds yet another layer. You know, you wish you could play with 12.
Q. What have you seen in the last three games (indiscernible).
DAVE ARANDA: Consistency, you know. I think -- but even in this last game, I feel -- the last Oklahoma game, I thought there was positive things. You know, I don't know what the exact numbers are with the Auburn game, but I felt like in the Auburn game going into the fourth quarter, their production was low. Our play, I thought was good. It ended where it was probably closer than it should have been. I think Mississippi State was like that. I think Arkansas was like that.
And so I think we've had games where we've played well and the finished element hasn't always been as strong. I wish it was stronger in the Oklahoma game. Because I think it's -- you know, we're winning games and obviously we get to experience this and this is so cool. But I wish we would, you know -- my desire is that we play a complete game, and then there is no -- you know, there are no more questions. So that's been a struggle.
Q. The elements of this type of offense affects the defense, starting out that rapidly, the defense doesn't have a bunch of reps. Clemson has gone through that transition several years ago. How do you view that?
DAVE ARANDA: Yeah. I would argue with just the time to adjust. I think the struggle for us has been you go into any contest wanting to win the game, and so -- I mean, these are good problems. I think from a program standpoint, it is a good problem. From a defensive coordinator standpoint, therein lies the problem. You're winning by 30 points in the second quarter, and the fire that you started the game with is evaporating. Right? You get -- you're catching players looking up in the crowd, you're catching kind of glimpses at the scoreboard, you're catching smiles and laughter and these things.
I think there is a lot of human nature that is in all of that. I feel like that's where I haven't done as good as I could have been. I think that's still a fight. That's still something that has to be talked about, brought up, and taught. We're hoping that that stuff continues. But like I said, that's a good problem to have. That's been the biggest issue.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: Well, I think what Ole Miss did, I think prior to that game -- you know, I wish that, first of all, we were consistent from the beginning.
Second of all, when we weren't as consistent in our play as we'd like to be, there was -- I think going into that game, there was, you know, criticism and calling out of this, calling out of that. And so I think the team, the defense was very aware of it by that point. I think after that game that is when it became -- I think that affected some of the play in that game, or I allowed it to affect because I didn't meet with the guys, quiet them down, get them to forget to block out any noise, and let's just focus on finishing the game. I think guys were concerned about, hey, this is what they're saying, this is what we're doing, why is this happening, and this and that. So I feel that was a failure on my part to quiet that down.
I think after that, right, I got a better grip and an understanding of what needs to happen on the sideline consistently. And then I think our players kind of understood where everything is in terms of blocking out the noise, focusing in on the details, playing -- doing their 1/11th. I'm going to do my job, trusting that you're going to be accountable for your job. When we do that, we play team defense. So I think there were elements of that prior to that game. I think that there was a collapse of that in that game, and we've been able to bring it back to a degree.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: That's a big change. Yeah.
I think the DB depth -- I think our D line depth has been there. I think the injuries affected it some around the middle of the season, but I think our D line depth going into the season was strong. I think our DB depth from the start has been limited. And so when injuries did occur, there was a bit of a bottoming-out. There wasn't much left. So whereas in the past you could get Grant Delpit -- I think we have guys that have a certain skill set that are best doing certain things. And, you know, you play 13, 14 games, you try to mix it up so it's not always this guy's doing that and this guy's doing this other thing. It gets to that point some.
But during the middle of the year, we had to play more base and just the no -- no championing a certain guy, no kind of showcasing a certain guy, and a lot of that has been done in the years past here. We have had a lot of our star players, I guess, doing heavy lifting and kind of workmanlike duties. I think when we were able to get some depth back with some young people, we were able to feature some of our better players.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: They do a great job of identifying what you're doing and getting beaters. What's funny is, they're a dangerous screen team. We were just watching it this morning. If you pull up the screen reels, they have all running back screens, receiver screens. I want to say 80% of those screens are versus fire zone pressure or dogs, blitz, you know what I mean? I think they do a good job of seeing when that's coming, anticipating when that's coming, and getting the right play call. And I think there is a flow of the game element to that. I think there are mannerisms and tells that also go with that. And so I feel like that's a big concern.
I think starting early, you know, with the time off, there's always going to be this or that that's new. The adjustment game from the start of it is going to be a big piece. I think they're very skilled in that area. You can see that on the tape.
Q. The offensive change for LSU, the successful turnaround, was there an adjustment period for you getting used to the flow of that offense at the time for your defense?
DAVE ARANDA: To a degree.
A lot of it was just how many points were put on early, and by the second quarter or something, we were up by 30 points. So the fire that would normally come -- I think a fair amount of defense is played in an angry mood with an edge, with, you know, I'm going to defend this blade of grass. I started seeing, like, smiles, laughter, and looking up in the stands for Mom and Dad or whatever, and so that started showing up in the second quarter.
Typically those are things that you would fight with three, four minutes left in the fourth quarter. That's been a fight. I think we're still in that fight. I wish I had -- I wish I had all the answers with all of that. I think it's been kind of talking to guys individually, you know, being in front of the group collectively and getting them to understand that there is a standard, right? The defense has played a certain way at LSU, and we need to play for 60 minutes in a full, complete game. I think as far as that goes, we have yet to do that.
Q. How concerning was it to see a new aspect of Trevor Lawrence running it that much more?
DAVE ARANDA: Yes. That shows up in big games. Going back to '15, '16, '17, '18, the championship games, the playoff games, quarterback run shows up. If you look at that separate from the season, there is a pretty drastic difference. So we're anticipating it. We've had a history of good and bad versus quarterback run, and so I can see where that can definitely show up.
You know, the speed of him from those first ten yards is pretty alarming. The same with the running back and the screens. You know, you go back to the screens, Ohio State is a darn good defense, and they had two weeks to prepare and that screen lets loose and they're a big screen team. And so the explosiveness of Clemson shows up right away.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: Yeah. No, I think there's -- you focus on the job you have to do. I think you try to be able to get guys to do that as well. Anytime it is like that, I mean -- you know, my kids play sports. I'm fans of them. You know, I grew up a Rams fan. I talk to John Robinson all the time. The Rams would lose to the 49ers and, you know, man, I would be crying after the game, you know. When I'm a kid growing up, I'm going why are you shaking their hand? They're the 49ers. I'm just all upset.
I can understand all of that. And I think what you want to be able to do when you're in the arena is to not let that affect you, you have to really put that aside. I think you understand it, you appreciate it. You would much rather be -- I'm blessed to be in a place to where it is important and people care, and they want to be proud of their team and they want to see the best for their team. I think all of that is understood on one end of it.
On the other end, when you're in there doing the work, you have to put that aside and so I think that is easier said than done especially for the players.
Q. What's your relationship like, if any, with Brent Venables?
DAVE ARANDA: I've talked with Coach back when I was at Wisconsin, common opponents. We have met in recruiting. I'm a big fan of his. I think he has great energy about him. I think he's on the cutting edge of defense. I think he went ahead and did it this year with some of the three-safety looks from Iowa State. Prior to that, I got some of the six-man pressure, two under, three deep from Michigan State and that. I think he's great at seeing kind of the new trends and incorporating them right away.
I think he's unafraid to roll the dice, so to speak. So you always appreciate that when you see it. So I have got great respect for him. You know, if we weren't playing each other, I would like to be talking ball with him.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: I think one of the differences now in college football is the advent of the gotcha play or the beater. I think our offense is a great example of that. I think there is a lot of that in Clemson. There was a whole lot of that with Oklahoma. There's certain offenses that they'll have base plays, but their main core component is, if you're in this, we're going to call that and beat you with it. If we see you're in this coverage, we'll call this route. If you're in this front, we'll call this run.
It's not so much -- I go back to -- and this is just college football too. This is the change. This isn't so much, you know, this league as compared to the league I was in when I was at Wisconsin. But at that time of the year and those certain years, you would play certain teams and you knew what they were going to do. It was a matter of them executing it. It was like Iowa was going to run the stretch, you know. If you played Wisconsin in those years, Wisconsin is going to run the power, and there's going to be a power pass eventually. Iowa will eventually run a boot off that stretch, and you had to defend it.
And I think -- I know it's changed in that league too. It is so, so different in our league where it is just -- if we're in quarters coverage, we're just going to see quarters beaters, that's it. And you have quarterbacks like Joe that can -- that is more or less a coordinator on the field and can process things and can do it. And then you have the ability of people stealing your signals, you've got the look-over element. And so there's a lot of -- whereas before, it was just quarterback and arm and possible scramble, now you have coordinator-type stuff in him. So you have all three of those things together which you've got in the three guys you mentioned. That makes it difficult.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: I know. Yeah. No. I think you can.
You know, it is crazy. When I'm doing my studies -- in the morning, I get there early, like everybody does, and I do my red zone work, third down, and I love to listen to books on tape. And so there was -- I think when we played Oklahoma, I listened to Bop Stoops' book on tape. It was pretty cool because he got to narrate it, you know. And then this week, I have been listening to Steve Spurrier's book. He has someone else narrating it.
But it just seems when I'm listening to those and doing my work, I'm hearing -- they're kind of going through their career and I'm hearing scores like 9-6 and I'm like, man, Jesus, right? I was born too late, I guess. I'd love to get back to that. I can see that -- I mean, I think, defensively, we're always working to catch up. I think it becomes the thing that -- and then is where Venables is doing a great job -- and we're doing our best to get in that company -- is tackles for losses, is sacks, is people jumping offsides.
I think the offenses and the rhythm of it, and the options available to any quarterback, you have to get them off track and you have to get them going that way and you can deter drives. I think if we get tackles for loss, we win 75% of those drives, they don't score. So I think that's where the game is going and we'll be of that mindset in this game, and I know they will be too.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: Yeah. I think our practices have been really strong. I feel like our meetings, we can get up there and talk about this adjustment or remember when we did this or we need to incorporate some of that. I think it is all looking at your eyes, straight up, understanding, nodding their head, everybody gets it. So I think there is one thought there truly. I think everybody is kind of thinking as one. And I think that the effort on the practice field has been the best it's been, really going back all the way to the Georgia practices.
It is a special, special team. I give a lot of credit -- I give all of the credit to Coach O and how he's built this team. They're in his image, man. We're grinding stuff out, working hard, focused, detail-oriented. When you're around a team that's as talented as we are and that's the mindset, that's what's on the inside, you feel good.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: Right. I think you look at the make-up of our team, our front people, we have a bunch of interior big men. We can call them three techniques or nose guards, they're somewhere in between there. A fair amount of them are that way. What we do not have are, you know, your prototypical five technique kind of big, defensive ends. We've got our three technique nose guard/mix and then a bunch of outside linebackers. We're blessed to have those guys. So I think what fits us best is in run-pass scenarios, play the slash guys in the middle, and then in pass situations, we go immediately to the speed guys. I think that's who we are.
And so as the season has gone on, we have been more and more -- like some of the stuff we used to do at Wisconsin, we're doing now. And I think it is creating one-on-ones for guys, and they're getting pressure off of maximizing those one-on-ones. I think getting Mike back, he can fit right in to that type of role. There's a leadership that comes with Mike. He's great at vocalizing and communicating and he's a leader for us.
Q. When you say maximize one-on-ones, is your first goal to get K'Lavon involved however we can make that happen?
DAVE ARANDA: Yes. I think the ability to show fronts that will force an offense to block one-on-one, and then to find the best pass rushes that K'Lavon is -- that he excels at and having a game plan of when -- this down and distance, we like this. This situation, we like that. And then to roll through that. I think that is in a lot of ways a better plan than making up stuff as far as blitzes.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: No. I think they need to. I think, you know, the ability to contain is central. I think, you know, I thought we did some good things versus Oklahoma until we didn't, and that's always the case. You try to be as good as you can in that area. I think you want the quarterback in the pocket and so you look at third down with Trevor Lawrence, he's out of the pocket quite a bit. He can make throws going to his left and to his right. There's some people you play, you want to flush the quarterback away from the throwing hand and early in the process we looked at that with Trevor, and it is like, no, you don't want to do that, you know. You want to keep him in the pocket as best you can.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: It is a product of the team. I think, you know, there's a point early in the game where I think one of Oklahoma's thoughts was to put the tight end, which they had not shown -- to put the tight end at the number one receiver. And they brought CeeDee that was normally the number one receiver, they brought him in. And I think that was their way of, you know, getting a breather from our two corners. So I think that maybe happened for a series or two until it became, you know, pretty evident that this is what they're doing. It was after that that we just matched it up so that the corner would go with CeeDee and then the safety finds the tight end.
So if -- there's things like that that happens within a game that's not that big of a deal. If we have a corner on a receiver and we can play to our certain sides that we're used to with all of the other calls that come with it, that works out good. That works out the best.
If there is that issue or this issue or something like that, then there is always a plan to get a certain guy matched up on him, and then the follow-up to that would be to double the guy or bracket him. So that's usually a common thought into a game.
Q. Is Clemson balanced enough where they can play straight up and not overplay one guy because they have so many guys?
DAVE ARANDA: Yeah. Each of them concern you.
I think the run game is the first thing that concerns you. So I think, you know, having hats for Etienne and having the ability to play the edges right on the zone reads with Trevor Lawrence, he'll keep off the zone reads more than anyone we have seen. And it is a dangerous situation. You want to be able to take care of that first, I feel.
Then, you know, if there is situations that come up in, say, the rhythm of the game, the flow of the game where we have to -- we can afford a mix or a change-up in coverage, doubling this guy, doubling that guy, some of it by down and distance, maybe some of them by formation, that would be the thought.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: Yeah. Long, athletic, a lot of "I got Mossed" type of stuff. I think they're at their best when they have off coverage. I think the majority of the looks they get in their league is that. I think Ohio State was -- outside of perhaps Syracuse was the first to really press them, and they found their answers as that game went on, so they adjusted. I think that's one of the strengths with Clemson is they have got great skilled players, but a lot of respect for their coaches, how they see it, and how they react to it.
Oklahoma was similar when we played them. I think their entire league played them off. I don't think anyone pressed them until we played them. So I think there's strengths and minuses -- or plus and minuses with that. You know, in the Oklahoma game, we pressed early. I think they were looking for quarters coverage for shots, and they did get one of them check name. And we tried not to give that to them and their rebuttal was rubs and picks, you know, standard stuff that comes with man coverage.
We had kind of a mixed bag as far as defending that, and so I imagine having said that and having that first game versus Ohio State where they're getting pressed, I think all of those things are in store for us in this upcoming game.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: That's a good question.
I think the standard five-man rush is what would struggle there. This is probably -- I don't want to get off on a philosophical bent but, like -- and we do have five-man pressure in our package here. You bring five guys, there is a gap that will be available in terms of the pass protection. And then, you know, they pick it up with their five, the running back is a major threat of getting out. If the running back were to stay in, they would be in a five-man rush, a guy that's got that running back sitting over the ball that could somewhat be available if the quarterback got out.
But like our offense, Clemson does a great job of identifying that, seeing it. There are no let's just see what happens and so they'll get the back out, and then we'll be drained and there will be nobody underneath. There's a fair amount of that on their tape where they have taken advantage of that. So instead, the ability to rush in a creative way, four guys, attack protections, and get pressure and have the quarterback feel the pressure, but then have a guy drop as a rat or as a hole defender, so if the quarterback were to get out how, there is someone sitting there.
Now, when you're doing that, there is an element of risk with the pass rush lanes because of the contain of a three technique or the contain of somebody that isn't on the line of scrimmage. You know what I mean? So that's a big part of what we've been, and what we're going to aim to do here coming up. But you watch that third down reel, man, he gets out of the pocket a lot and throws it to his right and throws it to his left. Receivers do a great job of scramble drill work. If they're down, they work up; if they're left, they work right and all of it. We have been practicing that and all of it. And I think it's best defended when the quarterback don't get out.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: There's a lot of, you know, how did they you make that throw? How did they make that catch? That's one of the things that strikes you right off the bat when you watch it. There are times when he's scrambling to his left, throws against his body, puts it right in the perfect spot. The guy gets up and grabs it, and you've got to pause a little bit when you see stuff like that. Those are in critical times. That's a big play in the game. So you want to stay away from those things if you can.
Q. What makes Derek Stingley stand out?
DAVE ARANDA: I appreciate his confidence. There's an ease about him, a calm, collected confidence would be the things I would say. You know, when he has had struggles, he's come back the next series and hasn't let it affect him. You know, the big stages, the big lights hasn't affected him. I think the match-ups hasn't affected him. I think that mental part of it, I give credit to his folks and the way that he was brought up. Because he's going to walk into a room and want to pick out the best guy to cover and be first in line to cover him. So you appreciate that when you're playing man coverage, you know.
Any blitz that we've got where he rushes, any zone that we've got where we need him to tackle, he's great there. You know, I think when you have a guy that's as skilled as he is and the intangibles are all lined up and where they need to be, that's very rare.
Q. (Indiscernible) worked out, came back, what's that say about his personality? A lot of kids spend the time with the team. He's back here, he wants to be out there?
DAVE ARANDA: Yeah. I have so much respect and I'm so happy for Mike. I think for Mike to go through what he went through this year, there's challenges this year, and for him to keep his focus and to keep his work ethic. Our players respect Mike, they see Mike as a leader. And Mike in that middle part of the year in a diminished role, was able to hold himself accountable, hold his head high and be himself. I think the players earned even more respect for him. So they're excited that he's in this situation. I know I am. I want to see him do well.
Q. What are some of the keys of the games going in and the success you have had?
DAVE ARANDA: Well, with Georgia, it starts with defending the run. You know, I think we wanted to set edges with our odd front. The trick was to try to stay away from quarters coverage or two high safeties. We were anticipating shot plays. We got those two right back-to-back I think, or the first play of the game was a shot play, you know. And Georgia did a great job with their first 15 just coming out of motioning and shifting out a bunch. That shook me some. I'm ready to play single high and I see that they're in this bunch and they don't -- they're not in that a lot. I didn't know what they would get out of it. That was part of their plan for sure.
And so I called quarters and then we almost -- you know, the guy -- I'm sure the Georgia people were disappointed the guy didn't catch the ball, you know. We were able to make some adjustments from there and be able to adjust our single high versus that. But so much of it is what's best for the run, you want it to be acceptable and good for the pass. A lot of times the good offenses don't allow you to do that. And so that was the fight with Georgia was to try to get what's best for their run game to be best for their throw game, you know. That was a fight really that whole first half. I feel that we're able to make some adjustments to kind of get it out of our guys at the end.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: We did. Yeah. Yeah.
We had to make sure we pressed him. We had a double coverage that we saved until halftime for him. We had a cloud coverage wherever he was that we saved until halftime as well. So I think, you know, what Georgia has shown is when they have that one receiver, you know, in critical spots, man, they throw it to them. You know where it is going. You have to have the ability to take that guy away. So I think there were probably mixed results just on our end with how that was done.
Q. The game plan from last year to this year, is it a different game plan?
DAVE ARANDA: No. I think last year there was probably more -- there was both a Z and an X. I'm sure there was this year, the injuries probably took that away some. So now here there's just an X. So it changes. I think, you know, you only play with 11. You want your 11 guys to be put in the best possible situation. And if there's one guy out there, and you can do something with a one-on-one or, if need be, you can put two guys on that one guy, great.
If, like in this game we're about to play, there is a guy over here, and then there's a guy over there, and so that may take four guys to do that, and so you try to make the most out of where you're at, what you've got.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: The athleticism, the quickness, the speed with Jontre, I think our guys very much respect Jontre and his ability to get out on the edge, so I think they won't be shocked when Trevor does get out on the edge. We're expecting that. There is more zone read, power read, keeps on these guys than anything. I think that reel is maybe 50 times, and so there's a lot in there. I think what changes in the big playoff games or championship games is you get more quarterback-designed runs. But what's been pretty consistent throughout the year is the read aspect, and whether it's people have an idea that they want him to run or the technique is faulty, I hope ours isn't. Quarterback has pulled it quite a bit. He's fast when he gets around the edge. So if we could avoid that, that would be good.
Q. A playoff game, (indiscernible)?
DAVE ARANDA: The playoff game was really the first time that we saw it, that I saw it. When you get into the season, like I say, it is a strong cut-up. It is all over the tape when you get to that. We have short yardage goal line today, so fair amount of QB run there. And I think part of it is -- I'm imagining is the advent of man coverage, the advent of press coverage when you get to these championship games and playoff games and the fact that the guy that can match the quarterback is now 15 yards deep in the post. And so the math is on the offensive side with that. That could be one of the reasons for the quarterback run in some of these games. That's what came to mind when I was watching the Ohio State game.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: There's more -- we played more base here. At Wisconsin, I think we moved every snap. I think we're getting to -- on third down and passing situations, we're moving quite a bit now. So we're getting back to where we're getting some of that back in our game plan. I love when it is that way. I feel very much a part of the attack when we are running simulated pressure and everything else. There has been an element of getting lined up, getting our cleats in the grass, and playing because we have got the ability to win one-on-ones and to have a clear mind and go. I think some of that is more mix downs. I think third down has been more opening it up.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: We're doing that. Bringing more nickels, safeties, corners. We've got linebackers coming and that. I think the ability to play a four-man rush with seven guys dropping, but make it look different, have different guys doing it, and still get pressure, if you can do that, I would like to find ways to do that.
Q. You just talked about how you bring pressure on every quarterback. What was it like putting that together on the third down?
DAVE ARANDA: Yeah. Yeah. It is fun. One of the more enjoyable things I think is finding how people pass-protect the weaknesses in that pass protection. I think there are certain people where you can identify how they're doing it, but you've got to be very selective and very -- I wouldn't use the word caution -- but very detail-oriented going about doing it. If you're too assertive in trying to get pressure, they're going to see it, throw a screen, they're going to see it, check the max protection somehow. You want to be able to have pressure without getting into those beaters. So that's part of the cat-and-mouse game. But any time you can get pressure and still have the defenders to fend off the screen or whatever gimmick answer that shows, you feel like you're in a good spot.
I saw you right away, man! I know! I know!
Q. Do you find it difficult to (indiscernible)?
DAVE ARANDA: I saw you from a ways. I said this dude is going to come over here, man! I know it!
No. We were talking -- we have got guys on our staff right now that are still holding on. I feel like -- I tell them all the time, man, hey, it might be tough the first cut, but you have to do it. You've got to it do it, man. I just don't understand just this and just the -- I don't understand that. Yeah.
Q. Mine is using cold water. For all of the challenges out there, what's your best tip for a good cliche tip?
DAVE ARANDA: I use that as well. I have to -- if my wife uses it, she brings in the gels and stuff. I don't like the gels. I like the old-fashion shave cream. So I get all the shave cream up, and I feel like it is smoother and I don't get like the -- I don't get the redness and that. And so the warm towels afterwards is cool. I'm probably saying too much.
(Laughter.)
All right man. Thank you.
Q. What is your favorite type of shampoo?
DAVE ARANDA: There is no shampoo, man. I have not used shampoo since -- it might have been junior college.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: Yes. Could be shaving cream, could be number 2 pencils, no books, books on tape.
Q. Are you a traditional pencil or mechanical?
DAVE ARANDA: Traditional all the way, traditional pencil.
Q. Do you have a mechanical sharpener?
DAVE ARANDA: Yeah. Yeah. No, that's a good question. I use traditional sharpener. That's a -- I'm embarrassed now to say that. Thanks, man.
Q. I'm not going to ask a question. I need advice. I tried to do it, I kept failing. I tried the bald look at one, but I wasn't able to pull it off. I have been sticking to the tapered head. How do I have a successful bald head?
DAVE ARANDA: You just have to do it. You look in the mirror and see what's looking back at you and say, this ain't working. This ain't right. Then you just do it man, it is going to be all right. I have got you. All right, man.
Thank you. Appreciate it.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: Okay. I think -- you know, any time that I can learn from a defensive coach, I do.
You know, we had Brian Stewart come in, I think, on one of the weekends -- we had a weekend, we had two days where we were still coming in the office but it was kind of off. And we have Brian Stewart come in and he talked about some of the stuff that he's been doing. Any opportunity there is, any window, man, you want to be able to learn and study and try to improve on what you're doing.
So, hey, we're doing this, we're thinking that, what are you thinking? Is there a better way? Tell me what you think. I love that approach. You see that with Venables, and that's a reason why I have a lot of respect for him. I think he -- when the six-man pressure, two under three deep, started to come around with Michigan State and that, he was one of the first to incorporate that, and they used that quite a bit. There was a lot of that on display this last game they played.
And then, you know, the three safety stuff that he does now. I know visiting Iowa State and incorporating that. So I think he's great at recognizing trends and incorporating those and very skillful in blending that into his defense and it makes it that much more dynamic.
Q. Seems this year is so different (indiscernible).
DAVE ARANDA: There is a definite philosophy there. I think like -- for example, when I was at Wisconsin, we ran a fair amount, more movement than we do here. We're at our best here just hitting blocks and leveraging things and squeezing off things and that. I think there's a level of comfort that he feels creating tackles for losses and creating pressure. He's had a lot of success doing that. There are times where there's high-risk and high-reward. You can say that about playing base as well. We talked about this earlier. Especially in today's game where the explosiveness of an offense is well-documented, you want to do everything you can to get them off track, to get them to where they go backwards in some form or fashion, so that they are not successful in that drive. If we had a tackle for loss, you know, 70% of the time, we're not giving up a score, and I'm sure their number is even higher than that.
Q. (Question)
DAVE ARANDA: I think you save money. I think on hot and humid days, it is a cool breeze. I think the get-up and go is fast. I think maybe the first couple of times you have to shave, you're nervous about cutting up this or nicking that. And then after a couple tries at it, I mean, you're out of there in two minutes, man, feeling clean. I think you have to weigh that with how you look from the top down because you want to say people ain't seeing it, but they're seeing it. All right.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT