PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 28, 2018
Will Fries
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the biggest thing you got out of that redshirt year and why is it pretty much the norm?
WILL FRIES: I think for me the biggest thing was just getting size and strength.  I came in here about 280 and now I'm about 310.  I think those years of development for offensive linemen when guys come in not as big and strong physically as they need to be.
Q. James said a little earlier that it will be a game day decision between you and Chasz.  How do you view that competition?  Is it a healthy one?  Are you guys friends?
WILL FRIES: Yeah, for sure.  We're definitely friends.  We get along really well and I think that's a good thing for both of us.  It pushes us both to get better.  I think the summer camp, we have both improved a lot.  Definitely trust the coaches to make the right decision and make the better player play.
Q. Where have you seen the most growth between campus --
WILL FRIES: I think just my knowledge of schemes and the playbook and understanding, you know, defenders, how they are going to play in certain situations.
Just overall, learning from older guys and things that they see that can help me.
Q. Can you speak about Yetur and P.J. Mustipher, who Coach Franklin said he's going to be playing throughout his freshman year?
WILL FRIES: Yetur, first off, he's been dominant all camp.  He's a tall, long, strong, quick player.  He gives you a variety of moves that's difficult to deal with at offensive tackle.  He's been really impressive.  Love competing against him.
P.J., another guy that came in here, big and strong and ready to play.  He's been very impressive throughout summer workouts and camp, so I'm excited for him.
Q. Is there a leader among the offensive line, someone that kind of sets the tone for the group?
WILL FRIES: I think Ryan Bates has done a good job stepping up as a leader with the departure of Andrew gel son and Brendan Mahon last year.  He's done a good job of stepping up.  Guys like Chasz have been a leader and Charlie Shuman have helped out the younger guys.
Q. How does Ryan do that?
WILL FRIES: He's a pretty vocal guy.  When things are down, he's kind of the guy that gets people going.  He leads by example, his work ethic on the field and stuff like that.
Q. If you had a perfect offensive line, would it be harder for you to adjust changing the position you're in or jiving with a new guy who got plugged in for someone who came out?
WILL FRIES: A new position.  It's harder to switch from right-to-left, tackle to guard, than most people think because there's different plays you've got to know and different schemes.  Right-to-left you're switching your balance and strikes and stuff like that.
Definitely switching sides is a little more difficult.
Q. What was it like to see a guy like Charlie Shuman get put on scholarship with all the work he's put in?
WILL FRIES: That was awesome.  We were all so excited for him.  He's a guy that is more deserving than anyone.  He's put a ton of work in this whole off-season, throughout his whole career and all the extra stuff that he does, this girl that he helps out, really excited for him and happy he's on scholarship.
Q. Coach said KJ Hamler stood out as a leader.  How have you seen that and have you seen that?
WILL FRIES: KJ is awesome.  He brings a ton of energy.  He makes those big plays and really gets the sideline going, the whole offense moving.  He's just an upbeat guy and brings a ton of energy to practice.
Q. What was last year like for you?  Could you talk about some of the challenges and how much you benefitted from moving around and that sort of thing?
WILL FRIES: Last year was awesome as far as my development.  I got to start at three different positions on the offensive line last year, so that was definitely a challenge and something that's helped me grow and become a better player.  Just playing in tough stadiums on the road, playing in the White Out, just all things that helped me grow and become a better player.
Q. It was a point of emphasis to put these figures through as much pressure as you could on the practice field, not the same as the stadium, but what did you do to ramp things up on the field?
WILL FRIES: At the end of practice we always do a specialists competition.  Some of the things we have done is have the kickers and we all gather around him and yell at him and make it hard on him.  That's a lot of fun, gets us involved and focus on special teams, and it's good for the kickers because they are going to be facing a lot of pressure.  Good to get them broken in now, as opposed to in the game.
Q. Did they handle the mental aspect well?
WILL FRIES: Yeah, they all did really well under the pressure.  It was fun to yell at them.  It was hard to hear the cadence but they still nailed them.
Q. What is the challenge when somebody rotates in -- last year it was whoever has the hot hand.  What's it like if you're the guy on the field or on the side, what can you do to stay locked in when the other guy is on the field?
WILL FRIES: You know, I think when you're watching someone from the sideline, it's good to see what looks they are getting from the defensive line, maybe rushes they are getting or stunts that they are moving, and I think that being on the sideline could be helpful so you can mentally prepare so when you're in there, you know what to expect and what's going to be thrown at you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT