OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2016
Gary Andersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Oregon State - 15, Stanford - 26
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. How did you feel about special teams?
COACH ANDERSEN: I thought we kept the ball away from McCaffrey, which was a positive.  A couple penalties that we'll look and see exactly where that is.  Obviously missed crucial points on a turnover the first part of the game, which is huge in a game like that.  It's huge points.
I thought we weren't overwhelming.  But when you're in a game like that, they make as many field goals as they made, I guess they missed one, but they had five, made four or five, so percentages were against us in that spot.
Q. What about penalties?
COACH ANDERSEN: Penalties early were a big problem.  I'm going to go back and look at them.  It was five at halftime.  What did it go up to?
Q. Nine.
COACH ANDERSEN: Nine.  A couple too many penalties.  But I'm interested to see them, I really am.  I'm interested to study the tape and see what those penalties are.
The administrative penalties are completely inexcusable.  It's a continued problem.  Obviously it's my problem.  I thought I addressed it.  Apparently I didn't address it well enough.  So it's my fault.
Q. (Question about Stanford's drive.)
COACH ANDERSEN: It's real tough.  It's a struggle.  I thought they kept fighting and battling.  Took a timeout to be able to refocus, keep fighting.
That group had some good eyes in that situation.  They were willing to keep fighting.  That's what Stanford wants to do, they want to get you to the point where they wear you out, and they make plays.
There were some big run plays today that were huge.  But that last drive, you know, it would have been nice to get out obviously and get the ball back and have a chance to go down and score, so...  But we didn't.  Defense held them to 3.  It was not good enough.
Q. Possession time was almost two to one.  How big a factor is that?
COACH ANDERSEN: It's huge.  Can't win when you play like that.  We can't and we won't.  Can't possess the football.  How many first downs did we have?
Q. 46 offensive plays.
COACH ANDERSEN: It's hard to win.
Q. Did you feel after you scored that two-point conversion, that gave you a real opportunity to come back?
COACH ANDERSEN: Absolutely.  Stanford came back in at that point of the game.  It was a one-score game at that point.  Cut it to a one-score game, have an opportunity to get the ball back.  Obviously they ran the ball.  That's Stanford.
We had some opportunities to stop them.  They executed better than we did most of the way down the field.  But there was continued fight from those kids.  I thought it was both sides.  It was a bludgeoning fight to whatever it was, the six-inch line.  When they kicked the field goal, I guess that's the series before we're talking about.  Thought we had an opportunity to get a good stop.
Q. How did you feel about the offense in general?
COACH ANDERSEN: I mean, the numbers will speak for themselves, so...  Not good.  This is a good defense.  I give a lot of credit to Stanford.  They played some people here very tough.  Colorado came in here and had a hard time scoring.  Had a bunch of yards, but had a hard time scoring.  Found a way to win the game.  We didn't do that.
Production is not what you need to have a chance to win in the PAC-12.
Q. You faced a lot of good runningbacks this year.  How good is McCaffrey?
COACH ANDERSEN: He's really good.  If you try to tackle that young man high, you got problems on your hands, if you don't get to his legs.  His position to be a threat all over the field is really unique to a lot of runningbacks.  I say that as a wide receiver.  They use him in a lot of different situations.  He's not afraid to block.
He's a very, very talented young man, had a ton of success.  I'm sure the success will continue for a number of years at this level - I hope not at this level, I hope it's in the NFL next year.  That would be great.
Q. Even though they rushed for quite a few yards, what did you see in the Beavers' resilience, especially in the red zone?
COACH ANDERSEN: The defense fought all day long.  There were some big runs.  Three of them pop out.  The big one by the quarterback was huge.  The kid made a play.  I understand, I get all that.  We got to find a way to get him on the ground at some point.  We couldn't.  They made a play in that scenario.  We didn't.
Overall, I thought the defense, they fought.  They fought when they were on the field all day long.
That's not our recipe.  You have to follow your recipe.  When you're this deep into the season, you have to follow the recipe.  We failed miserably at that recipe today.
Q. (No microphone.)
COACH ANDERSEN: I have no idea.  I don't know.  Couldn't tell you that.  Snap looked okay to me.  Every snap is not perfect.  Every hold is not perfect.  But we've got to find a way to be able to make some field goals.
Seems to be kicking well in practice.  Struggled mightily the last little bit here.  Got to get better there.  Somehow, some way we got to get better.
Q. You always preach physicality.  Do you hope someday your team has Stanford's type of physicality?
COACH ANDERSEN: I think we matched up physicality on the defensive side of the ball.  They made some big plays and some big runs.  You can't take those away.  It's a credit to them.  They made them.  I don't think we're going to look at the tape and say, They went, five, six, yards in a cloud of dust and ground us into a bloody stump.
The 10-play drive for a field goal was a nice play.  But I thought we matched the physicality on that side.  On the other side, I don't have the numbers for the rush yardage, total offense, but we had one big run with Ryan.  How many yards rushing did we have?
Q. 129.
COACH ANDERSEN: So not very good, the average.  Can't take the big plays away.  We got it, but wasn't good enough to have a chance to win very many PAC-12 games.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT