STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 22, 2016
Solomon Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Colorado - 10, Stanford - 5   
 Q.  Did you get a good cut on your face or what?  
SOLOMON THOMAS: Oh, yeah, I've just got a couple stitches.   
 Q.  How many stitches did you get?  
SOLOMON THOMAS: Just two, so weak.  Three would have been hard.   
 Q.  How disappointing is this game, 10-5, your defense gave up some yards but held, but how disappointing is it?  
SOLOMON THOMAS: I mean, it's really disappointing.  It's a loss.  It sucks.  You never want to lose.  We fight every day.  We work so hard to win.  We work for our teammates, we work hard for our coaches, we work hard for Stanford University, and to come out here and play like that is unacceptable.  It's got to stop and we've got to come together as a team and play our best football.  We have not played our best football yet on either side of the ball.  When we do that, it'll be something special, but until then, we've got to work harder.   
 Q.  What did you tell the team in the locker room after the game?  
SOLOMON THOMAS: I just told them to come together as a team, love one another, and fight for one another.  Real simple, short and sweet.  There's not much to be said.  We've said everything that needs to be said.  It's time to execute and fight.   
 Q.  What exactly happened on that play when you had your helmet ripped off?  Who was it that -- was it the offensive tackle or --  
SOLOMON THOMAS: No, I beat the guard, then beat the defender, then the running back came up and said to me -- got his hand into my face, and I asked him why did you get in my face, and he head butted me, and it's football.   
 Q.  How long were you out of action?  
SOLOMON THOMAS: They just bubbled it up, and then it broke again, started bleeding again and then we had to stitch it, so I missed about like four plays.   
 Q.  I know the defense, you guys held up your end; you held them to 10 points, but is there any kind of frustration on your part with the offense not able to get going?  
SOLOMON THOMAS: No frustration, just when the offense doesn't perform, it's an opportunity for us to be great, and so we take that opportunity -- we don't try to take that for granted, we try to take advantage of the opportunities.  If they throw a pick and we have to back them up, that's an opportunity for us to be great on goal-line defense, so that's the kind of perspective we try to have on it, and it's a perspective that you have to have on it, and the mentality that you have to have to be a great defense, and yeah.   
 Q.  What was the toughest part of defending Colorado today?  
SOLOMON THOMAS: I don't think we played the read well, and the quarterback run.  We missed too many tackles, let them break too many tackles.  Yeah, we held them to 10 points, but they had over 200 yards rushing, and that's totally unacceptable.  We can't let that happen.   
 Q.  You go up against this offense, Stanford offense, every day in practice.  How surprising is it to see what shows up on the field against what you play in practice?  
SOLOMON THOMAS: It's not the same offense.  They're way better than what they put out on there, and we believe in them.  We believe they'll come together.  We have faith in them, and we love them, and they'll play their best football sometime this season, and they will shock the world.  I believe that with my whole heart, and I believe in my team and I believe in my teammates and I believe in my coaches.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT