AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2012
Christina McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. McHALE/C. Wozniacki
  6‑1, 6‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   A big win.   Biggest one on grass.   Can you talk about the match a little bit?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I'm really excited to have pulled that one out, because it kept going back and forth.   Yeah, I thought I played really well, so I'm really happy.

Q.   What were you thinking when she came back to 4‑4 in the third?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I mean, I had the break so I definitely wasn't excited that it went back to 4‑All.   But I just tried to keep doing what I had been doing, and just taking one point at a time, not thinking too much about the lead that I had blown ‑‑or not blown but missed.
So, yeah, I just tried to stay focused.

Q.   Did you enjoy the atmosphere out there today on centre court?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, it was my first time playing on that court.   It was really nice.

Q.   You had your training up in NewYork and Melanie is up there and Varvara, and you guys have all had some pretty big wins in the last month.   Talk about what's going on up there and kind of how you all are kind of spurring each other with the success. 
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, we train there.   I think like the past couple of months we've all been there, so it's been nice.   It's good to have other players to practice with and I guess push each other a little bit.

Q.   What are some of the changes you've made like to your game like coming to grass?   You know, looked like you were pretty aggressive out there and really looking for your shots. 
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I mean, I haven't played on the grass too much, so I had to make some adjustments from last week when I played in Birmingham. 
So, yeah, I've just got to shorten up my swings a little bit and, yeah, still go for your shots even though it's like a little bit tricky on this surface.

Q.   How are you finding Eastbourne?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   I like it, because it's on the water.   I was just in Birmingham last week and it was raining a lot, so it's nice to have a lot of sun here.   Yeah, we have been enjoying it so far. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT