BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2012
Christina McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. McHALE/P. Kvitova
  2‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Biggest win of your career?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yes, this is definitely one of the biggest wins.

Q.   Do you want to take us through it?   She was all over you there in the first set, but then you kind of got control of the match and started to do what you wanted to do. 
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, she started off really well, serving really well.   I couldn't get a read on her serve in the first set, and I wasn't moving very well, either.
And then I just kind of hung in there early in the second, and then she started‑‑ she played one service game where she gave me a couple of loose errors, and then I just kind of kept hanging in there, and then I got more comfortable as the match went on.

Q.   I was at your win over Wozniacki in Cincinnati.   Seemed like the crowd was a lot more into it for you this time.   Talk about what the atmosphere was like here. 
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I mean, definitely wherever I play and anywhere in the States the crowd is always great.   Especially here, like the crowd gets so into it.   I mean, it's amazing, like they get so into it, yeah. 

Q.   What were you thinking when she got the break back to 4‑3 there in the third?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I was a little bit disappointed there because I worked so hard to get up, to break her to go up 4‑1.   I was thinking I was still ahead.   I was still on serve, so, you know, it was still a great position to be in.

Q.   Big sigh of relief when she double‑faulted twice to give you the 5‑3?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I definitely wasn't expecting that, but I think I just kept the pressure on and hung in there, so it worked out.

Q.   What was your game plan going in?   Was it a matter of you weren't executing it or you had to make some adjustments after the first set?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, she just hits the ball so big, and it took me like a whole set to start reading her serve.   So I think it was‑‑ it was more like her game was‑‑ took a while for me to get used to like her big shots, yeah.

Q.   Two wins now over women in the top three.   Do you start to think, Hey, maybe I'm not that far away from where these other women are?   Does it make you feel that way?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Um, yeah, I mean, it definitely‑‑ it feels great to have a win like this today.   But, yeah, I don't try and get too far ahead of myself.   I still have a lot of work to do to get to that level.

Q.   When you feel a crowd like this really big behind you in the States, do you feel like they know who you are, or it's like, Oh, this is young American girl; I'm going to get on the bandwagon and we'll cheer her on?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   No, especially these fans today.   I think they had seen me from last year, so, um, they were great.   I mean, either way I'll take it.   I don't mind if they're cheering for me.   It's all the same.

Q.   It seemed like in the last two sets you decided, I'm not gonna let her push me back from the baseline that much and you were trying to put a little bit extra on the ball.   You were actually hitting with her. 
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I was trying to do that a little bit more, because if I didn't, she was just going to keep pushing me behind the baseline.   So I was able to, I think, force a couple more errors that way, because, yeah, if I didn't, she was going to keep on just hitting really big through the court.

Q.   Did you notice her serve drop off at all?   Because in the second she didn't really break 100 miles per hour on her first serve. 
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I definitely the first set she served really well.   I wasn't able to get a read on it at all.   And then, yeah, I think she‑‑ yeah, her serve dropped off in the next two sets.

Q.   Have you heard about some of this illness that's been going around the grounds?   Are you taking any extra precautions?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   It's kind of scary.   I feel like a lot of players are getting sick.   I'm just trying to wash my hands more than regular, yeah.

Q.   How sweet was it to win that match on the dropshot?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   I know.

Q.   From pretty far back?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I know.   We had had such a long point, and I think she sliced it, and I just kind of‑‑ the idea popped into my head and I did it. 
But, yeah, after I was thinking, I mean, What was I thinking doing a dropshot on that point?   But it worked, yeah. 

Q.   You're going to play Kerber who got a walkover because of the illness thing. 
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah.

Q.   Talk about that a little bit. 
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I don't think we have ever‑‑ have I played her before?   Yeah, I don't think I've played her before.   But, yeah, it's unfortunate what happened to Vania that she had to‑‑ she couldn't even play the match, yeah.

Q.   Have you seen her or talked to her?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Vania?   No, I haven't.

Q.   That's probably good. 
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah (smiling.)

Q.   You've been working on your serve, a year, year and a half now.   Last two sets you were sitting 110, 111, 13.   It seemed like you could actually hit the spot.   Can you talk about the evolution of the serve a little bit?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I think as I startedmoving ‑‑ I think, I guess other aspects of my game I started to feel more confident in and then I felt like I could go for my serve a little bit more.
Yeah, I feel like in the second and third my serve definitely helped me get out of some situations.

Q.   You have had a couple of big matches, big wins.   Are you used now to handling the emotions that come with that in terms of calming yourself down and preparing for the next match?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, it's nice that I have tomorrow off.   So, yeah, just get back to work tomorrow.   I will have a hit and a light fitness and really just get back to work and forget about this past match and focus on the next one now, yeah. 

Q.   Who are a few of the first people who texted you congratulations?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   My sister was one of the first.   My whole family, yeah, and some of my close friends.   It was nice to get off the court to those texts.

Q.   What do you like to do when you're not so focused on tennis, something that we don't know about you?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Um, I like to follow other sports.   Like I'm a big Yankees fan, so I follow low the Yankees when they're playing.
When I'm home I just like to relax, really, and enjoy being home since I'm not there very often, yeah.

Q.   Is this still all new to you?   Like whether it's the attention or ‑‑ you're still young and going through the tour, but does it feel, almost feel new to you, or are you kind of getting used to it all?
CHRISTINA McHALE:   I think I'm getting a little bit more used to this, a little bit more experienced playing, you know, players like Petra. 
But still, it still feels like it's a bit new to me, and I'm‑‑ yeah, just taking it one match at a time, really.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT