BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2012
Christina McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. McHALE/E. Vesnina
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You started a little slow, but then kind of took care of business.   Just talk about the match today.   
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, it was tough, because Jelena is a really good player and she hits a penetrating ball.   A couple of times early it took some time for me to get used to her game.  
   
 Q.   How was it to come into this tournament as a seed, a premier level tournament as a seeded player?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, it's definitely different.   But it's different but it's the same.   Like my mentality is the same.   It's just‑‑ it was nice to get a bye first round, but the mentality is the same.  
   
 Q.   When you see the draw and the little number next to your name, do you kind of savor that?   
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, it's the first time, so it's weird seeing a number next to my name.   But it really doesn't change anything or mean that much.   
   
 Q.   You don't feel any pressure to live up to the seeding?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   No.  
   
 Q.   You're not the underdog anymore?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   No, no, nothing like that.  
   
 Q.   You have been playing a lot this year.   After Australia, then you went overseas again.   Is it a bit tiring?   Are you getting used to the grind?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, so far this year I have traveled more than I have the past years, but it was nice because I was home for almost two weeks before I came here.   
So in between, like the long stretches, I always go home.   It makes it fine.   It's not too bad.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like there was any rust in your game at the start today?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   I don't think it was rust.   I think she just started off really aggressive, and I had to adjust to her game a little bit.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like now when you go into tournaments that you're more calm, you sort of know what you have to do?   Collect your thoughts, how to play, that type of thing?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   I think the experience has helped me to be able to, during the match, figure things out more, yeah.   
   
 Q.   It was clear at Fed Cup you were having a lot of fun with Serena and Venus there.   Have you stayed in touch with them at all since then?   
CHRISTINA McHALE:   No, I haven't.   I think they will be in Miami, so it will be nice to see everyone, the whole team that was there.  
   
 Q.   Are you planning on playing in the next round of Fed Cup?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   If I get asked, yes.   
   
 Q.   You play Kvitova if she wins tonight.   Talk that a bit.   
CHRISTINA McHALE:   I haven't played either of them before, so, yeah, it's definitely a tough match either way, whoever I play.   
And my mentality doesn't really change, but it's‑‑ I'm gonna need to step up my game for sure.  
   
 Q.   What's the key for you when you play such a big hitter like Kvitova, big lefty, huge serve, forehand?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, you just try not to let them push you around the court too much, and I think it will be important to serve well.  
   
 Q.   If someone was to ask you how you win matches, what would your answer be?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Um, I think my movement is the key to my game a lot.   I think I can get to a lot.   Yeah, I think that's the key to my game.  
   
 Q.   Have you been surprised just how deep your ride has been lately?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   No, I mean, for me it's felt like a process.   It hasn't felt, you know, so quick or anything.   So far I think it's been going at the right pace.  
   
 Q.   Have you started to think about the Olympics?   You're pretty high up there amongst the Americans, and if things hold to form you'll probably be on the team.   Have you started thinking about that yet?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   No, I haven't, because I don't want to get my hopes up for something so big, and then if it doesn't work out.   
So if I get‑‑ if I get to be on the team, it works out, the rankings or whatever, that would be amazing.   But, yeah, I don't want to think about it too much, and then if it doesn't happen, you know.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any rankings goals for this year, where you want to finish by the end of the year?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I don't like to do that, either.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Would the Olympics be a priority, trying to get in?   
CHRISTINA McHALE:   No, I'm not‑‑ I'm keeping my same mentality at tournaments.   I'm not trying to do anything different to get into that.   I'm just staying focused, not thinking about it.   
   
 Q.   When you saw yourself seeded at the tournament, did you say to yourself, Yeah, I really belong here?   I can actually play with the rest of these senior girls?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Um, it was just mainly‑‑ it doesn't change my mentality.   It was just‑‑ for me, it was just cool to be seeded at such a big tournament.  
But, no, it doesn't really change anything.  
   
 Q.   You'll almost be certainly seeded at the French.   Will that be even a bigger deal?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I don't know if that will happen, but, um, it's just nice, you know, because then you don't have to meet a top seed in the first two rounds.  
So, yeah, it's good in that respect.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to go watch tonight's match or is it going to be too late?   
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Is it the first or the second?   
   
 Q.   It's the second.   
CHRISTINA McHALE:   It's the second?   Then I probably won't go, but...  
   
 Q.   You'll have the coach scout for you?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I'll send my coach to go watch.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT