U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2011
Christina McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KIRILENKO/C. McHale
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You started off, won your first serve, then struggled with it the rest of the first set. What did you find the problem was?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, for sure I didn't have a good serving night. And, yeah, that made it really tough to hold serve and try to get ahead at some point, yeah. 

 Q. Did her net game cause a lot of trouble pressure-wise? 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Uhm, no. I mean, yeah, that was something that worked really well for her, coming in. So, yeah, I think that was effective, she used it effectively today. 

 Q. When you look back at this week maybe two weeks from now, what do you think you're going to take away from the experience here?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, for sure, I mean, I had two really good wins my first two matches. This one, it's disappointing. But, yeah, I think I just kind of have to take the positives from it and keep working hard and, yeah, keep going. 

 Q. Do you think you'll take away any memories of how exciting it was to play on Ashe, the feelings you had winning those first two matches?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Uhm, yeah, I definitely think I can learn from the wins I had and from the loss tonight, so... 
 Yeah, I'll just try and learn from all of it. 

 Q. What were your nerves like tonight being on Ashe in primetime?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I think it didn't really help me, my nerves, tonight. I never really felt as comfortable as I wanted to feel on the court. 

 Q. Did you see her injury at all and try to take that to your advantage?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Uhm, yeah, I wasn't sure what it was, but I still feel like she was hitting the ball fine, she was moving fine. So, no, it wasn't something, yeah, that I was like thinking about. 

 Q. It seemed like you fought your way back in the match there in the second set. You're down 4-3, serving with a 40-30 lead and had the double-fault. Mentally at that point what does that do to you?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Uhm, yeah, it's unfortunate. I think that game was crucial. If I had won it, it would have been 4-All and who knows what could have happened. 
 So, yeah, it was unfortunate I had that double-fault. 

 Q. You said you didn't quite feel as comfortable as you wanted to feel. Why do you think that was? 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Uhm, I think she was playing well and, yeah, sometimes you just don't feel like you're playing your best and the opponent's playing well so it's hard to get the balance you want.

 Q. Did it have anything to do with playing on a show court, having all of those seats around you?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I think it's new for me, playing on such a big stage. I think it will help me, though, in the long run. 

 Q. After your tough loss in the French, you immediately went into another tournament. Are you planning on doing that or taking time off?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I have no idea. I have to talk to my coaches. Yeah, we'll have to sit down and go over my schedule for the fall.

 Q. What do you think you learned from this? What do you think you might realize you've learned going forward?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I mean, it's all pretty recent so I haven't had too much time to process everything. But, uhm, yeah, now I think I know and my coaches have seen the things that I need to work on. 
 So, yeah, we just go back on the court and working hard again.

 Q. What do you think you need to work on?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Uhm, I think trying to be a little bit more aggressive. Yeah, I think work on the serve, too. Yeah, just a little bit of everything needs to improve. 

 Q. Do you feel like the experience you've had here kind of proves to you this can be your job going forward, this is something you can do for a long time?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Uhm, yeah, I hope so. I mean, I'm going to, yeah, continue to work really hard to hopefully put myself in more positions like this. 

 Q. When you look at a player like Kirilenko who has been steadily in the top 30, do you see that much difference between the two of you, that much of a gap, or do you feel you're working a lot closer to that now?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Uhm, I think I'm closer than I was in the past, but I still think that I have things to work on before I can reach that next level. 

 Q. Conditions tonight, the wind... 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: It was a little bit windy, like one side had some wind, one side you were against the wind. But it was okay.

 Q. Somebody tells you a week ago you're going to make the third round. Good, bad, positive? Do you take it? Is this a positive walking away from this?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I mean, just right now I'm disappointed in the way I played. But, yeah, for sure. I mean, it's the first time I made it to third round of a Grand Slam, so, yeah, I'll just take the positives from it. 

 Q. You and Sloane and Irina are going to be playing in the PanAmerican Games. You've all won at least two rounds here. Do you think that's going to make that trip to play in those games a lot more fun?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I'm really excited for that. I think it's going to be a lot of fun. Yeah, I'm really looking forward to it. 

 Q. What is your feeling as young America as a team? Do you feel you've been put into a team, you're the up-and-comers? Are you going to be watching Sloane tomorrow, watching Jack tonight?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, for sure it's nice to see the other Americans doing well. Yeah, I wish them the best. Yeah, it's exciting.

 Q. What in your mind was the biggest difference in the Christina McHale we saw against Bartoli and the person we saw tonight?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I was too passive today. I think the other day I took my chances when I had them. But she was playing well, too, so it made it difficult today. 
 But, yeah, I think I just played too passive. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT