WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 12, 2010
Christina McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/C. McHale
  6-1, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Talk about the positives of facing a good player like Kim tonight. What did you learn from the match?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I definitely got a lot experience playing someone of her level. Um, I mean, she played so well, and it was -- this sort of match will definitely help me in the future.

 Q. Any specific take-a-ways you can get from it? You seemed to be early on hanging in rallies with her really well, keeping will ball deep. Is there any one particular thing that you think you might have gained or learned tonight?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, as soon as I hit a ball that was kind of short or that she was able to take early, she went for it. I think for me to get to the next level, I have to start taking the chances when they come.

 Q. Looked like your groundstrokes were really good tonight. Is that a strength of your game, do you think? 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, um, my groundstrokes are, yeah, a big part of my game. So, yeah, that's -- yeah.

 Q. What's your overall feeling after this match? Is it disappointment because of the loss, or do you look on it as an overall positive?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I'm a little bit disappointed. I would have hoped to have had a closer match with her. 
 But overall, I mean, I've had a good tournament. It was just a great experience playing against someone of her level. 

 Q. Who were some of your tennis role models for you growing up, which for you wasn't that long ago?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Well, my sister and I always liked the Williams sisters, but I've watched Kim over the years, too. She's really nice and has a great game, so I've admired her, too.

 Q. You were in rallies with her, did it surprise you even when you had her in trouble how quickly she was able to turn defense into offense?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, for sure. I mean, against a different type of player, a lot of my shots would have been a winning shot. Against her, it came back in really well. So she has, yeah, great defense and great offense.

 Q. Do you have any big plans for you payday today? It is probably higher than most of the other checks you've gotten as a pro. Any plans to reward yourself? Getting to the third round is a pretty good accomplishment.
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, haven't even thought about that. I don't know even know how much money I made.

 Q. About 20. 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Okay. 

 Q. It's on the draw. 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I haven't looked at that.

 Q. You are playing in the Open. The next couple weeks, are you playing in Montreal or in New Haven? 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Um, I'm not playing Montreal. I'm planning on going home now, practicing for a little bit, um, and then, yeah, getting ready for the Open.

 Q. Melanie Oudin, after her loss here in the first round, talked about wanting more young Americans to succeed to share the media spotlight and take some the attention off her. How do you think you've dealt so far with the increasing spotlight? Obviously your match tonight was on ESPN. How do you think you are dealing with and will deal with the attention that's gonna come with you as you continue to rise in the rankings?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I try not to think too much about that. Um, just keep practicing the way I've been practicing, and just keep taking one match at a time.

 Q. But on the media side of it, do you think you're enjoying this aspect of becoming a top pro?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, for sure I'm enjoying this whole experience.

 Q. Do you guys hang together off court, you and Melanie and CoCo? You're probably playing the same events. Do you talk about other players, bond as an up-and-coming American group? Talk a little bit about that. 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, we have known each other for a while now because we play the same tournaments. Yeah, always want to see other Americans do well. 

 Q. If you would play in match again, would you change something in your strategy, or maybe just a matter of execution? 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, if I had it to play again, I would say my serve. I definitely didn't get as many first serves in as I needed. I would just take more chances in the rally. Yeah. 

 Q. Did you try to get more aggressive in this second set? Seemed like you opened up your serve a little bit more and took a little bit more chances on your groundstrokes after that first set. 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I was definitely trying to take the chance when it presented itself. She was defending the court, and anything short that I hit she would just take it early. So it was difficult. 

 Q. Did someone ask what your strategy was going in? 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Um... 

 Q. What was your strategy going into this match? 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Um, yeah, I was trying to -- I think my serve, I was trying to move it around, but I wasn't able this execute that as much as I would have wanted to. 
 Just try and hit -- try and get her moving a little bit, yeah.

 Q. What are some goals for the rest of the year? Do you have a ranking goal in mind?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: No, I don't have a ranking goal. Just keep on playing these sort of tournaments and get more experience, and then just keep enjoying it. 

 Q. There's a lot girls your age that aspire to be a professional tennis player. What do you want to say to them?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Um, I mean, I'm still learning all of this stuff, too. Just keep practicing each day. That's what I'm doing. Don't be so concerned with results right away. Just take your time, and it'll come. 

 Q. You probably sat in on some practice pressers as part of the WTA. Which ones did you sit in on?
 CHRISTINA McHALE: This tournament, I sat in for Safina's, one of hers. 

 Q. What's your scheduling for the rest of the year after the Open? 
 CHRISTINA McHALE: That's something I have to start to work on with my coach right now. 
 Yeah, just see what tournaments I'll get into now and go from there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT