WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 11, 2010
Christina McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. McHALE/A. Morita
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Congratulations on your second win here. This is the deepest you've been into a tournament this big. How does it feel to be still around playing this late in the week?  
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I'm really super excited to be -- to have made it this far. I'm just gonna take it one match at a time.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about playing the winner of Clijsters and Safina?  
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I'm excited. I just found out that's the match who I'll play. So, yeah, they're obviously both really good players. I'll be excited to play one of them.  
  
  Q. You were hitting the ball really well today. Were you expecting to have a closer match?  
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I know that she's a really will good player, so I knew that I had to dictate with my forehand to be able to win points against her.  
  
  Q. Is there anything about Charleston that you're thinking about now getting deeper into this tournament, or is that a distant memory?  
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Um, no. For sure all the matches that I've had this year at this level have given me confidence and helped me. So, yeah, having those sort of matches is definitely helpful.  
  
  Q. Can you keep momentum going too, even if you jump up levels? I mean, you had a great week last week in Vancouver.   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I'm hoping to keep the momentum going and play good tennis and play my game, and then see how it goes.  
  
  Q. I think you've already earned 125 rankings points this week from winning your two matches here. Can you talk about how big a cache of points like that can really help you and change your scheduling as you move forward? You'll be able to get into events you wouldn't be able to otherwise.   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, I don't really look at how many points per se I'm getting at these tournaments, but it'll definitely help me to improve my ranking and be able to get into higher-level tournaments like this without a wildcard.   
 So, yeah, I'm excited.   
  
  Q. You're now the lone American left in the singles draw. Tell us a little bit about how you go from here, how you prepare, and what's going through your mind tonight.   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I don't really think about that too much. I'm just staying focused on my game and just taking one match at a time.   
  
  Q. How do you prepare for a match against Clijsters, if that's the case?  
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, it'll definitely be an experience for me. I've never played either of them before. So I just think I should just focus more on my game and then just, yeah, play from there.   
  
  Q. How do you look at Clijsters as a person, as a tennis player? What do you think of her comeback last year?   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Well, I mean, I don't really know her personally, but she always seems really nice. And, um, I remember watching last year at the US Open when she, you know, went through everybody and won.   
 So, yeah, that was -- I was happy for her, even though I don't know her.  
  
  Q. Which one of the two would you prefer to play?  
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I mean, they're both really good players. I couldn't say.  
  
  Q. Pick one.   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I can't pick one. They're both really good players, so it'll be a challenge, either player.  
  
  Q. Against who would you stand the best chance?  
 CHRISTINA McHALE: I can't say. I really don't know. I've never played either one, so I can't pick that.   
  
  Q. Are either one of them players you've looked up to?   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Um, yeah, definitely watched them both throughout their careers -- obviously still going on right now.   
 Yeah, they both -- I both admire them, but hopefully I can bring my best game tomorrow.   
  
  Q. When you're at a big tournament like this, how much time do you spend watching other matches?  
 CHRISTINA McHALE: It depends on my -- the time that my match is schedule and my practices. Um, most of the watching that I do is just in the players' lounge waiting for my match on the screen. That's how I get to watch the matches.   
  
  Q. Have you seen any matches in particular that you've been able to learn from that stand out for you during this tournament?   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Um, no, I wouldn't say there is one match in particular that I -- I mean, yeah, I've seen some -- all of the matches I've seen seem pretty intense. So, yeah.  
  
  Q. What do you like to do when you don't have to play tennis or watch?   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: What do I like to do? Obviously I like to get together with my friends, because I don't have much time at home. So when I am, I like to hang out with them. I love listening to music, going to the movies.   
 Yeah, just things like that. Spending time with my family.   
  
  Q. Who is your biggest example in tennis, role model? Who was on your wall, poster?   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Um, I mean, I always really liked Serena and Venus just because I have a sister that plays tennis, too. So the two of us really like Serena and Venus.  
  
  Q. So last year when you were watching the US Open and Clijsters played Venus and Serena, who did you root for?   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: (Smiling.) Obviously I would want to see an American do well, so...  
 Yeah.   
  
  Q. Speaking of that, I noticed that at a couple of your matches the crowd seemed to be behind you. Have you noticed the support, and do you expect it from now on since you're the only American left?   
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, in both my matches it's been really nice having the crowd cheering for me. I definitely think they've helped me get through the matches.   
  
  Q. Venus Williams always said she liked to take care of her little sister, Serena. How is the relationship with your sister then?  
 CHRISTINA McHALE: Yeah, she's two years older, so, yeah, we get along great. She plays competitive tennis, too, so she knows exactly like what I'm going through and stuff like that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT