FEDCUP WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND: ITALY v U.S.A.
February 8, 2014
Christina McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. KNAPP/C. McHale
  6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You seemed to get back into it in the second set.   What happened in the third?   She just kind of raced away?   
CHRISTINA McHALE:   I think early on I had some chances.   In the third, especially, that first game I had two breakpoints.   In my next service game, it was a close game.   
Yeah, I feel like once she got those first two games, she really just started playing and really going for all her shots.   She started serving better.   
Yeah, by giving her that lead she really relaxed I think and started playing much better.   
   
 Q.   You got a little treatment on your finger.   Anything in particular wrong?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I have a blister.   It was hurting, so I wanted it retaped.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us what happened in the second set, what went right for you.   
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I think I started really playing more aggressive in the second set.   Yeah, when I got the chance, I was really going for my shots more and pushing her back more.   Yeah, it felt like everything just started going better for me.   
Unfortunately, yeah, in the third set I had some chances I didn't capitalize on.   Kind of the momentum went back to her side.   
   
 Q.   It appeared that your opponent was feasting on your second serve in the first and third sets.   You're probably not thrilled with your service game today.   She was coming in very close to the net on the second serves.   How hard is that to adjust mid match?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   I mean, for sure I definitely could have served better today.   I think that's one of the things that I think, yeah, allowed her to be really aggressive.   
But, I mean, it wasn't like she was hitting winners on my second serves.   It put me kind of a little bit on the defense.   I wasn't able to, on a lot of my service games, start off offensive.   
But, yeah, I felt like my serve was too up and down today.   
   
 Q.   Despite the loss, what did you think of the crowd support?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   Oh, yeah, the crowd was amazing.   They were great.   They really kept me going, especially in that second set when it was tight late in the second, they were great, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How was this court for you?   Would you say you prefer playing outdoors or indoors?  
CHRISTINA McHALE:   I mean, for me, I grew up a lot playing indoors, but I also practiced a lot.   A lot more tournaments are outdoors.   
I think it's a really nice venue.   I think they did a great job with the court and everything.   We had time to prepare, so it was fine, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT