U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2013
Christina McHale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. IVANOVIC/C. McHale
      4‑6, 7‑5, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How much positive things can you take away from this tournament?   You got to the third round.   Must be feeling like your old self.   
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, there's definitely positives I can take from this whole tournament.   I've had some exciting matches here.   I mean, obviously when the match is so close like that, it's disappointing to lose.   But I think at the end of the day it's a lot of positives.   
   
 Q.   What was going through your mind when you were serving for the match?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I'm still thinking about that now, like what I could have done differently.   
    But, I mean, you know, I think I just need more experience in this stage of a slam to try with more experience, I think I'll be able to do better next time.   
    But, yeah, I think she also stepped up at that point and hit some really good shots.   And, yeah, I maybe got a little bit passive.   But I think it was, uhm, definitely just with a little bit more experience, I think it could be better.   
   
 Q.   Was there any particular shot or moment as you've replayed that game in your head that you wish you could change the most?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Uhm, I mean, the first point I served right like to her forehand and she hit a winner right down the line.   Maybe I could have done more with the serve on that.   That first point was to set the tone for the game.   
    Yeah, I maybe would have gotten the serve a bit more away from her.   It was just sitting there.   
   
 Q.   When you come out of a match like that, in the second set each time you broke her, you didn't hold serve, is that something also you dissect?   What goes through your head there?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   I'll sit with my coaches and we'll go through the whole match and see what I did well, what I need to improve.   
    But, no, during the match I wasn't thinking particularly like, I just lost my serve, anything like that.   I was just trying to stay positive 'cause I felt like I had chances.   Even though I did lose my serve, I was in the next game, so it was fine.  
   
 Q.   What did it tell you about where your game is at with a high‑ranked player?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I definitely think I'm heading in the right direction.   Yeah, you know, I played her a couple times.   This is the closest score we've had.   I'm definitely playing better.   It shows me still what things I need to work on to get to that level.   
   
 Q.   In a year from now, where would you like your career to be?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Uhm, you know, I never really like to set certain like ranking goals or this tournament I want to do well at.   So, yeah, I really just hope that I'm, you know, still feel like with my game, I feel like I'm hitting the ball well like I have all week.   It's more a feeling thing with my game.   I don't like to put that sort of ranking or round or something that I like to get to.   I don't like to do that.   
   
 Q.   Off topic a little bit, you looked almost the same on the court, same outfit, same hair.   You changed your visor at some point.   Did they ask you to?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   I changed it because my other one was really sweaty and it was falling off.   That's why I changed it.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware how similar you looked?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, no, I think she was wearing a dress.   Mine was two‑piece.   She's so much taller, so...   
   
 Q.   When you came here last year, did you have any sense coming in what was in store for you?   When you came back this year, did you have a sense this could also be the place where you came back out of all that?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   No, last year when I played the Open, I didn't know yet that I had mono.   Yeah, I didn't know how long the recovery was going to be.   I had no idea.   
    But, no, this year I did feel like the couple of days before, I spent a week here practicing, I did feel like I was starting to find my rhythm more.   I felt like I was hitting the ball better.   
    But you never know how it's going to go.   I mean, I think, you know, I'm pleased with how I played in these three matches.   But losing so close, you always feel like you could have done more.  
   
 Q.   How did it compare with your first experience on Ashe, which I believe was at night?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I've played two night matches.   Yeah, I feel like, uhm, it was‑‑ I felt comfortable out there today.   The crowd is great.   I felt like I'm getting more comfortable on that court.   
   
 Q.   It seems like there's been a lot of talk about the Serena/Sloane match.   Have you heard it and will you be watching?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Uhm, yeah, I mean, I probably will watch a bit.   Yeah, they're both playing really well so I think it's going to be a good match.   
   
 Q.   How nice did it feel to be back again this week?   Did it feel comfortable coming back here, being around the other girls?   How much do you think that helped you this week?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I mean, it's always exciting to be back at the US Open.   Every year, I always say it's my favorite time of the year.   I get to be at home.   Yeah, it's so nice to be here getting ready for the Open.   
    I had really good practices with the other Americans.   Yeah, I had a good week leading up to the Open.  
   
 Q.   Your overall reflection will be what when you come out of this disappointment, your overall sense of what you got out of the three matches?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   No, I definitely think my overall look at this tournament will be a positive one.   It shows me, you know, how well I can compete when I feel like I'm playing my best tennis.   But it still shows me what I need to work on to get to that next level.  
   
 Q.   Trying to stay positive for so long, does it feel so much easier to do now?  
    CHRISTINA McHALE:   Yeah, I mean, after some of the losses I've had this year, even though like today it hurts to lose this type of close match, I feel much better about my game, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT