NBA RISING STARS 2017
February 17, 2017
Buddy Hield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








World Team - 150
U.S. Team - 141
Q. Buddy, what was for you to play in front of your normal public and how fun you have in this game?
BUDDY HIELD: Oh, it was a lot of fun.  It means a lot to play in New Orleans.  I know the city out here, everybody is embracing it, embracing the vibe, the atmosphere, and just try to go out there and give the fans something good to watch.
Q. Buddy, this question is about OU.  I wanted to get your thoughts on Jordan Woodard and what he meant to the OU program for the past three years when you played with him.  And what do you think of the state of the program right now?
BUDDY HIELD: Okay.  I know Jordan, it's a tough loss for him, and I feel bad.  The reason I feel bad is because he's a senior.  He can't come back and finish the season strong no matter what the circumstance is, losing record or bad record.  I wish a speedy recovery for him.  He's been my point guard for three years at OU in the time I was there.  He's a great guy.  It's a sad story that happened to him.  When God closes one door, another one opens.
So Trae Young opened up and committed OU.  We have the next point guard coming in.  So I'm excited about that.
Q. Buddy, it seems like you took the advice to put up all the shots you can get.  What happened there toward the end of the game, did you notice that you had the points lead and that it was slipping to Jamal late there?
BUDDY HIELD: I know he got hot.  I know he got hot, but after that, coach is like give Jamal the ball.  I'm like, when the guy is hot, you can't stop him being hot.  You can't be selfish and say, okay, I want to show him up.  He got hot, man.  This wasn't my time.  He deserved it.  When a guy's hot, you got to give him the ball.  I don't care who it is.  When he's hot, give him the ball.
Hats off, he really played good.  He really kept us and give us a little leeway to keep the lead a little bit.  So he did his thing.
Q. Last year you had a couple of great highlight games, hitting a couple of 40-pointers in your college career.  What's the difference between a 40-point game in college and then today on the stage at All-Star weekend?
BUDDY HIELD: It's different, man.  All-Star -- college, you know, you got to work hard for your 40 points, but NBA All-Star game, it's much more easier, there's guys you get layups and go to the rim and stuff easily.
The game don't get tight until the last ten minutes.  That's when guys really play hard.  It's fun, man, competing out here and showcasing what you got.  I love it.  I think All-Star weekend is fun for the fans.  No matter what state you're in, it's always a good atmosphere.
Q. And you represent for your country?
BUDDY HIELD: Always.  242 to the world.
Q. Buddy, you scored the last bucket of the game, on the receiving of some alley-oops, hit a three.  What was the most exciting part of the game for you?  What was the experience like out there displaying your talents in New Orleans?
BUDDY HIELD: I think the most exciting thing is seeing the fans in New Orleans embrace the vibe of the Rising Stars game.  The All-Star game Saturday.  Just out here having fun.  For me, just my people back home in the Bahamas, keep motivating them that there's always -- if you keep working hard, you can pursue your dreams, and even the little kids working hard all through your lifetime, just anything is possible.
Q. And Junior Day today, you got an opportunity to participate at Tulane.  What was that like for you?  It was like a lot of hands on for you.
BUDDY HIELD: Sure.  The kids is fun.  I love the kids.  I love giving back to kids.  I remember when I was young, I always looked for someone coming back to the community and teaching me and giving me some skills.  So something like that, playing around with the kids and getting to know them and teach them something to motivate them through the basketball work.
Q. Buddy, a lot of players have used All-Star weekend as kind of a springboard to a strong finish to the season.  Did you see like having these opportunities to shoot the ball tonight, get in a rhythm, does that kind of bring your confidence up as you go into the last third of the season?
BUDDY HIELD: Yeah, for sure because being on the stage is a lot of pressure because you want to perform.  I feel like, when you get a lot of confidence and you start to shoot the ball well and you start having fun and feel comfortable out there, it will loosen you up for a little more.  Just got to keep getting better and use it as a major boost to the second half and finish out and continue to shoot the ball well.
Q. The World looked good.  You looked great.  You guys won.  Do you think this is a reflection of the global growth in basketball?
BUDDY HIELD: Sure, no doubt.  I know we got a lot of guys in Canada, all over the world, Europe.  I'm probably the only one in the Caribbean right now, but it's still growing.  Guys are still working hard in the Caribbean.  Everywhere, man.  Just everybody is trying to get to this level, and it's tough.  America, Latin, everybody trying to get to America, whether in the Bahamas or in Europe.  Everybody wants to play in the NBA no matter where you're at in the world.  Once you reach here, you can say I made it to the NBA, but you've still got to work to keep your job.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT