SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2008
DeWanna Bonner
Nell Fortner
Jordan Greenleaf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   THE MODERATOR:  We can start with the players.  Questions for the players? 

 Q.  DeWanna, can you talk about the comeback, and were you guys just spent at that point, or what happened down at the very end? 
 DEWANNA BONNER:  I thought we fought hard.  We hit some big shots.  Our free throws killed us at the end, we were 11 for 20.  We just kept fighting hard, and I'm proud of the team and the way we played tonight. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Coach, do you want to go to a comment? 
 COACH FORTNER:  I feel like I just got done with a prize fight.  It was just one slug and then another slug and it was just a hard-fought defensive battle.  The free-throw line really hurt us tonight.  If we could have knocked those free throws down it would have been nice. 
 But I thought we just -- both teams just played very tough, and it was just a tough game. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for players? 

 Q.  For either of you, did the recent game against Vanderbilt help you in any way to prepare for this game, and if so, how? 
 JORDAN GREENLEAF:  Yes, we knew that Vanderbilt is a very good three-point shooting team, and we knew in order to stay in the game with them we had to limit their three-point shots, and that was one of the things we focused on in this game, and I think we did a good job with that. 
 DEWANNA BONNER:  Yeah, they were kind of fresh on our mind.  They have a great inside and outside game, so we just had to play tough defense.  We came out there and we fought and we limited the three-points like Jordan said, and we just kind of stayed in the game. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay, players, thank you.  Now for Coach? 

 Q.  After you played Vanderbilt just a couple of weeks ago, what kind of adjustments did you make prior to this game? 
 COACH FORTNER:  Well, we knew we had to take that three-point shot away because they shot the ball really well against us at Auburn and they were 10 for 20 from the three.  We really made an effort to make sure we were out on shooters.  I really thought if we had three or four made threes we could win the game, and we could have if we had hit the free throws. 
 I thought our defense was much better.  It was not good when we played them at Auburn.  Much better tonight, but it's very hard for us to score against Vanderbilt.  They're a very tough, physical defensive team.  But when you get yourself to that free-throw line you've got to take advantage of that, and we just couldn't do that tonight. 

 Q.  Talk about what you all were able to do to limit Christina Wirth tonight. 
 COACH FORTNER:  We were switching in our defense, and that kept her from -- they run a lot of things like she'll screen and pop out or screen and pop up, so we were switching those, and we ended up having somebody on her.  She wasn't getting many looks. 
 But God, she killed us with that one at the end, at the elbow.  Boy, that was nice, got a little free right there.  But we were switching in other man defense, and I think that kept her from getting looks. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Coach. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT