SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2007
DeWanna Bonner
Nell Fortner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:  Joining us is Coach Nell Fortner and DeWanna Bonner.  Make an opening comment and then we'll take questions. 
 COACH FORTNER:  It was a disappointing loss for us.  The 19 offensive rebounds killed us.  I thought we played well enough to win on the first defensive possession when we defended them, but we gave up too many offensive words, too many second chance opportunities that killed us.  19 turnovers.  The six down the stretch, turnovers down the stretch, you just can't win games that way. 
 It was just unfortunate that it happened to us that way.  Just a disappointing loss. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for coach and players. 

 Q.  Would you talk about the final play.  Y'all got the ball with 2.3 seconds left. 
 COACH FORTNER:  It was hard to get anything with them up on us like that.  They were just up on us so tight, we couldn't get any space to get any kind of look at the basket.  They're switching screens.  They just weren't going to give us any breathing room at all. 

 Q.  2.3 seconds left, talk about that play. 
 COACH FORTNER:  I mean, we got the ball in.  We were trying to create a little space so we launch it.  They're switching screens.  There was not going to be a lot of space to get a shot off. 
 Hey, I mean, shouldn't have gotten to that point to begin with.  But anyway, that's what it was. 

 Q.  DeWanna, can you talk about the lack of offense in the last four minutes or so.  Couldn't get anything going. 
 DEWANNA BONNER:  I think we kind of got lax with the lead.  I don't think we attacked the basket enough. 
 I think we did a good job of finding Keke the last couple minutes.  She hit some big free-throws for us down the stretch.  Then we just stopped being aggressive. 

 Q.  How much did you talk to your team about the NCAA tournament implications?  What does that mean? 
 COACH FORTNER:  Well, we talked about it.  We try not to hammer on it or anything like that.  They knew what the implications were.  They knew what was out there, the potential that was out there for us.  You know, you try not to harp on it too much because you don't want to play a game with a lot of pressure on you. 
 That's how we came out.  We were playing hard.  Our offense never really got going today.  We just never really got into a good flow.  I thought it was tough for us because South Carolina, really I didn't think their offense was getting into a good flow either.  They were just getting a second and third chance opportunity.  That was just hurting us. 
 That hurts our confidence.  It's hard to get things going.  But then we made a great run in the second half.  You hope you can hold onto it.  But playing under pressure, we're still a young team, we haven't gone into the playoffs yet.  We haven't gone into the WNIT, the NCAAs.  We're trying to get there.  These kids are trying hard to get there.  But you got to win games to do that.  It just didn't happen for us today. 
 I don't know what the committee will do.  We'd love to play in the NCAA tournament.  We'll just have to wait and see what they do.  Hopefully we'll be going somewhere, one or the other. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT