ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2020
Nell Fortner
Kierra Fletcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NC State - 57, Georgia Tech - 48   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined now by Georgia Tech head coach, Nell Fortner and Kierra Fletcher. Coach?   
NELL FORTNER: I really thought we started off really well, and we defended well, pretty well tonight for the most part, but we let 'em make that run in the first half and then ended up tied. If we could have held on and gone into the half well a little bit of a lead maybe you would have seen a different story but I thought these kids played tough. NC State is a really good team. They have five players on the floor that stretch you to that three-point line so it makes it difficult to defend inside and cover everybody.   
But, man, this team played really hard. They fought to the end and I'm really proud of 'em for that. I don't know what the future holds. Excited to find out what that means in the next ten days, but I thought this team has handled themselves very well, fought hard. I thought this one right here. Kierra had a good second half. She was challenged at halftime and she met the challenge. I'm really proud of her.   
 Q.  Nell, in the second half when they got ahead by 8 you guys pushed back and tied it with six minutes left but couldn't push back in front. Were you tired or just be couldn't get the short or two you needed?  
NELL FORTNER: You don't want to make excuses for anything but we have played with a short lineup all year long and, yeah, the kids get tired. Remember that third quarter we didn't get that media timeout until about a minute 20. Both teams were pretty gassed. I thought we really fought hard to get that game tied back up again.   
But we probably spent a lot of energy doing that. But, again, you hold NC State to 57 points, is that what it was? Yeah. I'm proud of that. That's a really good offensive team. But we're a really good defensive team. If we could have stopped their transition baskets, they got 16 in transition and that was tough for us to overcome.   
 Q.  About the defense, they had three, three-pointers, against you guys in the first game, what do you guys do to run them off the line?  
NELL FORTNER: It was a point of contention to keep us from getting really good looks, our defense was pretty statute in that first half especially in the first quarter it was nuts. Service awesome. So really proud of them for that. That was a point of emphasis, hands up, make sure you close out with your hands up and don't give 'em easy looks and for the most part I thought we did that all night long.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you ladies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT