ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2020
Nell Fortner
Francesca Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Georgia Tech - 68, Pitt - 58   
 Q.  Francesca, were you playing with an urgency because of what she just said? Talk about that?  
FRANCESCA PAN: This is my last ACC Tournament. I didn't want to go home. I wanted to win tonight. I gave everything I had for my team, and I'm just happy we won this game.   
 Q.  For both of you, 20 points on turnovers this game. What was the key, or what was the game plan going into this game to put that pressure on for those turnovers?  
NELL FORTNER: I would have liked 40 points off those turnovers, but we knew Pitt averaged 18 turnovers a game so we wanted to put them in stressful situations and help them with that, help turn the ball over. I thought we did that. I thought we came out really aggressive and tough, but then they adjusted and we had to get out of that and create some turnovers the other way, and I thought our hustle, our defense, our hands were active.   
We got a lot of loose balls going, and toward the end of the game I think our will kicked in. But we've been a good defensive team all year long; we can do a lot of different things to you. I thought that kicked in at the end.   
 Q.  Coach, on paper, and if you're looking out on the court, you can see that there was a big size advantage that y'all had. Was there, I guess, a conscious effort to attack the basket knowing that you had that?  
NELL FORTNER: Well, it wasn't really about the size advantage, because I felt like we could have scored more maybe inside. I give a lot of credit to Lance. I think he's an excellent coach. He game planned well. I thought what he did was tough for us to get the ball on the block, and he's got some little freshmen, dang, they're going to be good in the coming years. But they came well together as a team.   
I thought they guarded us very well, they defended us well and didn't allow us to just throw the ball inside. I thought their game plan was good in that regard.   
 Q.  Francesca, moving forward what is your advice to the under classmen as the lone senior, as Coach said, moving through the tournament?  
FRANCESCA PAN: We always want to play hard and play smart and be tough, no matter what, tough situation. We have to keep playing hard, keep fighting and keep being together. We can't fall apart. If we are in tough situations we still have to be together and just fight.   
 Q.  For both of you. NC State, you had some success with them fairly recently. What do you need to do well again and what do you expect them to try to do different when you see them tomorrow?  
NELL FORTNER: We need to do the exact same thing we did the first time and hope they do the exact same thing. That's a really good team. That's a really good team. This one right here had the tremendous game, so we're expecting that again, Pan. No pressure. They've got size, they've got shooters, they've got every piece of the puzzle. We're going to have to be sharp in what we're doing defensively and offensively. We're going to have to execute well on the offensive end, because they'll "D" up pretty good, also. We're looking forward to it.   
FRANCESCA PAN: I think she said everything. We just have to play like the last game, be focused on the game plan and execute.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks to both of you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT