BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 31, 2015
M.V. Magnier
Aidan P. O'Brien
Michael Tabor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to go ahead and get started here, because we know everyone's short on time. The winner of the Longines Breeders' Cup Turf is Found and we're very glad to be joined now by Michael Tabor and Andy Magnier and Aidan O'Brien.   
AIDAN P. O'BRIEN: M.V.  
THE MODERATOR: I'm sorry, I misheard it yesterday. I'm so sorry. I understand now why everybody was giggling. All right.   
Congratulations on this incredible win. Aidan, I would like to start with you. Found finally turns the tables on Golden Horn. Tell us what you think made the difference today.  
AIDAN O'BRIEN: It was incredible, firstly, for like I take my hat off to the lads for running her. We trained her, kept her a mile earlier in the year with a view to giving her a break in the middle and then training her for the arc. Everything went well for the arc, but the arc just was‑‑ she just didn't have much look in the arc and went to the line on the bridle.  
So then, obviously we came back to the Champions Stakes. She was drawn badly, but came out of the race really well. Like I say, the lads made a decision to run. I thought it was a little bit far‑fetched, like she was a three‑year‑old filly after running in two Champions Stakes and an arc within a month. But she didn't have any look in any of the races. She's very special filly.  
Ryan gave her a super ride. What can you say. I couldn't believe it happened. So glad to be part of it.   
THE MODERATOR: Michael, as Aidan said, three races in October, four races in the past month and a half. How impressed are you by this filly?   
MICHAEL TABOR: You have to be very impressed. I think Aidan has covered every blade of grass there. Aidan at the beginning of the year always said this is our arc filly. And he was very positive about her.  
But she didn't get the rub of the Green. But finally, she's come good, as Aidan always said she would. When Aidan says that to you, it comes right. It might not happen just when he expects it to, but eventually it will happen because he knows the difference.   
THE MODERATOR: M.V., can you talk a little bit more about Ryan's incredible ride?   
M.V. MAGNIER: In fairness to Ryan, I remember after the race when she won in France as a two‑year‑old, he got off her and said she would win an arc.  
And he said that she's exceptional and so what can I say? Ryan gave her a fantastic ride. Aidan has done an unbelievable job keeping her going. And Galileo, I don't know what to say about him.   
MICHAEL TABOR: The superlatives are just‑‑ you all know how good he is, Galileo. When you have a filly by him, you know they just produce it. They really do.   
THE MODERATOR: Very good. We know you've got to get to the Paddock so we're going to let you go. Thanks for the time and thanks for bringing this filly here.   
MICHAEL TABOR: Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT