BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 5, 2011
M.V. Magnier
Joseph O'Brien
Derrick Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We have the connections of St. Nicholas Abbey, winner of the Emirates Airline Breeders' Cup Turf. Representing Coolmore are M.V. Magnier and Derrick Smith. On our far right is winning rider Joseph O'Brien, now the youngest rider in Breeders' Cup history to win. 18 years, 161 days. 
 Gentlemen, Joseph, despite what the American press might write tomorrow, clearly, this wasn't your first ride. You rode your first winner in May 2009. Earlier this past May, you rode your first Group 1 winner. Still were you nervous at any point in time, either last night going to bed, out during the post parade, or perhaps during a race itself? Did the magnitude of the event give you any pause as you approached this mount? 
 JOSEPH O'BRIEN: Obviously, a certain degree of nerves. But I was looking forward to it more than anything else. 
 THE MODERATOR: Take us through the journey, if you would, your circuit on board St. Nicholas Abbey. 
 JOSEPH O'BRIEN: He jumped good out of the start. He had a nice position. He traveled very well. I got the gaps when they needed to come. He picked up well. 
 THE MODERATOR: Joseph, by your own admission, your days as a flat jockey may be finite due to your size, rather large for a rider, 5'11", 122 pounds, at least it's listed in the Breeders' Cup biobook. What are your future aspirations in the sport in general? 
 JOSEPH O'BRIEN: I'll keep riding for as long as possible. Obviously, I can't control my height and weight. I'll try to control it as long as possible and take it from there. 
 THE MODERATOR: M.V. and Derrick, congratulations. It was already a very nice day for you. Now it's even greater, and dare I say, historic. At the end of the day, riding assignments are really the purview of the owners. You might get advice, but you have to sign off on it. Can you discuss for us your confidence in Joseph? 
 DERRICK SMITH: Limbless. Joseph has unbelievable natural talent. He's a natural horseman. He's very well bred for the job, and he's never disappointed us. He just gets better and better. 
 THE MODERATOR: Anything to add, M.V.? 
 M.V. MAGNIER: Never saw a man as cool as ice as he was that day. He did the same again today. To be fair, there's no better man. 
 THE MODERATOR: I'm sorry, M.V. We couldn't hear you at the very beginning. What day was that when you said you never saw him so cool? 
 M.V. MAGNIER: When he rode Camelot in the racing post. 
 THE MODERATOR: Joseph, your dad is very busy right now. He's saddling horses in all the remaining Breeders' Cup races, but once you dismounted, if you wouldn't mind, can you tell us about your exchange with your dad? 
 JOSEPH O'BRIEN: Mostly he just said well done, and I just -- I told him how St. Nicholas Abbey was through the race. 

 Q. Joseph, could you just talk about what this is like winning a Breeders' Cup for your dad? 
 JOSEPH O'BRIEN: It's a dream come true. Obviously, looking at all the big names and the big horses winning the best races around the world, it's something that you dream about since I was very small. I owe a big thank you to Mr. Smith and M.V. and Mr. Tabor and Mr. Magnier for giving me the opportunity.

 Q. Mr. Smith, you were on a high after you won the racing post in October of 2009. Then you came back to new market for the 2010 and got beaten badly as the even money favorite, and the horse did not race until 2011. What went wrong in 2010, and how was it corrected? 
 DERRICK SMITH: We didn't run that bad in the Guinness. I think he finished sixth. Then he sustained an injury. We just kept him off for the rest of the year. The following year -- it's been a while since he showed the brilliance of the post. We knew it was there. Everything came together today. He's always been a brilliant horse. We always had immense confidence in him. 
 Somebody asked me today, when did you know he was going to win? Before the race because that's how confident Aidan was today. 
 THE MODERATOR: We're going next to Robert. After Robert is done with his question, I'm going to ask any questions for M.V. and Derrick to be asked first. They have Daddy Long Legs. They've got a horse to watch and root for. We can maybe stick a while longer with Joseph.

 Q. Hi, Joseph. Congratulations. Joseph, talk a little bit about the time you spend with these horses back at Bali Doyle and how valuable that is for you on these big race days when you're race riding them. 
 JOSEPH O'BRIEN: I ride St. Nicholas out at home every day. I ride him for his work, usually ride him a couple of times a week. So I know the horse very well. We get on good. He always had a class, and it all came together today. He showed what a horse he is.

 Q. You and Julien had a quick little chat in the paddock. Obviously, you had to ride your own race. Any little insight you can share with us about that regarding how you were going to approach the pace of this particular race? Looking out for one another but mainly looking out for your own horse? 
 JOSEPH O'BRIEN: Julien was just asking what his horse was and how I would ride him if he was. I said he was a nice horse, and he stayed well. I was very happy with my horse. He relaxed good through the race. 

 Q. This question is about Camelot. Camelot won the Racing Post at Doncaster two weeks ago yesterday. This is for the American audience. Are there any comparisons on Frankel? How good is Camelot, and given the fact Camelot is so good, I'm sure Joseph O'Brien will keep his weight low enough to ride in the Derby next year. Do you have a comment? 
 M.V. MAGNIER: Let's hope he does. 
 THE MODERATOR: Joseph, could you just comment on the honor of being the youngest ever to win a Breeders' Cup race. 
 JOSEPH O'BRIEN: Like I said, it's a dream come true. What more can I say?

 Q. For either of the owners, do you have a decision yet on whether you'll campaign St. Nicholas Abbey again next year? 
 M.V. MAGNIER: It's very simple. We're going to fly home the next couple of days, see how he is, and we'll make decisions from there. 
 THE MODERATOR: Just a wonderfully exciting win on any number of levels. Congratulations, M.V. Magnier, Derrick Smith, and Joseph O'Brien, a very memorable addition to the Emirates Airline Breeders' Cup Turf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT