BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 3, 2012
Ron Winchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Joined now in the interview room by Ron Winchell, winning owner of Tapizar who just captured the Breeders' Cup Dirt Mile.   Cory Nakatani and Steven Asmussen are busy.   They have a race with Unbridled's Note, but we're happy to be joined by Ron Winchell.   Congratulations, your family with an illustrious history in racing, but this is the first Breeders' Cup.   How does it feel? 
    RON WINCHELL:   It feels great, especially with a home bred and a home bred by Tapit whose horse we raced and currently own.   Feels great.   Many Breeders' Cup races, best finish was second.   So it felt nice to better that today. 

Q.   Your horse had a nice record at Santa Anita at that 2 for 4 coming in.   His last race at Kelso probably wasn't the most outstanding race to build your confidence, clearly you gave him a pass.   What was your thinking coming out of the Kelso as you mulled over the Breeders' Cup Dirt Mile? 
    RON WINCHELL:   Obviously several factors, he has ran so well here at Santa Anita that that made an impact in the decision‑making process. 
    But he game out of the gate at Kelso, and he had a horse on his right and his left and in Belmont we were surprised to finish last, so it took faith to overcome that and get here today. 

Q.   I take it Steve Asmussen was key in that decision? 
    RON WINCHELL:   The key was we shipped him out here, he worked over the surface a couple of times and he worked way better than he was going at Belmont and we thought it was definitely a shot tore him at this point. 

Q.   Summarize your thoughts as the race was unfolding? 
    RON WINCHELL:   This race we knew we were going to run differently because when he ran in the Breeders' Cup Mile last year, the plan was to restrain him and not let him have too much speed and that proved to be ineffective with his style of running, so the plan today was to let him be a free‑running horse, to go out there and let him be on the lead or off the lead and hopefully have something left coming home. 

Q.   Ron, the Dirt Mile historically has been a race where horses turning back in distance seem to have done well, Dakota Phone being one, as well as others.   Is that a factor?   Once you eliminated the Kelso from your mile is that a positive factor? 
    RON WINCHELL:   Yeah, it's a positive factor, last year he has been running a mile 16th, so it is cutting back for him, traditionally when you look back in history I noticed before the race the sprinter types don't seem to get to the finish line here, so we thought we were sitting in a position where we could be effective. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Ron, congratulations, great performance by Tapizar and any thoughts for next year at this stage? 
    RON WINCHELL:   As far as Tapizar? 
    THE MODERATOR:   Yes. 
    RON WINCHELL:   Not sure at the moment, but I think he's done a lot and I think this caps off a nice race career at the moment. 
    THE MODERATOR:   He did Tapit proud.   Congratulations, Ron. 
    RON WINCHELL:   Thank you.   






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT