COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SEMIFINAL AT THE CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: CLEMSON VS OKLAHOMA
December 27, 2015
Dominique Alexander
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're going to get asked about, you keep a guy on him the whole time, but I don't know if you can do that in terms of compromising your defense.  How do you balance that out?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: We've got a lot of athletes, especially at our position at linebacker.  For me, we have guys that -- guys on our defense that we can do what we do and then we'll be able to contain.  We necessarily don't have to have one guy on him the whole time because everybody else will do their job and help to contain.   
 Q.  Do you think Devante is going to be on the field a lot this game?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: Uh-huh.  He'll be on the field a lot, yes, sir.   
 Q.  Is there anyone comparable you guys have faced to Deshaun Watson?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: Trevone Boykin.  I mean, we didn't face him this year, but the guys that we've had on our defense, we've all played and we have experience so we've seen guys like that over the years.  Seeing a guy like Baker being mobile like that and then being able to have a guy like Trevor, practicing against him, being mobile like that, that's something great to see every day at practice, as well.   
 Q.  What's the key against a guy like Watson?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: You've got to keep him contained.  He's up for the Heisman.  He's one of the top players in the country.  He played for an undefeated team this year.  To keep him contained, everybody has got to do their job.  We've got to make more plays on him than he does on us.   
 Q.  Trevor plays Watson in practice?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: Sometimes.  We do different things because Trevor is mobile and he can run and he's a great athlete, so from time to time we'll stick him back there just to give us a different look.   
 Q.  Outside Deshaun what stands out to you about the Clemson offense?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: I like the running back No. 9.  He's a great runner.  He's a downhill -- very downhill.  Our coaches respect him.  We respect him.  The receiver, No. 3.  They have big-play receivers.  The O-line is good.  To me they have a real good complete team.  They feed off each other, but No. 4 is definitely the head.   
 Q.  You saw some obviously great quarterbacks in your league this year.  Did he set that bar kind of above?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: Most definitely.  He wouldn't be up for the Heisman if he wasn't.  He's definitely one of the top quarterbacks in the country.   
 Q.  Is it the combination of both that he can do?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: Yes, sir.  Any time you have a guy who can run and pass, it makes it tough.  You look at our quarterback, Baker, that's what makes him so dangerous because you can't keep him in the pocket.  If he gets out of the pocket he can extend the play so much he can just make a big play happen, and that's what he's able to do with his feet and his arm.   
 Q.  Are they similar at all?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: I mean, they have similar games.  I think they're both just great competitors and great players.   
 Q.  What's changed about you guys' defense from last year?  You had a lot of struggles last year and it seems like that's one of the strengths of the team.  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: Personally I feel as if our defense is just a lot of guys doing their job.  We have a lot of guys playing hard.  Like I said, going back to Baker, we have a guy like Baker, we see his body on the line every single play when he's on the field.  When we're on defense it's hard for us not to go back on the field and do the same and go play hard.  When you have 11 guys out there playing hard and doing their job, it's hard not to be successful.   
 Q.  Was that not the case last year?  
DOMINIQUE ALEXANDER: It was just -- I don't think everybody understood the defense as well as we do now.  I think our experience is showing right now, and that's the reason why we're playing the way that we're playing right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT