NHL STADIUM SERIES: FLYERS VS PENGUINS
February 25, 2017
Dave Hakstol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Pittsburgh - 4, Philadelphia - 2   
 Q.  Coach, a lot of the guys talked about how important today's game was.  How do you guys move beyond this and get ready for a big challenge Tuesday here?  
DAVE HAKSTOL: Well, it's a tough result walking away.  It's a pretty close, tight hockey game where I thought our team played well, battled extremely hard, and did a lot of good things.  But we walk away with the wrong result.   
We've got a day in between here to turn the page and get back at it.  That's exactly what we'll do.  This group has done that all the way along, and we'll do that as we go back for our next game at home.   
 Q.  Not many teams have been able to take territory from the Penguins.  What did you feel like you were able to do to get that, especially in the second period?  
DAVE HAKSTOL: Well, I thought really throughout the full 60 minutes, our group played with real good energy in all the little areas of the game.  You know, it's the little things that are important to gain zones, gain territory, come up with puck possession, whether it's initially in your D-zone after you check well, or the next play or two to get it up the ice and then work some possession in the offensive zone.   
There's no question they had two or three spurts where they carried some momentum for short periods of time, but I thought overall through the 60 minutes, our group did a good job and played the type of game that we wanted to play today.   
 Q.  A lot of the things you've said we've heard the last five, six, seven games; you've kind of said the same thing.  What has to change to -- if you're happy with the way the team is playing, if you're happy with the way the game is going, what has to change to get the results you want?  
DAVE HAKSTOL: There's a couple little things within the game tonight.  Obviously we haven't been able to score a whole lot.  There's been a lot made of that.  And you know what, fairly so.  I think that's fair.  Yet tonight I look at the opportunities at this time of year, the type of opportunities and the number of opportunities that we generated were pretty reasonable.   
We've got to stick with it.  We've gone through a tough stretch here, and through that stretch we've played for the vast majority, we've played some pretty good hockey.  We've got to stick with it.  We've got to make sure that we stay -- completely stay together as we have, and we've got to keep pushing the envelope.   
Next opportunity is the most important one.  We realize the critical point of our year that we're at.   
 Q.  You guys got a lot of pucks to Murray early in the game there.  Were you happy with the shots that you got on him?  Do you just tip your cap to him in that particular case?  
DAVE HAKSTOL: I thought we got some good opportunities, and then I thought in the first couple periods we -- not a whole lot, but I thought there was a few opportunities where we didn't make it difficult enough for him to find the puck.  But we had enough quality, no question.  We did have good quality.  Is it enough?  Obviously tonight it wasn't.  We didn't win the hockey game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT