ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2012
Daniel Chopra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good job getting it into the house.
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Thank you.   Yeah, I played well today.   It was a good day.   First group of the day, I haven't had that in a long time so, it's -- not usually playing early in the morning.   So the first couple holes, it was good and once I got into the round, the whole group played well after that.

Q.   Great job, Daniel.   Tell us about the turn-around because it's been a frustrating year for you.
DANIEL CHOPRA:   To say the least.   Yeah, it has been.   I really struggled with not getting in -- I'm so used to playing a lot, you know, and I play my way into form and I had not been getting in week-in and week-out and been able to kind of learn and looking forward to the next week and playing myself, getting some momentum going and this is the stop, start, play, one week on, two weeks off and just horrible for confidence, because when you're home -- having a couple good weeks and you're home for two weeks and you're thinking about it.   Even though you play well at home you're not doing it in competitive format. 
So, I decided to go play a few Nationwide events but even then that didn't help.   Still your mind is out here, it's where you want to be and yeah, so to get that one good round on the golf course where I've had success in the past, I played well here before and I'm now hopefully through the summer I'm getting to start playing a little bit more.

Q.   I was interested to see you play the 18th because you're 6-under par.   You had a chance to reach in it two.   You tried to hit the green.
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Yeah, I did, but a little bit on the protective side, too.   I was actually trying to hit it just on the left edge, just left of the green.   They changed the bunker in the front this year to where you can just kind of run up to the left of it and leave yourself a good angle.   I just muddled that 2 iron. 
It must have flown 260 yards in the air downwind but I hit it on the down slope and shot through.   I had a really tricky pitch shot. 
Then I protected on that one a little bit.   I didn't want to chip it in the water.   No, I was going for it.   I was playing great, you know, I was swinging beautifully.   I hadn't really made a bad swing all day.   I really made a good one on that one.   I hit it too good.

Q.   Good to see you playing well.   You have too much talent not to be successful.
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Thank you.

Q.   Tell me what went so well today.
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Just the golf course, had success at it in the past.   The game has been fine, you know, really the results have been frustrating and the harder you press in this game the tougher it gets and when you get momentum going one way or the other, you know, it's hard to break it and I've been handling it the wrong way. 
Actually it's funny, I was actually kind of -- about a month ago I was already looking forward to this event.   I wanted to get back to playing courses that I enjoy and having had success in the past. 
Unfortunately, my status this year, the courses I've played well in the past, I'm not getting in those events, you know.   I played great in Florida.   I got in Bay Hill thanks to Mr. Palmer's generosity there but it's been tough for me. 
You know, the courses that I've struggled on are the tournaments I seem to be getting in, you know, and that's hard for your confidence.   It's a real trudge uphill through mud and sleet and snow.   You're really working hard.
And so now I finally got to a course that I enjoy playing and hopefully this will give me some momentum and I play well.   You know, maybe I get in some more events that I enjoy playing at and get the season going, you know.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT