GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 28, 2007
Daniel Chopra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Can you talk about where you stand? 
 DANIEL CHOPRA: Well, it was a tough back nine.  I missed a putt on the 10th hole.  I didn't feel very comfortable after that.  It was all a bit of a struggle.  And I got some horrible lies in the rough.  I got a couple of weak drives and managed to get up-and-down on the greens to keep myself where I'm at. 
 But I know it's tough.  They're never easy.  They're never supposed to be easy.  If I come out on top, I'm just glad -- I'll treasure it so much more when you have to really fight for it and work for it.  I'm going to have to do that tomorrow morning. 

 Q.  Was it a good thing or bad thing, trying to get away from you a little in the back nine, today is the day? 
 DANIEL CHOPRA: Yes and no.  Because we've come to the hard holes.  We're just getting to 16, which is the easiest par 5 on the golf course.  But the greens are starting to get chopped up, as well as bumpy.  For the first time this week, it's really gotten bumpy. 
 Late in the evening you start to see the shadows and the undulations.  And so I think it's a good thing.  Come back tomorrow morning, we'll go and I'll be refreshed. 

 Q.  Where did you leave it? 
 DANIEL CHOPRA: 16th tee. 

 Q.  Do you feel you have an advantage because you have a par 5? 
 DANIEL CHOPRA: I do.  I don't know if the guy in front of me has finished 16 or not. I don't even know who I'm tied with. 

 Q.  (Question Jacobson's score ).  So they're both at 16 or 17? 
 DANIEL CHOPRA: So I've got a little bit of an advantage.  That's why your leaders go in the last group to always have that.  So it's going to be fun tomorrow to go out there, have a little bit of a shootout, see what happens. 

 Q.  (Question off microphone) 
 DANIEL CHOPRA: It was horrible.  I don't know what it is, when the weather conditions get like this, but people don't seem to be ready to play.  When you're out here, you're nervous, you feel like a bit of a caged animal.  You want to go; you want to go play. 
 And it's tough when you stand around and you wait and you wait.  And I was having to, nine out of 10, play last in the group, longest drive or whatever.  And I just felt like I was always waiting. 
 And it's very difficult to then calm yourself down.  Your heartbeat's up a little bit.  You're anxious.  It's very, very difficult when it's like that. 
 That's why it's much easier when you're in twosomes on the weekend and it's flowing and you get a rhythm for things.  Especially when things aren't quite going the way you want them, like they were today.  It's difficult to regain that when you hit one shot every 15, 20 minutes.  It's very difficult. 

 Q.  How much time did you spend looking at leaderboards? 
 DANIEL CHOPRA: I didn't look at a leaderboard at all.  I assumed I had a pretty decent lead at the time.  I thought I did.  But I didn't want to look because I couldn't help at the time.  Once I go to 16 I'll probably start looking.  I know I'm tied now anyway.  Everybody's told me.  I would have looked. 
 Now I look coming in, and I'm sure by the time we get to 16, they'll finish 17, we'll know what they've done there.  And there's not really that much risk for it any way.  It's not like you have to take any undue risks or anything like that.  I'll still have to go out and try to put the best score I can possibly put together for two holes. 

 Q.  Did it help to make that save on 15 going in? 
 DANIEL CHOPRA: It's good, because it makes me go into tonight not feeling bad about it.  If I would have bogeyed that last hole I would have felt more dejected and again a boost and pump-up for tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT