THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 3, 2007
Daniel Chopra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHRIS REIMER:  Daniel Chopra here, I believe you're two shots off the lead.  That's got to be a good feeling on such a hard golf course this week.   
 DANIEL CHOPRA:  Yeah, actually when I came out here my first round was in the Pro-Am, and I honestly thought that there was absolutely no way I was ever going to be able to break par on this golf course.  It's brutally difficult, knowing the wind was going to blow as well.   
 To be able to -- I haven't even shot over par yet, so that's quite incredible.  Just being able to go out on the golf course, expecting such a rough ride, I think it just helps you focus and play over hole one shot at a time and just do your absolute best on every shot.  You don't get ahead of yourself and you play within yourself the whole way.  I think it actually forces you to focus.   
  
  Q.  The wind has kind of switched around, 18, how does that play?   
 DANIEL CHOPRA:  It's such a tough hole when the wind is the way it is right now.  The second shot -- actually the see shot really there's water left and right on your tee shot.  And on your second shot, there's water right and bunkers left and into the wind the whole way.   
 That second shot just to be able to lay up in the right area is so difficult to do because you really can't see where you're going, it's a blind shot into an angled fairway.  You can't see the water.  You can't see anything.  You just have to figure it out and get the numbers and trust it and you throw the wind up as well and it becomes a very challenging shot.   
  
  Q.  If I'm not mistaken, the guys in first, second and third right now are guys who are still seeking that first TOUR win.  How is that possible on a course that's playing this tough?   
 DANIEL CHOPRA:  I don't know.  Maybe there are not that many tournament winners playing this week, I don't know.   
 I heard the broadcast earlier in the week and everybody called for it would be probably a Major Champion, or past Major Champion that would win, or somebody that's definitely won on TOUR before.  It just goes to show, everybody is good.  There's tremendous depth on the PGA TOUR nowadays.  Just about anybody can win and people act surprised when certain people do win and people think, oh, how can he win.   
 But if you're out here for a few years, you're good enough and you have the quality game to win.   
  
  Q.  Were you watching the score board today?  Seeing the guys come back, did it make you feel good?   
 DANIEL CHOPRA:  No, I actually did not watch it at all.  In fact, the first time I looked at it was on 18.  It's just a thing I'll be doing.  I'll look if I feels it's going to help me.  If I feel it's not, I won't.  Sometimes it's difficult to keep your eyes away from them.  The boards are always there, they are behind the greens.   
 It's actually a little practice thing do I when I work out when and you're running on the treadmill and you've got the display, I'll train myself to not look at it, maybe five minutes.  And that helps me when I got on the golf course and I see a big leaderboard behind the green.  I'm actually practicing by not looking at the leaderboard while I'm on the treadmill, kind of funny that way.  It's amazing how that works.  You train your eyes not to look, or if you look, you glaze over or you focus behind it or short of it so everything kind of fuzzes out.  But that's a good thing.   
  
  Q.  Little surprised to where you finished?   
 DANIEL CHOPRA:  No, not really.  I expected to be up there actually.  Actually when I did look, I was surprised to see Mark Wilson at 6.  I honestly thought at the last hole I would have had a putt to tie, maybe not tie, but even take the outright lead at 5, because it was so difficult today.  And just because of the fact that maybe the wind was not that much stronger than it was the previous days, but it was 180 degrees different direction.  That always throws the scores the wrong way.  Especially 15, 16, 17 was now into the wind and out of the left, really made those holes very difficult, and I think the first two days, they were a little bit easier because they were downwind or little wind and you could just about take the water out of play.  It was very tough today.   
 CHRIS REIMER:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT