JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2010
Daniel Chopra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Frustration to you at 6-under, but you're still six behind. 
 DANIEL CHOPRA: No. It's a long week. 54 holes more to go. It's a long, long way, and what am I? I'm at six, he's at 12, that's six shots behind. That's two shots a day. So no, it's nothing. 
 I mean I'm just happy I played well today. I'm happy that Paul had a fantastic day. He'll be very happy tonight. I'm happy tonight, and then we'll start again tomorrow and see what happens. It's a long way to go. 

 Q. Can you walk me through the eagle today?
 DANIEL CHOPRA: Well, the eagle was kind of funny. I played a lot of holes today where I had a perfect lie, perfect second shot and maybe I missed a follow-up or whatever on the back hole and I kind of mis-hit my drive just a little bit in the fairway. Wasn't a bad drive, just wasn't hit perfectly and kind of mis-hit my second shot just a little bit. It was right on the money, just didn't get enough carry, just caught the top of the bunker and went back in the bunker. 
 It was a pin placement I practiced during the practice round. When I play practice rounds, I don't play to the pins. We put a pin down where we think the tournament will be, and that was a pin I picked in the practice round, so I knew exactly what it was going to do off the bunker. I actually hit a chip from just in front of the bunker in the practice round, so I went and dropped the ball in the same spot I did in the practice round and the ball rolled in the hole.

 Q. Good chance this course will dry out overnight. Is tomorrow just a regular situation?
 DANIEL CHOPRA: It's not going to dry out by tomorrow. I think it'll be wet and the same conditions we had today we'll have tomorrow, and hopefully by the weekend it'll dry out a little bit, but now, as much rain as we had, the more it dries out the easier the golf clubs will play because the one thing we had today was battling too much back spin. 
 And even with these new, I guess, less aggressive grooves that we have, the ball still will spin a lot, and that's something you have to be very aware of on these greens. 
 So as the greens dry out now, the ball's not going to spin as much and it'll be easier to get the ball moving toward the hole.

 Q. I guess how much scoreboard watching were you guys doing out there seeing what Paul was doing?
 DANIEL CHOPRA: Right about the end we stepped on the 7th tee there, we noticed that he had shot the 59. I saw him at 7-under, then I saw him at 10, and then I saw him at 12. So it happened very quickly, so that was kind of a bit of a shock was how quickly it happened. 
 He must have finished with a flurry of birdies as well. But it was fun to watch, something to talk about on the last three holes.

 Q. And setting that 6-under yourself, good position going into the weekend. How is your mindset going forward?
 DANIEL CHOPRA: Well, this golf course, you know, you have to keep playing well. You know, it's one of the best golf courses we play on the TOUR. You know, you still have to play well. You have to drive the ball well, especially on the front nine, there's a few tough tee shots. You know, you can get yourself in some trouble. 
 And I guess the pressure out here is not to make any bogeys or make any mistakes, and as soon as you do that, you don't just take one step back, you may even take a couple because guys are making birdies out here at the same time. So the pressure out here is not so much to make birdies. It'll come; it's avoid mistakes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT