FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 4, 2006
Daniel Chopra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What's the best look you've had at winning a tournament since you've been out here the last couple of three years now?
DANIEL CHOPRA:  Well, I'd say this is the best position I'm in.  I don't know where the guys are going to finish coming in but I'm not going to be more than a couple, few shots behind.  I would say that would be the closest I've been after three rounds out here, which is kind of the ideal setting, all of the spotlight is going to be on the Tigers and the Mickelsons.  It would be nice if some guy could just sneak in there quietly in the back door.
Q.  In that sense did you do some of that sneaking in today?
DANIEL CHOPRA:  Well, I was already in the same position.  I only barely maintained position, maybe moved up a couple of spots today.

Let the fireworks, all of those guys go out and do it.  I got plenty of all that on the 18th hole today.  A few more late tomorrow would be great.
Q.  Talk about the 18th hole, I know you were in a little bit of trouble there.
DANIEL CHOPRA:  A lot less trouble than if you hit it left on 18.  That was the main priority is I've been driving the ball quite well today, and it's hard when it's into the wind and out of the left.

I hit a great 5 iron and under a tree, over the other tree, left of one tree and just kept it right of the other one and had to draw it up against the wind into a left to right breeze.  That was just the perfect putt after that.  It was amazing, about a 70 footer, with about 12 feet of break up and over a ridge and it went in on its last roll.  The ideal finish.
Q.  Do you feel good about the way you're playing?  Three pretty darned solid rounds in a row here.
DANIEL CHOPRA:  Well, every part of my game has actually been on every day.  Not everything    the first couple of days I didn't drive it that well.  Today I drove it much better and the first couple of days, I birdied just about every time I hit it in the fairway.  So today I actually drove it better and my irons were just    I hit a couple skanky iron shots, but that doesn't really worry me.

The main thing out here is get the ball in the fairway.  Obviously I've been putting well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT