BUICK OPEN
July 31, 2004
Daniel Chopra
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  6 under par today and you're right in contention?
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Yeah, it was great.  It was a funny day.  I made a couple bogeys and made eight birdies and I made all of the putts I needed to and hit most of the fairways and most of the greens.  It was windy out there so you really had to keep good control of your ball.  That was the hardest thing out there today.
Q.  Talk about on the back nine.
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Yeah, it was kind

of     I bogeyed the 10th hole.  Got a bad break on the left side right under behind a tree.  I had no backswing.  Kind of hacked it out and made bogey. Then on 12, almost drove it up near the green, chipped it almost  in for an eagle there, tap in there.  You know, those few birdies in a row got me going.  Knocked it on in two and 2 putted on the par  5.  That really got me into the tournament, and then I almost made the last.
Q.  Tell us about your year.  You've had a nice year and how you ended up here.
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Well, it's been nice.  I've played well.  My results don't really show it.  I've had a lot of between 25  to 35 place finishes.  My position on the Money List might not reflect how well the year has been.  It's been relatively consistent, I'm making virtually every cut out here.

What I need is a good Sunday round to get myself into those Top 10 positions and give myself another shot at it this week and hopefully I've learned.
Q.  Being about three back, how does that feel?
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Well, chasing Vijay, as well as he's playing this year on the golf course, which is receptive, he loves this kind of golf.   He can just fire at all the pins.  Catching him will be extremely difficult.  But, you know, I know how to win golf tournaments.  I've proved that.  I've won tournaments.  If I get myself in position where he's not running away with it and I'm close, my experience should give me some advantage.
Q.  With some of the names up there, is that  intimidating?
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Yes and no.  But I've been around the game for such a long time that I know all of the guys; I've played with them before.  It's good fun to see my name amongst them.  That's why you play the game and you dream to see your name in lights next to the top players in the world.  I've been there a few times this year and it's going to be again tomorrow.  Chopra is going to be up there next to Woods and Singh.  It's going to be fun.
Q.  Did you manage to look at the board a few times today?
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Yeah, it's nice to see it.  It means that you're where you want to be.  If you're right next to the best players in the world on the leaderboard, you're usually playing quite well.
Q.  Have you been in contention very much on the Tour?
DANIEL CHOPRA:   Well maybe not so much after three rounds of.  After a couple rounds, midway through the third round, but this is as long as I've played in contention, keep it going.  And hopefully good solid start tomorrow and another chance on the back nine tomorrow and then anything can happen.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT