NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 8, 2010
Irene Cho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Overall how did it go today?   
 IRENE CHO: I think it went really well, you know. I hit the ball pretty good and made some good putts and kept my head in it. It was good.  
  
  Q. You've done well both days, right?   
 IRENE CHO: Yeah. 4-under, 4-under.  
  
  Q. Yeah. That's not too shabby.   
 IRENE CHO: Not too bad.  
  
  Q. What's it gonna take to win this thing? Kerr right now is -11 and Lincicome at -10.   
 IRENE CHO: You know, I'm not going to really pay attention to that. I'm just going to try and play my own game; if that's better than everybody else, then all the best to me.   
 I'm just going to concentrate on playing well the next two days and see how it goes.   
  
  Q. Judging from the past two days, any changes in your game in the next two days or anything to adjust to?  
 IRENE CHO: You know what, I'm just going to be trying to do the same thing that I've been doing the last two days: Just being consistent with hitting greens close and hitting my shots close and just putting well. Hopefully more putts will drop.  
  
  Q. How does this course work for you? Anything stick out about this course?  
 IRENE CHO: You know, it just fits well for my game. I kind of hit like a cut, and I think a lot of these holes require a little bit of a cut.   
 I just think overall it's a great golf course. I've had pretty good success here.  
  
  Q. Wind okay? The grass okay?  
 IRENE CHO: Yeah, everything is good except the greens.  
  
  Q. What's wrong with the greens?  
 IRENE CHO: Oh, no, nothing's wrong with the greens. I just heard there was a lot of the dryness over the summer so they didn't get enough water on it.   
 But, I mean, it look okay. There's a couple bad patches, but overall it's fine.   
  
  Q. Do you watch football?  
 IRENE CHO: I was until we -- I found out that our school is on probation and we can't go to a Bowl game for two years. I'm kind of more into the pro football now, watching my boys like Reggie Bush and Mark Sanchez play. They're doing well. The Saints and the Jets. Those are my two teams.   
  
  Q. Were they in school when you were in school?  
 IRENE CHO: Yeah.   
  
  Q. You go to any barbeque, any catfish?   
 IRENE CHO: I actually went to the Catfish House last night with my boyfriend and their family. So it was fun.   
  
  Q. You're a California woman, right?  
 IRENE CHO: Yes, Southern California.  
  
  Q. Do you guys have fried catfish in southern California?  
 IRENE CHO: No.  
  
  Q. Was it okay?   
 IRENE CHO: It was awesome.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT