GINN OPEN
April 17, 2008
Allison Fouch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Allison, tied for the lead. It's got to feel good to come out here. A little bit windy today and I know the greens are rolling a little fast, but you managed to get 4-under. Can you just talk about your day? 
 ALLISON FOUCH: Well, the golf course is in great condition, and I think as for most of us, we like the faster greens. I definitely do. It accommodates my putting stroke a little bit more. 
 The wind wasn't too bad this morning, a little bit -- I had to play a club here and there, but playing in the morning usually is a good draw. It was nice to just -- I've been making birdies the last three or four events that I've been playing in, four or five birdies a round; I've just been making four or five bogeys with it. It was nice to put a round together without the bogeys and doubles in there. 

 Q. You talked about how when you take off in the morning it's a little easier. Tomorrow you'll take off in the afternoon. It's supposed to be maybe in the mid-80s. Talk about what adjustments you have to make when it does get hotter. 
 ALLISON FOUCH: Shorter shorts, sleeveless shirt, a lot more sunscreen, and you kind of anticipate playing in windy conditions tomorrow and really expect to have some tough shots and get ready to hit putts maybe over a wobbly golf ball and kind of maybe expect the worst and kind of get set for that. 

 Q. I mean, you touched on the bogeys the last few events. Has there been one common theme there?
 ALLISON FOUCH: No, there really hasn't been. It's been a three-putt here, a snipe drive there and a missed wedge. It kind of got a little frustrating. 
 I went back and worked with my mental coach a little bit, who was here this week, and we just really talked about how important it is to bounce back and to not let those bogeys turn into bogey trains. That helped today. I made a bogey and just wanted to make sure if I did anything, I made a birdie before I made my next bogey. So that was kind of -- kind of got me through today, and it proved to work. 

 Q. Right after a bogey like that, is there something that you go through mentally or say to yourself that kind of helps?
 ALLISON FOUCH: Well, for me I have a real hard time not getting upset, not getting angry, so it's the initial trying to calm myself down, not get too down on myself, not blame my caddie for something he didn't do just to emote a little bit. You know, I tried to pay attention to what I'm thinking and what I'm feeling and kind of the whole "not today" mantra. I'm not going to get down on myself today. We need to make birdie before we turn this into a train wreck. So really tried to put myself right back into the mindset of making birdie.

 Q. With all that said, how much does it help to get off to a great start in the first round?
 ALLISON FOUCH: Oh, it's so nice. It's been calling home and saying, well, I'm only 10 back of Lorena today (laughter). That's tough. We want to win tournaments, and that's why we're all here. Not to say that the best players in the world aren't here, and there's three more rounds left, but it's nice to know that you don't have to press the issue tomorrow just to stay in the hunt. 

 Q. This is your first time in an interview on this Tour. 
 ALLISON FOUCH: It is.

 Q. How do you feel about that?
 ALLISON FOUCH: Not a bad thing. It's nice to be up here. I think most of us want to talk about what we do and what we're passionate about, and it's nice to share it with people.

 Q. You talked about working with your mental coach. 
 ALLISON FOUCH: Gary Ganakas. I've got a whole crew here. They're here this week. 

 Q. The whole group here, has that helped, having your whole team?
 ALLISON FOUCH: Yeah, I was kind of thinking last night that there's a lot of people here helping, and I could definitely have let that turn into a pressure situation. But I've got people here who drove ten hours, flew down, who love me and care about me, and I'm very, very fortunate to have that. So I just really tried to enjoy the experience here at the biggest event we are playing in so far, at least this season in my LPGA career. So it was just comfortable; it's nice. 
 THE MODERATOR: Well, you did a great job in your first interview on the LPGA. 
 ALLISON FOUCH: Thanks. I hope to see you guys tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT