NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Maxwell Dean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Maxwell, talk about the emotion that went into this at the end and the final clock ticking down?   
MAXWELL DEAN: You're down by 10, you're up by 10, whatever it is, never stop.  That's what we train to do throughout the match.  But afterwards, it was like, man, this is pretty cool.  I got my brother in my corner and Mike Gray, who is like a brother, so get to share that with them and now to have the opportunity to put everything on the line tomorrow night is pretty special.   
 Q.  Your brother seemed more excited than you did at the end.  Is it tough following in his footsteps?  
MAXWELL DEAN: Used to be.  See, throughout most of my career until the end of December I carried around a lot of expectations and it was stressful and sometimes made the sport not fun.  I ended up losing a match down in Florida to a talented kid, but afterwards I knew I went out there and lost because I didn't approach it the right way.  I was sick of myself, sick of the way I had been doing things and sick of the way I was caring about winning and losing.  I was so disgusted and I thought maybe I should quit because I hate this.  I had a good talk with my dad and he looked at me and he said, well, are you a quitter?  I said, no.  And he said, you would hate that more about yourself.  He said, you're not going to quit.  You hate the way you're doing things.  Why not just change and be the person you want to be?  It made too much sense not to listen, so now every time I step out there I try to do it with no fear and it makes it fun.   
 Q.  Talk about the strategy you guys had.  Your opponent was very, very high achiever?  
MAXWELL DEAN: He's awesome.   
 Q.  And you guys had to figure out a best way to attack that challenge.  What was it that you wanted to do and what were you able to do with that game plan?  
MAXWELL DEAN: So we had a couple of trial runs this year which I'm grateful for, so I wrestled him in Las Vegas in December and it was like this guy is more technical than you and you're probably going to have to break him.  I ended up wrestling him pretty bad at the end of February.  I was like try not to attack early on, and try keep to keep it closer and see if we can get something down late.  So we went too far back the other way where I think he set up and got me off. So going into think one I think we knew right where we needed to be.  It was going to be you gotta keep him moving, keep him wrestling, put him through some stuff and also keep it a close match and you're going to have an opportunity to score late and trust in my coaches and that's what we did and game plan worked.  Grateful for that.   
 Q.  Max, you just wrestled Myles Martin six weeks ago, maybe.  What did you learn from that?  
MAXWELL DEAN: Yep.   
 Q.  And the second part of the question is, he had only given up one takedown all year and it was flukey.  So how do you watch film on a guy like that on how to attack him if no one is getting there?  
MAXWELL DEAN: No, kind of like when I just said is we had a couple of trial runs, right?  And I think I sat back in that match six weeks ago if that's when it was, I know it was recent and I don't think I put enough pressure on him early.  He's got great attacks, super athlete, very technical and we realized we need to get him moving more, more fakes, more snaps, even if I'm not scoring early on and see if we can get into a scramble position later because I think that might be one position that might be to my advantage and we got into a scramble and I was down by 1 and scored and one.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Max.  Congratulations.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT