AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2019
Derek Lowe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Derek Lowe.  Take us through your round today.   
DEREK LOWE: Started off rough and ended rough.  I hit it way into the weeds on one and was able to make a 5.  You know, I didn't really -- I missed a two-foot birdie putt on the third hole.  It was kind of a downer, but there wasn't anything, one spectacular thing that you did that you look back and say, hey that was a turn around your round, per se.  I didn't putt as good as I did yesterday, which is fine.  And really enjoyed playing with Tony.  This is the first time I've ever played with him.  Spectacular golfer, great guy, and it was a fun time.   
 Q.  He looked like he put it out there today.  He had 26 yesterday.  25 today.  So looks like --  
DEREK LOWE: That's correct.  We're a ways back.  But I look forward to tomorrow.  I think again having now been around him a little bit, we don't have to talk about where we live, what have you, the normal talking points, and I believe maybe Mardy Fish, if that works out and he's a great golfer.  So I look forward to it.  I mean you know what you're going to have to do.  You can't probably -- you'll probably have to force the issue at some point but we'll see.   
 Q.  Any ideas to get in his head or what?  
DEREK LOWE: Absolutely not.  I mean, I give the guy credit.  There's some mean hecklers out there for the poor kid.  I know you find it hard to believe.  But the only way to get in his head is you're going to have to come out making birdies.  That's the only way, so you can get somewhat close.   
 Q.  What do you think you need to shoot tomorrow to catch him?  
DEREK LOWE: It's going to have to obviously, start with a six and be in the mid-6s, I think.  I can't see him shooting anything higher than a 72.  I don't think he's shot that yet.  But I'm just happy.  It's fun that you come here and you want to be in contention and this will be back-to-back days in the last group so I look forward to it.   
 Q.  Looked like the crowds were massive today out there.  Were they louder?  Were they nicer?  What was going on?  
DEREK LOWE: They were spectacular, I don't know the exact numbers.  But rumor has it we're close to breaking another attendance record.  It's just a tremendous, tremendous event.  And it's great that it's growing every single year.  Obviously it caps off with 16, 17, 18 being the three best holes in golf.  So, yeah, just a way to go.   
 Q.  The three best holes in golf?  
DEREK LOWE: For amateurs, for amateurs, yes.   
 Q.  Well, two fives and a three, you can reach the two fives fairly easy.  Obviously getting a chance to compete on Wednesday is what almost any athlete dreams about, but will you miss playing here again on Sunday knowing it's your final round?  
DEREK LOWE: Yeah, it's such a fantastic week.  You look forward to every single day.  But, yeah, I think you just want to make the best showing and you want to look back and say, okay, Sunday was just as enjoyable as Tuesday.  So we're not going to look at it say this is our last day, which we know it is.  We'll culminate it at the Lucky Beaver with our annual dinner Sunday night.   
 Q.  Seems like once again the tournament comes down to putting; is that a serious adjustment or anything you have to look forward to on day three?  
DEREK LOWE: Yes and no.  You definitely have putts out there, you're a little more nervous than others.  There's an opportunity on 14 where I had a chance to make birdie and looked like he was going to make a double bogey and that was a nervy putt.   
But I think a lot comes down to irons, you need to hit it closer, the whole nine yards.  But we've played out here long enough, you pretty much know the greens.  It's just a matter of trusting where you're hitting it and hitting it.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you to win the 30th annual tournament?  
DEREK LOWE: It would be a tremendous honor, just to have -- I've always said on 18, the last, watching the final group come up and you watch the trophy presentation, it's going to be quite the challenge.  But at least you have an opportunity and it would be a special honor for sure.   
 Q.  Seems like the last few years you played well on Sunday.  As a matter of fact, you doubled your score from Saturday to Sunday.  You can tell them what those scores were, if you remember.  
DEREK LOWE: I think I had about a nine-pointer on Saturday.   
 Q.  Nine on Saturday, 18 Sunday.  
DEREK LOWE: I'm a closer.  I'm kidding.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  38 tomorrow.  
DEREK LOWE: Yeah, that would be quite the day.   
 Q.  It would be a record, wouldn't it?  
DEREK LOWE: Two-man scramble, we could possibly pull it out.  But I don't really think -- it's just going to be fun.  You know what I mean, playing with Tony he's one of our marquee guys here.  So he has a great following.  Patrick's also a tremendous guy.  And so it was just a fun group and we know it's a challenge.  Tony's playing extremely well but hey we'll give it a shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT