U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2016
Ben Griffin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was the reason?  Were you hitting it close?
BEN GRIFFIN: Yeah, I hit it close a few times.  Really drove the ball pretty well, was able to put myself in position to make a lot of good swings into the green and give myself some chances at birdies and capitalized on most of them, missed a few putts.  Even though I shot 66, but it was overall a really good round.
Q. What do you think about the difference between the two?  Does the North fit your game more because it's not as testing of a game?
BEN GRIFFIN: Yeah.
Q. And the greens are smaller, the complexes -- you see the difference in the complexes.
BEN GRIFFIN: Yeah, North Course you can definitely get a low score on.  You've got a lot more wedges and a lot more short irons.  South Course you see a lot more long irons, so it's definitely a better test, the South Course, so tomorrow I just need to keep driving it well and hit the mid to long irons pretty close.  I think it probably plays two shots harder, the South Course, but still, I'd say they were both the same condition.
Q. Do you get a phone call or a text from somebody and they say what did you do today, and you say, I shot 66 at the U.S. Amateur, that's still got to be a good thing?
BEN GRIFFIN: That's not a bad thing.  I don't mind it.  That's for sure.
Q. How many of these have you played in?
BEN GRIFFIN: This is my second U.S. Am, but I played the Pub Links when I was 16, so had a few USGA experiences.
Q. Do you like the way the courses are set up at USGAs?
BEN GRIFFIN: Yeah, I do for sure.  I think the greens are a little softer than at a usual USGA event, but that allows for closer shots and lower scores, so I had a lot of fun today.
Q. But you get a good score on a course that you said plays two shots harder than the other one, which may not have as much hard work to do when you play the South tomorrow?
BEN GRIFFIN: Well, I think North is two shots easier.  Yeah, if I can post anything around even or a few under is going to make up a lot of ground on the South Course, so hopefully I can just keep playing and just keep shooting after pins.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT