NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 5, 2018
JaVale McGee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How important is it to keep the ball moving and continue the play you're having?  
JAVALE MCGEE: Extremely important for us to keep our assignment aggressiveness, keep our same offensive prowess, and make sure that we defensively stay focused, especially coming into Cleveland, which is an amazing arena to play in.  So it's really not easy to get wins here.  So we need to focus.   
 Q.  For you personally, how important is it to get off early?  You hit those first two buckets right away.  
JAVALE MCGEE: Yeah, definitely.  It feels good getting those off.  It just brings a different flow to the game for me personally when you get those two quick buckets.  I don't know what it is.   
But, yeah, I felt like that's what we need.  We just need a little burst, and I feel like that's my job.   
 Q.  Like that perfect night?  
JAVALE MCGEE: Yeah, definitely, definitely.   
 Q.  Is it hard to bring that burst starting or off the bench?  Is there any difference?  
JAVALE MCGEE: Is it what?   
 Q.  Is there any difference bringing that burst of energy when you're not a starter?  
JAVALE MCGEE: The only difference is who I'm out there with, really.  I still bring the same energy.  It's just the people around me.   
 Q.  What did you do to stay ready, waiting for the time when Steve was going to come back to you and get back in the rotation?  
JAVALE MCGEE: Just a lot of conditioning, a lot of lifting, a lot of basketball.  Just make sure I'm staying focused on the task at hand, trying to keep my wind up.   
There's nothing like game conditioning.  In that first game I was a little tired just because I really didn't know that I was going to get in.  But Game 2 I was a lot better just because I knew what was coming.  I was ready.   
 Q.  Obviously you played really well last game.  Can you talk about how big of a stage this NBA Finals is?  
JAVALE MCGEE: This is a huge stage for two teams to go four times to The Finals, and to be on the end of that is amazing.  These are some of the greatest teams in the world, ever.  It's a beautiful thing to be a part of it and to be a contributor in it.   
 Q.  LeBron's shooting 50 percent from mid range in the playoffs.  Obviously you want to keep him from the rim.  But how difficult is he to defend when he's knocking down those shots too?  
JAVALE MCGEE: Yeah, definitely difficult to defend when he's knocking down those midrange shots.  We have to stay focused.  We have to   
give and take, and we have to make sure that we're paying attention to everything that he's doing and not just the little things.   
 Q.  Seems like you kind of have a new role, at least in these upcoming games.  Does your preparation change at all for these upcoming games?  
JAVALE MCGEE: No, it doesn't at all.  I've had the same preparation for two seasons now, here at least.  I've been doing the same things, eating the same thing pregame, working out the same before, so, yeah.   
 Q.  What are you listening to before Game 3?  
JAVALE MCGEE: Game 3, I'm probably going to be listening to -- G-Eazy just came out with a song with P-Lo and Nef the Pharaoh, Power.  It's pretty good.  Yeah.   
 Q.  I was just curious, you guys did such a better job rebounding against them in the second game.  What was the difference?  
JAVALE MCGEE: Boxing out.  Tristan's low down there, Kevin Love's low down there, so really focused on boxing out and making sure that we're team rebounding rather than just trying to get the -- trying to outathleticize someone, if that's even a word.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT