NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 30, 2018
JaVale McGee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How excited are you for another Finals?
JAVALE MCGEE: Oh, man, extremely excited.  It's amazing getting here back-to-back.  It's amazing for guys before getting here four times in a row.  So, I mean, it's definitely a blessing, and I'm just excited.
Q. What do you think about playing the Cavs again?
JAVALE MCGEE: Just like it was meant to be or something, in the stars or something.  It's meant to be for the Warriors-Cavs to be reunited once again.
Q. Have they told you what your role's going to be?
JAVALE MCGEE: No, not yet.  But you know me, I always stay ready, stay focused, so should be good.
Q. Does it mean anything to you to know that you're part of not only NBA history but kind of sports history, and being the fourth consecutive time with the same two teams?
JAVALE MCGEE: It's definitely, like, when I look back at older teams, oh, they did this, they went to The Finals this many times.  It's something you tell your kids, something you tell sports aficionados, I guess, the fact that I get to be a part of that and say remember that team that went four in a row, I was a part of the last two in the team.
So it's just a blessing to be a part of it.  Just taking it with stride and making sure that we finish out the right way.
Q. It's a couple weeks after The Finals when you have your JUGLIFE tournament coming up.  What can we expect there?
JAVALE MCGEE: June 23rd, most of the players are going to be there, the fan turnout was amazing last year.  Tickets started selling a lot faster this year, so it should be even more for the fans.  It should be pretty good.
Q. There are obviously tons of issues going on in the world, but why did you choose to focus on water?  Why was that important for you?
JAVALE MCGEE: First it was just for hydration, then somebody came to me with people needing water wells in Uganda, so even it just added on to it, and then I started the foundation.  It was just a blessing to be able to go to Uganda and see a third-world country and what they really need.  It just makes you appreciate things that you have.  Just simple things a lot more.
Q. What do you appreciate about being in this Finals at this moment?
JAVALE MCGEE: I appreciate being here.  I mean, it's the certain things that happen in everybody's life and they could never experience this in their whole career.  So for me to be able to experience it twice is an amazing feeling.
Q. You fought all year for home-court advantage, and now you have it.  What does that mean?
JAVALE MCGEE: Home-court advantage means a lot, especially you can see it in the Houston series.  The fact that that was one of the first times we didn't have home-court advantage and we had to go back there, it didn't start at home, that really affects you.  Having that home crowd behind you in the first two games really helps, I feel like.
Q. JaVale, you mentioned staying ready, and when you're not getting as many minutes, what's that like mentally for you?
JAVALE MCGEE: I mean, sort of -- it sort of is mentally frustrating just because you feel like you can do something out there and help the team.  But in the long run, you are helping the team because obviously they need you to do something else.  So they need somebody else to do something that you're not able to do.
So I'm just out there trying to stay in shape, I am staying in shape.  Focusing, staying locked in and keeping my conditioning up.  Although there is nothing like playing in a game condition.
Q. Are you hyping yourself up for the game?  Are you listening to any Bay Area music?
JAVALE MCGEE: Sometimes.  I listen to P-Lo, I listen to some G-Eazy.  I just vibe to a lot of music.  I have ADHD, so I like to listen to the newest stuff that comes out immediately, and then I overplay it and get sick of it, and I like something new.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT