GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2017
JaVale McGee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got an old pal back in Nick Young, I know you guys were pretty close.  Just talk about what you think he brings to the team and just reuniting with him.  
JAVALE MCGEE: I mean, it's great to have Nick, to be back together with Nick.  He's a great person, a great personality to be around.   
He's an infinite scorer.  He actually plays great defense, too.  People don't know that.  But yeah, it's great.   
 Q.  JaVale, there was a lot of videos surfacing of you working on your outside game.  Was that something -- can you walk me through why you needed at this stage of your career to move out there?  And I understand the traditional five is kind of seeping out of the NBA?  
JAVALE MCGEE: Yeah, the traditional five is definitely seeping out of the NBA.  But, I mean, I'm a basketball player so my Instagram is going to be me playing basketball, because that's the content that people on my Instagram want to see.   
I've been working on 3s and stuff.  But years ago I didn't realize like when you play basketball you have the post that you play basketball and work out online for people to believe that you play basketball and work out online.   
So I figured that out this summer, so I just started to oversaturate my Instagram.  And it worked.  People love it.  So I'm just going to keep doing that.   
 Q.  So that wasn't because you wanted to start shooting more 3s?  
JAVALE MCGEE: I definitely want to start shooting 3s but I'm not going to, hey, Steve, you think I can -- no, I'm going to do what I'm going to do first fir us to win another championship.   
 Q.  You took your time in free agency.  Could you kind of just take us through that process and why you ultimately decided to come back?  
JAVALE MCGEE: I just took my time, and then I decided to come back, basically, that's about it.  It wasn't really a crazy -- oh, no, I get to go back to Golden State, win a championship, oh no.   
 Q.  How would you characterize the way the team incorporated you and kind of brought you in last year, and did you communicate any of that experience to Nick this summer?  
JAVALE MCGEE: I mean, it was definitely -- I feel like they just embraced me.  And they just accepted me for me and they figured out exactly what they needed me to do and I tried to fulfill that role to the best of my abilities.  And I feel like I succeeded at that.   
 Q.  I know last season when you came here, especially playing at home, you could feel the love of the fans.  I know during this past summer free agency hit.  And me personally, I got more questions about whether you were coming back than anybody else.  How does that make you feel?  And do you sense the love for you in this area?  
JAVALE MCGEE: Oh, yeah, the Bay Area loves me and I love the Bay Area.  Everything about it is great.  The funny part is I was in Dallas before here, when I started growing my rat tail.  And then I got here and then people were telling me, like, that's the thing in San Francisco that people do.  So it was just like a crazy coincidence, like I was meant to be here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT