NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 10, 2008
Joe Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   DAVID KEON:  Good afternoon, everyone.  I'm David Keon of the National Hockey League's public relations department and I'd like to welcome you to today's call. 
 Our guest today is San Jose Sharks forward Joe Thornton.  Thanks to Joe for taking the time today to answer your questions, and thanks to Ryan Stenn of the Sharks' public relations department for arranging this call. 
 Earlier today Joe was named as the Third Star for last week after tallying seven points in four Sharks victories.  Winner of the Art Ross and Hart Trophies in 2006, Joe leads San Jose and is tied for third in overall NHL scoring with 81 points on 19 goals and 62 assists.  The 62 assist tie him for the league lead with Boston's Marc Savard.  With a record of 40-21-8 for 88 points, the Sharks rank second in the Pacific Division and third in the overall NHL standings. 
 On a nine-game winning streak, they visit the Nashville Predators tomorrow night, followed by home games against St. Louis Friday and Edmonton Sunday. 
 Thanks again to Joe for joining us.  We'll open it up for questions now. 

 Q.  Joe, could you describe the confidence level right now in your dressing room with a franchise-record nine-game winning streak?  Sort of I guess you guys wanting to play like this all year long, I suppose, and it's finally happening. 
 JOE THORNTON:  Yeah, well, our confidence level is as high as it possibly could be right now.  And just really everybody is just playing real good hockey.  We don't have necessarily one thing that's going incredibly well.  We're just playing every game real solid.  Good defensive hockey.  You know, we're getting production out of our second, third and fourth lines.  And, obviously, the acquisition of Brian Campbell really helped, as well. 
 You know, we're playing simple hockey, playing good defensive hockey, and things are going our way. 

 Q.  You talk about the importance of trying to win your division, Joe.  Obviously, there's three real contenders there battling for the division.  I guess whoever doesn't win it, might be a pretty tough 4-5 matchup in the Western Conference.  Does that weigh in on what you're thinking? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Yeah.  We want to get up as high as we can.  Obviously we'd like to start at home, get a home series hopefully.  But, obviously, you want to get up as high as you possibly can. 
 We know it's going to be tough.  Anaheim has been playing great.  So has Dallas.  It's just a real, real tough division we're in. 
 But, yeah, we want to get up as high as we can.  You know, at least get a home series, for sure. 

 Q.  Joe, a lot of people were puzzled about the Sharks not scoring for most of the year, but lately the offense has been there.  What turned it offensively?  Does it just kind of come and go? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Yeah, I think that's what happens.  Sometimes you're dry and sometimes you explode.  Right now Patty Marleau is putting the puck in the net.  We have Jonathan Cheechoo.  We have so many different guys that are running with hot streaks right now.  It is exciting. 
 But we really like to think of ourselves as a good defensive team.  That's what we pride ourselves on.  We feel comfortable in those 2-1 games.  We know that's how we're going to have to play in the playoffs to be successful. 
 We don't really take pride in scoring a lot of goals; we take pride in keeping the goals out of our net.  So that's how we win hockey games. 

 Q.  That was going to be my next question, to talk about your goaltending.  It starts there, obviously.  You've had a rock solid goalie all year.  How much do you feed off his play? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Oh, that's the backbone of our whole team.  He's been playing unbelievable.  He plays every game for us.  He's just a workhorse.  When he's in net, we really do feel like we have a good chance of winning that night. 

 Q.  Do you like your team?  You should like it obviously on this streak.  In its total form, do you think this is a team that really can make noise in the playoffs? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Most definitely.  I love our team.  With getting Brian Campbell, we added something that I think we all thought we needed.  Puck-moving defenseman.  He can play a lot of minutes.  Plays good defensively.  Plays the power play.  But I really do like the makeup of this team.  We've got some guys coming back from injury that are going to help us as well. 
 We can play any style, and that's what we're going to have to do in this year's playoffs.  We've got to beat a lot of good teams.  But I think we got the makeup to do that this year. 

 Q.  The three-team race for the Pacific, obviously Dallas and Anaheim both bulked up at the deadline, Anaheim a little before.  Your team as well.  You've had a little bit of trouble beating those teams, especially at home.  How much better do you feel about your chances down the stretch against those teams? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Well, yeah, it's been funny, especially with Dallas this year.  We go into Dallas and we beat them at their building, and they come in our building and beat us. 
 But, yeah, like I was saying, I love the makeup of our team.  Getting Brian Campbell, I think that was huge.  And I think he can teach our young defensemen by just -- they just watch him play and how he moves the puck and how he skates.  I think it's just contagious. 
 It is a battle in that Pacific Division.  I do like our chances.  I think we play Dallas twice more and Anaheim twice more.  Those are going to be huge games for us.  I believe we're going real good right now and it's a good time to play those good teams and see how actually good we are. 

 Q.  Do you feel, too, maybe with the addition of Brian, that you have been able to change your style just a little bit in terms of being a little bit more up the ice, not taking too much away from your defensive play, but seems with Brian you've been able to do a little bit more of what Doug Wilson wants from this team? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Yeah, he pushes the pace of the team.  He's the kind of guy that makes our offense tick.  He skates so well, he pushes the defenders back so far.  He just opens up a little bit more space for us offensive players to do what we're supposed to do.  He's making a huge difference for our offense, too. 

 Q.  Do you kind of sense something in the locker room that this year's team might be different than the previous two you were with in San Jose heading towards the playoffs? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Yeah, I feel like we're peaking at the right time.  We've been playing some good teams.  Our record, really after the second period, if we have a lead, we really do, you know, shut it down.  The other team really doesn't have a chance to come back and get that W on us. 
 I think our mindset's different.  We know what it takes to get over that hump that we couldn't get past in the past two years.  I love our toughness.  I love our speed.  I love our goaltending.  Our confidence is high at the right time of year.  We just really have to focus in on the next 13 games, the post-season.  But I really do like this team a lot and I'm really looking forward to the post-season this year. 

 Q.  What does the road record really mean?  Mentally for you guys and perhaps even the opposition, is it a mental thing heading into the playoffs that you've done so well on the road?  Do you feel it's going to play a big part in the playoffs?  How do you view it? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Yeah, obviously we have to win on the road in the playoffs, just become comfortable going on the road.  We have a great group of guys that like to hang out together.  I think that definitely adds to our record.  We enjoy hanging out, going to dinner with each other. 
 But, yeah, we know we're going to have to win on the road.  Having this record and feeling comfortable going on the road, I think that definitely is going to help us in the long run. 

 Q.  Back in 2001 you were quoted as saying, Every No. 1 has a franchise player written all over him.  He has expectations to live up to and some of those expectations are too big.  Can you now at this point in your career point to a particular coach or player that kind of set you on the right track, on the right path to the player you are today? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Well, I've had some real, real good coaches.  But I think probably Mike Keenan, as soon as he started coaching me, he turned on a switch, I guess you would say.  Really after that I decided I was going to be a good professional and try to be the best player I could be.  So probably Mike Keenan. 
 I think it was my fourth year in the league, kind of turned on that light bulb and got me going and realize my potential.  It probably would be Mike. 

 Q.  Last off-season you were pretty instrumental in getting some of the guys to sign.  What do you think are the chances of getting Brian Campbell to sign during the off-season and what role do you see yourself playing? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Well, right now he's my roommate so I'm trying to get him to sign right now (laughter). 
 No, obviously things didn't work out in Buffalo for him.  I'm not sure what his plans are, to be honest.  But obviously we'd love to have him back.  He's a great defenseman.  He's a top-end defenseman that we need.  So hopefully he comes back. 
 But we're not talking too much about it right now.  We're just kind of letting the season play out.  But he knows California is nice and warm, weather's beautiful.  Yeah, I hope he signs back here.  He loves San Jose.  He likes how laid back it is.  So hopefully he'd like to stick around and play with us for some more years. 

 Q.  Could you talk about Jonathan Cheechoo.  You have rediscovered the magic, the chemistry you had last couple years.  I guess a lot of that is him just getting healthy.  Do you feel like things are as good there as they've been? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Yeah.  He's playing awesome.  He was injured.  Yeah, he had two hernias.  He was real tight the start of the year.  He had problems moving. 
 But now he's skating with so much confidence and shooting the puck.  So I think, yeah, we have as much confidence, you know, as we did as a pair when he won the Rocket Richard.  Confidence is everything in this sport.  You know that.  He has a ton of it right now.  And we just feed off of each other.  He's playing the best hockey he's played all year right now. 

 Q.  You're obviously playing outstanding, as well.  It's funny because when I talked to you in September I think you were kind of giving yourself a hard time and saying, I'm not getting off to a slow start this year, and you didn't.  You do seem to be still putting up more second-half points this year. 
 JOE THORNTON:  I don't know why that happens, but it always seems to happen that way (laughter). 
 Yeah, like I said, I didn't want to get off to a slow start, and I didn't.  But for some reason I like to kind of pour it on the last 25 games of the year.  I'm not sure for what reason, though. 

 Q.  I guess that's when it matters. 
 JOE THORNTON:  Hopefully it will matter in the post-season.  That's when you want to win it.  That's when you want to play good, I guess. 

 Q.  Could you talk a little bit about your playoff heroes growing up and why they were an influence for you. 
 JOE THORNTON:  My playoff heroes?  I loved the Oilers growing up.  So obviously Kurri, Messier, Gretzky, Coffey, Grant Fuhr.  Those were my guys.  That was my team.  After winning so many Stanley Cups, they were the dynasty that I always followed.  Obviously a little bit later with Mario and Ron Francis, guys like that. 
 But, yeah, big Oiler fan growing up so I remember all those good years. 
 DAVID KEON:  Thanks very much, Joe. 
 JOE THORNTON:  No problem, Dave.  We'll talk to you. 
 DAVID KEON:  Take care and good luck. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT