NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 22, 2007
Joe Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOE THORNTON:  I get excited for them and my whole family comes down.  Spends a couple days for us. 

 Q.  What makes it so special for the All-Star game? 
 JOE THORNTON:  The history.  When you go to the All Star, just the tradition.  You get excited to be part of that.  And every time I come here I don't know if it's going to be an All Star.  So you (inaudible) as you can.  You look forward to seeing some of the offense, especially on the Eastern side.  Yeah, some young guns there, they sure do.  But we've got good goaltenders on our side.  It's a fun game.  Skills competition, it's a lot of fun as well.  For a fan it's great to watch.  (Inaudible) at one time.  And we'll see the talent they'll have in this league and it's a fun game for everybody. 

 Q.  It's a competitive showcase, the All-Star game.  How do you see it? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Probably a little bit of both.  Probably coming the third period it's going to be really competitive.  But I think it does showcase a lot of the young players in the game and you get a good mix of young players and other players and the middle-aged players. 
 So I think it's a little bit of everything. 

 Q.  So many first-time guys and young players. 
 JOE THORNTON:  I'm not sure.  I haven't played the game yet.  But it's going to be fun.  Obviously when you have Sidney and Ovechkin and some of the young players we have in this game, it's obviously going to be exciting to watch.  And for me it's going to be exciting to play in.  But like I was saying before, it's the first one in a long time.  So there's a lot of excitement to this. 

 Q.  What does this say about the (inaudible) the young guys? 
 JOE THORNTON:  It just looks great.  Who knows the last time we had such young players at a young age.  (Inaudible) in good shape and, you know, hopefully for the years to come we'll have a lot of young players make an impact. 


 JOE THORNTON:  Obviously you get up 3-1, want to finish teams.  It didn't happen.  You have to get excited.  You play all year long to be home.  Here we are with a Game 7.  (Inaudible) and that's where we have to focus. 

 Q.  Wouldn't you feel excited to have an opportunity to win at least Game 5 first time around? 
 JOE THORNTON:  No question, but we didn't play well enough.  There's no secret.  You can't tiptoe around it.  We didn't play enough to win the Stanley Cup.  And the last two games we didn't deserve to win.  But the great opportunity we have is we get another chance.  And that's where our excitement has to light.  We need to go out there, play our best and see what happens. 

 Q.  How do you solve this quick goal-scoring drought and the (inaudible) have you figured that out? 
 JOE THORNTON:  You want to get more action from that.  You want to create as much as you can in front of the goal.  They did a good job.  They blocked a lot of shots, they -- we missed a lot of shots too.  You have to give them credit for that. 
 But we have a lot of goal scoring in this room and you look around the room, the locker room, that's something we worry about.  We want to worry more about the process of what we need to do to get to the net. 

 Q.  Are you worried about playing scared, honest? 
 JOE THORNTON:  That's a valid point.  I think sometimes you get in a situation where you're tentative or you're not playing the game that we play.  And I think you give it (inaudible) if they played very hard the last two games and maybe we weren't where we needed to be, but, I mean, now you just have to fight.  You just have to go out there and enjoy it and say we've got one game, lay it on the line.  And you can't play any other way than that. 

 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 JOE THORNTON:  Everybody has got to pick each other up.  It's not about Rod Brind'Amour or Eric Staal, it's about each guy in this room doing their part.  It's one of the special things about this team, not one guy has to be spectacular; it's just we each need to do our thing.  We can't hold back, we've got to just let it rip and just go after it. 
 I think sometimes over the last two games we had times when we were going pretty good.  But we had a lot of times where we were on our heels a little bit.  We were watching.  Just need to go out there and go after it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT