NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Joe Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








I have no idea yet.  I haven't gone to training camp yet.  So that will be the big test, I think. 

It makes me feel good.  I am on cloud 9.  I am ready for training camp.

Not really.  There is a lot of good players still there.  So, no pressure at all.  I haven't even stepped up in the Fleet Center yet.  So, I have no pressure at all. 

Just get stronger.  I'd like to put on some more pounds, probably just get quicker. 

This is No. 1 for me

No, not ought at all.  I couldn't sleep.  I am just glad I am a Bruins.  I have dreamt -- well, I have never dreamt to be No. 1, but I have always dreamt to be in the NHL.  This is step one

Mike and Eddie are kind of doing it right now, so I have no idea on that

Very strange, yeah.  I have never done something like this before.  So it is a very strange --

Yeah, just my parents drove me all around minor hockey.  They have done a super job.  They deserve this more than I do, I think.  Yeah, I give them all the credit in the world and my brothers too

I think No. 6, maybe, that will probably be the number

I don't know.  Just something different, I guess, somebody already has 19.  So, I will probably wear No. 6

The city was great.  It was a very nice city.  The Fleet Center looked very nice.  I was real happy to go there.  The fans were great.  They already knew who I was so I signed a couple of autographs.  That was kind of weird.  The city was great and I was happy that some of the fans knew me.

Yeah, they recognized me

We and get Wayne Gretzky has always been my hero.  Ray Bourque, Eric Lindros, Mario Lemieux, yeah a lot of Stars.

Great guy.  I think he moved on, but, yeah, I can't say enough about the guy.  He has coached me for two years now and he has helped me so much with skating and shooting.  He is just a great coach

As far as I know they are going well.  That is all I know.  They are going relatively well.  Hopefully that will be done soon.  (Talking about contract)

Yeah, I don't really know.  It has been my dream to play in the NHL.  Hopefully I will be able to do that.  If not, I will just work on and work on my skills there.  I want to play in the NHL.  That is my preference, yeah

No idea yet.  Maybe a car.  That is probably the first thing.  I think I got them convinced. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT