MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: ADVANCE AUTO PARTS CLASH
February 10, 2019
Rick Hendrick
Kevin Meendering
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We are joined by the crew chief of the winning car, which is the No. 48 Ally Chevrolet. We have Kevin Meendering here.   
   
 Q. Obviously a tremendous way to start a new relationship with you and Jimmie. Pretty much talk me through these last couple days for you guys, being at the track and working on the cars and now already having a win together.   
KEVIN MEENDERING: No, it's been great. We couldn't ask for a better way to start the year. As far as the last couple days, we kind of got a warm‑up last week when we tested in Vegas, so that was big for our communication and helped us tremendously.   
I felt like the last couple days have been really smooth. Cars drove well, communication has been well. We've made‑‑ we had a great qualifying effort. Wish we could have got the pole, but nonetheless, it was a great effort by our team, and everything has been smooth.   
THE MODERATOR: We are also welcoming back Rick Hendrick, owner of Hendrick Motorsports and the 48 Ally Chevrolet.   
   
 Q. What kind of day has this been for you?   
RICK HENDRICK: It's been a pretty awesome day. You know, it's just unbelievable to have the four cars qualify like that, and then to have Jimmie win the Clash, I think in his seven times that's the first time he's finished in seven years, so that's‑‑ and it feels good. It feels good to see Kevin and Jimmie have success today, and it feels good to see William and Chad. It's been a good day for the organization. I hate we had the wreck there at the end, but it's been a really good day for our team.   
   
 Q. Did you guys hold your breath after that final lap, after Jimmie's car had gone down the double yellow lines and you were like maybe looking around for a NASCAR official going, sorry, wreck? Were you looking for some kind of ruling on that?   
RICK HENDRICK: Yeah. You know, I think‑‑ you know what, I didn't think about that to be honest with you. When the cars collide like that, it's not like you're passing somebody below the yellow. I didn't really‑‑ I just thought the car had damage, and so I didn't even think about that until you just mentioned it.   
   
 Q. Question for Kevin: For a new group of guys working together, what's this day been like for you guys? You just about got it all, just about cleaned the table.   
KEVIN MEENDERING: No, it's been great. One great thing about it is I inherited a great core group of guys with the 48 team. There's a strong foundation there, and the team really works well together, and it gels together, and it's made that transition a lot easier. They just‑‑ I think everybody at Hendrick Motorsports, not just the 48 team, has worked really hard over the off‑season, and I think some of it showed today.   
THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, congratulations on a great day, and good luck next Sunday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT