NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 13, 1998
Olaf Kolzig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What can you say, another one-goal game?

OLAF KOLZIG: Not much to say.  I think the goal earlier maybe deflated us a little bit and caught us on our heels and we didn't really generate too much offense in the first period and we had had some penalty trouble again.  But, we managed to survive and the second period we had a great period.  We had some good chances and Ozzie came up big for them in the second, kept them in there and we got one there in the third period and then, you know, Fedorov made a great play, pulled up, took a shot and deflected off against the stick and -- we weren't able to get the bounces this series like we did in the past.  Maybe it will start Tuesday for us.


Q.  But the team as prolifically offensively as this one, tough to spot them a first period like this one.

OLAF KOLZIG: Yeah, the shots -- I think the first goal shouldn't have been allowed.  I thought I had the puck long enough for the whistle to be blown, but that is the referee's discretion.  I guess he has to get it warmed up because you should have made some quick whistles as the game went on.  But, I am not going to bad mouth about the officiating.  I mean, we were still in striking distance.  We ended up tying it up and we couldn't get the goal, the go-ahead-one, and we couldn't get the tying-one-up.


Q.  Between now and Tuesday, they are going to tell you that no one has come back from a 3 nothing deficit in 56 years.  You are going to have to answer this question 100 times between now and then.  How does the team stay positive facing that statistic?

OLAF KOLZIG: First time for everything, amazingly all you can say and you can't look at four games.  You have got to look at winning one at a time and that is when the cliches come out:  Take it one shift at time, one period at time, one game at a time.  And, that is all we can ask for. We were right there.  I mean, we could easily be up 3 nothing in this series as being down 0-3 and we realize that it is going to be obviously a monumental task to come back.  Fourth game is always the hardest one to win, we have always said that on the other end of things and so now we will see how they respond.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT