ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2018
Matthias Schwab
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the day?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, I had a solid day.  The conditions today were a lot better today with no wind.  The course played nicely.  I was able to make a pretty long putt on 1 for birdie to set the tone, and then I just played solid all around.
Q. Your first competitive round around St. Andrews, how was that for you?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, exactly, it was my first round, my first competitive round on the Old Course, which was awesome.  I enjoyed every minute of it.  Tried to make the most of it and pretty happy with my score.
Could have been a few more but can't complain.
Q. How are you enjoying the concept of this tournament, your first Dunhill Links?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, I think the concept is fun, for the amateurs obviously and for us pros, it's a few format and just have to adapt and make the best of it.  The rounds are pretty long, a lot of waiting.  That's just part of the game.  I like being here and I like playing these courses.
Q. What part of the game is going well for you this week?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: I think just all around, I'm hitting it fine and putting it fine.  It's a good combo I guess.  Yeah, I've adapted to the links style of golf and I played well in the wind yesterday, so it's been good so far.
Q. Kingsbarns tomorrow.
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, it's a beautiful course.  Obviously you have to have a really good strategy where you want to hit the balls and where you want to leave them.  I think I have a solid plan for tomorrow and looking forward to it.
Q. Two sort of contrasting days, Carnoustie very tough yesterday and easier today?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, a lot easier today.  It was the same in the practise rounds.  It was really windy when I played the Old Course and almost no wind when I played Carnoustie.  So yeah, it gets really tough on any course with wind and with no wind, it's more enjoyable.
Q. Are you a Red Bull football fan?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Football, soccer?  Yes.
Q. So you enjoyed that result last night?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, both teams.
Q. Were you surprised last night with the result against Celtic?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: No, not at all.  They are a very strong quad.  Almost made it to the Champions League and doing very well in the Austrian league.  They have had a lot of success this season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT