TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 7, 2019
Matthias Schwab
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Opening round of seven under par, 65. Tell us about that from your point of view?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, I got off to a really nice start. 5-under through eight was a great start for me.
Then dropped a shot on 9 with a bad tee shot and then just mistake after mistake on that hole, but the rest was pretty okay. I got a few back on the back nine and I was hitting them okay, made a few putts. Overall, a good day.
Q. Five Top-10s in your last eight starts. What's behind the consistently good form?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: I don't know, really. I'm just trying to give it my best. Every time I tee it up, it seems to be working well the last few months, but I have no recipe.
Q. You played last week in your first-ever World Golf Championships and finished fourth. How big a boost to your confidence and your belief to go out there against the best players in the world and prove that you can match it with them?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, last week was fun, definitely. It was a little bit of a bonus for me to have gotten in the field. But yeah, then I showed up and obviously wanted to play well and not just be there for fun or whatever.
Overall, I had a really good first day last week and a really good final round. It was just fun playing against some of the best players in the world.
Q. First two rounds here, paired with Pádraig Harrington The Ryder Cup. That will not be by accident. He's asked to play with the young players and build a relationship with them. How exciting to know that you're in his thinking?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, it's obviously nice, but still, I mean, I'm not really making too much of that. It's always nice to play with a Major Champion, someone who has achieved as much as he has achieved, but other than that, I'm just trying to play as well as I can.
It was a very good round for me. I got off to a nice start, 5-under through eight and managed to keep the momentum going on the back nine. I was hitting it nicely today and made a few putts, so overall it was a good day for me.
Q. You spoke Wednesday about your performance at the WGC and bringing that forward here. How good was that for you?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, last week was just overall a fun week for me. First time really playing against the best players in the world in a really high-class field, which was nice, and then I was able to keep my game together and play some solid golf.
Yeah, I guess that boosted my confidence a little bit and it was a fun week.
Q. Let's talk about the eagle on 4. That was a great putt.
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Yeah, I hit a good drive there, and then we had to wait a little bit for the approach shot but I still managed to hit a good iron shot. It was maybe a 15, 20-footer that I made, yeah. Good hole.
Q. Playing with Pádraig, does The Ryder Cup come into your mind?
MATTHIAS SCHWAB: Obviously, yes, because he's the next captain. That's about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT