ANA INSPIRATION
March 29, 2018
Kris Tamulis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I want to know what has gotten into you, because you were balling last week and you're balling again.  
KRIS TAMULIS: I mean, I don't know if I can tell you anything more than what I said last week, which was I just feel really good over it, and I'm hitting it where I'm looking.  But the most important thing is that I feel really good over it right now.  Like my set-up's good.  Like I bogeyed 17, and the only mistake I made was I just kind of like zipped through the shot and felt like kind of in between clubs.  I just didn't make the best decision there, and I didn't make the best swing because I wasn't completely set.  I hadn't completely decided on what I wanted to do.   
But I'm giving myself a lot of great opportunities.  I hit it really good today, and I was unfortunately kind of like above the hole, and I had a lot of downhill, left to right putts that were as fast as the greens are.  They were breaking a ton.  So I made a ton of pars, and I had a lot of good looks.  But they weren't putts that you could really like go for, you know?  So you're just kind of getting them close.   
 Q.  Is this as good as you've felt in this tournament?  I think it ties your career low round.  
KRIS TAMULIS: Oh, yeah, I guess so.  I didn't make very many mistakes, so I love the golf course.  It's always nice to be here, and it's nice to be warm and stuff.  But I just feel really good.  Happy to be out.   
 Q.  Have you thought about ever like winning this tournament?  At any point in time were you like I'm going to do that?  I'm going to jump in the pond?  
KRIS TAMULIS: I think everybody does.  It's an iconic event that's been around for a really long time, and jumping in the pond would be amazing.  Especially as hot as it is, it would feel super.   
But I don't want to give you clichés, but I don't necessarily want to get ahead of myself.  But, hey, if I jumped in the pond, I could spend more time fishing the rest of the year, so that would be great.   
 Q.  True.  Little easier on the wallet.  
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT