KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2018
Kris Tamulis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's been the difference for you this week?  
KRIS TAMULIS: Well, basically this is only my second event of the year.  Last week I felt really bad over it on Thursday; then I kind of fixed it on the range after the round; then played really good on Friday, minus a triple; then I've just kind of continued that on.   
After my season last year, I took some time off and then I just looked at a lot of the video and spent a lot of time talking on the phone with my teacher and one of my best friends that helps me a lot.   
I just hit a lot of balls and just tried to sort it out.  I have felt so bad like standing over it.  I knew I was in a bad position before I would even hit the ball, and that's no way to play golf, especially out here.   
So I think I've also missed a lot of putts this week.  I hit it really good, solid; hit my driver good.   
 Q.  You've missed a lot of putts and you're still where you are.  
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah.  Not short putts, like just I've left myself some really good chances and these poa greens can be a little bit testy sometimes.  If you don't have the speed quite right they kind of take some hops.   
 Q.  So you've got the beer mug on your shoes.  
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah.   
 Q.  Beer mug ball marker.  
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you only break that out when you go to a beer city?  
KRIS TAMULIS: No.  I break it out when I'm feeling it, but beer mugs on my shoes for probably the last seven or eight years.   
 Q.  Right.  I remember seeing those.  
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah.   
 Q.  So have you enjoyed some beer here?  
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah.  We went to Ballast Point on Wednesday, two different locations.   
You know, sometimes the golf kind of gets in the way of a lot of other things that I want to do here in this area.  That's a good thing, because if the golf is getting in the way it means you're playing on the weekend.  So that's good.   
Yeah, there are a couple places that our (indiscernible) rep told us about, and I just haven't been able to make it there.   
 Q.  So you didn't feel good standing over the ball until last week?  
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah, Friday.   
 Q.  And ever since?  
KRIS TAMULIS: Well, I've worked on it all winter and felt better over it.  Thursday I think it was just kind of coupled with the wind and I was just like a little bit off in my setup.   
Oh, man, it was rough.  I sent a video, and Thursday I worked on it and I felt so much better over it Friday.  Started or with a birdie barrage and kind of took a bad shot on 16.  That kind of derailed my efforts to make a big turnaround.   
But I can't be disappointed.  I feel a lot better and feeling a lot more confident.   
 Q.  Do you like write stuff down?  
KRIS TAMULIS: Oh, yeah.  I have a notebook in my golf bag and I keep all my feelings that I have pretty much like throughout the week or throughout the -- not necessarily the day, but after like a range session or something I write it down so I can kind of recreate that, because I literally forget everything.   
If somebody tells me once they have to tell me 100 times because I forget stuff.  I need to always like write it down and read it to remember it.   
 Q.  Is that part of what you'll do now heading into tomorrow?  
KRIS TAMULIS: No.  Probably just hit a couple putts.  You know, it's been a lot of golf and it's a lot of work, so I'm not going to go beat balls or anything.   
I feel okay, so just hit some putts.  I have a lot of stuff to do.  I had my credit card number stolen this week.  I just got that today.  I got to drop off my rental car tomorrow morning.   
I have to switch out all those things that you put on one credit card, you know?   
 Q.  Yeah, yeah.  Subscriptions and all that stuff.  
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah.  Like I've literally run out of clean socks, so...   
 Q.  Haven't been able to do that because golf is getting in the way?  
KRIS TAMULIS: Well, you know, I like to do my laundry at the end of the week.  I think I'm one pair shy of socks for a week, so...   
Today is my laundry day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT