U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2016
Kris Tamulis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk about the conditions out there today and how you found the golf course?
KRIS TAMULIS: Well, it started out somewhat benign and then it started picking up probably halfway or so through the front nine.
9, I hit a bad tee shot and then compounded it with trying to be smart and just picked -- I probably picked an okay club that just zipped right through my shot and hit a very bad shot and ended up making double on that.
But it was all like wind related.  You're kind of making a lot of guesses, because it comes and goes and it moves through the canyons and stuff, so it makes it kind of difficult.
I made one more bogey, that was silly.  But I hit a lot of greens.  Really all week I've played really well.  I've been in really good positions.
Thursday I think I shot 1-under, and I don't think I could have scored any worse.  The longest putt I made was six feet.
Today, I made some good birdie putts finishing up, which made me feel a lot better.  Doubling 9 and bogeying 12 was kind of disappointing.
Q. Definitely there have been some low scores this week.  And the lead is still 7-under right now.  But it's becoming a little more Open-like, a little tougher?
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah, it is.  The fairways are pretty wide, and that makes it much more -- I guess less intimidating, because you can hit a lot of greens if you're in the fairway.  But once you're in the rough you kind of get yourself in a bit of a pickle there, depending on what kind of lie you draw.  So, yeah, it's getting somewhat intimidating when the wind blows, for sure.
Q. Lydia is on the leaderboard, seems like she's always on the leaderboard.  When you guys see her name up there going into a final round what do you think, what effect is there?
KRIS TAMULIS: Well, I mean, I'm rarely on the leaderboard, so it doesn't affect me.  I expect her to play well, you know.  She's a great player, obviously, and she has a great -- the media always says she has a great temperament for it, which she does.  So this is great for her.  She just hits it down the middle, gets up and down, makes putts.  What else do you need?
Q. How is your temperament for majors?
KRIS TAMULIS: You know, I have -- good for majors.  I usually play well, because I make a lot of pars.  So when it's a birdie-fest, then I get kind of like -- a little bit more high strung, because you press so much.
Where here, majors, this is the third -- I've made all the cuts this year.  I've actually played pretty well.  I had one bad day at Sahalee.  It's great because you can make a lot of pars and do really well.
So I just try to keep it in the fairway and make it as simple as I can.  And that's what I do every tournament.  So for me it's really good.  This week is my eighth week in a row, as you know.  So now I'm just trying to keep myself up right and just keep going.  I have one more.  I have like nine days and I'm having a frosty brew in my pool.
Q. So you're playing one more after this?
KRIS TAMULIS: I have to play Toledo.  I'm from Michigan, so I have to support all the events that are near there.  I have people that come down.  It's such a nice golf course, and it's a nice week.  They have nice housing there.  You might as well keep going.
Q. Is that your record?
KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah, I feel like maybe in '07 I played seven and I was like, holy cow, this is a lot of golf.  And I was getting a little bit tired then.  But I was much younger then, too, I mean much, much younger.  Now I'm like an old bag out here.  I definitely feel it.  Saturday last week when I was warming up, I was like, man, I am starting to definitely feel like seven weeks in a row.  And PT has been taking good care of me.  I go home and I sit on the bed and watch TV.
I don't play Mondays, and Tuesdays I do very little.  And then if I'm in a Pro Am I play Wednesday.  Next week I'm definitely not doing anything Monday or Tuesday.  I'll just show up on Wednesday.  If I'm in the Pro Am, great, if not -- I'll probably just tee up on Thursday.  I've played there, what, 12 years now, I don't think anything has changed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT