U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2007
Kris Tamulis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CRAIG SMITH: Kris Tamulis, playing in her third Open.   
  
  Q.  Given the conditions and the heat and all of that, how happy are you with your round today?   
   KRIS TAMULIS: I'm pretty happy. I am from Florida and I played golf at Florida State and it's really, really hot there. So this really isn't that much different from playing in Tallahassee.   
  
  Q.  Third Open, first cut, and just in time for what I'm hearing.  Talk about that aspect of it you've finally gotten over that hurdle.   
   KRIS TAMULIS: I think U.S. Opens kind of set up good for me because I just hit it down the fairway and then I hit it in the middle of the green and I make a putt every once in a while and try not to make too many bogeys and try not to make too many big numbers.   



 And so the first time I qualified for a U.S. Open I was still in college and the second time I still wasn't really that much out of college and didn't really have much experience.  But now I feel pretty comfortable playing on the LPGA for awhile and it's just another round for me.   
  
  Q.  That last hole, that was a what could have been.  Six, seven feet for birdie that just missed.   
   KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah. I made a lot of good putts the rest of the round, so you kind of take a few, you leave a few, so. Kind of a bummer, but that's okay.   
  
  Q.  How much are you playing for national pride and are you hoping maybe an American wins over any other countries?  Have you talked about that at all?   
   KRIS TAMULIS: We always hope Americans play well. I think that we, as a nation, we have a lot of pride in ourselves, and it's always nice to see young people win or specifically Americans.   
  
  Q.  You also talked about the previous two experiences and being a little bit young in them.  What have you learned from those two that you were able to bring into this and help you make the cut?   
   KRIS TAMULIS: I think just to be smart. I hit my driver kind of right today. If I was going to miss it, I missed it right. And I knew I'm pretty comfortable hitting out of the rough here. They have cut it down a little bit, so it's not as penal as it could have been or as it has been in the past.   



 So I knew just to get it back to the fairway and minimize a high number and get up-and-down if you have to from a hundred yards.   
  
  Q.  The putter.  There's still a lit bit of room there, 30 putts the first round, 31 the second round.   
   KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah. You know, I had a lot of putts, I was actually just counting them up. And I honestly hit a lot of greens.   



 And that's okay.  I wasn't always going for the flag.  So I wasn't really shooting to make birdie as much as I was just trying to make pars.  And if I hit it to 20 feet and I happened to make it, great.  And if not, that's okay, because I'll walk away with par all day long here.   
  
  Q.  Sounds like you're learning in that experience of you don't shoot yourself out of it the first two days, you keep your self around.   
   KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah, I think so. I'd take par for four days on this golf course and walk away very happy.   
  
  Q.  If you did that, would you be in the top-5 or would you be in first?   
   KRIS TAMULIS: Oh, I have no idea. I mean, you know, with the weather like this, if it gets hot, I have no idea. I just go out and hit it and find it and hit it and find it. So.   
  
  Q.  So you won't be watching this afternoon to see where your score ends up?   
   KRIS TAMULIS: Oh, you know, I've been at the golf course for however many millions of hours yesterday, since 5:45 this morning, so I'm not in any hurry to run home and watch golf.   



 Maybe lunch would be nice.  You know.  Whatever.   
  
  Q.  What do you do to relax?   
   KRIS TAMULIS: My favorite thing to do is shop, but this is Pinehurst and there's not that much to do. I might go to the merchandise tent or go home and take a shower, eat some cookies, I don't know.   
  
  Q.  How many holes did you have left when you got here?   
   KRIS TAMULIS: We played two today. So 20 holes is all. Which is we were very fortunate, I think. Because we could have been playing 27 easily.   
  
  Q.  Is it an advantage for you guys who got more in yesterday?   
   KRIS TAMULIS: Yeah, I think so. Sure, it is. But we're lucky too because definitely it's an advantage to not have to be here and play a million holes today.   



 But we played a lot yesterday and then we kind of had to hang around until late last night.  And I didn't get home until what was it like nine or so.  And didn't have dinner until 10.   
 So it was rough.  A rough day.   
  
  Q.  Do you allow yourself the thought of, hey, I'm in the chase, I could win this, or are you just sort of --   
   KRIS TAMULIS: I think there's a lot of holes left. 36 holes, there's a lot to go. And you don't know what's going to happen or maybe the wind will switch around or it's going to be wet out there. And it could play a lot longer and it could be really tough. So I think I'm just going to keep making pars.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT