LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 25, 2006
Kris Tamulis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAM WARNER: Kris, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  Great round out there, 66.  Talk about your day.
KRIS TAMULIS:  I started on No. 10.  I hit a really good shot on No. 10 to probably like seven feet and didn't make it.  It wasn't an easy putt, but made par.

And then made a good 2 putt on 11.  And after that, I guess most of the back nine I just hit it close.  I hit 9 iron or wedge into most of the greens and had like probably six feet on most of my birdie putts on the back.
PAM WARNER:  You played well here last year.  What is it about this course.
KRIS TAMULIS:  I don't know.  I love this course.  It's a lot of fun to play.  It's kind of quirky and kind of short.  You take advantage of the par 5s and the short par 4s and it's kind of outies for me.  Being from Michigan it's something that I'm kind of used to seeing more so than a lot of the other courses we play out West and in the South.  So I just feel comfortable here.
PAM WARNER:  Let's go over your scorecard.  Let's start on the back.
KRIS TAMULIS:  Starting on the back, No. 12, I hit wedge to about 5 feet, 4 or 5 feet and made the putt.

13, I made a good 2 putt.

14, I hit it to about a foot.  Hit wedge again to about a foot.

15, I hit it to about 10 feet and made a good putt.  I hit a 9 iron.

16, I hit wedge again.  I had about 100 yards and hit it to about four feet and made the putt.

2, I hit 7 wood just short of the green and putted up to about a foot and made the putt.

5, I hit 4 iron to probably 20 feet, just dead straight behind the hole and just missed my putt for eagle and had probably two feet maybe coming back for birdie.

7, I hit a horrid 6 iron    yeah, horrid.  I have a hard time with that par 3 to begin with.  Visually it doesn't set up well for me.  And I just killed my chip and just missed my putt for par.  It was probably maybe 18 feet.  But I hit a good putt.  I don't know, just hit a bad chip, I guess.

8, I hit it to two feet behind the hole.  I hit a wedge.  I wanted to hit it about 90 yards.

And then on No. 9, it was a really good par.  9, I hit 7 wood, tried to get to the corner, I don't know if it was too much wind, and I hit it on the right side of the fairway.  There were still tree branches in my way, so I tried to run up a 4 iron.  It took a bad hop left and I had a really bad lie in the downslope of the bunker.  But I wasn't in the bunker, I was standing outside the bunker, and hit it to another probably 18 feet and made my putt, which was the longest putt I made all day.  I didn't hit bombs all day, just hit it close.
Q.  How was your playing in general?
KRIS TAMULIS:  I've actually been hitting it pretty good.  I missed a couple of cuts coming into last week.  At Wykagyl I hit it really good.  That course is really tough and the greens are fast, and I played well there.  I finished 26 in awful conditions, a very difficult course.

I had seen my teacher the week before that, going up there, and we worked on some things and he helped me out with my putting and just some things to think about with my swing when I take it away, and that's been helping a lot.
Q.  All the scores seemed to be pretty good.  Talk about how the course is playing.
KRIS TAMULIS:  Like I said, you have such short clubs into a lot of these Par 4s, and the par 5s especially, that you kind of have to take advantage of it.  If you don't birdie the par 5s you feel you're giving shots away, and even some of the par 4s as well.  I feel like going out here you have to shoot under par otherwise you're just going to get passed.  I was happy that I did what I wanted to do.
Q.  Are you looking forward to tomorrow?
KRIS TAMULIS:  I'm looking forward to another day    I mean, just kind of doing the same thing that I have been doing the past couple of weeks, hitting good tee shots and keeping it in the fairway, just making sure I'm comfortable over my shots.
Q.  You played well last year.  I think it was your best finish.  Does that give you more confidence knowing that coming into this week?
KRIS TAMULIS:  Sure.  You like to come back to a course you know you've played well on before.  But also in some sense, you keep it in the back of your head, it's a lot of pressure.  Everyone keeps on coming up to you and saying, You played really good at Corning last year.  That was your best finish, blah blah blah.  And you're like, Don't jinx me.

I like Corning.  It's a great course.  And the people are really nice here and really supportive.  I got my oil changed the other day and the guy was like, "Have you been here before, Kris?"

And I'm like, "Yes, I played here this year."  And they're like, "That's nice.  I haven't heard your name before."  I was like, "Yeah, that's because I ran out of gas last year on my way to the golf course and took my car to the Toyota dealership and not to you guys."  And that's kind of funny.  But people are great and it's a nice place to come.
Q.  I see you didn't play in five of the last six events this year.  Is that because you're not exempt?
KRIS TAMULIS:  Yes, I flew to Hawaii Actually originally thinking that I would get in, but because there were two events there and the AND, the Australian was the week before, it just made a good fit, so a lot of people played.  I tried to Monday qualify and missed the first, Turtle Bay, by like a shot and the second one by a lot of shots, several, four or five.

I went to Mexico after that and played pretty good there, except for the last few holes and three putted coming in.

And then I didn't go to Phoenix because I knew I wouldn't get in.

What was after that?  Dinah Shore, I knew I wouldn't get into Dinah Shore because I'm not high enough on the Money List.

After that was Atlanta.  I missed the cut by one.  That was a real bummer.  Again I tried to Monday qualify.  I missed it by one or two.

And then Nashville, I missed the cut by one, I think, maybe one or two.

And then tried to Monday qualify at Kingsmill, knew I wouldn't get in there anyways, missed it by one or two.

What's after that?  Then I guess we had last week, Sybase.  Yea, just because I'm not exempt, not because I didn't want to play.  I love to play.
Q.  Do you feel good about tomorrow considering all the expectations everybody put on you?
KRIS TAMULIS:  Yes, I think so.  I just go out and play.  I don't get that nervous about something.  I have a really good caddie, and we talk about everything under the sun.  And I'm very conscious of just slowing down and stuff.  And I had a great group of girls to play with, very quick players, and we just kind of held up and went around, and it's not something I really think about.
Q.  Was there one hole that stands out today?
KRIS TAMULIS:   Probably making the putt on the last hole, just because I felt I hit two very good shots.  I hit my tee shot really well, and whether there was more breeze up there that I couldn't see or couldn't feel and it didn't get past the trees or what, I thought I hit a great shot.

And then my second shot, I hit it right where I wanted to.  I kept it below the branches.  And I only had like 10 feet to work with and I got a bad kick and an awful lie in the bunker, or on the face of the bunker.  It was awful.  I was like this.  I thought, I don't want that shot again.  And then making the putt, that was probably the best part, just because to hit two really good shots, what you feel are two really good shots and walk away with bogey would have been disappointing.  And that was the longest putt I made.  It was a good putt, a little speedy, but it was a good putt.
PAM WARNER:  Thank you, Kris.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT