WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2004
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA VON LOUDA:   Okay, we'll get started, 69 69, 6 under 138 total so far, a couple behind Karen Stupples, but very consistent play.  Must feel good to be back.
BETH DANIEL:   Yeah, obviously I'm very pleased.  I've played pretty steady for two days, so happy with that.

MODERATOR:   Let's go through your scorecard.
BETH DANIEL:   Let's see, I made birdie at the third hole.  Sand wedge to about ten feet; made that.

Fourth hole, par 3, I hit 6 iron to about 12 feet; made that, 12 feet right below the hole.

Then bogeyed the fifth hole and that was the 3 putt from about 30 feet.  Left the first putt short and I left it probably about five feet short and missed it.

Then 9, I hit L wedge in there and made that for birdie from about 20 feet.

The back nine I hit just one birdie on the 16th hole, and I hit 4 iron in to about six feet and made that for birdie.
Q.  There are not many scores under 70 today, do you know of any reasons for that?
BETH DANIEL:   I don't know, I don't really have an explanation for that.  That actually surprises me to hear that.  You know, when I got to the golf course today  and was warming up for my round, it seemed like there were quite a few low scores, but maybe they put them all on the leaderboard this morning, I don't know.

I actually thought yesterday was tougher conditions with the wind and everything.  So that surprises me.
Q.  What is it the continues to drive you to compete?
BETH DANIEL:   I have no idea.  I don't know.  Maybe it's because everyone else thinks they should quit.  (Laughter.)

I don't know.  I look at my stats at the end of every year and make a determination as to whether I will continue playing or not.  And my stats have been very competitive on the LPGA TOUR, and there's really no reason for me to stop playing at this point.  I still enjoy the game.  I still am driven by the game.  Maybe in different ways than I was when I was younger, but I just continue on.
Q.  Can you elaborate on what those differences are?
BETH DANIEL:   Well, I think I was more     I was more driven, more or less competitively when I was younger.  And now even though I'm competitive still, I'm more driven by learning the game now.  I mean, I love to hit balls and I love to go out on the golf course and try to hit golf shots and things like that.  I did that when I was younger but it's just     I have more fun with that now.  I wish I was more the way I am now when I first came out on TOUR.  I think I would have developed probably into a better player.  I guess that's the way it is.
Q.  Last week Karen Stupples was leading halfway  through but finished fourth;  do you have any advice for her playing on the weekend?
BETH DANIEL:   No, I don't really think she needs any.  As a matter of fact, I was paired with Karen at the U.S. Open this year and she was excited about coming over here to play.  So I don't think she needs any advice.  Karen is a very good player.  Obviously she's playing very, very well this year.  She won in Tucson earlier in the year.  She's playing really well this week.  9 under through two rounds here is outstanding.
Q.  At the end of the year when you look at your stats, what stat would you see that would make you want to give up the game?
BETH DANIEL:   It would have to be a combination.  It wouldn't be just one stat because I would feel like one stat I could possibly improve on.  So it would have to be a combination, like say I lost 20 yards in distance and was hitting 50 percent of my greens, as opposed to 65 percent, and you know, if my stats went way down like that.

But also a lot of it has to do with, obviously, how I feel, how my body feels, and my desire to play.  So there are a few factors that are involved in it.  You know, so far, I just kind of     I love my schedule.  I'm away from home about 20 to 22 weeks out of the year and I can certainly handle that.  16 weeks would probably be ideal.  That's fine with me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT