BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 11, 2004
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Beth, thanks for joining us again.  You said yesterday it was pretty much Meg's tournament to lose.  She didn't stumble at all, no bogeys, 2 under par, you guys both shot 70s.  Just your comments on the day and we'll go from there.
BETH DANIEL:   I think the first five holes told the whole story, because neither one of us started out real well.  And Meg, she got it up and down a couple times from incredible places that you shouldn't get an up and down from.  That's what it takes to win golf tournaments.

You know, unfortunately, I couldn't get anything going in the beginning of the round and that's what I needed to do.  You know, I feel like my job for the rest of the field was to put some pressure on Meg and I was not able to do that.

There were a couple of times where, you know, I just turned around     starting from the second hole, I hit a bunker shot out to three feet.  Meg did not hit the best chip there, but she made probably an 8 footer for par.

Next hole, she made probably a 12 footer for par, which was not an easy putt.  It was a big, breaking putt, you know, and then I bogeyed the fourth hole.  I drove it    I still don't know how the ball got to the high stuff, but it did.  I had no shot.  But I made bogey there just to fall even farther behind and just couldn't get anything going.

I made back to back birdies on 6 and 7 and thought, okay, I've got it going.  And then 10, I hit it in there eight feet and Meg hits it over the green, which is where you're not supposed to hit it on that hole; and she gets that up and down and I miss an 8 footer.  So we both made 4 on that hole.  It's just little things like that that are the difference between winning a golf tournament and not winning a golf tournament.

When you're on a roll like Meg is, those things go in your favor.  And certainly, she had a lot of     she putted extremely well, I mean, really, really well.  And she hits     she did what she needed to do.

You know, I think it's hard to go out there with a big lead, I really do. I think that sometimes you try to protect when you have too big of a lead, and I kind of think that's almost what she was doing.  But she did exactly what she had to do and it was never a contest.
Q.  Can you talk about    winning the U.S. Open last week and coming back to win this week?
BETH DANIEL:   I think that's experience.  She rested.  She didn't play a practice round.  She was fortunate enough to have a late tee time in the Pro Am, so she was able to get some sleep that night.

So, she conserved her energy, and that's experience.  It's 100% experience.  You know, when you guys are talking about the experience versus non experience, there you go.  An experienced player can do that, and an inexperienced player is not going to do that because they are going to burn so much energy celebrating the fact that they won.  You know, she didn't do that, obviously.  She was committed to playing this tournament, and she did what it took to go out there and continue her good play and win it.
Q.  Her smile, even though she was struggling on some shots did seem to escape her all day, what was her mood like out there?
BETH DANIEL:   She was fine.  You know what we really didn't talk that much because both of us were kind of grinding, so there wasn't a lot of conversation.  But it's hard in twosomes to talk anyway; you're moving along so much faster and you have to get things going.

But, I mean, you know, she was fine.  She's how she always is when she plays.
Q.  The poison didn't work last night or the alcohol?
BETH DANIEL:   She didn't drink enough, no.  (Laughter.)
Q.  For you, though, it must be satisfying, you win last year, you finish runner up and a lot of people that we spoke to today said they felt rejuvenated by playing here.
BETH DANIEL:   Now, say that again?  I'm sorry.
Q.  Players were saying that the four rounds were rejuvenating here, fun.  Was that the case for you, do you come out with some sense of happiness despite the fact you didn't win?
BETH DANIEL:   Oh, yeah, I definitely will be able to pull some positives out of this golf tournament.  It's by far the best I've played this year.  You know, I'm the first to admit that I have not had the best year.  It's been a very disappointing year, as a matter of fact.

You know, for me to actually come off of Sunday at the Open, it was very, very disappointing round of golf for me.  And to be able to turn it around and come back here and play well is very, very rewarding for me.
Q.  Meg is the unofficial North American Champion, U.S. Open and Canadian  Open.
BETH DANIEL:   Yeah, she's got the double thing, yeah.  That's pretty awesome, yeah.  Pretty awesome, especially when the tournaments are back to back.  That makes it even more awesome.  That's great.  More power to her.  She played really, really well.  It was impressive some of the things that she did out there today.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Let's go through your scorecard.
BETH DANIEL:   Bogey on No. 4.  I drove it right into the long stuff and had to chip out, knocked it on about 20 feet and missed the putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  What did you use to hit it on the green; do you remember?
BETH DANIEL:   Sand wedge.

6th hole, par 5, I was just short of the green in two.  I pitched about six feet and made that for birdie.

7, I hit 9 iron to three feet and made that for birdie.

16, I hit 9 iron to six feet and made that for birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you, Beth.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT