THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 13, 2003
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LAURA NEAL:   Beth, thanks for coming in.  I know you've been done a while.  You had another great match up with Juli this afternoon and we'll kind of take some questions where things stand with the team.

BETH DANIEL:  Okay.  Juli and I had another  -- we had a good match.  Once again just like yesterday we kind of ham and egged it really well.  It was funny for two matches, it didn't seem like either one of us were in the same hole twice except for just a few times per round.  The other one always bailed the other one out when they needed to.  That's part of playing match play and part of playing team play.


Q.  What did do you this morning?  Just pretty much a cheerleader?

BETH DANIEL:  I did go out for a little while.  Actually I told Laura I went out in the captain's cart.  I guess I was practicing for perhaps being a future captain, I was practicing driving around in the cart, which was kind of fun.  But no, I just went out  -- Juli and Rosie and myself went out just to let our players that were out there this morning just know that we were supporting them.  But basically I got nine and a half hours of sleep last night, so I'm really happy about that.  I slept in a little bit this morning and then just came out a little bit early before I had to prepare for my match just to go see the other players on our team.


Q.  Did you have any idea you were playing with her even this morning?

BETH DANIEL:  I knew last night that we were going to play this afternoon.  I can tell you that now.  I couldn't tell you that last night.


Q.  What about tomorrow?  You often do very well the last day, the Americans.

BETH DANIEL:  Yeah.  It seems like every year we put ourselves in this situation where we have to play the singles well.  Tomorrow is no exception.  The thing is we know what we need to do.  As a team we're going to have to collectively go out there and try and do that.


Q.  Is it the kind of American mentality that you like the pressure or you enjoy the pressure?

BETH DANIEL:  No.  I think all of us would have preferred to have a huge lead going into tomorrow, but it's not that way.  It does seem like every Solheim Cup we give up a tremendous amount of points in the foursomes.  I don't understand it, but it happens every time.


Q.  Do you have an explanation why you managed to turn it around so often at Solheim?

BETH DANIEL:  In the singles? 


Q.  Yes.

BETH DANIEL:  No, not really.  I don't really have an explanation for it, but it's happened.  We've managed to rally.  We did it in Wales.  We did it last year.  Hopefully we'll do it again this year.


Q.  You guys have to start at 7:30 in the morning because there's a men's European Tour event that's going to be shown on TV.  So they want the Solheim Cup finished before that.  What's your view on women's golf on television?

BETH DANIEL:  Let's just say we're used to it.  It happens to us all the time.  Obviously for us this week who are playing in it, this is the biggest thing that's going on in golf, but it just puts it in perspective with the rest of the world, I guess.


Q.  Do you really think that the public would sooner see a run of the mill men's tournament ahead of this?

BETH DANIEL:  The people scheduling the TV are doing that.  Personally I would think this would be more exciting.  But I'm also a part of it, so I'm a little skewed in my opinion of that.  It's disappointing.  It's like last year on Saturday we got cut off before we finished in the United States.  They didn't telecast the finish of the matches on Saturday.  It happens to us.  Golf is not the number one rated sport in the world.  And women's golf is not the number one rated sport in the world, and that's just the way of the world.  You deal with it.  It's gotten better.  It's gotten a lot better.  We're much more popular than we ever have been.  Golf in general has increased in popularity.  I think we just have to accept baby steps right now and keep climbing the ladder.


Q.  I'm not necessarily asking you to tell me, but do you know what spot you're playing in tomorrow?

BETH DANIEL:  I have no idea.


Q.  Do you have any preference?

BETH DANIEL:  No, not really.  But I have no idea.  I haven't talked to Patty about that.  I really don't have a feel for that at all.


Q.  I don't know if you were at the 18th, I didn't see Patty at the 18th.  Was she around on the 18th?

BETH DANIEL:  Oh, yeah.  Patty was there.  She was there and Jane was there.  I actually hitched a ride to Jane Geddes cart on 18.  Patty was driving right beside us.  So she was there the whole time.


Q.  What's her input today, at the last stages of each match?

BETH DANIEL:  I have not had a chance to talk to Patty.  As a matter of fact, I've been hitting balls.  So as soon as the last match was over, I went out to the range and hit some golf balls.  So I have not seen Patty.


Q.  Thanks for coming in. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT