SYBASE BIG APPLE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY LINCOLN MERCURY
July 18, 2003
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  All right, Beth, thanks for joining us.  Welcome to the interview area.  You're 2 back off the lead.  Can you tell us about your round today, and we'll take some questions.
BETH DANIEL: Pretty solid round of golf.  I actually hit the ball better today than I did yesterday.  I started out putting well.  In the Back  9, I didn't make anything.  That was kind of a difference.  I felt like if I had taken advantage of how I hit it on the Back  9, I could have shot a lot under, but just couldn't do it.  I hit some big putts out there but didn't go in the hole. 
MODERATOR:  Questions? 
Q.  Beth, obviously it was a long time between wins.  How much momentum do you have going into this with another chance for a win?
BETH DANIEL: I've played well this whole year, with the exception of two tournaments where my swing kind of got off.  I played well this whole year, and I don't know if last week gives me a momentum or kind of from the whole year.  So, I feel pretty good about my game.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BETH DANIEL: Well, number 4, I was in between clubs and I tried to hit the lesser club and it came 20 yards down the hill in the fairway.  You know, unfortunately with that pitch shot, you really can't leave it short, because you stand the chance it may come back at you.  I got it 6 feet above the hole and had to hit a really defensive putt from there. 
On 7, I actually hit a good 4-iron in there 10 high, but it nestled up against the high ruff.  I had to try to belly it out of there, and I hit a really good shot to 3 and a half feet and hit a good putt.  It didn't break.  It should break to the right there and it just didn't break at all.  That's one of those instances where there is not a whole lot you can do.  I played  -- hit as good a putt as I can hit.  It just didn't go in the hole for me.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BETH DANIEL:  I mean, I felt like I teed the green.  I played pretty well on the Front 9, which was my Back 9.  I'm not disappointed in how I'm playing at all.  If I had scrambled around on the Back  9, then I would feel a little differently about it.  I'm actually a lot more pleased with how I hit it today.  I felt more rested.  Yesterday, I was really tired on the Back  9.  I hit a wall kind of.  It's been a busy week for me.  We had a Board meeting Wednesday morning, and I came out and played in the Pro-Am.  I have been doing way too much this week.  It's a matter of getting through it and going home next week.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BETH DANIEL: Yeah, I work harder now on my fitness than I ever did.

Q.  In what way?
BETH DANIEL: Well, I do a lot of cardio and I do weights and I do a lot of stretching.

Q.  You mentioned you had the tough week.  In light of all that, do you like the position you're in?
BETH DANIEL: I'm very pleased.

Q.  Your first two days you hear about getting in position, and so you've done that, and is that what a person tries to do, and then it's moving-up day is Saturday and then it goes like that?
BETH DANIEL: That's how people would like to think it goes.  It kind of does.  Basically you play the best you can on every shot.  Either you're in position or you're not.  I'm pretty pleased.  I feel pretty confident going into the weekend.  So, that's pretty much all I can ask of myself. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BETH DANIEL: I don't know if it's harder to win.  I guess it is, because there are more players that are capable of winning.  Yeah, I guess you could say it's harder to win.
MODERATOR:  Let's go over your score card.
(Score card done.)
MODERATOR:  Any other questions for Beth? 
Q.  How comfortable are you  -- do you feel with the layout, and do you feel that gives you a little bit of an edge over some of the players?
BETH DANIEL: Well, I have played here almost every year the tournament's been here.  I feel like I know the golf course pretty well, and I'm pretty comfortable with it.  So, I feel good, but the thing about this golf course is you have to hit the ball well.  You start spraying it off the tee, you're going to make bogey really fast.  If I can continue to drive the ball as well as I have driven it and put myself in position, I should be right in there.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BETH DANIEL:  Yes, it is.

Q.  In what way?
BETH DANIEL: Just the greens are better.  Just the overall condition I think is better than last year.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BETH DANIEL: Somebody told me in the Pro-Am they lost the greens after the tournament.  They weren't in very good shape for the tournament last year.  Normally this golf course is in excellent condition for us.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BETH DANIEL: Well, I mean, I don't know.  I'll just say the course is in pretty good shape.  I don't really specifically remember how they were last year, but I know they got a few problems out there  -- they've got about three greens that are different speeds than the other 15, and those create a problem, but ever since they've redone the course, they had a problem with those three greens.  But I think the overall condition is pretty nice. 
MODERATOR:  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT