BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 12, 2003
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Great playing out there today. 
 

BETH DANIEL:  Thank you. 


Q.  Talk about the round.


BETH DANIEL:  Well, what do you want to know? 


Q. Can you talk about how the rain affected your play today?


BETH DANIEL:  It got me wet.  My shirt's wet, my collar is wet, my hands are wet.  It was okay.  It wasn't that bad of a delay.  It's just it changed the golf course quite a bit once we got back out there.  Some of those pins that were tucked where they were, you could actually throw the ball right at the pin.  And in some sense, even though the golf course played a little longer off the tee, it was, the pins were more susceptible for us after the rain. 


Q.  You went head to head earlier this year and Juli snuck away from the victory?


BETH DANIEL:   I don't think she snuck away.  She shot about 62. 


Q.  Do you want revenge this time around?


BETH DANIEL:  I don't know.  I won't even think about something like that.  But we played in Corning, we were paired together in the final round and I think she shot 62.  Yeah.  So    and putted unbelievably well.  I've never seen anyone putt as well as she putted that day. 


Q.  Does it make anything special tomorrow    like the other day you said you don't pay a lot of attention to the score board or maybe even who you're playing with.  But does it make a little more special on the Sunday, last day, going up against a long time friend, a long time rival? 


BETH DANIEL:  No, it's, tomorrow's just going to be, go out there and try and win the golf tournament for all of us.  And I really, I didn't really look at the leaderboard today either.  I really don't know what anyone shot.  I just looked at the board and I saw that Juli and I were the same score.  So other than that, I don't know what anyone else is in this golf tournament.  I guess when I get the parings tonight I'll take a look at it and see.  And basically I'll do the same thing tomorrow.  I'll just glance at the leaderboard, see what's leading the golf tournament.  But I have to play my own game and I can't get into what Juli's doing or what anyone else is doing. 


Q.  How much experience between the two of you and you're at the top of the leaderboard, does that maybe explain the conditions out there today, the delay, the mental thing that the two of you?


BETH DANIEL:  Exactly.  You should have heard us.  With the cloud cover I couldn't even see the numbers in the yardage book.  Any kind of cloudy day is hard for me, because my eyes just aren't what they used to be.  So I have a really tough time in cloudy conditions now.  And this afternoon was really tough for me.  Just reading breaks and seeing the numbers in the yardage book, I couldn't see them.  I guess maybe tomorrow I'll take my glasses out there.



(Laughter.)



I think we have been through it a lot and I also have a veteran caddy, Juli has a veteran caddy.  I think that helps tremendously. 


Q.  After the year    first of all, you haven't won since 1995.  Does that put a little more impetus on you for tomorrow? 


BETH DANIEL:  No, if I start thinking about things like that I'm just going to put added pressure on myself.  I just need to go out and try to play my game and whatever happens is going to happen.  If I start thinking about I haven't won since this time and that, the bottom line is that I played very well the last couple of years in particular and I have put myself in position to win many times.  I haven't done it, but I've been in this position before.  So it's not something that is going to scares me. 


Q.  On the other hand, Sunday, last day, playing a friend that's kind of what it's all about? 


BETH DANIEL:  Well, it's pretty nice.  But like you pointed out, in Corning she kicked all of us.  So we'll see what happens tomorrow.  Juli's a very tough competitor.  She's one of the toughest competitors out here.  And she does not like to lose.  And she's one of those people that can kind of make her game rise to the occasion.  Whether she has her game or not.  So we'll see what happens. 


Q.  If it keeps raining like this and stays soft tomorrow, do you think that people will be firing at pins.  That it might take a low number tomorrow?


BETH DANIEL:  Yeah, I would think that it might bring a low number into the picture if we get a lot of rain.  I think already    if it rains tonight or even if we had no more rain tonight and the greens were the way they were and the conditions were good tomorrow, I think that a low number is definitely in the picture for someone. 


Q. If it keeps raining like this, will you be able to fire at the pins even more?


BETH DANIEL:  Yeah.  But someone said it doesn't rain this hard in Vancouver. 


Q.  Tell me your scorecard real fast.  What you hit in on the par 3s?


BETH DANIEL:  No. 2, I hit 5 iron.


Q.  How far, do you know? 


BETH DANIEL:  To, it was about 30 feet from the fringe. 

Then No. 11 I think I hit another 5 iron to five feet. 

And 15 I hit 5 iron to three feet. 


Q.  On two did you putt that from the fringe? 


BETH DANIEL:  Yes, I did.  So all three were 5 irons.  I told Ralph out there I need more 5 irons.  So I might be laying up tomorrow to hit 5 irons into the greens. 


Q.  Thank you, Beth.


BETH DANIEL:  Okay.  Thanks. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT