LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2003
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Talk about what got going for you there on your Back  9.
BETH DANIEL:  I hit the ball well all day today, but on the Back  9, which was the front, I got the ball into the hole a lot more often, so I was able to make some runs at some of the putts.  The Back  9, which was my front, I seemed to be  above the hole a lot.  The only birdie I made on that side was like a 3-footer on 16.  I hit 17 greens today.  The stats will show 16, but I was off the green that much and putt it.  It was good solid golf the last 27 holes I played.  I've hit the ball well and hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of greens, and that's what you've got to do out here.

Q.  You made a big putt on nine didn't you?
BETH DANIEL: On nine, I made a 45-footer.  It was this much airborne at one point in time.  It hit one of those winter kill spots on the greens and got airborne.  We had a little laugh about that one, but that was definitely a good break, but I'll take it.

Q.  How is the course playing today?
BETH DANIEL: It's playing, you know, fairly similar to yesterday.  We have a little bit different wind, so, like, number 5 is downwind.  Yesterday, it was a little more crosswind, but it's cornering a little more differently, but it's playing pretty similar to how it did yesterday.

Q.  Is everything clicking for you this week?
BETH DANIEL: I wouldn't say that.  I had a good day today, yesterday.  I mean, 3 under is probably -- considering how I hit it on the Front 9, 3 under is probably the best I could have shot yesterday.  Maybe one better.  The key for me this week that's been different from the last couple is I've putted a lot better the first two days here.

Q.  You feel real comfortable with the long putter?
BETH DANIEL: I've used it for three years now, so I should be getting comfortable with it by now.

Q.  Are you surprised the scores are so low out there on the back-nine since it's supposed to be harder than the front?
BETH DANIEL: No, not necessarily, I think on this golf course if you kind of get on a roll and get making some birdies and keep the ball below the hole, you can make some.  That's really the key to this golf course.  If you're above the hole, then, you know, it's very, very tough to keep the ball on line as softly as you have to hit it.  You have to play that much more break.  Below the hole, you can be pretty aggressive with it.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT