CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2003
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you talk about your round today?
BETH DANIEL: Obviously I'm very pleased with my round today.  The conditions were actually pretty tough.  They weren't able to cut the fairways and there was a lot of dew out there this morning.  Early this morning, we were catching some fliers and hitting some squirrely shots out of the long grass, but we've got to get the tournament in.

Q. What was working for you out there in the second round?  What was clicking?
BETH DANIEL: This morning I didn't start out well, but my short game saved me and kept me at even par.  So, I thought I could get something going.  I've been putting really well, and I hit enough shots close this afternoon.

Q. Can you tell everyone when you switched to the long putter?
BETH DANIEL: Actually, it was at this tournament in 2000 that I switched to it.  I switched to it then and have had it ever since.

Q. Are you feeling confident with it now?
BETH DANIEL: It's like anything else when you switch to something new.  It takes a while, but then you start to feel good with it.

Q. Is it easier on your back too?
BETH DANIEL: It is easier on my back.  These days, my back doesn't feel that great, so I'm looking for help as much as I can.

Q. The course was not playing as long today as yesterday, was it?
BETH DANIEL: I played 15, 16 and 17 and I hit 3-irons into all of them, well that was in the first round.  The tee was up on one of them, so I hit a shorter iron.  It was playing pretty long and was wet, and it was tough because the fairways were tough.  You get a lot of grass you are dealing with and moisture, so you get some squirrely shots every now and then.

Q. So, the conditions will benefit the longer players?
BETH DANIEL: The length of the golf course in general is more.  I felt like the short hitter in my group today because I'm playing with Laura Davies and Betsy King.  I was the shortest hitter.  Karrie hits it long too.  I didn't feel like the long hitter in my group.  I was feeling like the short hitter out there.  I get a lot of carry on the ball though, which is always helpful when you're in rainy conditions.

Q. It must be tough to play for a half day and have to come back for make-ups.
BETH DANIEL: It's tough.  The part one swing gets it too, and the afternoon wave, we waited around all day yesterday and then played until dark.  A lot of people finished 18, and we have a pretty good chance of finishing 18 today.  When you get this kind of weather situation, one wave of pairings catches the brunt of it.  I'm sure no one's feeling sorry for Karrie right now because she's 10-under.  I'm sure this is the only way to get the tournament in though.  Yesterday at noon, we didn't think we'd get it in, but with the way the weather turned out, we will.

Q. You had to have guessed Karrie would start playing like this sooner or later, right?
BETH DANIEL: Yes and no.  I think Karrie can turn it around any second.  I know her well enough that I know she's capable of playing well enough anytime she wants to.  Once she gets her adrenaline going a little bit, it's a whole different story for her.

Q. In looking at your scorecard, you didn't make any mistakes out there in the second round.
BETH DANIEL: No bogeys, that's a good thing.  I hit a lot of shots close.  That's the thing about my game right now, either I hit it really close, or miss a lot of greens.  I've got to get that worked out.

Q. What do you think about Michelle Wie?
BETH DANIEL: She's had a lot of opportunities to play against some very good competition.  I think it's going to be very good for her game in the long run.  Certainly younger players have more opportunities than I did when I was 13.  We didn't have sponsor exemptions and no tournament would ever think about inviting a 13-year-old.  It's good experience for her and will be good in the long run.

Q. What do you think about Annika playing on the men's tour?
BETH DANIEL: I hope she plays well.  I'll be pulling for her.  She's doing sort of the same thing Michelle Wie is dong, testing her game on a different level.  They're both doing the same thing.  They're both trying to do the same thing and expand on what they have done, and Annika said that the only reason she's planning to go there is to test herself against the PGA.

Q. How do you think she'll do?
BETH DANIEL: I think she'll make the cut.  I fully expect her to make the cut and play really well.  I know one thing, she will be one of best-prepared players in that field.  She will be ready to go.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT