MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 9, 2002
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BETH DANIEL:  Hi.  What a lousy day.  I think, first of all, I will just say that Se  Ri played extremely well.  She did everything she needed to do to win this golf tournament, and she won it.  She hit fairways, she hit greens, she made putts, and I did none of it. 
The funny thing is I actually hit the ball more solidly today than the rest of the week.  I mean, Thursday I hit the ball as solidly as I hit it today, but I just got screwed.  I mean, every time I hit a shot I thought was good, and it was bad.  And I was above the hole all day and, you know, you can't putt from there.  And a couple times I think the ghost of Babe  Zaharias stepped on my ball, so I am going to blame her.

Q.  You said earlier in the week, Beth, that there is a really fine line between playing well and not playing so well.  Is that the case today, do you think?
BETH DANIEL:  I think that was the case with me.  I mean, I didn't putt well, but I didn't putt well because I was having to putt so defensively all day.  But, I mean, I hit some really good  -- well, for instance, number 12, I mean, I hit a good 3-wood there, the ball kind of  -- it goes through  -- I mean, it's an inch in the rough, and it's just buried.  So that's where I think the ghost of Babe stepped on my ball. 
And then 13, I hit as good a 4-iron as I can hit into that green.  That green slopes right to left, ball kicks right and goes in a lie that  -- you know, above the hole downhill, and a lie that you really can't spin it.  So the ball goes all the way down to the bottom. 
So, I mean, you know, I hung in there as well as I could.  I tried every shot.

Q.  Beth, is this one of the more emotional tournaments of your career?
BETH DANIEL:  It's because I am 45 and I am in menopause.  I don't know.  I think I am tired.

Q.  Beth, you made deuce on the fifth hole the first three rounds, and tell us what happened today.
BETH DANIEL:  Oh, that's a nice question.  Can I leave now?  I made 5 there.

Q.  I know.
BETH DANIEL:  Yeah.  You want to know every gory detail?  I hit it in the bunker, I hit a good bunker shot out.  The pin was on a very slopey area of the green, ball went about 12 feet past the hole, hit a good first putt, just missed it, ran it by about 3 feet, and then didn't hit a good next putt. 

Q.  Off the tee what did you hit?
BETH DANIEL:  I hit a 5-iron, I think.  It was the right club.

Q.  Beth, did you know when your ball landed on 10 where it was going to wind up?  Did you have a feeling that's what was going to happen?
BETH DANIEL:  Oh, I knew exactly.  You know, as hard and fast as those greens are, I knew that was coming off the green for sure.  It just didn't quite carry enough to get over that little knoll area, and, you know, of course, that's coming back.

Q.  How much more room do you have to go over that knoll before  --
BETH DANIEL:  Nothing.  It just  -- that was kind of a case where I  -- you know, I hit 3-wood off the tee there, I hit it a little too far left, the fairway slopes right to left, and I had a real fluffy lie in the first cut, and I just  -- you know, I made a good swing at it, but the ball just didn't come out of the lie like I thought it would, so it came out short.  There is no way I can go to more club there on that hole.

Q.  At what point on the back 9, as well as she was playing, did it start feeling a little more hopeless, if that's the right word?
BETH DANIEL:  Well, I mean, even when I bogeyed 12 and bogeyed 13, I still didn't feel like it was hopeless.  Even on 15, 15, if I make that birdie putt  -- of course, once again, I am above the hole, so I had to putt very defensively. 
And the way the greens were, as quick as they were today, you know, above the hole, if you are there, you are just tapping it and you are at the mercy of whatever it hits.  A lot of times it's not even going to take the break it's supposed to take.
But she is making bogey there, if I can make that birdie, 2-shot swing, and get something going on 16, but, you know  -- I mean, I never gave up.

Q.  Beth, what was it like last night and this morning thinking about this final round?
BETH DANIEL:  I mean, I went to dinner last night and watched the hockey game.  Then a wedding  -- the groomsmen from a wedding were next door to me in a hotel, the joys of living in a hotel, so they came in  -- when I finally turned the TV off at like 1:30 from the hockey game, because I couldn't take it anymore, because they were going overtime after overtime, then they come in, start moving furniture in the room next door.  So I was up until about 2:30. 
But, I mean, that's pretty typical of living in a hotel.

Q.  Beth, what was this whole entire weekend like for you?  You played like three incredible days of golf and you were right there and everything.  Is that something to take away from this?
BETH DANIEL:  Oh, I think definitely.  Yeah.  I mean, I did  -- I even  -- you know, I hit a lot of good shots today. 

Q.  Beth, are you sure that another win is out there for you in your career, or are there ever times when you wonder about that?
BETH DANIEL:  Well, I think if I didn't prove that this weekend (nodding). 

Q.  I think I speak for everyone.  Thank you very much for coming in. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT