KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 2002
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LAURA NEAL:  Let's go over your card first, please. 
BETH DANIEL:   Let's see, first hole, 2-putt par. 
Second hole, I hit a pitch shot up.  I actually went for the green in two.  It was kind of just short of the green in two, and to the right.  I pitched it up about six feet and made that for birdie.
Third hole, 2-putt par. 
Fourth hole, I drove it right.  Didn't have a shot.  Had to pitch out.  Hit a lob-wedge up about five feet and missed the putt.  So made bogey there.
5, 6, 7, all 2-putt pars. 
8, I hit 6-iron to three feet and made that for birdie.
9, I hit sand wedge to  -- it was probably about six feet and made that for birdie.
10, I hit 6-iron to 12 feet.  Made that for birdie. 
Then 11, 12, 13, all 2-putt pars. 
14, I 3-putted from  -- I left it below the Ridge there.  Misjudged the speed, ran it by about five feet and missed it; so I made bogey there. 
15, 2-putt pars.
16 was a 2-putt par from the left fringe, about a 40-foot putt. 
17, I came up short in the rough.  Hit a good pitch out of the rough about five feet above the hole and made that for par.
18, 2-putt par. 
So, not in a lot of trouble, which is a good thing on this golf course.  Hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of greens.  I basically did the same thing yesterday, so my ball-striking is kind of kept me in it. 

Q.  Were the conditions a lot easier than yesterday? 
BETH DANIEL:   I think they were a good bit easier.  I would say maybe a shot or two.  I mean, that's all.  This course always plays pretty tough, and there is enough wind out there to kind of play with some of your shots, particularly going into some of the par  3s. 
But I think it's a bit of an advantage always to play in the morning.  The greens were a little bit softer; so they were a little more receptive.  And so I would say it probably played a couple of shots easier this morning than it did yesterday afternoon.

Q.  You've played here a lot of years.  Do you feel really comfortable here or is this a golf course you've never quite  --
BETH DANIEL:   I've never managed to find a comfort zone on this golf course.  It amazes me, but I think that's a tribute to how great of a design it is. 
You know, you have to really position the ball off the tees to have the right shot into the pins, and you know, I think they are some of the hardest par 3s that we play all year just because of the undulations on the greens.  So, no, I have never really found a comfort zone on this golf course.

Q.  And yet, I think you've got six or seven Top-10s here.  You finished second the one year.  Is this a tournament you ever really felt you had a chance to win other than the year you finished second?
BETH DANIEL:   Not really.  The year I finished second, you know, I let that one get away, and actually, it was a very, very windy day; it was about 40-mile-an-hour wind.  I remember it very well.  Stood up on the sixth tee, hit my shot and the wind died; so I went in the lake.  I'm playing three-club wind, and the ball just died.  It was the only time the whole day the wind died; and I made double-bogey there, lost the golf tournament.  Just never got anything going, really, after that, and lost the golf tournament.

Q.  Did you maybe leave a little bit out there today? 
BETH DANIEL:   I think I definitely left  -- I did yesterday, as well.  You know, one of my  -- one of my things about this golf course is that I just don't read those greens well. 
So you talk about being in a comfort zone, I'm rarely in a comfort zone on the greens.  Matter of fact, on the 14th hole yesterday, I pulled, Woody, my caddy in and said, "You'd better start reading them."  I was so far off; it was scary.  And as soon as he started reading them, I started making some putts.

Q.  You say you never felt you thought you could win this tournament; how do you feel at the moment?
BETH DANIEL:   I think I've got a pretty good chance. 
As far as my ball-striking goes, this is probably as good as I've hit the ball for the first two days as I have in the last ten years.  So I'm very, very encouraged by my ball-striking. 
But, I'm leaving too many makeable putts out there.  I need to get the putter going. 

Q.  In talking about the putting, looking at your stats last year, you are well down the list in putting.  Can you talk about that, how long has it been a struggle and what have you been doing to overcome it? 
BETH DANIEL:   It's funny last year I was really shocked by that stat because I felt like I putted pretty decently last year.  I think our putting stat is very misleading.  It's not putts per green in regulation.  It is putts for the round.  And I don't think it's a useful stat, because someone that misses a lot of greens is obviously going to finish in the top in that stat.  Someone who hits a lot of greens is never going to finish in the top in that stat.  So to me, I don't even look at that.  I keep my own stats.  I keep putts per green in regulation and in actually I felt like I putted fairly well last year.  But I worked pretty hard on my putting, really from like ten feet in.  I feel like I need to make more of those putts. 

Q.  What's been the routine? 
BETH DANIEL:   It's just drills.  It's alignment.  It's trying to find a tempo for the stroke.  Trying to get comfortable and see the line, and it's just, you know, drills and drills and drills. 

Q.  In looking at the majors, did you think that you would have more major victories at this point in your career 10, 15 years ago, and how much of an emphasis has that been for you? 
BETH DANIEL:   Put it this way:  I would have liked to have had more major championships at this point.  I think when you look at majors, I have a whole different theory on them, probably because I've only one won. 
But I think major championships go to players that, No. 1, drive the ball very straight.  And No.  2, putt very well.  Because the conditions are so difficult in a major championship, with the firmness of the greens and the thickness of the rough, I don't care how good a ball-striker you are, you're going to miss more greens in a major championship.  And if you can't get it up-and-down, you're not going to win major championships. 
So I really  -- when I look at the people that win majors, those are the types of players that win majors.  You know, they are very accurate off the tee, and they are very, very good putters.  And those are probably the two weaknesses of my golf game, and I've worked very hard on them over the years, but they are still the two weaknesses in my golf game.

Q.  Do you wear contacts? 
BETH DANIEL:   No. 

Q.  Your vision checks out?
BETH DANIEL:   Oh, I can see far away.  I just can't see close up anymore.  Can't read the scorecard, but I can see an eagle over there. 

Q.  I guess the one other thing is that, you know, you're legitimately in the Hall and everything; would it be nice just to add the notch, to put it in the good 'ol way, the way it was prior to? 
BETH DANIEL:   To tell you the truth, I don't even think about that anymore.  I just don't even think about it because that's not the way it is anymore.  I don't think they would have changed the requirements for the Hall of Fame if they didn't think that certain players were deserving of being in the Hall of Fame. 
I happen to think that the requirements right now are much  -- much more fair than they used to be. 
No.  I wouldn't want to  -- I mean, my reason for wanting to win this golf tournament is not to get in the Hall of Fame the old-fashioned way.  It's because I still am competitive and I still want to win. 

Q.  Going back to your game and how it's different from a major championship game at the LPGA level, did you ever feel like you wanted to try to improve it to win majors or change to win majors, or was that just  "that's how it is and I'll take what I can get in these other tournaments"? 
BETH DANIEL:   Well, I mean, obviously, I try to play the best that I can in majors.  And if I look at my record, I think it's pretty darned good in major championships, in spite of the fact that I've only won one. 
I've played this golf course where I've come out here and hit 3-wood off the tee and hit longer irons in.  You know, I've tried to play it that way.  Now I'm just like, just go out there and hit driver.  I mean, I'll do that, I'll back down to 3-wood.  I try my hardest to keep the ball in the fairway.  It's just sometimes it happens.  Sometimes it doesn't. 
I mean, first two days I have done a pretty decent job of it.  The fairways that I've missed, the first two days, have been in the first cut.  So I have not had a lot of balls come out of the long stuff.
I just, you know, I just think that there are a lot more accurate drivers in the history of golf than Beth Daniel. 

Q.  Just curious if you thought it was harder to win tournaments 10, 15 years ago, or is it harder now or has it changed much at all?
BETH DANIEL:   I think it's much more difficult now because I think the depth of players that are capable of winning is much greater.  So, I think it's  -- I think it's more difficult now.  Definitely. 

Q.  Can you think of certain instances where you let a major go right at the end? 
BETH DANIEL:   I can think of a lot.  Like every single major championship.  I saw Haney (ph) at du Maurier make a 15-footer downhill that was about 20 on the Stimpmeter to beat me by one. 
I had the lead in the LPGA Championship , I can't tell you how many times, and gave it away on Sunday, or somebody had a great round. 
Here, I've had probably  -- probably only had a couple of chances.  This is probably my least capable golf course of winning a major, I would say, just because of the way the golf course plays and the difficulty for me seeing the shot and that sort of thing, in a comfort zone out there.

Q.  What was the most devastating loss or frustrating loss in the majors that you can think of? 
BETH DANIEL:   Well, at La Grange in the U.S. Open, 1980 or '81, I birdied last two holes and Pat Bradley birdied the last hole on top of me to win the Open.  I tell you what, that got me good for five or six years.  I walked off that golf course and I said, "I just played my best golf in a major and I lost."    So my conclusion was, therefore, I'm not the best.  But it took me about five years to then go back and say, "That's bologna.  I should be happy that I played my best golf in a major."  And I should have been able to feed off of that. 
But I've had a couple three chances in U.S. Opens.  That one with Bradley; Sacramento, I called a penalty on myself the final day and lost that one. 
So I've been close.  I've been in the hunt.  I'm not ashamed of how I've played in major championships at all. 
LAURA NEAL:  Thanks so much. 
BETH DANIEL:   Thank you for depressing me.  (Laughter.)





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT