U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 1999
Beth Daniel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 BETH DANIEL: Well, obviously the course was a little softer today due to the heavy
rains last night. So I just kept trying to -- I kept telling Carl, my caddie, we need to
be aggressive today. We need to try to rely be aggressive today and to start firing at
some of these pins. Early in the round, we were more concerned with keep it below the
hole, or, you know keep it on this side of the hole, which is normally what you would have
to be concerned with in an U.S. Open round of golf. But today with the greens being more
receptive, we were able to fire them at the pins a little bit more. And as far as my
ball-striking goes, I feel very confident with it right now. I feel like I'm starting to
get my swing back, and I hit a lot of good shots today. I gave myself a lot of
opportunities for birdies. Had I gotten a feel for the greens a little bit sooner today, I
feel like I cover posted a little bit lower number. But, you know, I'm happy to start out
this way. 
 
Q. Do you think you can win this week?
 
 BETH DANIEL: I would not be here if I didn't think I could win. I would not try to be
here if I didn't think I could win. I'm the type of person that doesn't tee it up in a
golf tournament unless I think I can win it; so I guess the answer to that would be yes. 
 
Q. Could you just talk about the general state of your game? (Inaudible.) Can you just
make a statement of your progress?
 
 BETH DANIEL: My progress after the surgery was slower than I thought it would be. But
I'm not a very patient person. I guess I thought I would just roll right out of surgery
and I would be fixed instantly and it doesn't work that way. It took me a good 11 months
before I had full range of motion in my shoulder. And you know, during that time, I was
out on TOUR trying to play and not playing very well, and losing a lot of confidence. So
it's taken me a while to get the confidence back and it's also taken me a while to find my
golf swing again, once I got the full range of motion in my shoulder again. It took me a
while to figure out my golf swing again. And I feel like now I'm swinging at it very well,
and able to hit golf shots again, which I played for quite a while where I wasn't able to
hit golf shots. 
 
Q. Beth, now that you've obviously qualified for the Holland under the new guidelines
and whatnot, are you taking a closer look at possibly slowing down and play less
tournaments, or even retiring for that matter? Has that crossed your mind at all?
 
 BETH DANIEL: I thought about retiring because I was playing so bad. I actually have
slowed my schedule down. I'm only playing about 21 events this year out of what, 43, I
think on our schedule; so I'm playing about half of our events this year, and that's it.
The last few years I haven't played a full schedule and probably will never -- of course,
never say never -- but I probably will never play a full schedule again. So about 20
tournaments is about where I'm at right now. 
 
 BETH DANIEL: Fun. Right now I'm building a house. It's been fun thus far, but I'm
building a house, and then it's probably going to be another full year at least before I
finish this project. So, you know, that's going to take up a lot of my time. You know, I
like to fish. You know, I can always find things to do. I just like being around the house
and tinkering around the house, and that's kind of fun instead of being on the road. 
 
Q. Where's the house?
 
 BETH DANIEL: Delray Beach, Florida. The same place that I live now. Just a different
spot. 
 
Q. How is your putting coming around nowadays?
 
 BETH DANIEL: Obviously, because I'm putting up some low numbers now and starting to
make some birdies, and I'm making some putts. But I was a little frustrated my putting
today. I didn't putt as well today as I have been putting as of late. And I think a little
bit of that was due to the fact that because of the moisture on the greens from the rain,
the greens were just a little bit slower than what I thought they were going to be and it
took me awhile to adjust. You know, I don't sit up here and tell you that I'm -- I have
one hundred percent confidence in my putting back, because I don't all the time. There are
days when I feel really good over the putter and there are days when I don't feel good
over it at all. It's a bit of a struggle for me. But if I can hit the ball well enough to
take some pressure off my putter; at least I go out for a round of golf now and I know I'm
going to make some putts. There was a point in time where I didn't know if I was going to
make any. So I know that I'm going to make some. It's making progress, and it's a lot
better. 
 
Q. Previous to this, when was the last time you sectional-qualified, and what did it
feel like to go through that again?
 
 BETH DANIEL: I've never had to qualify from the open. I've always been exempt. This has
been a first for me. A new experience, and I actually thought about not doing it. And, you
know, and then my attitude was: I'm not in the Open anyway, so I have two choices. I can
either not play, or go to a qualifier and try and get in; so I decided to go to a
qualifier and get in. I did get a special exemption last year, and at that time I was told
that that would be my first and only. So I was given an exemption to play at Blackwolf Run
and made the cut there, and actually played very well. But, you know, I did not qualify
off the money list to get in this year. 
 
Q. How many Opens have you played, and are you surprised that there are so many red
numbers at this stage of the tournament?
 
 BETH DANIEL: This is my 23rd Women's Open. And, no, I really am not surprised there's
so many red numbers. I think that that rain last night, the amount of rain fall that we
got out here last night made the golf course very vulnerable to birdies. You know, you can
-- even with 5-irons out there today, I was able to just fire it right at the pin. No
worry at all that the ball was going to release. And the practice rounds, a 5-iron for me
was releasing eight to ten yards. Today it was releasing about a yard. That's how much
softer the rains made the greens. They also were a little bit slower as far as putting
goes, and so you could -- you would be able to be a little more aggressive with your
putter. And for those two reasons; no, today, it does not surprise me that there are red
numbers. 
 
Q. This is sort of a follow-up. When you considered going through qualifying, have you
found that more and more you have to convince yourself to go and do the things that maybe
ten years ago you would have jumped at the chance to do?
 
 BETH DANIEL: Well, I mean, definitely. Ten years ago there would not have been a
question in my mind as to whether or not I would try and qualify or not. I would have gone
and not even thought twice about it. So, yeah, I mean, the way I looked at it is: If I
don't go, it's a week off. And then I decided that I really wanted to play. So I went
ahead and went to the sectional qualifier and actually had a couple of players on TOUR
help me with what to do and the course to choose and where to qualify and that sort of
thing. I'm very grateful to them that they helped me out, because that's not an easy
decision to choose where you're going to try and qualify. 
 
Q. Can you talk about when your surgery was and what exactly they did?
 
 BETH DANIEL: Well, my surgery was August 1997, and I actually had it done by Dr.
Andrews in Birmingham. I had what's called an chromioplasty done, and basically what it is
is there's a bone on top of the shoulder called the chromium process, and I had bone spurs
on the bottom of that chromium process, which every time I moved my left arm were jabbing
into the tendon that runs underneath it. They go through and they basically just shave off
part of that where the bone spurs are; give the tendon a little more room to run through
there without getting any kind of obstruction. And then they clean up the tendon, too. The
tendon was pretty bruised up and had some little tears in it. They go in there and clean
all that up, too. It just takes you time to heal. 
 
Q. Can you just reflect back on the 9 consecutive birdies? Were you aware at the time
it was a record, and what are your thoughts now when you look back on it?
 
 BETH DANIEL: Well, the whole streak started with a 3-putt bogey on the 6th hole in
Austin. And, you know, it's kind of a long walk to the 7th tee which was a par 3 and I
just said, God, I'm not playing too good. You should not be over par in this golf
tournament. Let's just go make some birdies and forget about it. I hit it like six feet on
the next hole, and I make it. And then I hit it four feet on the next hole and make it. I
hit it a foot on the next hole and make it. So now I'm in the tournament at 2-under par,
and I'm just thinking: Okay, let's just keep playing aggressively. And I just -- I kept
hitting close. I hit it about five feet on the next hole and a foot on the next hole. 12
was a par 5, which I hit a 3-wood on the green in two and 2-putted for a birdie there.
Then I started thinking about it. Really, after kind of the 10th, 11th hole, I started
thinking about it, and I thought the streak was 9 birdies; so, when I made the birdie on
the 15th hole, which was my 9th in a row, I thought I had tied it there. Went to 16, had
about a 20-footer and missed it and kind of walked out, gosh, (shakes head), and for like
a split second, and then I was like: You just made 9 birdies in a row. You need to be
happy about this. It would have been really cool to make 10 in a row, but I'll take 9 in a
row. Put me back in the golf tournament, and I went on to have a good weekend and have a
good finish there. 
 
 BETH DANIEL: It actually did seem very easy. I hit it so close during the streak of the
9 in a row that I made one 18-footer and I made one 9-footer, and all the rest of them
were six feet or in. So I hit the ball very close, and you know, things have to happen for
you. You know, on the 14th hole, I hit it -- I kind of necked a drive and it went down the
tree line and kind of went under a tree, and it kicked out and was fine. Those are the
kind of things that need to happen for you in a streak like that that don't always happen
for you. You've got to have a little luck on your side to have something like that happen.
You know, I just really enjoyed it. I just tried to enjoy the whole thing, and I tried to
stay aggressive and see how many I could make in a row. 
 
Q. Beth, you have Patty Sheehan's long-time caddie on the bag this week. Was he a
factor today?
 
 BETH DANIEL: Carl is -- Carl is always very prepared. He knows every detail about the
golf course. He flew in here on Friday night and spent the whole weekend out here. Carl is
a great caddie, and I was lucky to get him this week. When Patty knew that she was not
going to play, she gave Carl my number and said, "Call Beth and see if she needs
someone for the Open." It's worked out well. He is also going to caddie for me at the
LPGA Championship. Maybe look forward to the Open a little bit more knowing that I was
going to have Carl on the bag. 
 
 BETH DANIEL: I thought it was a crummy story. 
 
Q. Is there any extra incentive this week because you didn't get an exemption, you had
to go through qualifying. Would you like to just say, look I belong here? Is that part of
your mindset?
 
 BETH DANIEL: No, it's into the my mindset at all. USGA runs this event. They have
certain exemptions. There were several ways that I could have earned my way into this golf
tournament, and I didn't do it. Because it's an Open, I had the last option, which was to
try and qualify through sectional qualifying, and, you know, I did that. I was happy that
I did that, and you know, I'm here. But no, there's no thought in my mind at all that, you
know, I need to prove that I belong here, because, I mean, I felt all along that you know,
that I belonged here. But, you know, I've had a couple of bad years. You know, like I say,
I had several ways that I could have qualified, and I didn't do it. 
 
Q. Are you one of the players on the TOUR that has a dog that travels with you?
 
 BETH DANIEL: No. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT