THE SOLHEIM CUP
October 22, 1994
Beth Daniel
Meg Mallon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BETH McCOMBS: Brandie Burton can't make it  tonight.  So we are going to first talk about Meg's and  Beth's match, then we will move over to Dottie's.  But  after we do Meg and Beth's match, we will go onto  questions for them.  Then we will talk to Dottie about  her match if that is okay.   
 
BETH DANIEL: Well, I mean the way I feel  about our match today, just generally, is that Meg and  I played so well as a team that we just kept putting  pressure on them and we never let up.  And one of our  goals today was to not let up on them because yesterday  we had them two down and we let them get back in the  match, and going down 16, it was pretty much anybody's  game and they ended up taking the match from us.  So,  you know, we talked this morning and we said if we get  them down, we are not letting them -- we are not  letting them up again.  And that was pretty much our  goal and that is pretty much what we did and we did it  through playing some excellent golf.   
 
MEG MALLON: I think Beth set the tone in the  first hole by birdieing the first hole, and she played  so well firing shots in in the first few holes that it  kind of put their backs against the walls a little bit,  and, you know, I just tried to stay in there and say  well, I am par for you, you can go do anything you can  to make birdie.  And that is pretty much how it worked  today.  She knew I was in play, she knew I had par, so  there was nothing but birdies to get.  She just played  great.  Then I followed her lead in the back 9 a little  bit and had some of my own fun and made some birdies in  the back.  They didn't play that well today.  They  didn't play as well today as they did yesterday.  So we  took a much better advantage of that early in the round  and just kept going at them and we wanted to go out  there and get it finished early and go cheer everybody  else on.  The difference is we put our angels on  today.  Last year we made a commitment after my friend  Heather Farr (phonetic) died to wear these guradian  angels.  A lot of the players -- my backing fell off  last week, so I didn't have it on yesterday, so I  figured that was the deal.  So, I just stuck it in  there today and it stayed in there all day.  So Beth  put her's in too -- she didn't have hers in there too.   
 
BETH DANIEL: I forgot to put it in yesterday.   
 
MEG MALLON: We felt like Heather was in there  with us today.   
 
BETH DANIEL: She kept us aggressive.   
 

Q.  How do you feel about the singles matches?  Have any ideas of who you would play or you would want  to play or anything like that?  
 
BETH DANIEL: Well, I mean, you know, who you  want to play you don't always get because you really  don't have any choice.  It is -- JoAnne turns in her  line up and Mickey turns in her lineup and you get who  you get.  So we had a discussion, we know where  everybody is going and it evidently was turned in at  seven o'clock.  I would think when JoAnne comes in here  we will find out what the pairings are.  Here she  comes.   
 
MEG MALLON: Who are we playing?  Do you have  the pairings? (speaking to JoAnne Carner).   
 
JOANNE CARNER: Yeah, but I don't have my  glasses.   
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE: We will read it for you  mamma.   
 
MEG MALLON: First out we have Helen  Alfredsson versus Betsy King.  Second out -- oh, you  get Catrin Nilsmark versus Dottie Mochrie.  Third out  Trish, Johnson versus Beth Daniel.  Fourth out, Lora  Fairclough versus Kelly Robbins.  Fifth out, Pam Wright  versus Meg Mallon.  6th match, Alison Nicholas versus  Patty Sheehan.  We got the two shortest players out  there playing each other.  7, wow, Laura Davies versus  Brandie Burton.  Match 8, Annika versus Tammie Green.  Match 9, Dale Reid versus Sherri Steinhauer.  And the  last match is Liselotte Neumann versus Donna Andrews.  Looks like a great great matchup.  You know, whoever I got was great, but, you  know, Pam and I should have a good match.  I watched  her play a little bit today, she played a real good  match today.  So she was playing well.  So hopefully  not too good tomorrow.  But I like the way as far as  the team's set up.  I think it is great in the way the  matches are set up.   
 

Q.  Beth, did you sleep well tonight?  Are you  nervous?  What are you thinking?  
 
BETH DANIEL: I have been nervous all week.  I  mean, I told Greg to carry water in my bags because I  had cotton mouth so bad the first two days, I was like,  I need some water.  I just think it is -- you know, it is a very  nerve-wracking thing.  There is a lot of attention on  us this week, and I mean, what has gone on the first  two days, I think in general, is just great for women's  golf.  Walking up that 18th hole today and seeing the  crowds that we have, and everybody cheering and  everybody really into it is just -- I mean, The Solheim  Cup has gotten pretty big pretty quickly, I think.   
 

Q.  Beth, did you have the feeling that you  played well today before you went to the first tee?  Any indication that you might play?  
 
BETH DANIEL: I played well yesterday.  I  mean, I think Meg and I both played well yesterday.  I  just feel like for our team the foursomes is a tough  format because we never play it in the United States.  When we play alternate shot, both players tee off the  first hole and alternate from there.  I think the  Europeans are much more comfortable with foursomes play  because they play it a lot.  They play it more over  there than they do in the States.   
 
DOTTIE MOCHRIE: As juniors they play it.   
 
BETH DANIEL: We never ever, except Curtis  Cup, and this is the only time we ever play it.  And I  feel it is a very, very tough format, and I felt like I  played well yesterday.  I get -- like Meg played very  well, and I know I am just a lot more comfortable in a  four-ball match like we played today, especially when I  have a partner that I know is going to be there for me  all the time.  I feel like I can be very aggressive and  just go at it.  And I think for the U.S. Team, I think  that is pretty much the general rule, we all feel that  way, that the best ball is a much better format for  us.   
 

Q.  What about any strategies for tomorrow, other  than to be aggressive and try to win early?  
 
BETH DANIEL: Well, when you are playing  one-on-one match play, your partner pretty much  dictates what you do.  Whether you are aggressive or  whether you are conservative, is -- I mean, certainly  if, you know, no matter who I played, if they don't hit  a green in regulation and a pin, I am probably not  going to go for it.  That is the whole thing about  match play. That is the whole strategy behind it.  That  is one of the great things about it.   
 

Q.  Are you saying you react to your opponent?  
 
BETH DANIEL: Sure.   
 

Q.  Is there a time when you go out and set the  attitude of the hole?  
 
BETH DANIEL: Well, I mean, I have always felt  like I have a slight advantage in match play because I  hit the ball longer, so I could see what my opponent  does and I have always felt like that that is an  advantage for me in match play.  And I think if you can  get it out there on the tees and you can make your  opponent hit the shot first, then you put more pressure  on them immediately, so you know, I don't know, I mean  I am -- I feel like I am playing very good golf right  now.  There is no reason for me not to be aggressive.  There is no reason for me not to be go out there and  try make birdies.  That is what I am going to try and  do.   
 

Q.  How big was that putt for you personally on  the first hole?  
 
BETH DANIEL: Well, I pumped so hard I thought  my right arm was on the other side of the ropes.  "Hey,  partner, I can play the rest of the rounds with my left  arm."  It was just the excitement of it all, and you  know, I think it set the tone for Meg and myself, I  mean we went out; we won the first hole.  We made a statement on the first hole "we are  here to play."   
 

Q.  And the nervousness that you felt, did it  subside a little bit with that?  
 
BETH DANIEL: Sure, it did.  But I mean, you  know, Meg, she was right there and, you know, she was  there all day, and then she started hitting shots so  close I thought she was going to hole them out.  I  mean, she had gimmees, so I just think that -- I think  that we were a great team, I really do.   
 

Q.  How long was that putt, Beth?  
 
BETH DANIEL: 20 feet on the first hole.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT