MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 29, 2005
Alan Anderson
Paul Davis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you explain what the normal rebounding drill is like, if there is such a thing as a normal rebounding drill, in a practice? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  Our practice is just, you know, pretty much it's no rules.  You know, you got to get the ball.  The object is to get the ball by whatever means necessary.  You know, five guys inside the paint, somebody shoots the ball up, we just attack the ball.  We get credited.  But the loser, we try to tab most offensive rebounds, whoever scores the most, you know, the loser has to run.  It's called the War Drill.  We just attack, you know, attack each other, we get aggressive. 

Q.  Could you talk a little bit about the excitement of getting to the Final Four, whether you guys have even been able to take a breath since Sunday? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  I mean, like in practice today, seeing all the media in the stands, how many messages I'm getting every night, all the calls I'm getting, how everybody's treating you, it's amazing.  Like I said, I don't think we're really going to have the full effect until we take off tomorrow night, get in St. Louis, see the environment and everybody, you know, in St. Louis.  But, I mean, it's incredible from right now. 

Q.  How do you keep your cool when you have a game going down to the wire?  What does Coach Izzo say and how do you guys keep your cool? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  I mean, when the game is down to the wire, like I said, we done been through so many different -- every type of situation there is.  I mean, he just pretty much tells us, you know, what to do on different situations, like what play to run, if they score, if they don't score, what to do, and we just go from there.  Foul shooting things like that, we've been in that situation before.  So it's just a matter of calming yourself down, calming things down, having confidence in each other. 

Q.  Is there a problem that you might have too much of a complicated play called or whatever, get caught up in the excitement? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  I don't think there's any problem.  Like I said, there's guys on this team that have played already multiple position.  If they are in a jam where they're down in the wrong position, they can run it from there.  We're used to being in different positions to help us out. 

Q.  You mentioned all the things that you've been through over the years.  How were you able to keep your confidence after having so many bad experiences? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  I mean, like I said, just having, you know, the coaches still pushing us, not giving up, former players still pushing us and having the faith in us, just guys on the team just sticking together, not breaking up, not saying everything is done, whatever, just sticking with each other, always seeing the light at the end of the tunnel.  Never thought we was buried, so, I mean, we always just saw the light. 

Q.  When you went to the foul line against Kentucky, did you ever have any flashbacks to what happened against Iowa? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  Oh, no, no.  Like I say, when you do something like that -- I mean, I know some guys do that.  When you do something like that, you just putting too much pressure on yourself because you're putting yourself in a situation where you're saying, "I've got to hit these.  I've got to do this.  I've got to do that."  You just got to do your same routine you do daily.  It's just a matter of knocking 'em down. 

Q.  Could you talk about this team's development.  It seems as though you have gone through transformations throughout the season, and now it finally seems like everything is working for you. 

ALAN ANDERSON:  Like I said, it's just a matter of -- like I say, once you go through so many down times, success, you take it and run with it.  Like I said, we had success with Old Dominion, Vermont, it kept building.  Then we got one off of Duke.  We just moved on from there.  We just stayed confident, coaches stayed real confident, but not cocky.  You know, we felt just comfortable. 

Q.  Can you tell me something about Paul Davis that I don't know from reading his statistics, anything specific?

ALAN ANDERSON:  That you don't know from what? 

Q.  From reading his statistics. 

ALAN ANDERSON:  He's a great passer.  I know he's been having a couple turnovers the last games, but he's a great passer out there on the post for a guy of his athleticism and his caliber. 

Q.  Looking at the match-ups, it seems you're probably going to end up with Jawad Williams, who is a little bit taller than you.  How do you handle that kind of assignment?  How do you approach taking on someone bigger? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  Like I said, I know they think it's a match-up problem, they have a mismatch on me with their size.  But, I mean, I'm not like, you know, a skinny guy.  You know, I got a little bit of strength to me.  I can't overpower him, I'm not going to say that, but I can use my quickness, one thing I have.  I just have to use that to the fullest.  I have to beat them to the block, beat them to their position.  On the offensive side, I have to bring them off-side where it's tougher for them to guard me. 

Q.  Going back to the games going down to the wire, what goes on in maybe the last timeout, what goes on with the coaches and the players?  Can you take me through that a little bit. 

ALAN ANDERSON:  Guys just helping each other up.  Coach is in the huddle, you know, just trying to talk to guys, telling them when different situations happen, do this, do that.  Like I say, if another team scores, we going to run this play.  If they don't, we're going to hold it, somebody will take the ball up.  We just try to get guys in the right position and just try to be sharp doing it. 

Q.  Is there kind of a pep talk that goes along with that? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  Yeah.  I mean, you know -- you know, it's always that.  I mean, it's that first.  "Come on, guys, this is our time."  Whatever it is, it's pretty much our time.  Like I said, we've been through it before.  We got a lot of veteran, older guys, mature guys.  We just talk it through with each other. 

Q.  Is that maturity that helps you block out the pressure because you have the crowd going crazy? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  Oh, yeah.  Oh, yeah.  Like I said, that's where the schedule plays in effect.  Playing two years ago at San Antonio against Texas and Tampa before that, I mean, that's where the schedule picks up.  And last year the schedule we had also. 

Q.  In that same vein, when you're in that last timeout, would you prefer going in the game on defense to make the big stop in that situation or being on offense to make the big basket? 

ALAN ANDERSON:  Like I said, it depends.  I mean, if we need a guy on the line, I'd love to be the guy on the line.  If we need a big stop, like I said, I feel, you know, I've been through four years of this where I can guard.  I've been guarding everybody.  I'm ready to guard anybody. 


Q.  For those of us who aren't familiar with the specifics, can you fill me in on the famous drive with Coach Izzo, that conversation, when it occurred and how it was important? 

PAUL DAVIS:  I think the biggest thing with coach was, you know, he's been through so many things that I'm going through.  (Inaudible) couldn't get my game going.  Me and him talked about putting us on the same page.  He's telling me that he's gone through some of the things I am.  He's been to the top, and he has also had people knock him down, and he's still standing (inaudible).

Q.  When did this occur? 

PAUL DAVIS:  The very first time was when I was -- I think Duke last year, after the game there.  We obviously didn't play very well.  I personally didn't think it was my best game.  I just felt like (inaudible).  Talked to my dad.  I didn't know what to do.  He said to go in and talk to coach.  I went in the next morning, (inaudible) couple hours later that night and we watched some film.  And I think that's -- that might have even turned my whole career around.


Q.  Paul, how did you guys keep your confidence over all the tough stretches you went through? 

PAUL DAVIS:  I think the biggest thing was we weren't thinking about what people outside of our program were saying.  We weren't thinking about some of the criticism.  We stuck together.  The people that are in the program, I mean, I'm talking about the players and coaches, just some people involved, everybody knows what each other can do.  We see it every single day, and most people just see it when we play the games.  So I think the biggest thing is we've seen what we can do before, we know where we can go.  We've just got to keep trying to have it be consistent.  I think right now it's really paying off.  We knew we could make it to the Final Four; we just had to go out and do it. 

Q.  Can you talk a little about the match-up with Sean May?  I know you have known each other since the McDonald's All-American days.  What makes him a difficult match-up?  How much do you think he's improved over the years?  What is it going to take to come out on top? 

PAUL DAVIS:  He's obviously always been a great post player.  I've heard some things over the last couple years as far as him losing some of the weight and just working on his conditioning.  And I think he's obviously -- he's got a big body and he uses his size well, you know.  Some of the tape I've watched, he's creating the space which allows for easy shots.  Now he's I think -- I think he's always been a great shooter, but he's added that into his game, you know, that 16-foot jump shot. You know, he's definitely one of the best, I'd say, if not the best post player in the country right now.  You know, it's weird because the last four games we've really played teams with great big men, so it's not going to be any different.  We still got to, you know, just take it at them before they take it at us. 

Q.  Were you surprised that he went to North Carolina, being from Bloomington, Indiana? 

PAUL DAVIS:  I mean, sometimes with those things, you never know how they would work out.  Obviously, if he went to Indiana, I'd be seeing him a lot more during the season.  You know, with the thing they got at North Carolina with those three guys, and now four and five guys, is just unbelievable.  I think, you know, he really does fit in perfect there for their big men. 

Q.  In Austin you mentioned that you grew up in a Michigan State household, but you were a UNC fan.  Could you expand on that.  Also can you tell me any times you crossed paths with Sean May? 

PAUL DAVIS:  My mom went to Michigan State.  I was always watching Michigan State football and basketball.  But watching other programs, I loved watching North Carolina when they definitely had Vince Carter, Antoine (inaudible).  You know, I tried -- like I had all the North Carolina clothes and everything like that.  As I got older, really started looking at what school I wanted to go to, I had to start getting rid of some of that, start wearing more green and white.  But it's always been something I've always watched.  I mean, I still watch them on TV today because I think, A, they've got a great program, and B, I do know a lot of the guys on that team.  I haven't played against Sean before.  I did get to know him at the McDonald's game, but I was hurt then.  I did get to know him.  I mean, he's a great guy.  I look forward to probably seeing him down there and then playing against him. 

Q.  Are you kind of amazed at all the overtime games and particularly how teams, including your own, handled the pressure in the last minute or two of those games, be it regulation or overtime? 

PAUL DAVIS:  Yeah, it's weird how this time of year there's more close games than not.  I just think it's every team's will to do whatever it takes to get closer to the win.  You know, this time of year, the tougher team, the team that wants it, I mean, truly wants it more, is going to win.  I think our game against Kentucky, I think both teams wanted it, we just made a couple more baskets.  But I've said before it's the best time of year to be a fan, a player and a coach.  I think so far it's been one of the better tournaments I've seen. 

Q.  Early in the first overtime the other day, you're down four.  You're just coming off that remarkable three-point shot.  You guys stayed afloat with a possession where you got three or four offensive rebounds and knocked down the three.  When you made that shot, did that cross your mind that was in any way emblematic of your program and the work ethic associated with it? 

PAUL DAVIS:  Yeah, I believe so because, you know, when they tied it up at the end of regulation, they got a couple offensive rebounds.  We get a rebound, we could put it away.  But then, you know, coach really -- not just coach, I mean, every guy on the bench got into us and said, We need to rebound better in these overtimes.  Going down four quick was, you know, obviously a surprise to us.  But we had to do whatever it took.  Shannon hit probably the biggest shot of the game right there, and I think that's what won us the game was, "All right, we're back in it.  Let's win this thing." 

Q.  How much did the tough times you went through help in the Kentucky game and in the Duke game, the close games, having been through those tough experiences before? 

PAUL DAVIS:  You know, we've been in a lot of those games.  We've come up short on a lot of them, too.  You know, in the Duke game, I mean, I'll go back to even Old Dominion when it was close, you know, everybody is saying, "We're not losing this game; we're doing whatever it takes."  We got past the first weekend, and the second weekend was the biggest weekend of our lives.  When we were in Duke, "We're not losing this game at halftime," when I think it was almost tied up or something, "We're not losing this game, we're taking it at them."  Then I think Kentucky was the culmination of everything because it's a double overtime game against one of the top programs in the country with a trip to the Final Four on the line.  I don't think you can top playing that kind of game to, A, boost your confidence, and B, get that monkey off your back. 

Q.  You say the win over Kentucky boosted the confidence.  So where is the confidence level now, say, compared to what it was going into the tournament? 

PAUL DAVIS:  I just think, you know, we knew what we could do coming into the tournament; we just had to prove it to ourselves.  Coming into the tournament we came off that loss to Iowa in the first round of the Big-10.  We knew what we could do; we just had to prove it to ourselves.  We knew we had a run in us, we knew we could make it to the Final Four, we just had to prove it.  Now that we're there, you know, we feel we know we belong here, you know, this is where Michigan State University belongs, now we got to take full advantage of that. 

Q.  You've obviously been heavily scrutinized by fans and people in general.  How much of that scrutiny stemmed from the fact that you committed so early through your high school career, and fans had a chance to look at you and know you were going to be a Spartan? 

PAUL DAVIS:  I can say to that I committed early for myself.  You know, I didn't commit early for some fans to just see me.  I mean, this is where I wanted to go.  I felt there's no reason to draw the process out as maybe some kids do.  I thought this was the perfect coach and the perfect place for me to play.  So if people want to see that as a negative thing, I feel that it's wrong to say.  It comes with the territory.  I mean, people now are going to scrutinize you no matter what you do, so it just comes with it.  Honestly, most of that stuff just goes unnoticed.  It doesn't have a lot of weight to it.  It's one of those things that I hear it, but that's about it. 

Q.  Speaking of those close games, coaches get a lot of credit for pulling out those games, but how much is it up to the players to kind of step up in the moment and seize it? 

PAUL DAVIS:  Well, you know, the players play the game.  Coach just gives us a blueprint.  We go out and build the building.  But I think he instills in us what he's been through before and we go out and use it on the court.  You know, we just go do what he knows in his head to be right.  We just got to trust him because now no one on the team has been here before except him.  So we got to be all ears all week long. 

Q.  Do you feel like you're playing the best basketball of your career right now?  Could you talk about what you did in the off-season as far as improving your strength, how that changed your body and your game this year. 

PAUL DAVIS:  Yeah, I think I'm having the most fun of my career right now.  I do feel I'm playing better.  I think it's because I'm being more vocal, even if it's just in practice, and carrying that over to the game.  But this past off-season, I just stayed up here, I stayed in the weight room, you know, worked on my game and just kind of concentrated on what I needed to do for next year, whether that was thinking about being more vocal or whether that was lifting weights or shooting jump shots.  It was a great summer.  I'm looking forward to this one again to really improve on my body. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT