U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Mamiko Higa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.  It's my pleasure to welcome Mamiko Higa into the media center here at the 74th U.S. Women's Open.  A 32, 33, 6 under par round of 65 today in the opening round, bogey free.  Very impressive round.  It is the lowest round in a U.S. Women's Open debut and lowest round in a U.S. Women's Open in any round since the first round of 2016.   
Mamiko, congratulations on a great round today.  Can you take us through your scorecard and the birdies you made starting on the 3rd hole.   
MAMIKO HIGA: I hit with an 8 iron, and luckily I got just 2 meters left.  So it was a great shot.   
THE MODERATOR: Wonderful.  Then you followed up with birdies on the 4th and 5th holes.  Can you tell us the clubs you hit on those and the putts as well?   
MAMIKO HIGA: I hit it with a driver in the center of the fairway, and from there, 9 iron, 150 left.  And then on the green maybe 4 meters putting.   
The 5th hole, I hit with a driver first, and after, 7 wood, but 250 left.  After, 65 yards left to the green, and I hit with a 60 degree wedge.  And maybe a 3-meter putt on the green.   
THE MODERATOR: Then you birdied the 9th and 10th hole as well to get to 5 under.  Can you take us through those birdies on 9 and 10?   
MAMIKO HIGA: Hit with a driver, tee shot.  And after that, a 240 left, and I hit it with a 7 wood, and it got in the bunker.  After bunker shot, I was a meter of putting after the bunker shot.   
Tee shot with 5 wood, 10th hole.  181 left from the rough.  Hit with a 7 iron.  Maybe on the green with 6, 7 meters to the hole.   
THE MODERATOR: And then finally, the club you used on the 17th, the par 3?   
MAMIKO HIGA: 7 iron.  I got in deep -- 3, 4 meters, a little bit deeper to the hole.   
THE MODERATOR: Very good.  Just one other question from me.  What was really the biggest key to your success today out on the course?   
MAMIKO HIGA: Putting speed matched with my putting style.  So that was really the key.   
THE MODERATOR: Very good putting day, 27 putts.  Let's open it up to some questions.   
 Q.  Did you anticipate having a strong round in your debut here at the U.S. Women's Open?  
MAMIKO HIGA: I didn't expect much here, to come here and play that well.  I came here on a Saturday, and since then, I not only golf, but I enjoy the life here.  So I'll keep enjoying it and enjoying it, and just come in to the golf course, and I just enjoyed 18 holes today.   
 Q.  What's the most challenging part of this golf course?  
MAMIKO HIGA: Maybe greens are the toughest part.  So iron shots are going to be really key.   
 Q.  Did the heat have any effect on you as the round continued?  
MAMIKO HIGA: It's really, really hot here, so I try not to waste my energy.  So short practice and just staying calm and just get rest.   
 Q.  You're from Japan.  Players from around 30 countries are in this championship.  Does it almost feel like a world championship, not just a U.S. Open?  
MAMIKO HIGA: Definitely, this is maybe one of the top highest level I played in.  Maybe the best players from all over the world coming to play in this tournament, so I think definitely this is going to be the world championship, the highest level I have ever played.   
THE MODERATOR: I read that your husband is a Sumo wrestler in Japan.  Is he here with you this week?   
MAMIKO HIGA: I just communicate with him just as usual, nothing special.  Just chatting every day.   
THE MODERATOR: Mamiko Higa, very good opening first round, 65.  Good luck the rest of the week.   
MAMIKO HIGA: Thank you so much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT