U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 3, 2018
Hyo-Joo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We are here with Hyo-joo Kim, our runner-up in the 73rd U.S. Women's Open Championship.  Just a phenomenal round today.  Talk about coming from behind and forcing that playoff.   
HYO-JOO KIM: Well, I started off quite a few strokes behind the leader, so I didn't really think that I was going to come through this much.  I didn't -- I cannot say that I wanted to win, but this is final round and I feel very good about how I played, especially that I did not have any bogey today on the final round.  That, I am extremely happy about.   
 Q.  Did you feel because you were several hots back with nine holes to play that you had nothing to lose?  
HYO-JOO KIM: Honestly, I didn't really worry too much about it because I just to focused on how I was going to play.  It did not really enter my mind that I was going to come that close, so I just focused on playing my game today.   
 Q.  Talk about the birdie there at No. 15.  Obviously a long putt, hits the flag, goes in.  Big moment there, gave you a lot of momentum moving down the last few holes.  Was that where you started to believe that you had a chance?  
HYO-JOO KIM: Actually, I wasn't keeping up the with score at the time so I didn't really know about it.  When I made that putt I felt like the luck was with me today.   
 Q.  Just in general, it seemed like your putting was really, really good.  How much confidence did you have?  And that one putt in the playoff, it almost went in.  Were you surprised that it didn't happen?  
HYO-JOO KIM: I felt that my putting was somehow better this week, so maybe my confidence game went up a little this week.  Although the playoff did not go in as I wanted, I'm just happy and take pride that I made it to the playoff.   
 Q.  Could you explain what happened on the second shot on the second playoff hole that went into the sand?  
HYO-JOO KIM: Well, although it went in to the sand, I didn't feel that was a big mistake.  I think I recovered it pretty well afterwards, so I'm pretty happy with it.   
 Q.  This afternoon will go down as one of the most memorable in women's golf history because of the wild swings.  How do you think you will feel to have been a part of this even though you lost?  
HYO-JOO KIM: I'm extremely happy that I was part of the kind of historical day.  My score has been improving, especially it's gotten better with the majors lately.  So I'm happy about that.   
I'm also very happy that I did pretty good in this tournament.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Hyo-joo.  Great playing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT