KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 2015
Hyo-Joo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  3-under, can you talk us through it a little bit?  What was working well out there?  HYO JOO KIM: My driver tee shots were really good today.  My second shots weren't that really good but I was always in the fairway.  Golf course condition was really, really good today.  Every shot I was able to make birdie chance without a problem.   Q.  Seems like the wind is picking up.  Would you talk about the conditions early in the morning and at 3-under, if the conditions do pick up a little bit.  HYO JOO KIM: Yes, it changed a lot.  When the wind picked up, I played more focused.  If the wind picks up, yes, the course will get a lot harder and I will focus more but I don't know how the scores will come out.   Q.  You won a major championship before obviously at Evian last year.  This is only your third major.  Do you still get nervous when you come to a major championship?  HYO JOO KIM: To me right now, everything is new.  Playing and winning majors, I don't get nervous.  I just enjoy it and I'm always happy to learn new stuff, playing with different people on the LPGA.   Q.  Speaking of new and playing with different people, it is your rookie year.  You've won a tournament but you are still a rookie.  What's been the toughest adjustment for you playing on the LPGA Tour?  HYO JOO KIM: The only thing different that I feel playing in the LPGA is that I have to travel a lot.  In Korea, I didn't really have to travel as much.  So when my fellow friends, players are telling me how traveling here and there is so difficult and gets tiring, so that's what I'm feeling right now.  So traveling around different states, and also playing with fellow players, they are so great from the previous that I played with.  I learn a lot from short game and recovery shots, so I gained a lot of experience playing with different people here on the LPGA.   Q.  Going back to the travel, what are some of the things that you do to kind of accommodate for that?  You just said that you weren't really used to it.  How have you been adjusting to that?  HYO JOO KIM: So right after the tournament on Sunday, Monday is my day off.  That's what I'm trying to get is rest/recovery for the tournament coming up next week.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT