JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2015
Hyo-Joo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MATT HAAS:   Happy to be joined by champion Hyo Joo Kim.   Great playing out there.   What was the key to your success this week?   
    HYO JOO KIM:   In the morning I wasn't concentrating on winning because I was playing with Stacy Lewis and as a rookie, I just felt that by playing with her, I would learn a lot from her.     So I was just trying to make a good impression as a rookie.   
    MATT HAAS:   What did you learn from playing with Stacy today?   
    HYO JOO KIM:   I have played with her about twice before.   What really stands out about her game is her short game, and so every time I play with someone like Stacy who is really good in an area like that, you just try and watch and learn from them.   
   
 Q.   What happened on No. 10 with the bees?   Can you go through the ruling, and did that make you mad that they didn't give you relief?   
    HYO JOO KIM:   I wasn't frustrating or anything.   If anything, I was just scared of the bees and I didn't want to be stung by them or anything like that.   So I kept asking if I can get relief and I kept asking and they said, no, you can't.   So I just swallowed my fears and tried to play the slot as best I could.   
    MATT HAAS:   For people that really don't know a lot about you, what would you like them to know about Hyo Joo Kim?   
    HYO JOO KIM:   I don't necessarily have anything like that.   If I were a more established player I would feel more comfortable but I'm still new.   I just want to keep making a good impression.   
    MATT HAAS:   Speaking of rookies on Tour, a lot of really good Koreans already winning, Sei Young and Ha Na, what's your relationship with them?   
    HYO JOO KIM:   As you mentioned, Ha Na and Sei Young, they are older than me.   I consider them older sisters.   I just enjoy spending time with them and learning from them while I'm here.   
   
 Q.   You seemed really calm out there, especially in the back nine.   Stacy put a lot of pressure on you to get four birdies out of five holes.   Did you feel any pressure?   Were you nervous?   You didn't seem like it.   
    HYO JOO KIM:   Well, it's impossible not to feel a little pressure or nervous, especially when your playing partner is playing so well.   
    If anything, I think the situation on hole 10 helped because after I went through there and I got a bogey, I just realized there's no time to feel pressure or feel afraid.   I've just got to go out there and play.   
   
 Q.   The rookie class, can you just tell us about how good this South Korean rookie class is, and do you push each other to be even better?   
    HYO JOO KIM:   Well, I'm a rookie, too, so I don't have time to think too much about in a.   But I have known these players from since we used to play on the Korean ladies tour, and I know how good they can be.   In fact, everyone on the LPGA Tour is really good, otherwise they wouldn't be here.   So I'm just trying to find my place.   
    MATT HAAS:   Thank you so much.   Congratulations again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT