LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 18, 2014
Hyo-Joo Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another good day.   How did you feel about the round overall? 
HYO JOO KIM:   I had another great day today.   I started today with a birdie, so it was a great start.   I felt good, my shot felt good.   It seems like I keep screwing up on the 18th hole, the last hole.   So tomorrow hopefully I have a better finish on the 18.

Q.   What was working for you very well today?   What was the part of your game that was good? 
HYO JOO KIM:   It was one particular thing that really worked out for me today.   When the situation asks for whether it's a great save shot, when I had the birdie opportunities, the things just worked out for me when there was situations I had to take care of.

Q.   What about the putting?   I know your said your putting has been good this week.   How was the putting? 
HYO JOO KIM:   Good as usual, except for this one.

Q.   So tomorrow I'm assuming your biggest goal would be to birdie 18? 
HYO JOO KIM:   All I want is a par. 

Q.   So you'll probably be in the final group tomorrow.   Do you think you have any nerves?   What is the goal going into tomorrow now that you're in contention? 
HYO JOO KIM:   I think it's going to be a lot of fun.   Obviously both pros that I'll be playing with are pretty long.   They are superstars.   I think I will be a little bit nervous but it will be great day and I'm going to have a lot of fun.

Q.   Do you think that will be a good advantage for you being under the radar?   You will be the underdog, do you think that will help with the pressure? 
HYO JOO KIM:   You know, I'm kind of indifferent.   I think if I hit some good shots, I'm sure the crowd will cheer me on.   I know that I have to make good shots to be cheered on and they will be cheering for the other two players.   It's fine.   I won't worry about it. 
I usually don't spend too much time or attention on the gallery anyway.   So if I hit well then they will cheer me on and I'm ready to go. 
Because they are both pretty long hitters, as soon as I hit my shot I'm going to get ready for my next shot because I know it's coming.

Q.   At the beginning of the week you said your goal was to do Top‑10.   Now you are the hunt to possibly win.   Do you change goals now?   Do you think tomorrow you are gunning for a win? 
HYO JOO KIM:   I'm not going to change my goal today or tomorrow.   The Top‑10 is still my goal, but anything‑‑ I know where I am now and anything that happens from this point on, and if I finish better than top 10, that is a bonus and I will have a good time.

Q.   Have you thought anything about becoming a LPGA member if you were to win?   I know that's a little far out, but if you were the win would you take membership right away? 
HYO JOO KIM:   My plan this year is if I play well, you know, in my own tour today, my goal was to come to the LPGA through Q School.   Obviously at the end the day, I want to be at the LPGA.   This is big stage, and Iwant to come play at the LPGA.   So if it happens, we'll see what happens.   I definitely eventually want to come play on the LPGA Tour. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT