TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2011
Tre' Porter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. You guys feel like you total their wide receivers this week?
 TRE' PORTER: Yeah, it's pretty much the same offense as last year's team. So we know we're going to have a handful on the passing game and the running game.

 Q. Can you talk about Jeff Fuller?
 TRE' PORTER: He's a tremendous player. He's a big target on the outside, so we're going to probably have to double coverage him more or get a taller guy out there to cover him.

 Q. If called on, can you actually take that and feel confident that you can do what you can do? 
 TRE' PORTER: Yes, because last year I was called -- and I didn't even know I was going to play cornerback last year. But I did my best I could. I tried to hold him from not catching any deep balls which he didn't. But stuff happens sometimes. 
 But if I do get called on to try to stop Jeff Fuller, I'm pretty sure I could.

 Q. What do you guys take from last year's game? Obviously, it was the first game. Now that you know what he's capable of and the receiving corps is capable of, what do you take from last year to use this year? 
 TRE' PORTER: Pretty much they're a talented offense. They can run the ball and pass the ball. So we know who we're dealing with now.

 Q. How much better do you think the defense is right now from the start of the season? 
 TRE' PORTER: We're pretty good. We still have minor mistakes to correct. We have busted assignments sometimes, but we're doing pretty well. We're getting a feel for the defense.

 Q. Do you still feel you're finding your identity? 
 TRE' PORTER: A little bit. We're struggling like some of the deep ball situations and some of the running games. But we're trying to put pieces together to the puzzle to make a bigger picture.

 Q. How good is their running game? 
 TRE' PORTER: Their running game is pretty good. They've got Christine Michael and Cyrus Gray, so, you know, last year they put up pretty big numbers. It's going to be pretty tough.

 Q. Since you're from Oklahoma, what do you know about A&M and this rivalry? 
 TRE' PORTER: Honestly, I pretty much don't know anything. I was an OU fan growing up. So I pretty much know the Oklahoma State and OU rivalry. But dealing with it last year, I know it's a pretty big deal.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 TRE' PORTER: Yeah, I see it like Oklahoma-Oklahoma State rivalry. It feels kind of the same way.

 Q. Did the way that you guys performed second to the fourth quarter Saturday, does that give you confidence as you head into a schedule? 
 TRE' PORTER: Yeah, we finished strong, but we need to start fast and early. So we're trying to find a way to start fast and early and finish the same way as we did before.

 Q. What were you guys doing better? 
 TRE' PORTER: We pretty much had a lost leadership, lot of communications. Talked about what's happening on the field, and correct the minor mistakes that we had.

 Q. Since you don't know too much about the rivalry, does the history around you have an effect on you? 
 TRE' PORTER: No, I pretty much look at every game as a big conference game. We have to win.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 TRE' PORTER: Just pretty much communication. We've all got to be on the same page to stop their offense.

 Q. (Inaudible)?
 TRE' PORTER: Oh, yes.

 Q. Can you talk about (Inaudible) a little more, like what he brings to your offense like basically in his first game he did a pretty good amount?
 TRE' PORTER: Yeah, he's pretty much a tremendous athlete. He can run the ball. He can throw it. He once played receiver so he can really run it. He's bringing a lot of power to his run. We pretty much have to stop him from the strong arm and contain him on the run game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT