THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 6, 2019
Yeahlimi Noh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  ...in the lead in an LPGA event going into the last day.  How does it feel?  
YEAHLIMI NOH: It feels really weird.  I wasn't expecting to be in this position.  I'm really excited for tomorrow.  Hope to play better than today.   
 Q.  Have you surpassed all your expectations?  Realistically did you think this could even be possible right now?  
YEAHLIMI NOH: I was hoping for it.  I was confident.  Coming into the week I felt good about my game and I like the course.  I think it fits well with my game.   
I was hoping for it, but to actually be in this moment feels really nice.   
 Q.  What's it like to see your name with some of the biggest names in golf on that leaderboard at the top of the leaderboard?  
YEAHLIMI NOH: Yeah, oh, my God, it's crazy.  Just I was always watching them on TV and seeing those names, and seeing my name up there and not having to scroll all the way down and stuff, it's really weird but it's nice.   
 Q.  You said you learned a lot from Symetra Tour pros when you were with them.  Today you were paired with the No. 1 player in the world.  What did you learn from her?  
YEAHLIMI NOH: Oh, God it was so fun watching her play.  She's really friendly and just, man, I was like really impressed with her distance obviously and then just how many birdies.  I lost count during the front nine.  I was like, okay, okay.   
But it was really great.   
 Q.  And does that do for your mindset when you're seeing birdies after birdies from someone like Sung Hyun Park?  What's the mindset of you dealing with that?  You're 17 going up against the No. 1 player in the world.  Is it hard for you?  How do you cope with that?  
YEAHLIMI NOH: Yeah, going into the round I told myself I really wanted to just focus on my game and not think about the leaderboard or anything.  Just play my game and see how it goes.   
But it was harder than I thought actually.  I was like, I can do this.  Just think about my game and play.  Obviously watching her and just realizing obviously like just how great she plays, it's definitely why she's No. 1.   
 Q.  When you saw her make the double on 15 and the bogey on 16, did that kind of -- did you breathe a little easier and think, Okay, I'm back in this now or we're all back in it now?  
YEAHLIMI NOH: Kind of.  I was just like, Wow, she makes mistakes too.  Obviously she's human, but it was surprising because she was playing so well.  To see that double I was like, Oh, even the No. 1 player does that.   
 Q.  How confident are you knowing tomorrow is anyone's game?  
YEAHLIMI NOH: For tomorrow I just want to think about my game and just shoot my score and see how it goes.  I don't really want to think about if I can win it or not, because then I'll not be able to focus.   
 Q.  Between now and tomorrow afternoon, do you feel like you might have to calm yourself down before you tee off tomorrow?  What's your routine?  
YEAHLIMI NOH: Yeah, just especially with the late tee time today, too.  I was like, What do I do?  So much time.  I woke up pretty late so it was all right.   
For tomorrow, just the fact that today on the first tee I wasn't too nervous and I hit it in the fairway, I think tomorrow will be all right, too.   
 Q.  Kind of a little bit off topic here, but you're from California, live in California.  Anybody that you know or anybody in your family at all affected by the earthquakes at all or are you too far north of that?  
YEAHLIMI NOH: Too far north, but I did see a bunch of stuff on social media and I was like, I'm glad I'm not there right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT