SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2018
Peter Malnati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Peter, heck of a great start.  Thought you even had a home run opportunity at the last with that bunker shot, but 65, a heck of a way to get around for the first 18 holes.
PETER MALNATI: Yeah, felt really good.  I've been kind of cooped up inside, and I didn't feel like I quite prepared the way I wanted to for this, but I came out and just played great.  Maybe I got something new to do during my time off.
Q. And you'll get a little bit of a gap before tomorrow.  What particularly was working for you today?
PETER MALNATI: I didn't really do anything too poorly today.  I drove the ball okay, which means you hit half your fairways on this course.  But I drove the ball okay.  My iron play was okay.  My short game was pretty good, and I putted really solidly.  It would be interesting to see, I don't think I made any long putts.  But I sure didn't miss any of the ones that I want to make and expect to make.  So I think that was important.
Q. With the gap in the time off between the end of last season -- and you were on a nice little run in terms of making cuts at the end of the last year and then had to earn it back the hard way.  What was it like with that time off to get revved back up here in January?
PETER MALNATI: I don't have any trouble getting revved up.  I need to focus more on getting revved down when it actually is time to go because I'm always revved up.  It's really interesting to me.  I was cooped inside probably a couple days before Christmas through to when we got out here.  I only got outside to practice a couple of times.  It was interesting.  I got to do some work in my garage, which is a much more mechanical type of practice than I usually do, and I think there was some great benefit to that.
So I came out really excited, kind of curious to see what was going to happen because I didn't really know, and I think that mindset of having a little curiosity about it may take a little pressure off and free me up to go play.  So it was kind of fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT