FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Peter Malnati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETER MALNATI:   It's great to be -- it's great to officially be on the weekend.   This is probably not a good thought to have but I was thinking about this after the Byron Nelson, hadn't made a cut yet on the Continental United States on the PGA TOUR.   
    It's official now, I have.   So, that's good.   Good to get that monkey off my back.   It's not really a monkey.   Yes, it's good.   It does feel good to make the weekend.   I was happy with the way I played today in the second round.  
   
 Q.   Big smile on your face the whole time around this golf course.   I know that you said you thought you found something last week, maybe the scores didn't show up, but what have you found that's translated to great play this week?  
    PETER MALNATI:   Kind of remembered like this year it seemed like every week I've been sitting there looking at the FedEx Points list and everything is kind of letting me get so bogged down with the results.   The only thing on my mind I got to get good results.   Not always going to get that.   
    That can lead to not feeling the best.   But my whole life I've always been kind of very process-oriented.   I know I'm taking care of my business.   I've got nothing to not be happy about.   My process works.   
    I'm going to get the results I want.   I just may not always get them exactly when I want them.   I'm really at peace right now with knowing I'm working hard and doing my thing and the results there come.  
   
 Q.   Long way.   You come out of gate with three straight birdies.   How itching were you to get on the golf course again?   
    PETER MALNATI:   Definitely.   I feel really good I came out in the morning yesterday and just really had a really, really light practice but I did get 45 minutes of practice in before lunch yesterday.   If I hadn't done that I wouldn't have done anything.   I was definitely ready to play some golf.  
   
 Q.   Go get a sandwich and let's do it again, okay?  
    PETER MALNATI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Got to be pleased where you heading into Round 3.  
    PETER MALNATI:   I'm playing great golf.   Definitely was -- couple disappointing things there at the end.   I had a really, really easy eagle chip on 16 that I ended up making par.   That wasn't good.   
    Then the tee shot on 18 I wasn't -- I wasn't going to bail out and make a woss swing.   I was going to commit to something.   I mean it was terrible.   I almost hit it left of the pond.   That's not good but I feel great.   I'm in a great, great position and I really feel good about my game despite a couple squirrely things there at the end.  
   
 Q.   The course is ready and willing to give up some birdies today?  
    PETER MALNATI:   The course is incredible.   I don't think anyone from the PGA TOUR staff to the Greens Committee here wants it to be as soft as it is.   For how much rain we've had, it's incredible.   Everything is still in really good shape.   
    It is getable.   I don't see why that's a problem.   Who cares the scores are a little lower.   Everyone is playing the same course.   It's incredible how good the course is given the conditions they've had to deal with.  
   
 Q.   How do you approach the next round, could be another delay?  
    PETER MALNATI:   Try to be ready whenever it's time to hit shots.   Obviously there's a million things going on that are new to me but if I can just take care of business and control the things that I'm in control of, you know, which is my preparation and my -- the process I go through on all my shots, I'll be in good shape.   The weather and that stuff obviously just another thing kind of add to the newness of this for me but it's all good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT