SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 9, 2020
Peter Malnati
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Peter, incredible round of golf; incredible finish.  Talk a little bit about the day.
PETER MALNATI:   Yeah, I mean, pretty crazy.  Obviously riding a little momentum in from last week playing well.  Yeah, just feel like I'm swinging it well, hitting it where I want to for the most part.  And then the putter seemed it cool off a little bit yesterday and heated back up today.
Yeah, it's pretty fun right now.
Q. Take us through the 9th hole there, the eagle.
PETER MALNATI:   Yeah, I hit what felt like a really nice drive.  It leaked a little right; ended up in the first cut on the right side, but had a nice yardage.  Just hit a good full 5-iron to the front pin and it landed kind of in the perfect spot.  Kind of deadened it a little bit and went 12 or 15 feet past the hole and poured it right in.
Q. Logjam up at the top.  Just talk a little bit about your thoughts going into the he weekend.
PETER MALNATI:   It was pretty crazy.  I remember -- I don't know if was to two or three years ago.  It was the year that Cantlay, and Alex Cejka was also in the playoff.  I think the playoff was at 7-under.  I think they were at 7-under through four rounds and played off.
This year the lead halfway is at 14-under.  The cut I think is going to 7-under.  It's a course that I know can get difficult with wind and firmness and all that, so I don't know if that's going to happen or not.
My plan is just going to go out and keep trying to do my best.  That's all I ever really do.  I will go out this weekend, and if it stays like this, hopefully make a lot more birdies.
Q. You were talking about riding a wave.  How much fun is golf for you right now?
PETER MALNATI:   Oh, my gosh.  It's a blast.  I think I said this last week on Sunday when I finished my round.  This is my absolute dream job, and that's true even though it beats me up so much more than it gives me times like this.
I think what makes the game so cool is the fact that all the failure, all the struggle, all the difficulty, it just completely is erased by a day that feels like this.
It's just the best when your sport feels like this, so it's a lot of fun, like you said.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT