NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Kyle Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KYLE LOWRY: This weekend is about having fun. This weekend is about being around all these great guys and being around these great pros. Hanging out with Pascal [Siakam]. It's about our coaching staff, right? It's about that.   
 Q.  What's the difference with your team this year? Is it similar to last year? Because you guys have surprised me.  
KYLE LOWRY: Yeah, the difference is we don't have Kawhi. The similarities are we're the same exact team. We play hard. We go out there and we defend. We've got pros. We're just trying to win every single game. That's what we've always done.   
 Q.  On the new All-Star Game format:  
KYLE LOWRY: I'm excited. I think it's going to be fun. I think it's going to be competitive the whole way through. I think everything is going to be super fun.   
 Q.  If you were NBA commissioner, what crazy rule would you bring into next year's NBA All-Star Game and why?  
KYLE LOWRY: I would probably put in a four-point shot. Something like that.   
 Q.  What conversations have you had with Pascal about taking it in?  
KYLE LOWRY: I haven't had too many conversations with him about taking it in, but I'm going to be around him for the next couple hours and couple days. I think I just want him to enjoy the moment. I want him to run around and have fun and learn what not to do during All-Stars. Have fun with it and really know that it's a privilege and an honor to be here around these other great pros at All-Stars.   
 Q.  How special is it to see him?  
KYLE LOWRY: It means the world for me. Honestly, it means the world to me to have him here. I was so happy for him. It was so important for me to see him be here. I was so happy for our coaching staff and for Pascal to just be able to have the season he's had and kind of build off of what he did last year, Most Improved and winning the championship. So it was very special.   
 Q.  With the All-Star Game in Chicago this year, what's your perception of the season Zach LaVine has had?  
KYLE LOWRY: I think Zach LaVine has had an unbelievable year. He's had a great season. He just continues to get better. He's taken on the role of being that guy every single night and knowing he has to go out there and get 30, 35 points. He's doing very well with that burden on him of being that guy.   
 Q.  What can the fans expect from you?  
KYLE LOWRY: Expect from me? Some laughs, some jokes, some fun and some enjoyment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT