NBA ALL-STAR 2019
February 16, 2019
Kyle Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's Michael Jordan's birthday this weekend.  
KYLE LOWRY: What's up, Mike?  Happy birthday.   
 Q.  A lot of talk about the GOAT, but in basketball, what are you the GOAT at?  
KYLE LOWRY: I am the GOAT at nothing.   
 Q.  Come on.  
KYLE LOWRY: I don't know.  The GOAT of something is pretty -- I'm the GOAT of acting like I care.   
 Q.  When you need to, you can turn it on?  
KYLE LOWRY: Absolutely.   
 Q.  Ric Flair is from here.  If you were a wrestler, what would your wrestling name be?  
KYLE LOWRY: I need like The Pineapple, something like that.  Rough on the outside, but sweet on the inside.   
 Q.  The Prickler.  
KYLE LOWRY: That's it.  The Pineapple Prickler, there you go right there.   
 Q.  What do you Marc [Gasol] and Jeremy [Lin] bring to the team that you guys didn't have before?  
KYLE LOWRY: It brings toughness, experience.  It brings Marc with his passing abilities, his play-making abilities.  It brings a different type of look from the inside.  And then with Jeremy, it gives a pace guy, a fast, another scorer, a guy who can get to the basket, penetrate.  Yes, it's a lot that those two bring.   
 Q.  Here at the All-Star Game, how is it?  Are you relaxed?  
KYLE LOWRY: It's always the same.  It's always exciting to be here.  I've got a small booth this time, though.  In Toronto I had a big one because I had more media.  It's always fun.  I never get tired of this.  I always enjoy it because you never know when it's going to be your last one.  Five in a row is pretty cool, and being the last one having Dirk here and having D-Wade here, it makes it really cool.  I had a chance to be with Kobe last one.  It's pretty awesome.   
 Q.  We saw OG [Anunoby] last night and Danny [Green] will be out there tonight.  What do you think his chances are?  
KYLE LOWRY: OG was great.  It was a star-studded game.  He got a couple of dunks.  That type of game, he did great.  I was proud of him.   
Danny's just got to do better than me.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to the most on Sunday?  
KYLE LOWRY: Just being around the fellas.  I say that every year.  You get an opportunity to be around these stars and these great guys, it's a great opportunity.  Take advantage.  Smile, laugh, have kids around.  My kids always get pictures with the guys, Giannis and Steph, but even like Joker [Nikola Jokic] and [Nikola] Vucevic and Blake [Griffin], Bradley Beal.  I make sure to get pictures with all these guys because all these guys are special All-Stars.   
 Q.  Can you share with us your prediction for this season's MVP?  
KYLE LOWRY: This season's MVP?  Oh, wow.  The three top guys, of course, James [Harden], Giannis, and PG [Paul George].  My prediction?  Man, I'm going to go with Giannis.  I just think the way their team's playing.  I know it's going to depend on how the season finishes up, but they're one of the top teams in the league.  Yeah, PG's making a strong point.  And James is kind of like -- I think they should just do all three MVPs.  That's my choice.   
 Q.  What do you get MJ for his birthday?  
KYLE LOWRY: Nice watch.   
 Q.  What's it like playing with Dwyane Wade?  
KYLE LOWRY: Like I just said, it's unbelievable because I get a chance to see him on his last one.  To see a legend, be with a legend, unfortunately not on my team, but just to see him around.  He had his dinner on Thursday.  Just being around.  He's a legend.  It's going to be cool, but it's a bittersweet moment.  It's going to be good for him.   
 Q.  You went to the Sweet 16 and the Elite Eight?  What's your favorite NCAA Tournament memory?  
KYLE LOWRY: My favorite personally?  Just being in the Tournament, being there, having my family and friends there.  I think when we beat Florida my freshman year.  I had a big game.  That was my favorite memory, my personal.  But other than that is when Villanova won the last 2 out of 3.  That's about right.   
 Q.  When I say "Duke" you say...  
KYLE LOWRY: Villanova.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT