NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 17, 2018
Kyle Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What teams do you think are going to go to The Finals this year?  
KYLE LOWRY: Hopefully us.   
 Q.  What is your go-to music right now?  
KYLE LOWRY: My go-to music right now is pretty much everything.  I've got a good mix of Drake, Jay-Z, Meek Mills, some Migos.  I've got a good mix of everything, man.  Some R&B in there, old-school R&B, always Jay-Z.   
 Q.  Everyone has said Migos right now.  
KYLE LOWRY: They've got some good hype music.  They've got some good songs, man.   
 Q.  Good thing you said Drake.  You would have gotten in trouble?  
KYLE LOWRY: No, I wouldn't have gotten in trouble.  I'm a grown man.   
 Q.  What do you think of Kristaps Porzingis going down?  
KYLE LOWRY: It sucks because I know K.P.  It just sucks.  He was having a phenomenal year, an All-Star year.  He was leading his team.  But for a guy like him, he's going to work hard and get back on the floor and be even better.   
 Q.  LeBron just announced he's remaking "House Party."  If you could remake or star in a '90s sitcom or movie, what would you do?  
KYLE LOWRY: "Fresh Prince of Bel-Air."   
 Q.  What character would you be?  
KYLE LOWRY: For sure, Geoffrey.  He was the funniest guy to me.   
 Q.  Do you think people are sleeping on the Raptors that they're number one in the East right now?  
KYLE LOWRY: At the end of the day, people have their own opinions.  We've got to go out there and do our job.  At the end of the day, we're going to go out there, play basketball and not worry about anybody else.   
 Q.  Do you think that number one spot will make the difference for you in the playoffs?  
KYLE LOWRY: We would hope so, but we've got to get there.  We've got to finish the season strong.   
 Q.  What has impressed you the most about your season as a team?  
KYLE LOWRY: Just the emergence of the bench.  I think those guys are playing fantastically.  I think our young guys are playing great.   
 Q.  What about you personally, your season?  Are you satisfied with the way you're playing?  
KYLE LOWRY: I can always be better.  I always feel like I can play to a higher standard.  But the way we've been changing our offense and how we've been doing things has been great.   
Everyone's fitting in and winning and playing well.  So everyone's happy.  We just, as a team, have to get better.   
 Q.  What more do you want to see?  
KYLE LOWRY: Just finishing games better.  When we're in close games, finishing better.  Making sure we stick with what we do, and make sure our defense stays tight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT