NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS v CAVALIERS
May 27, 2016
DeMar DeRozan
Kyle Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Cleveland 113, Toronto 87
Q. You guys played very well, but it seemed like in the second quarters of all the games you lost, you kind of lost it there.  Did you have a feel for what happened in those second quarters?
DeMAR DeROZAN: We had a lapse.  We had lapses in that second quarter.  They took advantage of it.  They continued to pull away from it the rest of the game, and it was tough for us to get back in the game.
Q. Kyle, obviously the look on your face says it all right now, but I mean, this is a question you probably get asked every time you get eliminated from the playoffs, but this really was a special season for this team.  Do you think there will be a time when you look back and realize what you were able to accomplish this year?
KYLE LOWRY: Yeah, of course you're going to look back at some point, but right now, I'm disappointed.  Simple as that.  I'm disappointed.
Q. DeMar, same question for you.  How do you put this in perspective given where you guys were four years ago and even before that?
DeMAR DeROZAN: It's hard work, man.  You put everything, you sacrifice so much for moments like this.  When they get taken away from you, it's hurtful.  You worked so hard to climb your way up, to get knocked back down you understand you've got to start over again from ground one.  But that's a challenge we all accept, and we're looking forward to it.  But as of right now, it sucks.
Q. Can you just talk about the other team here tonight?  Obviously you were facing a great team, a team that's been to the championship before.  Just talk about this series and what you saw from them.
KYLE LOWRY: Tip our hats to those guys.  They did what we want to do, and they've been to where we want to get to.  They played unbelievable so far this playoffs.  Give them all the credit; they beat us fair and square, and their guys played well.  They're a talented group, and they've got a chance to win an NBA championship.  That's where we want to be.
This series was fun to be a part of.  Like I say, I'm disappointed, but it just shows how much harder it is to get to that point.
Q. You guys had a lot of trouble with the traps and the pick-and-roll in Game 5.  This game you seemed a lot more able to handle it.  Can you tell me what you did and how you attacked it better this time?
DeMAR DeROZAN: We didn't set as many screen-and-rolls with the fives.  We just kind of tried to be aggressive, tried to attack, push the ball in transition and get out and just be aggressive.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT