NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Kyle Lowry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How special does it feel knowing that it's here now and it's the weekend?  
KYLE LOWRY: Yeah, I think the first time is always special, but now it's fun and in my hometown where I play every night.  And the way I get to represent the team, it's great.  It's a lot of buzz around me, and my family and my friends, and especially a buzz with me and DeMar [DeRozan].  It's a special time.   
 Q.  To share it with DeMar, that must be really good?  
KYLE LOWRY: Yeah, it means the world.  Because we're our leaders of our team.  We put our blood, sweat and tears into the organization and what we do.  It's just been good.  It's been a good season so far.   
 Q.  Do you get a chance to play host a little bit because this is in Toronto?  
KYLE LOWRY: A little bit.  But we've kind of been staying a little more low key and not trying to do everything out there.  But people called me and asked me where to go or where to eat dinner.  I've given a few tips here and there.   
 Q.  What are the tips?  
KYLE LOWRY: Stay out of traffic.  But gave them a couple of restaurants and the restaurants that I like.  I'll make a call into it and make sure people take care of them.   
 Q.  I'm sorry.  It's your second time.  It's Kobe's last time, does that mean something to you?  
KYLE LOWRY: It means a lot.  I think it means something to everybody this year.  He's the Michael Jordan of our era.  He's the most competitive player we've played against, and the thing he's done throughout his career and the things he's done to change the game, to motivate the players is unbelievable.   
 Q.  Are you going to go for MVP?  
KYLE LOWRY: Who?   
 Q.  You.  
KYLE LOWRY: I'm just going to go out and have fun and enjoy the game.   
 Q.  You're from Philly, Kobe's from Philly.  Growing up, was he a guy that you looked up to basketball-wise?  
KYLE LOWRY: Well, he's a Laker.  Of course he's a guy that we grew up watching and respect because of where he's from.  He's from Philly, and I'm from Philly, and the things he's done to put the city on the map is magical.   
 Q.  How much different is this?  Other than playing hoops, last year was your first year making All-Star, and it was like you finally got your respect.  How is this year different for you?  
KYLE LOWRY: It's home.  It's my home city and where I play every single night.  Like I said, I can play host, unofficial host.  But it's just one thing to be able to represent the team, the country, the city, like I do every single night I step on that floor.   
 Q.  How much do you think the perception of Toronto has changed since the time that you've been in the league?  
KYLE LOWRY: I think it's changed a lot.  Toronto is kind of one of those teams that you think, Oh, they're Toronto.  But now we've become a force.  We're 48, 49 wins [in the last two seasons].  Unfortunately, the playoffs haven't turned into what we wanted to do.  But every year we're getting better.  The organization is getting better, the team is getting better, players are growing.   
Me staying, hopefully that changes people's perception about people leaving and coming and having a couple years and leaving.  Me staying was the reason for me to try to change the perception.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT