NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 6, 1999
Rick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about your last start?

RICK REED: Well, I think the last start was more like a playoff game. You know, our
backs were against the wall. We had to win those three games, and, you know, I had
struggled pretty much all year, to try to get to that point to where I was pitching good
again. You know, it was just good to go out there and pitch well and we outscored them. 

Q. Can you can you reflect on at this stage in your career how important it is to be
here in the playoffs?

RICK REED: Well, I don't know how important it is to me, but I'm having a great time.
This is all new to me. I've only been in the playoffs one time, and that was in the minor
leagues. Like I said, this is all new at this level, and I'm just having a good time with
it. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

RICK REED: Seeing a guy like John Franco who has been playing for 15 years and never
had the opportunity to be in postseason, and, you know, here we are in postseason, it's a
thrill just to see him and the way he's going about it, and, you know, a lot of guys don't
get a chance. We've got a chance this year to do something special, and hopefully we can
continue and move on a little further than what we are. 

Q. Rick, you've been around Bobby longer than most people with the Mets --?

RICK REED: It's the same thing like with John Franco. Bobby has been managing for God
knows how long. I know it's taken him over 1,700 games to get to postseason. It's really
special. I know my wife and his wife talked. They talked about how special it is for one
another. It's just great. I know it's a load off his shoulders. 

Q. Can you talk about Tony Womack and also the heart of the Diamondback order?

RICK REED: Well, Tony Womack, if you can keep him off base, you've pretty much keep him
off the board. Like Roger Cedano and Rickey Henderson for our team. If he gets on he can
cause a little havoc on the bases. When he's on, you've got to face Jay Bell and Luis
Gonzales and Matt Williams. That makes your job even tougher. If you can keep him off
base, that's just one less thing you have to worry about. 

Q. How does it affect you watching these two games here, or do you already know how you
will approach your game on Friday?

RICK REED: I've watched the game last night, obviously, from the clubhouse. We had
Yoshii, who was a right-hander. I watched how he pitched them and, you know, tonight I
know Kenny Rogers is left-handed; I probably won't pay attention to that game, but I will
look at some videotapes. I did pitch against him twice this year. Once here, I'd rather
forget about that one, and I had a pretty good one against him in New York. So I think
I'll just look at that videotape and just get an opportunity, get a game plan together and
go from there. 

Q. Do you think your team is less tired today than they you were yesterday?

RICK REED: I don't think we're any more tired than what we have been in the past week.
We've been through a lot in the past week; so I think everybody is refreshed now, and just
ready to go and get at it. 

Q. What do you anticipate the environment will be at Shea Stadium?

RICK REED: If it's in this case like the past three or four days there, it's going to
be hectic. It's going to be crazy. I know the fans have been waiting on this for a long
time. I know the Mets organization has been waiting on this. I'm looking forward to it and
I know it's going to be exciting. 

Q. As a pitcher do you thrive on that or do you shut that type of thing off?

RICK REED: I try to shut it off. You know, I know that we consider them the 10th man.
But it's a lot easier to pitch in front of your home crowd when they're behind you, and I
know they will be behind us. 

Q. Can you go over the adjustment in your grip that Al Jackson helped you with?

RICK REED: I was throwing on the side, I think it was in Atlanta. He told me like, I
guess he watched me in spring training when we first went down there for spring training.
Just noted that I was gripping the ball a little tighter, a little further back in my
hand. And he just said, "Just move the ball out a little bit and we'll go from
there." I did that. I had more life on my fastball, and my curveball had a sharper
break; so it wasn't breaking; that that was the answer. It took me two or three starts to
really get comfortable with it. It's shown over the last two or three starts, and it's
gotten better the last few times out. In the game against Pittsburgh it seemed like
everything I threw was a strike and where I wanted it to go.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT