NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 15, 1999
Rick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Rick, you've said on a couple of occasions the last time you pitched, for instance,
not having all the innings this year has allowed you to be different, stronger now. Is
that the only reason, or is there more to it than just having fewer innings?

RICK REED: I think that's really all it is. Like you said, I do feel stronger. I don't
have a lot of innings. I know over the past two years, I've had over 200 innings, and last
year I kind of tired out. I think that's all it is.

Q. Can you talk about the feeling of going out there, pitching in a big game tomorrow
night?

RICK REED: I don't consider it a big game. I'm going to approach it as an ordinary
game. I can't go in with that kind of attitude and put more pressure on myself than there
already is. So I think I'm going to try to approach it as an ordinary game and see what
happens.

Q. Rick, do you draw any energy from a sold-out crowd? Do you think it can impact a
team or hinder a team in any way?

RICK REED: I think it will have an impact. I know when there's a lot of people in the
stands, that makes you feel good, when they're all backing you. So I think they're going
to be on our side the most part of the night.

Q. Rick, you enjoy the fact that you're going to be in a pivotal role tomorrow or would
you rather be given a chance to pitch twice in the series?

RICK REED: Well, obviously, I want to pitch any time that I can get the opportunity.
But it just turned out that I was scheduled for Game 4; so I'm going to go out and do the
best I can, go as hard as I can, for as long as I can. We'll see after that. Maybe I can
get into another game, I don't know.

Q. Rick, given the fact that this team has been in improbable situations and come back
and prevailed, does that give the guys a little confidence when you look at a 2-0 deficit?

RICK REED: I don't know if it's confidence. We've been in situations, I know a lot this
year, with our backs against the wall. And we've come out fighting. And I just heard where
Brian Jordan said we always come out smelling like roses. Hopefully this is another time
we come out smelling like a rose.

Q. When you look at how the series have gone to this point, you've played in Atlanta so
many times in the last month, have you developed a certain comfort level yourself about
how you pitch to their line-up, more so than you would if you hadn't seen them since
August or July or something like that?

RICK REED: I do basically the same thing. I look at scouting reports, videotape, and I
try to get a game plan together each time against whoever it is. I'm going to do the same
thing. I've pitched against them twice this year. I'm still going to look at those
videotapes and those scouting reports and try to get an idea and get a game plan together
and see what happens after that.

Q. If John Rocker were, say, a boxer, for instance, taunting the audience or taunting
opponents, it would be no big deal. What is it about baseball that is treated so sacred
that you just don't do that sort of thing?

RICK REED: Well, that's pretty much part of boxing, but I don't think it has anything
to do with baseball. That's a hard question to answer. I know I'm not one to do that
because it always seems to come and bite me. It comes back and haunts me. I don't know, it
might come back and haunt him, who knows.

Q. Rick, can you talk about your success against the Braves so far this year?

RICK REED: Knock on wood, hopefully it happens again. I don't know, maybe it's just one
of those things. I had some horrible games against Arizona, and I ended up pitching a
pretty good game the other night against them. It's just one of those things. Hopefully,
nothing bad happens. It's just how we play the game. It's a different game every night and
anything can happen. It just so happens that I've done pretty well against the Braves. In
the past it hasn't been that way, but it seems this year I've done pretty well.

Q. Rick, do Rocker's comments offend you?

RICK REED: Doesn't bother me one bit.

Q. Rick, you talk about not changing your approach considering the circumstances. Do
you agree, though, that there's not a lot of room for error going up against a guy like
Smoltz tomorrow?

RICK REED: Well, there's not a lot of room for error approaching anyone. The way I look
at it, they have a tough line-up. Every team in this League has a tough line-up for me. I
always say that anybody with a bat in their hand is dangerous. So whether it's Smoltz or
the Braves, the Diamondbacks, whoever, it's a dangerous team. We consider ourself a
dangerous team, too. I really don't focus much on all that.

Q. Rick, what is the major reason Atlanta has so much mastery over the Mets, 11 out of
14? What are the specific points you guys worry about?

RICK REED: I was hoping you had the answers to that. I don't know. I'm sure if we could
put a finger on it, we would already have done it. I don't know, maybe times will change
now that we're back in New York, I don't know. But they've played us well here, too. We're
going to have to go out and play hard and limit the mistakes. When they give you an
opportunity to have a big inning, you've got to take advantage, or they close it in a
hurry.

Q. Rick, when you said you didn't want to approach it any differently tomorrow than a
regular game, is that because of the circumstance or because you are a guy who seems to
get particularly nervous before any game?

RICK REED: Like I said, I don't want to put any added pressure. And you're right; I do
get nervous. And I don't want to get too overly nervous.

Q. What's the offshoot of that, what do you hope to avoid doing?

RICK REED: Giving up a lot of runs, for one. I don't know, I just don't want to get
caught up in it being the "big game". Like I said, I'm going to approach it as
an ordinary game, a regular season game, and see what happens after that. I can't say it
any better than that.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT