NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 8, 1999
Rick Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Rick, the other day you were talking about how this is all new to you. Talk about
the experience in postseason?
 
 RICK REED: Well, it was pretty exciting looking out there and seeing all those fans,
pardon my voice, I am a little horse, but it was, I guess you can say a dream come true. 
 
Q. How did you lose your voice?
 
 RICK REED: Yelling from the 6th inning on. (laughs). 
 
Q. Rick you had been hesitant after the last two starts. Felt back to normal. You hope
that adjustment with your grip was the right thing. After 3 starts can you say that you
feel like your old self yet?
 
 RICK REED: Yeah, I think I can. I tell you, it was -- I think spending those two times
on the D. L. List this year was the big blessing in the sky for me. Really don't have a
lot of innings under my belt, but I feel strong and I think that is what helped me
throughout the end of the year. 
 
Q. What about the way the team came out today given Mike's absence and some of the
other distractions going on?
 
 RICK REED: Well, we have won a lot of ball games with Todd Pratt, and Todd did a great
job again tonight. Any time that Mike is needed a day off or he has been had a little
injury or whatever, you know, Todd stepped right in there and done a great job and he did
it again tonight. 
 
Q. Whole team overall?
 
 RICK REED: I really don't think anybody looked into that. Like I said, we all know Todd
can catch. We all know he can call a good game. You know, no one really focused on. That
it was just go out and leave it out all on the field. That is what we did. 
 
Q. Second time you showed a little bit of emotion tonight after that strike out. Is
Leiter converting you?
 
 RICK REED: Al has been on me a little bit because I always told him that I never show
emotion, but I guess I am showing a little bit my past two or three starts, so, maybe he
is converting me, I don't know. 
 
Q. In comparison to the last game, how did your stuff feel?
 
 RICK REED: I struggled a little bit with my curve ball tonight. As you can ask Turner
Ward with that, I like to have that pitch back, but other than that, I think the stuff was
there. I really wasn't hitting my spots like I did the other night, but when I had to make
a pitch, I made it and got out of some jams, so it was there. I wanted to come in
yesterday and play a little catch, do a little running but I ended up taking the whole day
off. I think that might have had a little something to do with it. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT