NCAA MEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: LOUISVILLE
March 30, 2019
Grady Eifert
Matt Haarms
Aaron Wheeler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Virginia-80, Purdue-75
Q. I know you've been asked already, but the offensive rebound when they get the tie, tell us what happened on that play.
MATT HAARMS: End of regulation, you mean?  Just a crazy play.  He misses it and he just pops up.  I think everyone's trying to grab at it.  He pops up, pops back, and then our guys are in the backcourt, have to make a decision, I can't get to the pass.  I have to just make him make it over me.  He does.
And you've got to lock in, hey, we're still in the game.  It's overtime.  You've got to lock in for five minutes.
Q. What was it like in the huddle after he made that shot before overtime?
MATT HAARMS: After he made the shot?  I mean, we knew, you know, we've been to overtime before.  We knew how to win in overtime, so we were ready to go.  We were just going through, hey, what's our first play going to be?  We'll have to go on defense.
Q. Matt, you probably answered this before.  On the last second shot that sent the game to overtime, how did you see that?  And what happened?  It's kind of a crazy couple of seconds there.
MATT HAARMS: It was just crazy.  Honestly, we do everything we can there.  He misses it.  I didn't know if he was trying to miss it.  We need to come up with that.  Tips right back to him, pops up, pops back.  And then comes back and makes it tough on him, just has to quick it and puts it in the basket.  You've got to be ready for that.
Q. Did he just dart around somebody?  You say it just came to him?
MATT HAARMS: Yeah, I mean, they kind of threw it up the court.  I think it was Clark.  He ended up coming up with it.  He was back there.  He came up with it, was throwing it up the court.  I don't know if he was trying to throw it to anybody.  He threw it up there.  He was closer to me.  Diakite was closest to the ball than me.  I was guarding him and Salt, making sure I didn't give up anything at the rim.  Decided he'd have to make a tough one, and he did.
Q. Straight-up tap, right?
MATT HAARMS: I think it just kind of -- it just went everywhere when it tapped back.
Q. When it was tapped, you just went to the nearest guy you saw?
MATT HAARMS: Yeah.  I mean, I was in the middle there, because Salt was still back there as well.  So they were both on the box.  So I had to make a decision when I saw it go to Diakite, say hey, this is going to have to be a tough one.  He makes a great individual play.
Q. I don't believe I've ever seen a play any time in a game like that before, where it goes so far into the backcourt.
MATT HAARMS: I've seen a lot crazier than that.  This is March Madness.  You can expect something crazy to happen.  I don't think it's that weird, especially in basketball, anything can happen.  Something like that happens, you have been to be locked in.
Q. Playing so well for so long, it has to be difficult and disappointing.  Talk about that a little bit.  You guys played great.
MATT HAARMS: It sucks to go home.  We knew they were a great team coming in.  They really fought us.  We really fought them until the end.  We gave them everything we got and they just came on top and just got a couple more possessions.  That's just the way they played.  They get you one, two possessions, maybe three, and that's how they grind you out.  That's just what happened.
AARON WHEELER: It was a great game overall, so...
Q. When you guys are shooting like you were tonight, does Coach encourage you guys to keep going?  Or how does he tell you kind of when you're shooting too much, when a shot is a good shot versus a bad shot?
AARON WHEELER: Yeah, I mean we always try to like pick our spots and stuff like that, not force stuff.  But Carsen was kind of just, he was obviously in a zone.  But guys, when they get open shots, just knowing when to shoot and not passing up open looks.
Q. How do you sum up what you're feeling right now?
AARON WHEELER: I mean, this is really tough.  We were right there.  But our guys fought through a lot this year.  I'm proud of everybody.  We came a long way from the beginning of the season.  So just glad we were able to turn it around.  Can't be too mad.
Q. Talk about what you've accomplished this tournament.
GRADY EIFERT: I mean, we're a special group.  We never listen to outside people.  Just worked hard every single day and just was able to get us places that a lot of teams can't say they've been.
Q. What was it like to see what Carsen was getting done?
GRADY EIFERT: I mean, it was unbelievable, just big shot after big shot.  Able to match.  When they would hit some big shots, he would come down and answer.  So just huge from him.  We've seen it all year.  And for him to have this kind of tournament, after a lot of people were doubting him is, you know, great to see.  Just unbelievable game for him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT