NCAA MEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: LOUISVILLE
March 29, 2019
Ryan Cline
Grady Eifert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What stuff do you know about, like, Ryan played with Kyle back in the day.  Have you gotten any -- obviously, you watched tape this morning.  What is it about Kyle that makes him so good?  Have you heard things from Ryan?
GRADY EIFERT: Really good IQ player, can shoot the 3 well and plays with a lot of energy and two-time All-American.  Kind of shows for itself.  Ever since he's been able to get there, they've won and just kind of shows what he brings to the table.
Q. He's a huge Bengals fan.
GRADY EIFERT: He said he's going to hit you with a who dey tomorrow.
GRADY EIFERT: That's cool.
Q. The game was intense, a lot of emotion, flows in the game.  How have your teammates been able to rebound, get that behind you and prepare mentally and physically for a tough game?
GRADY EIFERT: It's got to be a quick turnaround.  You don't get the week in between to think about it.  You get that night, and the next morning you've got to wake up and brush it off.  Just kind of carry on to the next game.  Understand the effort that it takes to win that type of game and understand that it's going to be probably the same dog fight.
Q. There are players calling your offense prolific.  You've been in the top 5 of efficiency rankings all season.  What's it going to be like going against Virginia, also in the top 5?
GRADY EIFERT: Not settling for shots, making sure we move the ball well, making sure we get in the paint and take good shots.  Kind of just keeping our rhythm and not let them get out of our rhythm, because they do a really good job of forcing teams not to play how they're used to.
If we can stick to what we do best, that's going to be huge.  It's obviously a lot, you know, harder to do than just talk about it.  But it's going to be able to execute on offense.  That's what we have to do.
Q. Ryan, just wanted to follow up on the Kyle Guy stuff.  He did mention the crossover, but he said something else about the Adidas tournament.  He said that he and -- and I didn't catch the other team, Edwards or someone, were the guys everybody was looking at on that team.  He said you hit eight 3s to win the championship game single-handedly.  He said it was one of the best shooting exhibitions he'd ever seen.  And, basically, you came out of nowhere and did that.  He was very complimentary.
What do you remember about playing with him?  What was he like as a teammate?
RYAN CLINE: He was a fantastic teammate.  He's an even better person.  He's such a nice guy.  He's very respectful.
Honestly, he probably did cross me over.  I honestly don't remember that.  I'm going to ask him to send me the video.  It will be probably pretty funny.
But, you know, like I said, he's such a good guy.  Yeah, that entire tournament, I played really bad.  Like I shot the ball really bad.  And I came out in the championship game and just came out at a good time.
Q. Any disparaging stories about Kyle, like he has a few about crossing you over and making you fall?
RYAN CLINE: No.  He's such a good player, I don't think I have anything crazy for you.  He's really good.  He was really excited in particular when he was getting interest from Virginia.  I remember.
And, you know, he really liked Coach Bennett, and I got nothing but respect for him and that program and what they've done and all their accomplishments.
Q. What's your relationship like now with him?
RYAN CLINE: We still keep in contact.  We'll text every now and then.  He texted me and he said, When are you going to be in Louisville?
I said, I'll be here on Tuesday.  Tuesday night.  We actually never really got around, because we're actually pretty busy.  I thought we'd have some downtime, but we never actually got around to seeing each other.
I said good luck to him before his last game.  Went over and gave him a hug, told him good luck.
He said, you know, play the whole game.
And it was a lot of fun being able to see old teammates.  It's going to be more exciting tomorrow to play him.
Q. How similar are your games?
RYAN CLINE: I'd say very similar.  We're really good when coming off screens.  We've got a quick release.  I feel like we just both know how to play the game and have a good feel for it.
Q. What do you think it will be like tomorrow when you guys most likely will be guarding each other?
RYAN CLINE: It's going to be a lot of fun.  I don't know for sure that we'll be guarding each other, but it's going to be a lot of fun to see an old friend.  We're meeting at the biggest stage.  So it's going to be something really exciting.
Q. How much one-on-one have you played with him?
RYAN CLINE: Maybe a couple times.  Nothing crazy.  I mean, like I said, that was a long time ago.  But, yeah, I mean, he's a really good player and he was an even better teammate when we played with each other.
Q. Who won when you played one-on-one with him?
RYAN CLINE: I don't honestly remember.  I mean it was a long time ago.  He can score the ball.
Q. Ryan, what was the reaction, especially social media and your phone probably exploded last night after your game?  What was that like?
RYAN CLINE: I had a lot of people texting me and reaching out to me.  There were a couple of NBA players and NFL players reaching out, which was cool.  It's something you can take in in the moment and it's a new day.  We're preparing for Virginia and we're excited to be able to practice another day.
Q. Can you name names?  Any stars who touched base with you?
RYAN CLINE: I know Donovan Mitchell, he was in a slam dunk contest when I was in a 3-point contest.  It was actually at my school.  So we've kept in touch a little.  He's the nicest guy.  I know Kyle Kuzma, Mark Ingram, a couple other guys.  That was pretty special.
Q. Did you hear Kyle casually mention on the dais up there, he crossed you over at some point?
RYAN CLINE: Yeah, that's what somebody's talking about.
Q. Is this true?
RYAN CLINE: Honestly, I have no idea.  It probably is, to be honest with you.  I don't remember it exactly.  I told everyone, the only time I really fell down when I was playing A.J. Harris and Dayton Dunbar at a tournament at Xavier, like a high school team camp, and he didn't cross me.  I stepped on my teammate's foot.  Actually, I saw the video.  I broke a bone in my foot.  That was even more embarrassing.  I think that's the only time.
Honestly, he could be right.  I just don't remember that part.
Q. It's not like he could --
RYAN CLINE: Exactly.  That's actually hilarious.  We have the type of relationship, if he said that, that's just funny, you know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT