PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 27, 2016
Shareef Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just wanted to start off actually by asking about your kicker.  As a defensive end it's your hard to hit hard.  Just kind of curious what you thought about Julius's two tackles this season, and as a defensive end, just could you kind of rate how much did those kind of maybe impress you or maybe he needs some work on his form?
SHAREEF MILLER: I would say he's the hardest hitter on the team, just seeing those two hits.
Q. Kind of going out from left field at you here today, I was looking through yours and a couple of your teammates' Twitter feeds, and I know that this is a time of large political and racial unrest and social unrest in the country; I'm wondering what the discussion is like in the locker room.  I know a lot of guys are vocal about it on Twitter, and what kind of dialogue you guys all have about it in the locker room.
SHAREEF MILLER: In the locker room we really don't talk too much about that, so I wouldn't have nothing to say about that one.
Q. What can you tell us about Cam Brown?  We saw him a little more last week.  What have you noticed about him?  We don't usually see 6'5" linebackers like him.
SHAREEF MILLER: Cam Brown I would say he's a very good kid, humble kid.  When his number was called this week because we got some injuries, I think he handled it pretty well.  Had 10 tackles.  He handled it well.  I'm proud of him.
Q. Did he seem nervous?
SHAREEF MILLER: Not really.  You know, the older guys, we was helping him give him that confidence, so he went out there and just played.
Q. How often have you gone up against Connor McGovern in practice, and what do you have to say about him as a player?
SHAREEF MILLER: Well, I went up against Connor McGovern when he first got here in the spring.  I haven't been going up against him often.  But I would say he's a very humble kid.  He's a strong kid, and I'm excited for his future.
Q. Talk about with this game on Saturday, trying to get the taste of Michigan out of your mouth and trying to get back on the winning track, how big is this game on Saturday?  I know you guys have a one-game approach, but can you elaborate on the importance of this game?
SHAREEF MILLER: Well, I think every game is a big game.  I think we treat every game like -- we treat every game as like a really big game, so this game obviously is going to be a big game for us after what happened last week.  We're just going to come out and do the best we've got to do to win this game Saturday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT