NBA DRAFT
June 21, 2018
Wendell Carter Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








WENDELL CARTER JR.: It's an honor.  The Bulls, it's a great city.  It's a lot of history in that city.  Yeah, there's not much else I can say.
Q. Wendell, Chicago, I was reading that seemed to be a destination that you seemed kind of suited.  Did you get a chance to know the city at all during this workout time?  Besides the basketball, what did you get to learn about it?
WENDELL CARTER JR.: I've heard from a lot of people, it's just a clean New York City.  I think that's a good thing.  New York has a great market.  Chicago has a great market.  Yeah, that's all I know.
Q. You played for arguably the greatest coach ever in Coach K.  What are some things you learned not only on the court but off the court that you will take with you?
WENDELL CARTER JR.: He taught me -- one memo he lived by was living in the moment, not worrying about the future or the past but just living in the moment, allowing the moment to determine what's going to happen in the future.  That's something I live by on and off the court.  While I was out there, waiting for my name to get called, I was living in the moment, not worrying about when I'm going to get my name called or anything like that.  So that's something I lived by every single day.
Q. What went through your mind when your name was called?
WENDELL CARTER JR.: Nothing.  My mind went blank.  It was a surreal moment for me, something I've been looking forward to all my life.  To hear my name called, it was just like, wow, I'm really in the NBA, somewhere I've always wanted to be since I was 3 years old.
Q. How do you see yourself fitting in with Lauri Markkanen and what kind of tandem do you see yourselves forming?
WENDELL CARTER JR.: We're going to be unstoppable.  He's a great player.  Someone I can learn from, a great young player.  Someone I can learn from on and off the court.  And with my work ethic as I come in, I'm going to do all I have to do to help my team win.  So I think we'll definitely complement one another on both ends of the court.
Q. Just a few days ago you were chiming in and saying you would have wanted Dallas to draft you as well as your parents chimed in on that.  Did you feel some sort of way --
WENDELL CARTER JR.: No, I didn't feel no type of way.  You're saying I said I wanted to be drafted by Dallas?
Q. I heard you say that.
WENDELL CARTER JR.: Really?  Oh.  I mean, no.  It's Chicago.  It's the seventh pick.  It's an honor.  It's a blessing.  I'm just excited to be in the NBA.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT