AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2016
Omar Jasika
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. TSONGA/O. Jasika
7-5, 6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What did you get out of your whole experience the last few days?
OMAR JASIKA: Yeah, I mean, it was a great match.  Fun out there.  Probably the best week of my life.  I'll never forget this.
I'd like to thank Tennis Australia for giving me the opportunity to play this week.  I've built a lot of fans, I would say, around myself, confidence and just, yeah, helps a lot.
Q. What did you learn?
OMAR JASIKA: I've learnt a lot.  Playing against these guys, I've learnt how much it actually takes to become a top-10 player.  A lot of what it takes and all that stuff, so yeah.
Q. What was the hardest thing on court today?
OMAR JASIKA: I think just the physicality, you know.  Just trying to sustain the same level throughout the whole match.  I think he got the better of me today.  Definitely a stronger player.
But, yeah, I had fun out there.
Q. Are you starting to feel like you belong in the pro ranks with the big guys?
OMAR JASIKA: Maybe a little bit, I guess, in some ways.  But I still think I have a little bit to go before I actually become hopefully a better player.
Q. Is that mostly physical?
OMAR JASIKA: I think so, yeah.  Physical and, yeah, mentally maybe a little bit stronger.
Q. Are you going to get yourself a present?
OMAR JASIKA: A present?  Uhm, yeah.  Wake up tomorrow and practicing (laughter).
But, yeah, I have doubles tomorrow with Nick.  Should be fun.  I'm still actually in the tournament.
Q. How do you rate Nick's chances against Berdych?
OMAR JASIKA: You know, Nick's playing well.  Should be a good match.  I mean, Tomas is playing well, as well.  Should be good to see who wins that one.
Q. What was the best compliment you got after the other win?
OMAR JASIKA: Best compliment?  I mean, there was a lot.  I had a lot of friends and family out there.  Got some good messages that made me smile, which is a good thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT