WNBA DRAFT
April 17, 2020
Chennedy Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We just talked to the Dream coach. She said she's impressed with your scoring ability. Do you feel like everything you've learned in that sense will translate over to the WNBA and your ability to get buckets?
CHENNEDY CARTER: I just think everything I've learned in my whole life, my whole life experience, has been a journey. I've learned, I've grown and I've continued to get better. I think that'll translate to the WNBA. Just my work ethic and my confidence and how hard I'm determined to win.
Q. Just the last three years being in College Station, do you feel like everything you went through with that program has helped put you in a place to be ready to have a smooth transition to the next level?
CHENNEDY CARTER: Most definitely. I'm thankful for everything that I've been through, just being able to say that I'm now a professional basketball player. I can't wait to get started with the Atlanta Dream.
Q. You played your high school basketball and college basketball in Texas. Now you're headed to be a part of the Dream in Atlanta. What's the excitement level of being part of the Atlanta Dream?
CHENNEDY CARTER: Very excited. Ready to get to work, get to practice, get going and start my WNBA career. I'm just excited to see what this journey and season has in store for me.
Q. Is there one thing in particular that you'll take with you that you learned from Gary Blair and that staff at A&M that you think can help you in the WNBA?
CHENNEDY CARTER: One thing I can take from A&M is just the support from everyone there, the 12th Man to my teammates to everyone who put their hands in to the women's basketball group. I learned a lot from going there, and it'll be useful to me the whole way.
Q. How much time have you spent in Atlanta, and what are your thoughts about playing in that city?
CHENNEDY CARTER: I've been to Atlanta a couple of times. Definitely it brings me back to the AAU road trip days when me and my team would compete and play against some of the best players in the country. I'm just really excited. I know it's a big city. I know there are a lot of things to do there, but I'm really focused on winning a championship and getting to work with my teammates.
Q. With such a long layoff, you can't organize a lot of practices. What have you done to get ready for the draft and go into the WNBA?
CHENNEDY CARTER: The biggest thing for me is just staying in shape. That's one of the biggest things I'm working on right now is just making sure that I'm conditioned. I can perform at the highest level and not get tired. That's one of the things I do. I do a lot of jogging, a lot of running workouts. And then outside of basketball, I just try and stay in shape.
Q. The first time I got to see you play live was at the Jordan Classic. It was an exhibition game and everyone was going half speed except for you. You were 100 percent from start to finish. I guess I wonder how much that infuses the way you play or whether you think about who's watching you play now that you're going to get a chance to do that at the next level and play in the WNBA?
CHENNEDY CARTER: Every time I step on the floor I'm going to compete from start to finish. The Jordan Classic was definitely a game for me to make a statement. Coming out of that game, I was under-ranked and underrated in my opinion, and I wanted to play to the best of my ability. I'm a player that every time I step on the court I get focused and get locked in no matter who my opponent is, no matter who my defender is.
I look at the time I put in, the work and the confidence behind all the closed doors. What people don't see is I work very, very hard on my game, so I'm confident in anything that I do. It starts from there.
Q. Just the fit in Atlanta, when this team seems to have a lot of pieces, whether it's Courtney Williams, Shekinna Stricklen, players that are going to be enhanced by the type of play maker that you are, coming in it seemed like Atlanta was the best on court fit for you, and I wondering if you saw it that way and do you still see it that way now?
CHENNEDY CARTER: I definitely think that this is the best fit for me. I think I'm going to go to the team and really just lead and find those players, find Courtney Williams, find Kalani Brown, and I think it'll be a successful year for me and the Atlanta Dream.
Q. I'm wondering what your conversations were like with the Dream before the draft and if you knew this was where you were going or if it was a little bit up in the air?
CHENNEDY CARTER: My conversations with them were great. We got to know each other a lot better within the quick and short time that we had. I was able to talk to the coaching staff and just get a better feel for them and their program and what they're trying to do and what the team needs. And then as for the second question?
Q. Did you know this was where you were going or was it up in the air?
CHENNEDY CARTER: Right. It was kind of up in the air. I just kind of waited to hear my name called, and to be drafted is a blessing. It's something that I've been waiting for my whole life. I was even honored to hear my name go across the screen, honestly.
Q. What does it mean to you to be the highest Aggie ever selected by going No. 4? Does that mean anything to you?
CHENNEDY CARTER: Just means that draft day was something I've been waiting for my whole life, and for A&M I've been waiting since my freshman year. That was ultimately the end goal for me. I wanted to continue to play at the highest level after my four or three years were done at the university. I'm really very honored and blessed to be here. Right now, I'm at a little bit of a loss for words.
Q. A lot of people have talked about how much of a pure scorer you are and what you'll be able to bring to the next level, but a lot of other people have talked about an underrated passer that you are. Looking to your rookie year, what are you going to be able to bring to the Atlanta Dream?
CHENNEDY CARTER: I think I'm going to do everything in my ability to make sure that the team is successful. I think that I am a great passer. I think that my passing ability, it could get better. I'm sure there are a lot of things I need to work on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT