NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 15, 1998
Sergei Fedorov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Sergei, last year you were in this position: two up, three to nothing.  Does it feel different this year having been through it once already?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV:  It doesn't feel different because -- different because last year we started on the road, we won two games right away and, you know, when you're at home, preparation is a little different, but not much.  But, still, at home, you feel much more comfortable because you basically have your time here.  When you're on the road, you've got to make sure you're doing the same routine as the team does, like making the bus, and you can't have an extra few minutes on the ice or something like that.  So you just try to shape your routine and make sure that you're together with everybody and I guess -- like I said -- it's going to be a little tougher.  It's a different team, too, and they have a bunch of great guys and we just think, prepare for one period at a time.  The game is going to be very, very intense and I'm sure there's going to be a few odd penalties out there.  So I think it's going to be very interesting for us, how we're going to take it.  But as far as I know, personally, for me, just  an exciting game and I'm very excited to prepare for the game and probably going to be a little bit nervous right before the start, but probably hopefully as soon as I step on the ice I will feel feel much more comfortable. 
 

Q.  Your team seems to have so much confidence even when they're down in a game.  Is it your depth or do you talk about it when you're in the dressing room? Or do you just feel good that --
 
SERGEI FEDOROV:  Maybe faith.  I don't know. Could be one of those three things.  Depth and we're thinking positively.  We know that we have a few guys who can score anytime during a game.  And obviously faith helps us, too.  Generally, I think that -- have that background from last year a little bit of experience here and there.  It's maybe mentally helped us to stay in the game even if you're down or up or, all of a sudden, like Capitals tie us in the third period and we keep going at them and play pretty much the same style we started with.  I think it's one of those things that makes us a stronger club.  But generally, probably guys haven't -- have inspiration of things like thinking about Vladi or Sergei, thinking about last year's accident.  Not everybody has mentioned it, but it is true, it's going  to stay with us for the rest of our lives, no matter how dark colors or bright colors going through the memories, thinking of that.  But it's going to be probably a great memory, but that's why we want to try and wrap this thing up on Tuesday.  If not, maybe later on.  But I'm sure we're going to come out and play hard.  I'm sure. 
 

Q.  How important is this game for them to share a potential victory with Vladi and Sergei?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV:  It is important because, personally, myself and Vladi have been involved since 1984, 86, we played four years together and went through the toughest time there.  I've been a roommate with him in the Red Army camp when I was a little younger than he is and he was already married and I was staying at the training facility all the time and he had the chance to go home and enjoy his family.  But the thing is, I just got to know him pretty well and Sergei joined us during the most exciting time of our lives and helped us with massages and everything, he's been quite a guy.  He's quiet.  He learned his English, guy's are really loose around him.  He's done a great job.  He always on time and everything to help us out with -- every little thing because every little thing counted back then because we  were so desperate to win the first Cup.  And Vladi, obviously, has been a teammate throughout my entire NHL career and it's -- you know, pretty tough when you think about it and you just try not to spread your emotions and focus on that kind of thoughts.  But sometimes obviously it's flushing through my memory and my mind, but nothing you can do about it.  Things happen.  That's why we aspire to do better and better every game. 
 

Q.  This has been a tough year for you in some ways, the contracts problems?  Would winning finally put all the money talk to rest and be a good thing to finish this year off?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV:  It would be the best ever, dream scenario, to finish the way owe way we're trying to.  Just put it to body and, I guess, whoever wins, nobody can judge, you know.  One thing and the other thing, I think we would not have that kind of success if something is still going on under -- underwater. Still going on between teammates and I think the most important thing that everybody realizes that negotiations was over.  Just one -- with just one person and for my part I want to make sure I do not interrupt with the whole routine, the whole team went through the 59, 60 games and I want to make sure I am a  right fit and right footage and make sure I became part of the successful team, make sure I'm in shape.  So I try to not interrupt. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT