NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 13, 1998
Sergei Fedorov
Chris Osgood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Do you feel like talking about it now after getting a Stanley Cup game winner (talking about not scoring) --

SERGEI FEDOROV: It is not over until it is over, but you are absolutely right.  It could be many reasons, but what I mentioned this morning is -- was that I -- one of the reasons one time and like I said, game No. 2 in Detroit I haven't played that many minutes and that high of a tempo. Today, tonight I really, really generate speed throughout the neutral zone and coaches felt that I was on top of my game and I keep putting me back out there.  What else can you say?  I feel in touch with the game and that is what happened on the goal.  I just felt that nobody on me and I saw Doug Brown wide open with the puck he just throw it along the board and far "D" from Washington Capitals, it was too far, and grab the puck and try not to do too much with it until I enter in the zone and then I saw opportunity to make a move and shot the puck in net.  It went in near side.  That is where I try to aim it my previous couple of chances.  I had a straight shots, "D" didn't move on me, and I had to shoot no matter what happened.  This time I saw an opportunity to -- that I could come out to the middle and put a shot to the net from the middle.


Q.  Chris, can you talk about the first period, just having the one shot on net and how difficult or easy that might have been?

CHRIS OSGOOD:  I think it was pretty easy, to say the least.  I only had one shot, really, just tried to play the puck as much as I can.  I mean, just as the last game, I think I thought we carried over our third period in overtime better than the first period tonight.  We played a solid game; stood up well; skated well and got some great opportunity on net.


Q.  Sergei, you know what you were doing one year ago tonight.  What does it mean to you to score the winning goal to win this hockey game knowing what was going on a year ago?

SERGEI FEDOROV: I was just thinking about that, be honest with you.  I was coming back from the golf course on the way to the hospital, I guess, it was 6, 7 P.M. and so I am crying my eyes right now because I got a puck -- I got a puck after the game and happened to be loose, so grabbed it. First I am going to keep it for a while and decide what I am going to do.  Definitely, I don't know, just in memory, and just appreciation what Vladi and Sergei did for this team; just  show them and maybe would like to keep it.  I gave it to them and see what is going on later.  But, tonight was special night.  Scotty Bowman mentioned two minutes before we go in the warmup - not a motivation speech or anything like that - he said I don't know how to do those.  But, we definitely have to perform better and have to play solid 60 minute game and it was certain points, 15, 20 second pause; we thought what happened last year before the warmup, that kind of, I don't know, opportunity to hear from our coach and realize what happened to us over the year; gave us a kind of extra motivation and inspiration to play harder and really, really concentrate and focusing on the game.


Q.  Sergei, what is it that is so special about Scotty as a coach?

SERGEI FEDOROV: I have been with Scotty four years. The one thing is special that he can read the game when nobody is certain what is going to happen next.  The other thing before we go on the ice, he always going to say quite a few points, maybe not important at this time before we go, but you look at the game throughout the three periods that was most important points.  That is why I realize about Scotty and I think what he is experienced in and with his past and feel in touch for the hockey during the game, during the one shift or the other, he definitely read into it very well and give us a chance to generate some offense, defense, I mean, play really well and good style of hockey we can play and can't say enough words that he inspire all of us to play a hard game of hockey.  We learn.  It is a learning experience.  Sometimes we agree, sometimes we disagree with it.  But it is part of learning experience, and seems to me we all realize that and that is why we make a solid team.


Q.  Chris, you didn't face an overwhelming number of shots tonight but several of the shots that you did face were excellent scoring opportunities by Washington.  You came up big several times.  Did you feel that at the end of today that this was maybe your strongest performance so far in the Final?

CHRIS OSGOOD:  I think it was probably identical to the first game, really, except the second period they had their chances instead of the third or the first game.  To be honest, I mean, out of all the teams that I have played, they are the most difficult for a goalie -- I don't think it is the shots they get.  It is the amount of quality chances they get.  They pull up at the blue line. They look for a guy in the slot or look for the perfect play.  I mean, it is difficult because they are just not coming down the wing and firing away and trying to go for  rebounds and go to the nets.  They have a lot of talent on offense to get the perfect play and try to make the perfect goal.  For me, I have always got to be aware of who is on the ice for them because at any time with the guys they have, they can get a great opportunity.  And, I thought the second was identical to probably the third they had in the first game, as they had not too many shots, but when they did, they always seemed to get good ones.  Fortunate to stop them.  I mean, it is tough, but, I mean, I enjoy it if I get 30 shots or 18, but I have to admit, these guys are -- it is difficult because waiting so long and then it is a good chance.


Q.  Chris, talk about your approach to Game 4 with two days off and a 3-0 lead?

CHRIS OSGOOD:  Probably the same way.  We are excited tonight.  We have been excited every game.  It is the Finals - our third time here for most of us.  We know what to expect.  We are going to be real excited on Tuesday and come out with our a real solid game just as we did tonight.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT