NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 10, 1998
Sergei Fedorov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Anything we need to know that was talked about (inaudible)?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: No, not really.  Just about the game last night, that is all. 
 

Q.  Do you look at this right now as our chance to go up 2 to nothing; we need to do that?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: I guess come back to that structure that we have to play better -- at home better than 500 hockey to be able to win and manage somehow our road games.  When we did road games very well, we focused on the home games.  Now that we won last three home games here, we are going to focus on the fourth one because Stanley Cup Finals, it is important for us.  Overall, I think we just have to play better as a team. 
 

Q.  What do you think was the reason for the complacency; why you guys didn't come out with the fire and energy?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: I mean, that is what we did.  It just definitely didn't look like we did it 60 minutes, but we did have intensity.  I think at some point we were a little bit slippy and stuff, kind of almost like against Dallas when they came back on us.  But, we still were in control of the game; the puck was on our sticks and our tapes, but end of the game wasn't ours at all because basically Washington controlled the neutral zone and played a good forecheck on us.  In that case, we just tried to regroup and recuperate. Like I said, we need three periods of hockey, not two and a half or one. 
 

Q.  You mentioned after the game how the line juggling made it hard to get into a flow --
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: I didn't say that.  I said -- I answered a question that Scotty mixed it a lot the first period and I said I think that were fine and like you start a new series, you have got to get used to a new team.  And, in my point of view, I don't think he mixed it too much because it was one or two players from 3 to 4 lines. 
 

Q.  He thinks he didn't coach a good game yesterday; he thought --
 
SERGEI FEDOROV:  I don't know about the whole game. We talked about first period, yes, and I said I guess -- everybody has to adjust to the new team, new game plan, I mean, new lines and seems to me, he has two sets of lines for the game and I think that is what he tried to do, tried to provide some matchups just the way he sees the game.  First period was lots of changes, but I don't think so it was so bad. 
 

Q.  Were you surprised to hear that he thinks he coached a bad game?  We don't hear that often from Scotty Bowman. 
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: Probably not surprised.  He realized maybe he didn't do a few things he would like to do.  Maybe at certain point of the game after watching the tape, he might come up with a different lineup or a different decision who is going to go on a powerplay or stuff like that.  I think it is pretty fair estimate from him.  And, as far as I know, I can't speak on his behalf, but I know that is what happened to players too.  Sometimes we think that we were read deep and -- to go -- but our feet was slow, so sometimes it happens. 
 

Q.  When he says something like that, does that make him more of a team member when he says, oh, geez, I might have screwed up last night, like do you feel he is part of this team or is he the coach out there?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV:  I don't know, I never -- never really crossed my mind, so I don't know. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT