NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 9, 1998
Sergei Fedorov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Seems like when you get that 2 goal lead, you start going back to sleep.

SERGEI FEDOROV:  It is not so much about going back to sleep, just type of game maybe the other team tried to play, try to make us -- they hardly try and then all of a sudden they come up with a goal in the second period.  Then it is a different picture, 2-1, you basically just start all over again.  I hate that feeling.  I don't like that at all. I hope I can spend more ice time, you know, next game, try get some flow going, not all those changes in the line.


Q.  Scotty felt he blamed himself; maybe he mixed you guys up in the first period --

SERGEI FEDOROV:  I don't know, I think for sure it was just us.  In my opinion, everybody tried to adjust, coaches, players, goalie, everybody.


Q.  Were you surprised that Washington didn't back down at all; coming back in the third period; did that surprise you at all?

SERGEI FEDOROV:  I think I was mostly surprised that we didn't do a good job throughout the 60 minutes.  That surprised me the most.  After Dallas, perfect game, 60 minutes; all of a sudden you see all those struggles, give away the puck, give away the red line, you know, it is like walking (inaudible) out there.  I am glad we pulled this one out.  Maybe nerves and intensity will come down a little bit and start thinking positively about the second game.  I know we can come out 100% much harder and much better, you know, as far as playing and everything else because it is not our game we played tonight and hopefully we can play our game next game.


Q.  You were saying you hated the feeling just of the game?

SERGEI FEDOROV:  Just being 2-1 and nothing was really happening for us.  And basically just chewing gum out there; just stood up there and do nothing and the other team tried to make sneaky plays on us.  I am glad we woke up at some point and provide certain defense.  Ozzie had chance to stop some pucks.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT