NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
May 31, 1997
Sergei Fedorov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Sergei, can you address the anti-Russian thing that you found here in Philadelphia?  There has been a lot of it in TV and newspapers and so on.  Have you seen much of that? 
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: No, I didn't see that much.  But, it is hard to say.  We play for Detroit Red Wings for quite a few years. We have been in North America for quite a few years and played for the National Hockey League quite a few years.  I guess everybody like to say this, and that "Russian this, Russian that," and "5 unit of 5 Russian men," I don't know.  I just try not to concentrate on those comments because, to me, it didn't make sense because I got Red Wings' Jersey on and I play for this club for seven years.  And, I guess sometime when we are having a good game or making a good play, I guess even commentators who are making comments on the game like they say quite a few things.  It is like, sometimes too much.  That is why people don't like it here especially fans from Philadelphia Flyers.  It is not really a player's fault.  It just -- that is how we got called since the beginning, since Scott Bowman reunited us as a five-man unit. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the impact of goals by guys like Draper and Kocur, guys that don't score a lot during the regular season how that can energize you guys and maybe demoralize the other guys?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: They played a great game, I have to say for us.  They are definitely a threat out there on the ice throughout the whole Playoffs.  And, I really am happy the way they play and it has been lots of help from their line.  Those guys are just unbelievable.  They are at the right place at the right time and just -- you can't say much more than that because they are trying like very, very hard.  They really have been a good unit for us. 
 

Q.  When you start a series on the road everybody likes to win one and the other guy is building.  Is there a sense now that you might let down now; that you got that one?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: We didn't put our proper attitudes towards winning one or two or whatever, we play, we split.  I thought we just concentrate on the game as far as how we are going to play, how we are going to attack, how we are going to defend.  That kind of attitude helps us keep our intent, our emotions throughout the three periods, not only one or two. And, then we think, we are playing the game too.  Instead of just to finish Game 1 in the third period.  That is probably the attitude we took.  Seems to me it worked for us very well,  in our mind, in that Game 1 until 60 minutes is over or whatever time we are going to play. 
 

Q.  A lot of people talked about their size being a problem.  But tonight it seemed like your speed was more of a problem for them than their size was for you.
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: Well, actually, tonight is a special night for both teams, especially when you hear 20,000 fans cheering for you.  I mean, it is a tough start in the Stanley Cup Finals.  I know I have been through it.  You get, sometimes nervous.  Like I said, both teams hasn't reached their potential as far as their playing Playoff hockey in the Stanley Cup Finals. 
 

Q.  Sergei, was it easier this time around opening on the road?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: No, I like to say no because you saw the reception of both teams.  I think we know what we were facing right from the beginning.  It is not very easy to -- not for me.  My personal opinion, it wasn't that easy opening on the road or at home.  Like I say, you play Playoff hockey everywhere the same.  You try to play your heart out and work as hard as you can and try to win.  Obviously, sometime when you are leading in the game, the home crowd will help.  But, in general, my teammates will agree with me - it is just a game and you just got to work hard and try to win. 
 

Q.  You have stolen the home-ice advantage away from Philadelphia.  What do you expect from the Flyers in Game 2? Can you expect them to be a little more desperate?
 
SERGEI FEDOROV: I think you are absolutely right. They are going to play different that game.  They are going to try to get their speed together, try to play more as a group and I think they are going to try to come up with a physical pressure.  We do know that.  I think we still going to be playing our hockey.  We are going to try to do exact exactly the same thing that we have been playing the last previous round and opening this round and I guess we are going -- we are going to expect that. We will try to be ready and try to play tight check and defensive game as much as I understand, that is probably what the other team has to do to win at home.  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT