NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 19, 1996
Sergei Fedorov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SERGEI FEDOROV: With Alex here and Pavel here, we have already -- you know, talking about some stuff.  It was great.  Obviously I feel very lucky to be back and talk to them.


Q.  Pavel is here?

SERGEI FEDOROV: Yeah.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)

SERGEI FEDOROV: He is doing fine.


Q.  Did you have a chance to get together for a bite to eat last night?

SERGEI FEDOROV: Not last night.  Pavel was -- we cruised around a couple of places, you know, had dinner and couple of nice conversations with other friends of ours here in Boston.


Q.  You really enjoy these things.  I mean, a lot of guys are a little blase about it.  You seem to really enjoy it.

SERGEI FEDOROV: It's a little bit easier when you have partners from back many years ago.  You meet new friends over the career here.  I mean, we are playing pretty long time too even being that young  together with each other and with the players we play against.  They realize why we are playing for the National Russian team and all that.  That gave us great publicity playing on the National team.  And why not just have fun?


Q.  The acquisition of Igor Larianov, what has he meant to?

SERGEI FEDOROV: He is a great player.  What else can you say?   He sees ice well.  We have an five man unit -- Russian unit, we play really decent hockey so far.  Scotty likes it, and that is all that matters as long as we are successful.  And the teams needs to stay together and play the way we play the first half of the season.  He is just awesome guy and player. What else can I say?   I mean, I am really enjoying him right now while I got the chance to learn a lot about hockey while I was a kid, and now while I was more experienced.


Q.  Anything short of a Stanley Cup for your team this year is going to be --

SERGEI FEDOROV: We just -- I guess we are looking forward to have a great season, looking forward to have a strong second half of the season.  We would like to come back to the finals and win, absolutely. That is out of the question.  But we got to just play  decent hockey like we did short season last year.


Q.  How is this All-Star game any different than the one two years ago where --

SERGEI FEDOROV: Media has been great.  I mean, two years ago too in New York.  Everybody has been pretty much the same.  As far as I know, many invasions are going to be present at this All-Star hockey game like let us say, as far as I am concerned, Nike skates, Nike gloves, I mean, quite a few guys going to wear those.  I mean, a few guys are going to wear new gloves and all that.  It is going to be a fun show on the ice, and fun for the fans, and fun for the players.  Plus it is kind of every All-Star game is special, every All-Star game will be in a different day bring different atmosphere, absolutely.  As far as I know it has been so far so much fun, you know, just to see all those guys.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT