SEI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 15, 2000
Steve Pate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE PATE: Well, obviously quite pleased with the score. Probably didn't hit it as
well as I did yesterday. I hit a couple of loose shots that didn't really hurt me. When I
hit it close, I made it, which was noot really the case yesterday. First few holes was
kind of rolled, but we didn't have any wind for five or six holes. It's going to be
interesting this afternoon. It's starting to blow pretty hard. 14, I hit a 6-iron about 18
feet left of the hole and made it. Birdied 15. Hit driver, 3-wood, 10, 20 yards short of
the green. Hit a bad pitch and made about a 35-, 40-footer up over the mound. Bogeyed 17.
I hit a 4-iron in the front fringe and got a little cocky and thought I could make it and
ran it three feet by and missed coming back. 18, I birdied it. Driver and another horrible
3-wood short and right and almost pitched in, about a foot. I birdied 2. I hit 7-iron
about 12 feet and made it. Birdied 4. I hit a 4-iron about four feet and made it. Birdied
6. 2-iron, 9-iron about six feet and made it.

Q. What are your impressions of the golf course? 

STEVE PATE: I love it. Difficult, straightforward golf course. Looks like the kind of
course where you'll see some low rounds, but you won't see four of them out of the same
person. You stand on the tee and you know where you're going. It's pretty
self-explanatory. It's a good driving course. You have to hit driver; you get penalized if
you hit it poorly. The greens are difficult. For the most part, they are fair. There's a
couple that are -- that could use a little mellowing. I think we only have one pin
placement on 9. But overall, I love it. I wish we played more courses like this. 

Q. How much do you have to draw on your experience ? We hear a lot of guys talking
about using imagination on the greens and things of this nature. Do you find that's helped
you? 

STEVE PATE: Yeah, the course I grew up playing on had a lot of slope. Yeah, you get a
lot of 5- and 6-footers that you really are not trying to make. Guys that are a lot
younger than me that grew up on playing on what you'd call modern architecture, every time
you hit it inside of 12 or 15 feet, you have a flat putt. The challenge there is to
somehow get it there. Hit it high, hard and stop it there. Here, you have more options on
how to do it. If the greens get firm, you can, you know, shape your ball and find a way to
roll it back to the hole. You just hit more different shots. Most of the new courses we
play on now, there's pretty much one way to play: Hit it high and hard and fly it
everywhere you go. 

Q. Do you think you have to think your way around this course? 

STEVE PATE: A little bit. You really have to pay attention to where you hit your irons.
You have to think a lot with your second and your approach shots. 15 feet short of the
hole is better than six feet past on a lot of holes. I grew up playing on courses like
that where younger guys didn't. Probably a bit of an adjustment. 

Q. Did you find it difficult with the greens being as soft as they were to stop the
ball close to the hole? Were you getting a lot of backspin on your shots?

STEVE PATE: Yeah, actually it would be easier if it was a little firmer. I was hitting
9-iron from 110 yards, trying just not to spin it off the green. But again, I've done that
before. It is different than what we normally do week-to-week. 

Q. This being a new tournament, the guys haven't seen the course, haven't played the
course. Do you think that is an advantage to you or disadvantage? 

STEVE PATE: It shouldn't really be an advantage to anybody, I wouldn't think. Nobody
has seen it -- well, not nobody. I'm sure there are a few guys that have seen it. But it
really shouldn't be an advantage to anybody. Those of us who have played more golf courses
like this, I guess that could be somewhat of an advantage. It's pretty hard when you've
played your whole life and you're used to trying to hit it close, and out here you have to
change where you are thinking a little bit. You're not always trying to hit it close.

Q. Do you find yourself recognized and followed more because of your past Ryder Cup
appearances, especially last year's? 

STEVE PATE: I get ignored everywhere. (Laughs.) A little bit. I got called Jerry a
couple times today. (Laughter.)

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT