FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 24, 2000
Steve Pate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEVE PATE:  Well, I was quite pleased with my finish.  I didn't really get anything going all day.  I putted great the first two days and I didn't really make much today, half a dozen putts if I had hit them hard enough to go six inches farther they would have gone in.  I didn't, so they didn't go in.  Pretty much butchered the 16th hole, bad drive, bad third shot, made a 60-footer and made a good second putt on 17 and birdied 18 from the right fairway bunker.  That finish could have been easily three, four shots worse than it was, so I feel pretty fortunate to be where I am. 
 

Q.  How big a factor was the wind today?
 
STEVE PATE:  It was -- it changed things a lot.  There is a lot of holes out here where there is water very close.  It is -- throw a little wind in there when you are not hitting it quite perfect, it makes a big difference.  It did to me. 
 

Q.  Does it make the -- is the wind actually (inaudible) --
 
STEVE PATE:  If you are hitting it real well, you like to see the wind blow because then it kind of -- good ball-striking becomes even more important.  I am not hitting it great, so I don't want to see the wind blow.  I'd rather turn it into a putting contest. 
 

Q.  What do you see as a score tomorrow with everything bunched up?
 
STEVE PATE:  Depends if the wind blows.  If the wind doesn't blow it is going to take a good score, probably 5- or 6-under.  If it wind does blow, who knows.  I don't really know how bunched up things are.  I didn't see the final leaderboard.  I know Bob is at 12 and... 
 

Q.  The weather tomorrow is supposed to be pretty much like it is today.  Do you think 15- or 16-under will do it?
 
STEVE PATE:  It could.  It may not.  If the wind blows somebody -- there may not be a good score or somebody may shoot something low and win by several.  If the wind doesn't blow you can count on a lot of good scores, it is probably going to be close and a lot of guys shooting 15-, 16-under.  With the wind blowing, who knows.  Today the lead went from 10 to 12, it wasn't that big a jump. 
 

Q.  Tell us one more time about the deer and the --
 
STEVE PATE:  I had been riding my bike up through the mountains and I came home and got broadsided by a deer in my own driveway.  My dog was chasing it and I am just glad it was a small dear, only weighed about 40 pounds. 
 

Q.  Did you break something or hurt something?
 
STEVE PATE:  No, I was already hurt at the time.  I think the dear got hurt worse than I did.  It was 40 pounds going against about 220.  I think I got the better end of that deal. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT