WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 1999
Steve Pate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE PATE:  Well, they were both pretty similar.  I got off to some nice leads early.  I got both my opponents cut into those lids.  I think Fred and I were tied for quite a while in the back.  Never got back to that point.  Apparently it has been nice to get off to a good start because I have needed it.  It was nice in the first match that I didn't have to play the last two holes; so, I need a break right now.


Q.  Is a day like today more physically demanding or mentally challenging?

STEVE PATE:  Mentally, I would say it is a little physically demanding, judging by some of the shots that I hit on the last nine holes or so, but it is more mentally than anything.  It is not like we have got to move somebody who was 300 pounds or run a 4, 440.  You can kind -- if you stay mentally strong enough, you can get through the physical part of it.


Q.  Steve, we have been asking people all week, most of the very top seeds are gone and a lot of them went out early.  This is not like the NCAA or a football game.  In other words, the golfers are so evenly matched, that the guy gets hot for three or four holes in the match, the match is over.  Do you see it that way?

STEVE PATE:  Absolutely.  The stroke average over the course of the year between the top guy and the bottom guy in the field isn't very much, and it is pretty much meaningless for 18 holes.  Just one shot, that -- that isn't very much.  Doesn't really mean much in one day, and it is not like tennis where what I do has a direct effect on what my opponent does.  It doesn't matter.


Q.  We have been asking this all week.  Obviously, people are -- not so much you, but they were hoping maybe Tiger or Duval would get there to make it more attractive.  Do you like the format, and, I mean, is Match Play good for the TOUR?

STEVE PATE:  It is good for me.  (laughs) I love Match Play.  I can figure I got a better chance of beating these guys one day at a time then for four.  It is fun.  I have always enjoyed it.  I used to like when we played at the International when there was a cut every  single day.  Those of us with attention deficit disorder can focus better for one day than four; so, I really enjoyed it.  From a player's standpoint, I think most of the players like it.  Not all, definitely.  You'd have to ask the ABC people what they think about it.


Q.  Are you more on your guard, I mean, every hole and every shot where -- well, certainly a double-bogey counts against you, but here you get a hole behind and you are digging -- climbing uphill all the time?

STEVE PATE:  No.  I find just the opposite, which is why I like it:  A lot less on my guard.  I can go ahead and spring one off in the bushes, pick it up, and walk to the next hole.  For me, personally, it makes it a lot easier to play.  Other guys may have different approaches, but I really like it.  I feel like I can freewheel it a little bit more.


Q.  You said yesterday you were going to bring pizza to the practice green because your putting was so bad.  How was it?

STEVE PATE:  It was pretty good.  Actually, my caddie, sister-in-law in Ohio, called up the local Domino's; ordered two pizzas and sent them out to the had putting green.  We missed them by 20 minutes apparently.


Q.  Did you work on it for a long time last night?

STEVE PATE:  I did, 'til about 5:30.  Came out with a bunch of putters and knocked it down to one.


Q.  Different one?

STEVE PATE:  Oh yeah, different one.


Q.  What did you go to?

STEVE PATE:  It is a Scottie Cameron putter.  Looks just a little bit different than what I was using, not much.  My other one was tired.  It needed the rest.


Q.  Better than going for a swim?

STEVE PATE:  Yeah, because it may want to come back in the future.

STEVE PATE:  I won the second hole.  Made birdie.  Hit it just in front of the green driver, 4-wood, about two yards short chipped it up about a foot.  Won the 3rd hole.  6-iron about 20 feet; made it.  Won the 5th hole.  Driver and 4-iron about two yards short of the green; chipped it eight feet past and made it. Eduardo made bogey.  6, drove; made bogey.  Right fairway bunker and knocked it.  2-putted from 35 feet and he bogeyed there.  He won 8.  He made birdie.  I won 9.  Kind of a gift.  He made bogey from sand wedge in.  Hit it just on the fringe and about 20 feet from the hole and chipped it six feet by and missed.  I lost 10.  Drove middle of the fairway missed green with 8-iron.  Hit it out of the bunker about ten feet and missed.  13, I lost.  Eduardo made birdie; hit driver and sand wedge about four, five feet.  I won 14.  Hit 4-iron to about four feet, and I think that is about it.


Q.  This guide had been hanging around, hanging around, winning matches late all week.  Were you aware of that and were you trying to put him away?

STEVE PATE:  Oh yeah, I was aware of my ability to take leads to the 18th hole, too; so really wanted to get it over with.


Q.  This guy beat Westwood and Norman and Mickelson.  Did that concern you?

STEVE PATE:  No.


Q.  Just another guy that you have to play?

STEVE PATE:  Yeah.  It doesn't really matter.


Q.  Get your attention, though?

STEVE PATE:  No.  I was more concerned with my recent history and the matches of being 2-up and somehow managing not being able to close them out.


Q.  Next one tomorrow.  Talk about that?

STEVE PATE:  More of the same.  I am going to the range right now, actually.  My work on the putting green was sufficient last night.  Now I have got to figure out how to hit it better.


Q.  For want of a better word, you have always been intense, and yet you get in the media room pressroom and you are sort of flip and have a good time.  Is that a defense mechanism at all?  I mean, how do you look at the game?  Are you just too serious or weren't you at one time?

STEVE PATE:  Well, after a year off trying to get dead in a car accident and not quite succeeding, it kind of doesn't seem like that big a deal when it is all over.  I am trying just as hard, and I am just as intense when it is out there, but in the overall picture, it is just not quite as important as it once was.


Q.  Do you think about where you are in the big tournament as you go deeper; in other words, take more to stay focused later?

STEVE PATE:  No, not -- I mean, another reason I like  Match Play, no.  Because starting over tomorrow, it doesn't matter where I am at.  It is not like you are out here with a lead trying to hold on, or you know:  Oh boy, I am two back; I can win this thing.  No, it is starting from scratch again.  I seem to focus better that way, nothing that has happened the last three days means anything.


Q.  I mean, if you are, I don't know, giving away a lead late in the first round today, I don't know that you were, do you start saying:  Oh, geez, this is the end of it?

STEVE PATE:  No, because it is the same thing first round end of it on Wednesday.  The end is the end.  Which you know, so that is why some guys don't like it very much. Guys that came here flew a long way and played one day obviously aren't thrilled about the deal.


Q.  You have had a lot of luck at La Costa over the years. Why do you think the reason for that is?

STEVE PATE:  It I just like the golf course.  No particular reason.  It is just a good basic golf course.  Shots are pretty straightforward.  There is nothing -- pretty self-explanatory.  Good places to it.  There is bad places to hit it.  There is not a lot of luck involved.  It is the kind of course that I grew up playing.  I grew up playing before they got into the bomb craters and the island greens that you can move and all that BS.


Q.  I wasn't here earlier, if you mentioned it, I am sorry, but can you tell me about the putter change?

STEVE PATE:  Yeah.  I got a new one.  I just -- I took a handful of them out on the putting green last night and narrowed it down to one I putted a lot better.  A Titleist Scotty Cameron putter.


Q.  How many did you bring out, would you say?

STEVE PATE:  Four, including my old one.  I gave it one last chance and it didn't -- didn't last long.


Q.  What do you think the odds would have been on this final four?

STEVE PATE:  Pretty slim.  I am not surprised that a lot of the top seeds were gone out early, but I am surprised that there aren't any of them left.


Q.  You guys have sort of cleared out the entire group?

STEVE PATE:  Yeah, Eduardo and I took care of everybody's favorites.


Q.  How do you think you are playing? 

STEVE PATE:  Decent.  Not great.  Close.  I have hit it well at times.  I have putted well at times.  Just not terribly consistent.  My game gets strange.  I just I play really well in spirits.  I just hope to have one each day.


Q.  Do you play as well now as you did before the accident, or are you still searching for whatever you might have had --

STEVE PATE:  I am playing as well as I have ever have, except for one stretch in 91.  Other than 1991, no, I haven't played any better than this really.  Maybe a little more consistently, but it is kind of hard to say because there is a lot more good players than there were eight years ago.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT