BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 24, 1999
Steve Pate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEVE PATE:  Birdied the first hole, hit a driver and 9-iron about 35 feet, made it.  Birdied the third hole, hit a 5-iron about six feet, made it.  Birdied 6th hole, driver, 4-iron, sand wedge about eight feet, made it.  Birdied 12th hole, hit 5-iron about eight feet, made it.  Birdied the 14th hole, hit driver, 4-iron, sand wedge, about 12 feet, made it.  Birdied 16, 3-wood, sand wedge about 18 feet, made it.


Q.  Did you feel like you were in pretty good shape on 18 after the second shot, still in a good spot?

STEVE PATE:  Not really.  Got it on the green.  It is not like I was dead.  Wasn't exactly what I was looking for. Guess it beat the hell out of 20 yards left, but that is about all I can say for it.


Q.  Your putt looked like it was trying to wiggle back in there?

STEVE PATE:  It was.  Either hit it an inch too far or too far right, take your pick.


Q.  Were you aware of the 59 at any point before you finished the round?

STEVE PATE:  Yeah, with two holes to go, I knew he had gotten to 26.


Q.  Does that add anything to your thought process?

STEVE PATE:  No.  Still need to make birdies.  Three holes to play.  Walking to the 16 green, I think I saw 26 go up on the board.


Q.  Will the putt at 11 haunt you?

STEVE PATE:  No, hit it right where I was at.  Didn't aim it in the right place.  I do that a lot out here.  That is why I never played particularly well here.


Q.  Does it make any difference to you to know that it took a 59 on the last day, otherwise you would have won?

STEVE PATE:  No.  Not really.  I went out and I played decent out there. Played pretty well.  Just didn't putt well enough.  Doesn't matter if he shot 59, or if John Huston would have shot 3 better.  Really doesn't make any difference to me.


Q.  Talk a little bit about how well Duval played the last --

STEVE PATE:  What is this his 9th win in 30 starts or something?  What more can you say?  If he doesn't jump to No. 1 in the world rankings, there is something seriously wrong with him.


Q.  Do you feel like you were almost in the wrong place at the wrong time today?  Still played very well?

STEVE PATE:  Yeah, but that is not the first time.  I played better than everybody but one guy.  I guess you could say I was in the wrong place at the wrong time.  I didn't really expect him to shoot 13-under, but I mean  Fred or John could have shot low today too and they didn't.  So, it is not really important to me who did it.


Q.  How long do you think the last putt was and will you describe the bunker shot?

STEVE PATE:  The bunker shot -- these bunkers are hard for me to spin it out of.  I hit a decent bunker shot, but I flew it too far.  It went 18 feet by, maybe, and hit it pretty much, you know, I pushed it just a hair.  I thought it had a chance because it was breaking left.  I was going in the high side.  I pushed it right about to where it hit the hole.  I mean, it was an inch too far right, but I had felt it had a good chance to go in anyway and didn't.


Q.  How far was your second shot on 18?

STEVE PATE:  Two something, 205 to the front.  234 to the hole?  This isn't my favorite shot to try to hook a 2-iron off of that, but somehow didn't look very good to aim to the left of the water and try to cut it in.


Q.  I know you are disappointed.  Do you still look at it as a positive step for you, your play this week, in general?

STEVE PATE:  Yeah, today I played well.  Hit a lot of good shots; just not enough of them.  I didn't really, other than a you couple of tee shots, didn't hit any bad ones and I really didn't hit any bad putts.  Misread a couple but, that is going to happen anywhere, especially out here.  I have a tough time with these courses reading them.  Did pretty good job this week for me here.


Q.  Are you struck by the fact that you were in second place but you made over $300,000 today?

STEVE PATE:  I didn't know that.  That is a good thing. Is that what it was?


Q.  Yes.

STEVE PATE:  Biggest check I have ever made.  I like our new TV contract.  (laughter)


Q.  What about these courses that gives you problems?  You say you have problems reading them.

STEVE PATE:  I don't -- I don't know.  I have never done particularly well out here reading the greens.  Indian Wells, I usually do a pretty good job.  Out here, there is no general slope to the greens.  There are just humps and bumps and a little bit of grain thrown in there and -- I don't know, I haven't played it enough to know all the putts.  And, you play here once every -- once a year, one round, it is not -- it is not like playing the same course for four rounds and learning all the subtleties.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT