U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
Steve Pate
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Steve Pate shot a 3 under par, 67 for today and 2 under for the Championship.

Q.   You made up some ground today on Michael.   How was your day today? 
STEVE PATE:   Played well really.   There wasn't that much difference between the front nine and the back nine although the scorecard sure looks like it.   I made a couple putts on the front, chipped in.   Back side, I made some bogeys without really hitting bad shots. 
It's just kind of the nature of the setup at the U.S. Open.

Q.   Was the number of opportunities you had equal to the number under par, or did you leave some out there? 
STEVE PATE:   I made three bogeys on the back, so obviously I feel like I left a couple out there.   Yesterday's round was probably the most disappointing.   I left a lot out there yesterday.   I've made two birdies in 36 holes. 
I started out birdie, eagle today.   So that was kind of nice to see.   It was possible to make a putt.

Q.   Tell us what you did on those two holes with club selection and distance and that kind of thing. 
STEVE PATE:   I birdied the 1st hole, driving a pitching wedge about four feet.   2nd hole, driving a 3 wood that rolled just through the green and chipped in from 45 feet over the green.   It was a long shot, downhill, breaking.   Sure looked like it was going to be close.   It actually went in.   I was stunned.

Q.   Course conditions change during your round at all?   Getting a little windier? 
STEVE PATE:   Not really.   It was blowing the whole time.   It was pretty consistent.   It really was a lot like yesterday.

Q.   You're kind of shrugging your shoulders some that you're still in the top ten on the leaderboard.   What does that say? 
STEVE PATE:   I don't know what it says.   I've done a lot of good stuff this week.   I just really didn't capitalize on anything the first two rounds.   Today I made some bogeys, but I actually made some birdies.   It was a little less boring.   It wasn't as painful.

Q.   Steve, there's a lot more red numbers coming in today, seems like.   Why do you think that is?
STEVE PATE:   Maybe they used bigger holes, I don't know, because I actually made some putts.   They must have been bigger.   I really don't know. 
There are a lot of holes out here you can take advantage of, but if you make a mistake, you're going to get punished.   Even the short holes out there, I bogeyed 17, and I thought I hit my second shot close.   Comes down to the bunker, hit a 9 iron, and it went 105 yards.   What are you going to do? 
You got shots uphill into the wind with uphill lies, ball above your feet.   You get a lot of uneven lies with wind.   It's a lot‑‑ there's a lot going on.   It's easy to think you did something good that's really not that good.

Q.   Do you feel like your game has been tested this weekend with all sorts of different shots? 
STEVE PATE:   Yeah, it is.   I enjoy the golf course because there's a lot of variety.   You hit every club in the bag.   You get every lie imaginable.   Yeah, it's good.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT