ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 31, 2013
Amy Hastings
Kim Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Hello.   Welcome back.   
KIM SMITH:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations, Kim, on some great runs in Boston.   Just wondering, coming back to New York, what you've done differently in your training.   
KIM SMITH:   I had a little injury in June, so I had a couple of weeks off then.   This time I've come a little fresher, I think, into the marathon, which I think will be a good thing.   Training's gone really well the last three months.   So I'm excited to be back.  
   
 Q.   What kind of injury did you have?   
KIM SMITH:   I just had a little foot and Achilles injury as well.  
   
 Q.   How has training gone for both of you guys?   Have you guys been feeding off of each other trying to prepare?   
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, it's been good.   Always good to have someone to train with for a marathon.   When I first started marathon training, it was kind of just all by myself.   So it's kind of nice to have Amy here with me to push me along.  
   
 Q.   Amy, what do you get from training with Kim?   
AMY HASTINGS:   The whole package.   She's really good at long runs.   She's incredible at the like kind of mid‑‑ like the half marathon type training.   So it really helps me a lot, like I've really improved at that area, in that area, since I started training with her just because she pushes me and she's so consistent on a daily basis.  
   
 Q.   Now, last year you were set to run here, and, of course, the race was cancelled.   What are your thoughts going into this race?   Kind of two years in the making?   
AMY HASTINGS:   I'm just ready to get out there and race it.   I don't know, see, I've heard‑‑ like I've been thinking about it now for so long because I didn't get to do it last year.   So it's almost like just more excitement going into it, more of a buildup.  
   
 Q.   Same kind of momentum that you had going into last year's race?   
AMY HASTINGS:   Additional momentum.   
KIM SMITH:   She's doing much better than last year, I'll tell you that.  
   
 Q.   So what have you done since Worlds?   Have you done any races since then?   
AMY HASTINGS:   No, I haven't.   I was actually supposed to run the test 10k.   That weekend, I came down with just a little minor niggle.   I decided to pull out of it just to make sure I didn't hurt anything and ended up‑‑ so that was supposed to be my one race.   Unfortunately, I didn't get to do it.   
However, we were able to do some tough workouts instead.   I haven't raced since then, but I'm still feeling confident.  
   
 Q.   I got here late.   How much training do you guys do together?   
KIM SMITH:   Pretty much every day.   
AMY HASTINGS:   Everything.  
   
 Q.   Is she starting to push you now, Kim?   
KIM SMITH:   She does on the long runs, more than in the past.   I kind of do my long runs a little easier, but Amy likes to do them pretty hard.   So I'm pretty much hanging on there on the back.  
   
 Q.   Will you guys work together on Sunday at all?   
AMY HASTINGS:   I hope so, yeah.   
KIM SMITH:   Yes.   We're pretty much going around, my training runs have been heavier than before because Amy's been able to push me.   So it's gone well.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your transition to Providence and how that's been going.   
AMY HASTINGS:   It's been going really well.   Last year just doing the marathon buildup ended up being really great because I kind of started‑‑ I knew going into it what race training was going to be like, and then coming to Providence, I actually was going to‑‑ I mentally prepared myself to give myself a year to‑‑ I was like, you know what, it's going to be a transitional year, expect some setbacks and stuff.   
But Ray ‑‑ I think maybe with the college coaching you have to adjust everything, but with Ray any setback was like, instead of being it, it was a couple of days, and he readjusts to figure it out.   So I was able to actually like move forward on the track this year, which was really fun, as opposed to like I was prepared to not.   
And then my training for a marathon has gone better than it ever has before, and I'm feeling really good.   So, yeah, it's been a good year.   Fairly easy transition.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any specific time goals for Sunday?   
AMY HASTINGS:   Because New York is such a difficult course, it can be so tactical.   I wouldn't give myself a particular time.   However, I just want to be in the race as long as possible and come home strong.  
   
 Q.   Kim, after your last performances, very fast races, how have you recovered?   Do you feel good coming into Sunday?   
KIM SMITH:   I got in big trouble from my coach after that race.   He wanted me to go a lot easier, but I kind of hadn't raced in a long time and got a little excited.   He was pretty angry with me.   He gave me a week pretty easy to recover.   
He's pretty conservative.   So he made sure I recovered well.   And the last couple of weeks have gone really well.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that's an indicator race?   
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I felt really good on a really tough course, and I felt pretty strong going uphill.   I think she didn't really know what to expect going in because I hadn't raced in a long time.   
But, yeah, it felt really easy to run 69 minutes.   I feel like, if I had pushed it the last couple miles, I could run about a minute faster on a course that's pretty good.   So it's a good indication of where I'm at.  
   
 Q.   Where do you think your fitness is compared to past marathons coming into New York.   
KIM SMITH:   Training's gone really well, but I mean, just probably my worst training was before I ran my first marathon, and it's the fastest one I've run.   
It's hard to know with a marathon.   Sometimes I have really good buildup, sometimes they've gone pretty average.   Hopefully, it's going to cut this time.   But, yeah, I feel like I definitely have not run as well at marathons as I want to, but yeah.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you need to figure out in the marathon?   
KIM SMITH:   I don't know.   I really don't know.   Amy tells me, you know, like the workouts I do shouldn't indicate.   I'm going a lot faster than what she's seen with her other training partners, but just the marathon is so‑‑ you never know.  
   
 Q.   You said Amy looks better than last year in her preparations.   Can you elaborate on that?   
KIM SMITH:   She really couldn't keep up with me at all on pretty much anything last year.   This year, pretty much for most everything she's been with me.   So it's a lot different.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that speaks to her getting familiar with your training or her just developing as an athlete overall?   
KIM SMITH:   I think a little bit of both.   Yeah, kind of getting used to our training and our ways, so yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a certain pace you want to go out at?   
KIM SMITH:   I'm just going to go with whatever the race is.   Two years ago, three years ago, it was like a slow race.  
   
 Q.   It was really slow.   
KIM SMITH:   And then the year after, it was ridiculously fast.   So yeah.  
   
 Q.   You're just going to stay with the leaders as long as you can, if they're being reasonable?   
KIM SMITH:   If they're going out at a 2:16 pace, I'm not going to do that, but within reason, yeah.  
   
 Q.   2011, you had to stop at the Queensboro Bridge.   
KIM SMITH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   People thought you dropped out.   And all of a suddenyou started picking people off.   She came across the finish line in fifth place.   
KIM SMITH:   I was fourth.  
   
 Q.   She was picking people off.   
KIM SMITH:   I came across, and the girl that got fourth has been disqualified from the results.   So I stop on that point.   She stole the money.   She's not stealing my place.  
   
 Q.   After the marathon, you haven't had success in the marathon that you have in the half, do you change things up, or do you think it's just a matter of getting your body used to running that far?   
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I mean, some people aren't built to run the marathon as much.   I think probably the half marathon is my favorite distance and seems to be‑‑ and seem to be most successful at that.   So hopefully, one day I can transition back to the marathon.   
But, yeah, I don't think I do anything wrong in training.   I just‑‑ yeah, when I get to 20 miles, I'm just pretty tired.   So yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's more mental than physical?   
KIM SMITH:   I don't know.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   With so many runners coming to the East Coast now, between New York and now Boston, do you see your group expanded?   Do you have any more runners on your radar that you'd like to bring in?   
KIM SMITH:   Ray is my college coach, my coach, that's his main job.   That's how he makes his money.   He doesn't have interest in coaching anyone he hasn't coached in college unless I say so.   So, yeah, no one really.   
   
 Q.   There's still four of you?   
KIM SMITH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Molly and Katie?   
KIM SMITH:   Katie and another girl, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Amy, how did you view your track season?   
AMY HASTINGS:   It was up and down.   It wasn't completely what I was hoping for.   My big goals this season were to run 15 minutes in the 5K and make the World Team in the 10k and be competitive there.   So it was bittersweet.  
I ran third in the 5K, which you can never complain about, so not quite there.   And in the 10k, made it in a really weird way, not the way I wanted to, but got there, which is always exciting, and then didn't run well there.   
So it was up and down.   However, it was really cool because seeing Ray's training, it was one of those things, like breaking the 15‑minute mark, it was always‑‑ it just had to be the right day, like maybe someday it will happen.   But seeing his training, it's like he's going to get me there every single year if I want to do it.   It's something more where I know I can get back to there.   So I'm confident I can always get to that point again.   
So, yeah, up and down, I'd say.  
   
 Q.   How difficult it is as a marathoner to break 15 in a 5K.   Is that easy to train for both?   Hard?   
AMY HASTINGS:   So I think I am a marathon runner.   I really‑‑ I think that's going to be my best event.   I love it.   I just really like the distance.   The training comes so much easier to me than track training.   
So usually when I get fit for a marathon, I actually‑‑ I feel like that training, if I just tweaked it a little, that's almost my best track training too.   So I don't think it's hard.   I think after this, I'll actually be in a better position to like tweak it and maybe get down there again.   However, I do want to start focusing more on the marathon.   Next year is going to be a good year for that for me.   I want to get a few more under my belt, become more competitive at it, at the distance.   
So it will be a little while before I get on the track again, I think.  
   
 Q.   Is the marathon the distance you're planning to do the trials for?   
AMY HASTINGS:   Absolutely, yes.  
   
 Q.   No more fourth place, right?   
AMY HASTINGS:   No.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the main differences in your training over the past year?   
AMY HASTINGS:   Fundamentally, it's more‑‑ so one thing ray does is it's more on you get more recovery in between the runs.   The tempos, the interval workouts, the threshold stuff, it's all more intense and usually longer than what I had done in the past in Monmouth or in San Diego.   They're definitely harder, like I looked at my mom when I first got there, like, oh, my God, how am I going to do this?   This is so hard.   
But he gives you like usually three days between workouts, as opposed to in Monmouth, it was less time.   So you just kind of‑‑ like it just happens.   I don't know.   You just are able to run so much harder on those workout days because of more rest in between.   
But the mileage, I would say my mileage is about the same.   I probably have more weeks over 100 here, but the same number at like 110, 115 range.   
But, yeah, I don't know, it's‑‑ the long runs are a little bit different here just because they're not at altitude.   But I don't know, both places I felt like I ran as hard as I could.   It's just like slight differences.   But my template, like the basic workouts going into this marathon, the ones that I really feel like you can look at and see where you are for the race are going better than they were in the past.   So I feel like this is going to be a good race.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the difference between being down‑‑ you've been down at sea level now for a little over a year.   How is that?   Like do you notice‑‑ you know, the training being different, and you think that that was going to be a problem?   
AMY HASTINGS:   It did.   During track season, it was kind of funny because my first race back at Stanford didn't go well, and I was like starting to get nervous.   I was talking to Kim about it, about whether I needed the altitude now because I had done it for so long.   
She was like, just give it‑‑ I was talking about giving altitude attempts.   She said, just give it some time.   I talked to Ray about it, and it was just like giving it a little more time, and the times came down immediately.   
I don't think‑‑ I was a little bit nervous about it, but I don't think it's necessary for me now.   A month out of the marathons in the past, I would do usually it was like‑‑ you can look at the workouts, and like a month out of a marathon, you'd have a good tempo and a good interval session.   And it's still a month out of the marathon, and even though I haven't been at altitude and I'm coming down to sea level, it's still you have a good tempo and a good long run and a good interval session.   
So it's a different way to get to the same place, kind of.  
   
 Q.   You guys talk about going back to altitude or moving your group?   
AMY HASTINGS:   We've talked about maybe an altitude stint.   I don't think we'll ever move our base from Providence.   
KIM SMITH:   No.   Maybe‑‑ we're probably both going to do a spring marathon.   So probably different ones, but I don't know.   We haven't figured it out yet.   So we'll both be training for a marathon at least, and we might go somewhere for a month or six weeks or something.  
   
 Q.   You guys usually go somewhere in February anyhow, right?   
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I don't really like the cold.   So going to altitude in February doesn't sound fun to me.   I'd rather go to Arizona where it's warm.   And I go home to New Zealand usually for a month or something.   
But we haven't made any plans.   
AMY HASTINGS:   Wait until after this race, and then we'll figure out.  
   
 Q.   What kind of length intervals are you doing?   
AMY HASTINGS:   We do a mile and a half, and then we'll actually do shorter stuff too on the track.   Sometimes mile on the track.   What was the shortest?   
KIM SMITH:   Two mile repeats.   Nothing too short this time around.   
AMY HASTINGS:   Yeah, it was nothing too short.   Mile repeats, and then on the road, we'll do mile and a halves.   
KIM SMITH:   That was something that changed in my training.   Usually I'd do four 100s or six 100s once a month are 0 once every couple of weeks because I had some feet problems.   Ray took me off anything short.   So I hope that means I'm a little stronger this time around.  
   
 Q.   Is it on the new track?   
KIM SMITH:   Being on the new track is really nice.   Ray is pretty excited about that.  
   
 Q.   That's a fun thing to happen, right?   
KIM SMITH:   Named after him as well.   So he's excited about that.  
   
 Q.   You usually have to die for that.   
KIM SMITH:   That's what my husband said.   He didn't have to die.   No.  
   
 Q.   Kim was saying she's planning on going out as the race goes on.   
AMY HASTINGS:   Yeah, I think so.   It's not a course that you can just like decide what time you want to run and run evenly.   So it's going to be one where I have to make a game time decision.   But Kim's a good one for me because we've trained so much together.   I can kind of look to her and see where she's at and everything.   So that will be good.  
   
 Q.   You guys going to try to run together for the first 10, 15 miles?   I mean, it's usually a pack anyhow.   
KIM SMITH:   Yeah.   It depends on how the race is going to play out.   No one really knows.  
   
 Q.   There's talk among some of the coaches that Valerie goes out at like 2:25 pace.   You'll have to go with her.   
KIM SMITH:   Two years ago, I went out thinking 71 minutes, and it doesn't really matter if I go out 71 or I go out 75.   I kind of run the same.  
   
 Q.   So if Valerie goes out that pace?   Being in the press corps, I don't really want to watch one person in the race.   It's kind of boring.   Make it interesting.   
KIM SMITH:   I mean, if I went out at 72, that would be comfortable for me.  
   
 Q.   Amy, do you think your lack of racing is going to have any effect at all?   
AMY HASTINGS:   I don't think so.   We got a couple of good‑‑  
KIM SMITH:   We did a time trial.   
AMY HASTINGS:   Yeah, we did a time trial.  
   
 Q.   So you can take what Kim's been doing and figure that's what you've been doing.   
AMY HASTINGS:   It wasn't that long ago, the 10K on the track.   So it will be good.   I'll just have to push through for time.   I don't think so.   
KIM SMITH:   I think it's actually beneficial for Amy to not have raced.  
   
 Q.   What was the last road race you ran?   
AMY HASTINGS:   Last road race?   
KIM SMITH:   Maybe that 5K you did.   
AMY HASTINGS:   Oh, yeah, a 5K in west field, I think.   No, that was the 10K in west field.   That was in west field, though.   It was?   Yeah, okay.   It was in March?   March or April.   It was before the track season.   So yeah.   I'm excited to get back out there.  
   
 Q.   I missed it earlier.   What was the race you were supposed to do and decided not to?   
AMY HASTINGS:   Test 10K, yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT