ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 30, 2008
Kim Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How many weeks and at what distance?
 KIM SMITH: I had like eight weeks, I think, at over 100 miles.

 Q. And how does that compare with leading up to Beijing? How did that change from your track stuff? 
 KIM SMITH: Probably like during the track season I'd do -- before this year probably around 80 miles a week, and a few 90s and stuff. It was leading more towards the marathon. 

 Q. So when you say the speed work, do you do most of that on the track? 
 KIM SMITH: Yeah, before this marathon I actually did everything on the track. I'd even do tempo runs on the track. So I had to start doing work on the roads.

 Q. Because you just wanted to get used to it?
 KIM SMITH: Yeah, I just always felt more comfortable on the track, but I got used to it more in the end, and it was actually -- I felt better on the roads, definitely. 

 Q. Have you done much cross country? 
 KIM SMITH: I did in college and stuff.

 Q. You were in the NCAA --
 KIM SMITH: Yeah, but I haven't done it really since college. I didn't really feel that comfortable on grass. I sink in the mud and stuff.

 Q. You have that sort of floating style. 
 KIM SMITH: Yeah, I do. It's okay if it's an American cross country course because they're hard, but if it's a soft course.... 

 Q. With the way you ran here in the Mini, the stats didn't actually show you closing in, very fast in the last mile which some of us remember, that plus transition from 10,000 to marathon is just --
 KIM SMITH: I did feel a lot stronger this year than I ever did before, and that showed by my 10K. I was definitely doing lot a lot more strength work.

 Q. Well, it may be that that strength work is what suits you best. 
 KIM SMITH: Yeah, I think I definitely have learned that.

 Q. Well, that's what Kara was saying, that she's taken to the distance and loved it. She says, I love being out there more. Have you found that? 
 KIM SMITH: Mine, it's not that much fun right now, but like earlier in the year I ran a mile outdoors, and for about a month after that I was really, really tired. It felt too easy; I felt like I could have run faster. It didn't feel like I even raced. But then for the month after my legs were just shot, and I don't feel like that after a 10K or 5K.

 Q. It's the height of the ground, because in a mile you're actually coming down from so much high, you don't realize it, but in fact you are because of that extra leg speed so it actually hammers your legs a lot more?
 KIM SMITH: Even a 5K, hard on my body.

 Q. I found that later in life your body kind of shows everything. 
 KIM SMITH: Yeah.

 Q. Much more than when you're younger. I ran a mile once when I was about 65 and it was harder than the marathon, the effects on the body afterwards. 
 KIM SMITH: Yeah, that's what I found this year.

 Q. What kind of goals or tactics or what kind of strategy are you employing? This is as good a field as you're going to find anywhere at any particular time. And yet you said, I can run with these people, so how do you go into that at a distance you've never done before?
 KIM SMITH: It's a bit daunting, but I've trained hard and I feel like -- my coach feels like I've trained well. I guess I'm just going to see how it goes. You don't ever know in a marathon. Some people are marathon runners and they just don't know until they run one.

 Q. Have you raced a half?
 KIM SMITH: No.

 Q. So do you just put a tow rope on?
 KIM SMITH: I might just tag along.

 Q. It's going to feel slow to you. 
 KIM SMITH: That's what people keep saying, make sure not to go out too fast because it's going to feel so easy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT