ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 31, 2012
Kim Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How are you feeling?
    KIM SMITH:   Good. 

Q.   Do you feel like you're recovered from your race?
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah. 

Q.   Doing your last workouts on the treadmill?
    KIM SMITH:   No, we're going to try and do a workout, Amy and I, on the Riverside.

Q.   But I don't know if it's closed, but that might be open. 
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, we thought it might be open so thought we'd try there.

Q.   At least you'll have nice weather. 
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah.   Kind of crazy.   Hopefully it goes on.

Q.   This is your first New York?
    KIM SMITH:   No, no, last year and the year before. 

Q.   Do you feel like it makes a difference once you've done it?
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I do.   I think it makes a big difference.

Q.   How many do you think you need to do, New York?
    KIM SMITH:   I've done two now, so I kind of know what to expect. 

Q.   Do you feel like you have a particular course strategy having seen it?
    KIM SMITH:   Yes, it's horrible, really hard.   But I think just conserving energy, in the beginning at least.   Those last six miles are pretty brutal. 

Q.   But it's so easy to get carried away in the beginning. 
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, it is, because it's the easiest part, and it just gets harder. 

Q.   Have you thought about how this year might be different? 
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I mean, if there happens to be a change, it's not worrying me too much.   Whatever happens, happens.   You can't change it, so you might as well just not worry.   It's been a pretty smooth, stress‑free time for me.   People are probably worrying more about things, but yeah, I'm sure the New York Roadrunners do a fantastic job every year, so I'm sure they'll have the course ready whatever changes have to be taking place. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
    KIM SMITH:   I just started working with Amy for this marathon buildup.   She changed her training situation, moved out from Mammoth Lakes, California, called me up and came out a couple of days later to Providence to live with me and train with me. 

Q.   We're talking in September?
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah.

Q.   And where were you based before that?
    KIM SMITH:   I was based in Providence, but she was based in California. 

Q.   Have you had to change your training routine?   Have you been able to run outside? 
    KIM SMITH:   No, it hasn't really affected my marathon training.   On Monday I had to run inside.   I was in Rhode Island at the time.   And then Tuesday it was back to normal.   Everything has been pretty smooth for me, so yeah, nothing major. 

Q.   Have you ever had to run a race or think about running a race with conditions and everything that's going on in New York? 
    KIM SMITH:   Actually one of my‑‑ I ran my second marathon in London, and that year there was a volcano‑‑ the volcano erupted and all of our travel plans got disrupted that time.   So yeah, I've had some experience with marathons and natural disasters. 

Q.   Where are you from in New Zealand?
    A.I'm from Auckland.

Q.   We just spoke to a backpack runner from Wellington who's trying to get here. 
    KIM SMITH:   I'm sure they're having a lot of trouble.

Q.   But you're training in Providence, so it's not‑‑
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I can't really‑‑ I can say this is probably the easiest.   Me and Amy had it easier than everyone else in the race, apart from the girl who lives here.

Q.   And have you followed the coverage of the hurricane at all?
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, it's pretty crazy and definitely a bad situation.

Q.   Does it give the race any more meaning?
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I think it shows how much New York is special and how they can work to get things going.   It shows the spirit of New York. 

Q.   Even in normal times that's the way the race is always perceived. 
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah. 

Q.   Did you come last year? 
    KIM SMITH:   I did, yeah.

Q.   Did you do the 5K?
    KIM SMITH:   No, I've run the marathon the last two years.

Q.   What is it like to be a second timer?
    KIM SMITH:   This is actually my fourth time.

Q.   What makes this any different?
    KIM SMITH:   I mean, New York is like‑‑ I think if you can win New York, that would just be such a career changer.   It's obviously one of the biggest marathons in the world, and winning a race like New York is kind of on par with winning the Olympics, I think.   It's a huge, huge thing.   I always like to come back and give it a go.   Yeah, it's just an amazing race.   The New York Roadrunners do such an amazing job with it.

Q.   Are there parts of the course that you have trouble with? 
    KIM SMITH:   You know, the hills in Central Park are really hard at the end of the marathon.   It's the same for everyone, but it is a really tough course compared to the other‑‑ compared to a lot of the other major marathons, it's probably the toughest course I think there is.   But it's also a really cool course with all the spectators.   But yeah, particularly the difficulty of the course is much harder.

Q.   What happens after this?   Do you stay in Providence or go back to New Zealand at all?
    KIM SMITH:   I am actually going straight from here to my honeymoon in Hawai'i because I just got married in September.   That will actually be nice.   And then I will be‑‑ I'm not sure what my plans are after that. 

Q.   Do you have a New York story of something‑‑ something that's touched you or you've seen something since you've been here about what's gone on here?
    KIM SMITH:   I only got in last night, so I haven't seen too much.   But yeah, it's going to be‑‑ we just got in late last night, so I haven't really seen a whole lot.

Q.   Have you seen downtown?
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I haven't really seen much of anything, sorry. 

Q.   It's been a pretty special year with the Olympics, getting married, winning $100,000.   Has it been a whirlwind?
    KIM SMITH:   These last few months have definitely been really busy with the wedding and the BAA Half Marathon, and with the Olympics two weeks before getting married.   So yeah, it's been a particularly busy time, so it'll be nice to have a little break now.

Q.   You're not going to run the ironman or anything?
    KIM SMITH:   No (laughing). 

Q.   Amy kind of touched on this, also.   She compared New York to kind of an Olympic atmosphere where there's so much energy. 
    KIM SMITH:   There's definitely a buzz around New York around the time of the marathon.   Marathons are so different than running on the track and in other races because there is such a big, special atmosphere around them.   It just feels so much more important than when you're running on the track or other road races. 
    Yeah, definitely New York, the whole kind of city is so involved with it, I think that makes it really special.

Q.   Do you see any similarities between your Olympics experience and these major marathons? 
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I mean, the Olympic course was really tough and definitely wasn't set up for spectators.   So I found that really tough being kind of a rhythm runner.   It was really hard.   But hopefully I'll make up for that on Sunday. 

Q.   Talking about the Olympic marathon course, the loops were great for spectators but‑‑
    KIM SMITH:   It was good for some people and terrible for others. 

Q.   There were a lot of turns?
    KIM SMITH:   A lot of turns and uneven running, cobblestones, yeah, it wasn't easy.

Q.   Plus it was raining?
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, there were cobblestones and slick pavement.   It was horrible.   I was slipping everywhere.   It was not fun.

Q.   What was the experience like?
    KIM SMITH:   It was definitely really different than any other marathon experience I've had because that was the first time I'd done the marathon at the Olympics.   I didn't enjoy it as much as one of the major marathons.   Definitely the major marathons seem more exciting to me than the Olympic marathon.   I think of course the Olympics on the track is really exciting because you're in the stadium, and maybe it's because I had such a special run.   But I definitely enjoyed New York more.

Q.   Is it your favorite?
    KIM SMITH:   I don't know if I can say that.

Q.   I won't say anything. 
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I don't know.   I definitely do New York more than the others, so I might enjoy it somehow.

Q.   We have a gold medalist running. 
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, it's an amazing field.   There's a gold and bronze medalist and then the reining champion, as well, so it's going to be a really tough competition.   You never really know with the marathon where people are at, as well, after the Olympics.   It's a big year and things happen and people get tired.   But I'm feeling good, so I'm hoping something special will happen for me. 

Q.   How is your recovery and buildup since the Olympics been?
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, it was much easier than I thought.   I thought I was going to be struggling actually with recovering, because I usually do after a marathon.   But I think because I couldn't push myself quite as hard as I wanted to at the Olympics, I recovered a lot easier, whereas after New York I'm in a lot of pain usually for a long time.   But yeah, I felt really good coming off the Olympics.

Q.   And then adding Amy into the mix‑‑
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, it's more motivating having someone doing everything with you and getting out the door just seems easier when you have a training partner.

Q.   And it seems like you guys have kind of gelled really well?
    KIM SMITH:   Yeah, we've basically done everything together, and my husband has been the official pacemaker now.   He's been really helpful, and yeah, it's been great. 

Q.   What's your weekly mileage and training?
    KIM SMITH:   Something right around 100, 110, 115 miles a week, a couple of workouts or a workout and a long run.   Yeah, just‑‑

Q.   (Inaudible). 
    KIM SMITH:   It depends.   We work on a two‑week cycle, so yeah, it would be like in the two weeks we'll have a shorter workout, a workout of long repeats, a tempo run long run and then just a normal long run.   That would be the four workouts. 

Q.   Do you go beyond 20 miles?
    KIM SMITH:   This time I just went 22.   But in the other buildups I've done 25 is the longest. 

Q.   How close do you get to marathon pace?
    KIM SMITH:   Well, we'll do a tempo run where we do like five miles and then 10 miles at marathon pace and then another five miles afterwards.   So that would be my marathon pace long run.   Nothing crazy, no 20‑mile tempo runs. 

Q.   What have you learned in each of your marathon experiences, or have you learned anything from your marathon experiences?
    KIM SMITH:   It's really hard to predict what's going to happen tactically I think for New York because two years ago we went out really easy and it became like a five‑mile race at the end.   Everyone was still together.   And then with five miles to go, it just got really fast.
    And then last year was just so crazy fast from the start, it was kind of unbelievable that I was running like‑‑ I think I went through 71‑and‑a‑half minutes at the half, which is near the course record, and I was way back.   Yeah, it's really hard to know what's going to happen.   I definitely thought more people would come back to me last year, and only a few days.   Well, a few didn't.   Three didn't, I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT