NYC HALF MARATHON
March 15, 2012
Kim Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Obviously you've run under 1:08 twice recently, and it seems like‑‑ do you think you've sort of figured this out to some degree or is it just having experience with it?
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I really enjoy the half marathon distance.   Yeah, I guess it's just something I feel really comfortable with. 

Q.   We've seen you in New York before and obviously you're not afraid to push a pace or to be alone very early on.   Do you have any thoughts about what you'll do?
KIM SMITH:   Just see how I feel, I guess, in the first mile, see if it's going to be a good day or a bad day.   But yeah, we'll see how the race plays out. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
KIM SMITH:   I don't mind either way.   I would prefer‑‑ it's okay with me that it's a mixed race anyway.   That makes it easier, yes. 

Q.   How does it fit into your year obviously this being an Olympic year, where people are in their training cycles?
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I guess it's kind of a weird time because it's really kind of too far out.   It's quite far out from the marathon to be training for a marathon.   But yeah, this will be my first race since the New York Marathon.   I considered it as just something to focus on. 

Q.   Where would you say you are in terms of your training? 
KIM SMITH:   I'm not quite doing‑‑ I mean, I'm running 100‑mile weeks, I guess, the last month or so.   I've tried to get back into things slowly after New York just because it was going to be a long time until London. 

Q.   Do you come to a race like this before the Olympics because you don't want to be sitting back?   You want some races, right?
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I wanted a race, and yeah, I've always wanted to do the half here.   It was just good timing to have my first race back here. 

Q.   Is there any real different kind of strategizing coming to the half other than a marathon other than just the pace is different?
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I think with the half you pretty much just go as hard as you can.   The marathon is about different things, obviously trying to pace yourself more and worrying about your fueling and stuff like that, fasting, not having to worry about that kind of thing. 

Q.   Will you do anything?   Obviously you've taken some glucose in a marathon.   Do you‑‑
KIM SMITH:   No, you don't really need to drink, which is good, because I've had to get some of that stuff down when you're running. 

Q.   Do you do any serious preparation at altitude?
KIM SMITH:   No.

Q.   I know runners feel differently about that because it's hard to regulate the pace you'll be running when you come down to sea level.   Is that one more variable to worry about?
KIM SMITH:   I mean, my coach doesn't really like me going to much of that altitude, so he kinds of avoids it. 

Q.   Do you have any goals tomorrow, just compete hard?
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, go out there and try and win.   But it is a deep field, and I'm not exactly sure where I am right now because I haven't raced in so long.   But yeah.

Q.   You've got to be confident in the distance, though. 
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, I'm definitely more confident in this distance than probably any other distance.

Q.   Of everything?
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, it's probably the distance I feel more comfortable with. 

Q.   So you said that you were in New Zealand.   Did you go down there specifically to train or home to visit?
KIM SMITH:   I've been there for three months.

Q.   Like over the holidays?
KIM SMITH:   Yeah.

Q.   How was your trip?
KIM SMITH:   It was good.   It was nice to be home that long.

Q.   Who did you train with down there?
KIM SMITH:   I recently got engaged, so my‑‑

Q.   I just saw the ring.   I was going to ask. 
KIM SMITH:   So he came with me, and he just did all my training with me, so it was really nice.

Q.   Is he a runner?
KIM SMITH:   He was, and then he quit his job so he could come with me.

Q.   How did he propose?
KIM SMITH:   No big story.   He's not the most romantic.   Basically just showed me a ring, and that was it.

Q.   How long have you been engaged? 
KIM SMITH:   Ever since November.

Q.   So not long after the marathon?
KIM SMITH:   No, yeah. 

Q.   Any wedding planning at all?
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, yeah.

Q.   Do you have a date?
KIM SMITH:   Yeah, September 1st.

Q.   And will it be there?
KIM SMITH:   In Maine.   He's from Maine.   Busy month.   I don't really care.   If I could just show up, that would be good. 

Q.   Have you looked at how much you'll race this year in the lead‑up to London?
KIM SMITH:   Really just seeing how this goes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT