RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2008
Bryan DeCorso
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Bryan, an interesting week here for you at the Canadian Open. Just being a Canadian, does it feel different for you than any other tournament?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: It feels more special. Being closer to home, and a lot of friends and relatives. I've got a good friend of mine on the bag this week caddying for me.
 Yeah, I grew up 40 minutes from here, so it definitely feels different. On top of that, this our Nation's open, would be thee most important tournament for me in my life to win.
 I believe a lot of Canadians feel the same way. I'm rooting for weir just like everybody else is, and every other Canadian in the field.

 Q. Obviously a tournament you watched growing up in its hey day when it was considered the fifth major. Do you feel they're on the right step towards getting back to that point?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: From what I saw, it was run unbelievable even with the weather was terrible. Finally we have a nice day to day, but the job they did was incredible. Lot of hospitality. From the locker room, talking to players, they loved it.
 So I think you're going to see the stronger fields and the top players in the world coming back here very soon.

 Q. It was a nice finish to your round there on 18. Sort of an up-and-down week for you?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: Yeah, my putter failed me today. I missed every putt today until 18. So I'm glad I made it on the final hole there. I missed four or five or six footers today. I could have even salvaged one if my putter was better.
 The way I played today, all week it was kind of average. I grinded through to make the cut. I was proud of myself there. Unfortunately, I would have loved to have played through the weekend. But I'm going to go back to the Nationwide tournament.

 Q. You look at a young guy like Nick Taylor and the way he finished up today. Does the future of Canadian golf look bright to you?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: It looks really bright. I went to the score award Monday night. I met Nick briefly. I had never spoken to him or talked to him. But the talent level of these guys and how good they get when they're young.
 I was in college just kind of knocking it around when I was 23, 24. They're ready to play. They're out here playing in the Canadian Open. So, it's just amazing. Anthony Kim and the talent level and the mentality is progressing.
 Canadian golf is bright. We have a good foundation here with the juniors. They start teaching them very young. I had no teaching when I was growing up here in Canada. It was all myself and my father. You know, traveling to tournaments. I had no coaching, no teaching, no instruction.
 So now it's grown to a point where you're going to see a national stage of Canadians kind of like the Swedish and the Aussies, you know. They take them when they're young and they really train them. You're going to watch a lot of Canadians this way.

 Q. Obviously, you keep hearing the number over and over again. 50 years since a Canadian has won this tournament. Obviously, do you feel that's close to coming to an end?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: You know, winning, a lot of things have to happen to win. You know, you have to have a couple of good bounces.
 You know, I don't know when the Canadian will win the Open, I'm not too sure. But you're going to see a lot more Canadians on the leaderboard. You're going to see a lot more Canadians over the weekend. Just that will give us a chance to have a win out here. We're going to be more prepared. The field will be full of more Canadians that are prepared.
 You know, winning is extremely difficult out here. So I would hope in the next two, three, four, five years, it would be a Canadian.

 Q. Or one year?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: Or one year.

 Q. Can you talk about the journey? You have been around on the peripheral of touring golf for a long time. You're as close right now to getting to the PGA TOUR as you've ever been. Can you taste it?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: Oh, you know, a few months ago I probably got a little ahead of myself. I'm getting a reality check. It's a humbling game. I've got to go back and work hard and really earn it.
 Nothing is given to you in golf. I'm not on the PGA TOUR yet. I've had some very good weeks out there and accomplished things. Things that five years ago I didn't even think I would do. I was doing other things.
 So to be back here at 37 and have an opportunity to play, I'm not going to let it slip through my fingers. God willing with hard work, I'll be out there next year.

 Q. Did you ever give it any thought to maybe not coming here this week to solidify your Nationwide spot?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: No, never crossed my mind. I was contacting Bill Paul months ago. I really wanted to play here. I like the golf course. This is my fourth open. I'd only played at Glen Abbey.

 Q. The first time in ten years?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: Yeah, it's been a while. A lifetime ago. No, I was very comfortable in skipping Ohio State or the nationwide event this week in Columbus.
 Like next week, Omaha, it's a big purse,$700,000. There's a lot of opportunity ahead of me. There is still probably 11 or more events on the schedule.

 Q. How about the swing changes coming up?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: The swing changes, I wouldn't say rusty. That's not the right word because I've been working at it for two and a half months. I've just got to keep working hard. It's a process. It's a living organism. It's always transforming.
 So I'm going to go back. I'll see my coach or I might even fly him out. Wichita, for sure. He's from there. We'll probably spend a good week together in Wichita.

 Q. What is his name?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: Greg Towne.

 Q. Final thoughts picking up two birdies coming home yesterday to be able to play today?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: Yeah.

 Q. Was that something you were thinking about?
 BRYAN DeCORSO: Yeah, the cut was -- it was kind of the immediate goal because I was so far behind. Some time during the first round I was probably tied 140th at like 4 over. By the time I was done 36 holes, I was 1 under. So that was a goal to achieve. I was pretty proud of myself to do that.
 Depending on what position you're in, depending on what the day gives you, the goals change. In the position I was in, making the cut was the goal.
 Then when I was playing yesterday, it was like, well, there's another cut. And I'm not playing very well again. So I made some birdies coming home, and solidified making that second cut, which was nice to be able to play Sunday at Glen Abbey and finish on No. 18. That was cool.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT