OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2015
Carmen Alonso
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6 under, how do you feel after this round?  What went right today?
CARMEN ALONSO: I'm happy.  I'm happy to play because two months ago, I didn't know if I'm going to continue to play.  And to be in Dubai in the sunshine and to play 66 in the first round, happy.
Q. Why do you say that, that you're not sure?
CARMEN ALONSO: Well, this year was a tough sure.  My mom had cancer in the lung.  She had the operation in October.  Now everything is good.  I was struggling a little bit with my golf.  Sometimes you lose your your happy to play on the golf course.
My mom has a good team around me, and I'm happy to be here and keep working.
Q. So you didn't play or practice in enough tournaments this year because of what's happening?
CARMEN ALONSO: Well, I have the full calendar of The European Tour, and I only played five tournaments.  This is my sixth.  It's a little bit weird.  Obviously when your mom is like this, it's better to be home with the family because family is more important than golf.  Our family, we are so much together.  Now that everything is right, I can do what I want and I'm happy.
Q. And how was the round today?  How was your golf today?
CARMEN ALONSO: I played really good.  I didn't make bogeys, no mistakes.  16 greens, six birdies.
Q. Were you hitting the ball well or were you hitting it close or were you making putts
CARMEN ALONSO: My birdies, for example, on the 10th, was my first hole and was three and a half meter putt.  The next one on 15, three and a half, more or less.  The par 5, was a chip and a putt.  The next one was like three meters.  The next one on the sixth was eight meters and the one on the seventh, it was one meter from the hole.
It was okay.  I played really good. Nothing to complain about.  Keep working and be happy.  For me, I tell you, my mom is the most important person in my life.  And now that she's great, happy, that's it.
Q. Because of this, do you have to go to Q School next year?
CARMEN ALONSO: At this moment, yes, I have to go to Q School.  I didn't play enough tournaments and the tournaments I played, I didn't play great.  But I'm here in Dubai, happy with the weather, happy with the golf course, happy with the game, keep working.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT