EA SPORTS MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 21, 2012
Roquez Johnson
Rick Ray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We have Coach Ray and Roquez Johnson.   Coach, opening comments? 
COACH RAY:   This is the same 'ol story for us.   Same old story for us.   Our assist to ratio was 7 of 18.   We haven't been in the positive down here yet.   Gave up 17 offensive rebounds.   They had 24 points off our turnovers, and 16 points off of second chances.   We went through the past three games and added up points off turnovers for the opposing team, and points off second chance shots.   If we just eliminate some of those things, we have a chance to win the ballgame.
But we continue to beat ourselves by doing those two things, and also just not sharing the basketball.   Our guys continue to fight and compete and play hard, but we're beating ourselves right now. 
I know NorthCarolina and Marquette and Texas are quality basketball teams.   But we're basically not giving ourselves a chance to win games because we just put ourselves out by making those mistakes.

Q.   Coach, I know you guys are down body‑wise.   You talked about it all week.   Did this tournament at 0‑3, did this tournament give you something to build on for the rest of the season? 
COACH RAY:   That remains to be seen.   We'll see where we go from here.   Obviously, when you go 0‑3, I don't know if you can say you can build upon that.   You don't have much of a choice.   You didn't win a game.   So how we play the rest of the season and a few games after this Maui tournament will determine if we have something to build on or not. 
THE MODERATOR:   Roquez, I know it's been a tough couple of days here, but perhaps you'd like to make a comment about the tournament experience? 
ROQUEZ JOHNSON:   Yeah, we played a lot of good teams and we didn't fight as hard as we should have in the first half.   But the second half we decided to come out and play hard.   But we've got to play both halves as hard as we can, but we didn't do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT