NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 16, 2012
James Buescher
Rick Hendrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   Mr.Hendrick, congrats again on your 200 wins and that accomplishment.   I imagine you have received many, many congratulations over the past few days, who is the most interesting person who has called to congratulate you?   Or do you have any fun stories to share? 
RICK HENDRICK:   I have had so many folks call me and e‑mail me, and my phones kind of blew up Saturday night and Sunday. 
But I have guys that I went to high school with and haven't talked to in 30 years that have reached out, and that's been pretty special.   But all of the folks from GM, and just in racing that I have not seen or heard from in probably 20 years, that's been the neat thing, to talk to some of the drivers that have been calling in and jabbing me.   It's been a real neat deal. 
THE MODERATOR:   And I have one quick question about the All‑Star Race.   Three of Hendrick Motorsports drivers, Jeff Gordon, Jimmie Johnson and Kasey Kahne are locked in and Dale, Jr. is going for a Showdown win; can you comment on the honor it is to win such a race for the drivers and for the team, and also just what a fun event it is for the fans? 
RICK HENDRICK:   You know, I think the All‑Star Race was one of my favorite races.   You get to run flat‑out.   You don't have to worry about points.   And the fans, it's a night race, it's at Charlotte; it's always a wild race. 
We always have some kind of spectacular event during that race, and it's one that we really want to win, but it's also a fun race to watch, because you really don't have the pressure of the points.   You don't have as much on the line.   And I like that the format is always pretty interesting. 
It's a race everybody wants to win and it pays a lot of money.   It's so much action and it's really a good, fun race. 

Q.   I just wanted to ask you, HMS only needs to average seven wins over the next season to get there.   First, how would you assess your chances of doing that?   And two, do you still seeing yourself being directly involved as an owner if and when that comes to pass? 
RICK HENDRICK:   I hope it's ten years from now.   I hope I make it ten more years.   You know, that's going to be a hard hill to climb to get to that number.   I would love to see our organization be able to do it. 
You know, that would be an unbelievable accomplishment, but I'm very thankful for 200, and, man, it was hard enough to go from 199 to 200. 
So for me to think about trying to average seven a year for the next ten years, that's a tall mountain right now.   I'm going to enjoy 200 and just try to win a championship from here on out. 

Q.   In January, your comments on the media tour were very strong.   The quote was:   "I'm going to be disappointed if we don't have all four cars in the Chase and I'm going to be disappointed we don't win a Championship."   How surprised are you at how the season has gone?   Is it luck or parity?   Is there something different in NASCAR? 
RICK HENDRICK:   I think it is a lot of parity and I think it's a lot of luck, too. 
If you look at Jeff Gordon, I think he's led the second‑most number of laps of anyone out there and I think he's run the fastest, he had all the fastest laps.   I think he's like third or fourth. 
So when Jeff Gordon runs like that, you don't expect him to be 24th in the points.   We have had so many races get away from us right there at the end of the race, and I can't count how many races, we have had all four in the Top‑10 and Top‑5 and battling in the win to have something go wrong. 
So I stick by what I said.   Dale and Jimmie are tied, I think, for the Top‑10s.   Jeff has led a lot of laps, and Kasey is coming on. 
Between Kasey and Jeff Gordon, probably the rottenest luck I've had in racing in my career, I mean, I can't even remember as many flat tires or wrecks or Kasey is running third on the last lap and gets shoved into the wall.   We have had some freak things break on the car.
But I'm not going to take away from the competition level that's out there, but I still believe that I think the momentum is going to be on our side when we get to the Chase.   I think Jeff is going to win races.   We have got to get to 20th in the points but I think he's going to win races, and Kasey is going to win races. 
So I'm going to stand by what I said, because I do feel that way.   The scorecard doesn't show it but I feel that way. 

Q.   First of all, on 200, I know over at your campus there, you have the big wall with the wins counted up; do you plan on doing anything to celebrate that win? 
RICK HENDRICK:   Yeah, we are really excited.   We are going to have a party and all that.   But we have got a lot of things planned for our people, because it is a milestone and we have reached out to all the drivers that have won races with us and they are excited about being a part of something. 
We are going to have a little get‑together and celebrate.   It's a huge accomplishment for our people and I'm really proud of them.   You know, you need to stop and celebrate something like, this because they don't come along too often. 

Q.   After getting 200 wins, is there anything throughout your career as an owner that really stands out as that one that got a way from you? 
RICK HENDRICK:   I would say that the race in Martinsville will have to go down as the one that's going to take a long time for me to get over. 
When you're running one, two, three and you've got three laps to go, or two laps to go, and you've got a straight way on everybody and you just kind of are cruising and then somebody stops on the track and then you've got to restart and you have a big wreck that takes out everybody. 
I think that one crushed me more than any one ever has, because I wanted to win at Martinsville, and that would have been a great place for the 200th win, where the accident happened.   I have a lot of family there and had relatives on the plane.   That one crushed me, and I don't think I'll ever get over that one. 

Q.   You've had so many accomplishments throughout your career.   What gives you the most satisfaction season to season? 
RICK HENDRICK:   I think‑‑ and you're right.   I don't think I can pick one.   I think winning the first one has to be, when you go to New York, and you get the trophy for the championship, and you never thought you would have a shot, that definitely is one you remember.   And when Jimmie did them back‑to‑back, and did two and then three and then four, and then five; and it was like, man, it was hard to believe you could do that.
To see Terry win one‑‑ they are all special.   And then you get fired up next year to go back.   I think you get fired up when you win; you want to repeat.   When you don't win, you get fired up because you didn't accomplish your goal that year you and want to do it the next year. 
So there's all kind of ways to motivate you, you and get motivated anyway at the end of the year.   I think all of those championships are special. 

Q.   How big of an event is the All‑Star Race for your team and do you think the win at Darlington gives you a little extra bounce in your step for this weekend? 
RICK HENDRICK:   It absolutely does.   I mean, you know, I said it earlier but I feel really confident.   Deal sent me a text and said, you need to be down here Saturday night in Darlington, going to get 200.   He was real confident after practice. 
Jimmie has been running so good.   I think it's listed the whole organization to get the 200 out of the way, because we all‑‑ we thought it was going to happen so many times and it didn't, and you get kind of like, man, you don't want to even talk about it anymore. 
But it's always sitting in the back of your mind, so I think the fact that everybody is kind of running good, and we'll ride the momentum of the excitement of getting the 2000th one done, and everyone is on their toes for this race, anyway.
I think it's good momentum for all of our guys going into the race. 

Q.   You know, so many drivers just can't wait to get to certain tracks because they love that track.   Is there any track that you look forward to going to and if so, for what reason? 
RICK HENDRICK:   Well, you have to look at your record and Martinsville and Charlotte have been really good to me and Dover has been good.   We have a lot of tracks that we seem to run real well at, so you kind of look forward to getting back to one that you have won a ton of races at. 
So I think the Charlotte track, we have had so much success there, I look forward to that race and I look forward to the 600, but I really look forward to the All‑Star Race. 
We have kind of got guys that run good at most every where, so there's not too many that I dread going to now.   The Super Speedways, Daytona and Talladega are such crap shots, you never know what's going to happen there; out of your control.   If there's one‑‑ they are probably the ones I would look forward to going to the least. 

Q.   How does racing in the All‑Star Race prepare for the Coca‑Cola 600 for night racing conditions and maybe teams run the in the Showdown race? 
RICK HENDRICK:   Well, when you're in that All‑Star Race   the track does some crazy things when the sun goes down.   I've seen it get loose; I've seen it get tight.   It does give the guys a good reference for running the 600. 
I think this year, with the 600 moved back a little later in the day, it's even going to be more important to see how your car reacts on two tires and all of the other things, the adjustments you make during the race. 
You know, we are going to take this one race at a time.   We want to win the All‑Star Race, because it's a lot of bragging rights.   But we'll get a lot of information over there that will prepare us for the 600. 

Q.   And my next question is how much of an impact is it on a team that all of these tracks are getting repaved and how will it change things going into those events?
RICK HENDRICK:   Well, when you repave a track, you know it's going to go away, because you don't know what transition the track is going to go to.
We know Michigan is going to be super‑fast, and I don't know exactly how we are going to approach that deal.   But you just lose your notes.   Nothing that‑‑ the history of the way the track has reacted doesn't make any difference anymore.   If you're one of the guys that gets a tire test, then you get a little information.   But without that, you just kind of go blind and you are going to have to just see how things develop during the race and make adjustments accordingly. 
I think the big thing is, you just‑‑ all the notes and all the history you have of the track go out the window. 

Q.   Wondering what you say to Jeff about this, and there's been a lot of luck issues, but he's never been in this position before.   How is he reacting to it, and what do you say to him? 
RICK HENDRICK:   Well, Jeff and I have talked, and we talk every week.   You know, he's a pro and he's a champion, you and don't have to motivate him.   He's carried it on his shoulders before.   When we have had crew chief changes and things happen that are out of his control, he steps it.
Up.   He's just a pro.   I mean, he knows that he's not going to lose it on the radio and get the team down.   He's going to try to rally the team. 
And again, if you go back and look at a broken water neck at Daytona, burn a motor up; blow a motor at Kansas running up front; tire at Darlington; tire at Bristol; you just throw some of those out, and you look at the laps that have been led, if the car is not competitive you and can't hit a setup and you're running 25th and 30th every day, and just everybody is fighting and fighting each other, you know, we don't have to work on performance.   We have to work on finishing. 
And he's a guy that you just don't have to hold his hand to get through that. 

Q.   How is the development of the 2013 car coming long and do you feel good about making the change over for next year? 
RICK HENDRICK:   You know, it's going to be a whole lot of work and expense, but I think NASCAR has done a good job with all of the cars.   They have had them in the wind tunnel and I guess NASCAR is getting pretty comfortable with the parity between all the brands, because we are making some slight changes but we are locking in and feeling good about the car.   I think it's going to be great for the fans.   We are going to have a production car that looks just like it. 
We are back to seeing in the showrooms what we are racing on the racetrack and the fans have said they want that and the manufacturers want it, and actually the teams want it.   So just getting through the change over is going to be the big deal, but, you know, the chassis are the same, so it's just a bunch of‑‑ we are going to be working a lot of midnight hours to get all of the bodies done.   It's always a chore when you go through it and it's a big expense. 
At the end of the day, it's going to be better for the sport. 
THE MODERATOR:   A couple more questions.   Are you guys doing anything with the 200th win car?   Are you doing anything special with it at the shop?   Any plans? 
RICK HENDRICK:   I told Chad I want to keep it.   I would like to put it aside.   You know, he didn't argue with me about wanting to race it this weekend, so I don't know if he's talked to Jimmie yet but we are going to try to protect it, preserve it and put it in the museum.   That's what the plan is. 
THE MODERATOR:   Of the 200 wins, how many of those cars do you still own or are in the museum? 
RICK HENDRICK:   We have in the museum probably 20 and then another 50‑‑ so I would say in the warehouse saved, probably somewhere between 75 and a hundred. 
THE MODERATOR:   One other question, sorry.   I wanted to ask about the helmet that was presented to you for the 200 wins.   How special was that to receive? 
RICK HENDRICK:   That was probably one of the coolest things I've ever seen, because all of the drivers who had won races had signed it.   And even Tim Richmond's sister signed for him.   That's a treasure; to have a piece like that with the pictures and their signatures on it, because, you know, I look back, till the day I die at how fortunate we were and I am to be a part of this deal and part of NASCAR and to win this many races. 
The coolest thing about it all is being able to meet guys like Tim Richmond and Jeff Bodine and Darryl and Kenny and Kyle and all of the guys that have been there that won races.   Still see them in the garage, a lot of them.   Some of them don't race anymore.   But it's really an honor to have those guys be excited about the 200 and the relationship I have with all of them, so the helmet has all of that.
THE MODERATOR:   Next Friday you're planning a big fan day; I guess it came at a really nice time where the fans can come out and celebrate with you guys.   Do you want to talk a little about the fan day and what you guys have planned? 
RICK HENDRICK:   The drivers are going to be there.   We are real excited about that.   We have wanted to have a Fan Fest, and you know, we just haven't‑‑ it just seems like we didn't put it together in time. 
This year, you're right, timing is great.   It's going to be Friday, may 25th from 11:00 AM to 7:00 PM and the drivers will all be there at different points in time of the day.   We are just going to have a good time.   The museum will be open and we'll have some special cars on display and there will be sponsored cars on display.   It's all about the fans and saying thank you to them. 
You're right, it could not come at a better time; to be celebrating 200 and to have this at the same time is going to be a really special, special time for us. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for joining us. 



             THE MODERATOR:   We are now joined by James Buescher, driver of the No. 31 Excite Batteries Chevrolet for Turner Motorsports, currently sitting second in the NASCAR Truck World Series points, only four points behind the leader with a win and three top‑five finishes already this season. 
Coming off your win at Kansas Speedway three weeks ago at the NASCAR Camping World Truck Series, you have momentum to Friday's race at Charlotte Motor Speedway.   How have you and your team been preparing these last couple of weeks? 
JAMES BUESCHER:   We have momentum not only from Kansas, but like you said, we have three Top‑5 finishes in a row, and it seems like our 31 team is on a roll.   But really, everybody at Turner Motorsports, our Truck Series program, I think is really strong right now. 
We have won the last few races and I think we can carry that momentum right into Charlotte.   We have done some testing even since Kansas that we feel like is going to improve the mile‑and‑a‑half program even more and for other racetracks as well.   We found some things we felt like will help our trucks even more and we are taking the same truck to Charlotte that we raced at Kansas.   I think our chances are pretty good.   I'm excited to have Excite Batteries back on board with us for the first time this year. 

Q.   How is racing in the two series helping you improve as a driver?
JAMES BUESCHER:   Four months into the season now, we have only had four truck races, so being able to run the Nationwide car on the off‑weekends, and for companion weekends, just helps me stay fresh and stay in the seat.   The more you are in the race car, the more you learn.
So I'm really fortunate to have ran all but one Nationwide race this year, and I feel like every week, I learn something or I pick up on something that I haven't had before.   So I think just staying fresh in the car and getting that extra seat time is important. 

Q.   I know Texas is one of your favorite tracks; how is it when you prepare for racing at your home track knowing that friends and family are probably going to come out there, and what would it mean to you to get a win at your home track? 
JAMES BUESCHER:   It would mean a lot to me.   Our team‑‑ Mr.Turner is from Texas, as well.   So not only am I a Texas driver; we are a Texas team.   It would mean a lot to get a win there. 
You know, like you said, we've got some poles there, and in the past, I think we have gotten the last two Truck Series poles there.   We have had speed when we go there.   I don't think we do anything any differently.   It's just a racetrack that I think I've adapted to well.   It's a place I've been a lot to watch races, and it's just a place that I think I have figured out. 
So there's not much we do differently but we know that when we go there, we need to perform.   So maybe every detail gets looked over a little bit extra. 
I think it's a lot like going to a place like Charlotte, and that all of the guys on my team, that's their home race, and we do the same kind of things for that race as we do for my home race, and that's two really important races that we all want to win, because our families are there and our friends are there, and they all get to experience it with us. 
So I think just a little bit of extra emphasis gets put on those races. 

Q.   Have you ever had a season or a time in your career that just for some reason, everything just seems to be fitting together for you, coming together?   Is it something that‑‑ is it something new or something that you can put your finger on, or what's your take on it? 
JAMES BUESCHER:   Are you saying like having this season coming together? 

Q.   Yes. 
JAMES BUESCHER:   I don't really know what one thing is making this season come together so well.   It seems like it has been a really good season.   The 30 car and the Nationwide, we are up close to the Top‑5 in owners points and we have had some good finishes there, and won at Daytona and won Kansas in the Truck.   Everything seems to be clicking. 
I joked earlier in the season that getting married in the off‑season, I finally started winning some races.   So I don't think that's a reason.   But I think just the evolution of our team, it's still a young team.   We have only been a NASCAR team for a few years now.   It's not like we have veteran crew chiefs.   We do now, but as a 31 team, we have built this together, Michael Shelton and I, he was a rookie crew chief, and I'm somewhat of a rookie driver. 
So it's not like we had a whole lot of experience coming into it, and I think it's just taken some time to figure everything out, and be able to put every piece of the puzzle together. 
I feel like every year we have gotten better and better, and we had a shot to win the championship last year and we gave that away in the beginning of the season.   We see the mistakes we have made in the past and we are doing our best not to make them again. 
Just continually try to get better every week, even if we feel like we can go to a racetrack and be the fastest car on top of the practice sheet; we are still testing and trying to find new things and trying to stay on top. 

Q.   Being a rookie what would be your advice for a young person wanting to get into NASCAR? 
JAMES BUESCHER:   There's so many ways that you can make your way up the ladder.   I think just staying focused, and it's something that you really want to do, you've got to make it your top priority.   You've got to live, breathe, eat and sleep it.   It takes a lot of effort.   You have to stay in shape throughout the week, and you have to focused on your race car. 
It takes a lot of effort, and you are going to go through some hard times, but you can't get down on yourself and you have to keep working at it and keep trying to get better because it's not just going to happen overnight.   I've been in NASCAR for four years now, and I've just now won my first couple of races.
So, things take time and you've just got to stay focused and stay patient, and hope the right opportunities come your way.

Q.   With one win in the Truck Series and Nationwide this year, how does that help motivate you for many seasons to come?
JAMES BUESCHER:   You question your ability when you don't get to victory lane, and it had been a while since I won a race.   2009, I won a couple ARCA races and 2010, 2011, we didn't win any races. 
So it does weigh on you and it weighs on your mind when you're in a losing streak like that.   But you know, when you finally can get to victory lane twice in a couple months, it just gives you the confidence to know that you are capable and you do have a team capable of winning, and you've just got to keep trying to get to victory lane, because even though we have done it twice, it doesn't mean it's going to make the next time any easier. 
We just have to keep working like we are and don't take anything for granted.   I think it's just a huge confidence booster. 

Q.   How much does running‑‑ you kind of answered this earlier, but how much does running in the ARCA series help you going into a truck or Nationwide Series event as a young driver? 
JAMES BUESCHER:   Well, I don't plan on doing any ARCA racing anymore, but in years past, just the extra seat time on a racetrack that you might be unfamiliar with is the biggest thing. 
It helps you with‑‑ I ran Speedway races and I ran mile‑and‑a‑half races and stuff whenever I was first getting into NASCAR just to get that extra seat time on those racetracks that I had not been too very much and any series I had ran prior to the Trucks and Nationwide Series. 
And last year I ran the ARCA race at Lucas Oil Raceway just because that's a racetrack I really enjoy, and I wanted to run all three races that weekend.   It's my favorite racetrack so, that's why we ran it. 
But you know, it's just a way to learn and get that extra track time. 

Q.   You mentioned about your marriage, congratulations on that.   What's it like now driving for a family member with Mr.Turner now as your father‑in‑law? 
JAMES BUESCHER:   Well, yeah, I did get married in the off‑season.   You know, it's not any different really because Chris and I have been together for about seven years now.   So I've always kind of looked at him as a father figure, Mr.Turner.   But now he legally is my father‑in‑law. 
So, you know, there's not anything really different in the way I approach the races or how I approach my job, because I have been working with him for so many years.   I drove for him in late models and I've driven for him for a couple of years now in NASCAR, and it's not anything new, really, but just a different title.

Q.   Is it neat that you truly are a family? 
JAMES BUESCHER:   Absolutely.   It definitely‑‑ you know, people sometimes ask if it makes it any easier driving for my father‑in‑law, and honestly, it doesn't, because he can hold me to a higher standard than he does anybody else, because he knows what I'm capable of, and he knows the amount of work that he puts in and the amount of work that I put in.
And it makes you‑‑ it gives you that extra little drive that you might not have to get the best finish you can possibly get when you're having a bad day, or it makes the victories that much sweeter, not only winning it for yourself but winning it for your family.   It definitely has a little bit different feel to it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, we appreciate you taking the time to join us today.   Best of luck Friday night in your race at Charlotte Motor Speedway. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT