UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 16, 2012
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Yesterday 1‑under par, today a fantastic round, how do you feel?
ANDERS HANSEN:   I'm very, very pleased with the round.   It's obviously very tricky out there, and you know, it's blowing and the wind is coming from all kind of directions.   So it's a little tricky out there.   It's difficult for us.   It's difficult to hit the fairways and greens. 

Q.   Was there something else that was special today, if you look at some of the other scores?
ANDERS HANSEN:   Well, you know, I played well.   I played solid from tee‑to‑green.   But you are going to miss a few greens and you are going to miss a few fairways, that's how it is when it's difficult like it is in any conditions.   You are going to miss fairways.   But I just managed to keep it together and it was good. 

Q.   What are you going to do this afternoon getting prepared to go to the weekend? 
ANDERS HANSEN:   I'm not worried about it.   I'm just going to go home. 

Q.   Are you another member of the Hong Kong fan club?
ANDERS HANSEN:   It's always nice to come to Hong Kong.   It's a great event.   I'm really sad to know that we are losing it, but over the years, I think all of the players love to come here.   The atmosphere is great and the golf course is great.   So all in all, it's a nice week. 

Q.   Well, there's something special about the city and the ambiance, as well as being on a course like this which we don't play too often these days?
ANDERS HANSEN:   Yeah, we don't play many of these courses anymore.   It's very different to what we normally play but it's good fun.   Especially when it's like this, it makes it a little bit more difficult, very, very tricky out there, so it's cool. 

Q.   You've been determined to get right to the peak of your game, because there have been a couple of misgivings here and there, haven't there? 
ANDERS HANSEN:   Not to worry about it.   That's life.   I had a great year last year.   This year has not been too good.   I think the game has turned around a little bit since August. 
Over the summer, I had a few good runs at it but just couldn't quite get it together.   No, I'm not too worried about it.   It's golf; it's life.   It's up‑and‑down; and if it's not up and down, you don't know what up‑and‑down is. 

Q.   You're probably not worried about what's to come, come what may, but do you have a figure in mind? 
ANDERS HANSEN:   No, not at all.   We'll see how the weather is going to be.   When the weather is like this, it's so difficult, you just don't know what's going to happen.
I don't worry about it.   I take things as they come.   If it turns out, great.   I'm really, really pleased and if it doesn't work, then life goes on.

Q.   But doing similar and that will spread‑eagle the field?
ANDERS HANSEN:   If I keep playing like this, it's going to be difficult, but you know, you play good rounds and you play not‑so‑good rounds, that's life. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT