ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 7, 2012
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   With the very difficult playing conditions, how pleased are you?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   Very pleased.   I got it to 4‑under in the round today.   Obviously disappointed to shot shots on 6 and 16.   17 I hit a bad drive.   But two bogeys on a tough, tough day like today, it's very decent.   
   
 Q.   Was it difficult to stay in a rhythm after the break?   
ANDERS HANSEN:   It is, because we had a couple of stops out there.   Hit a couple of poor shots and struggled to find the rhythm and we got into a rhythm and stopped again and had to come out again.   It's just part of the game and can't do much about it.  
   
 Q.   6‑under par going into the final round, top of the leaderboard, happy?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   I'm very pleased with that.   It's a tough day tomorrow and I've heard it's going to be very, very windy tomorrow.   So windy and rain, and so it's going to be a tough day tomorrow.   We'll see what's going to happen.   
   
 Q.   What's the strategy for tomorrow under the circumstances?   
ANDERS HANSEN:   I haven't thought about that.   I just came in.   
   
 Q.   You told me yesterday that you were playing too much this year trying to get the game back in shape, but this is when the competitive juices start flowing again, isn't it, it's nice to be in this position?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   This is where I want to be and this is what I've worked towards.   I'm still surprised it came this week, switching coaches this week, but I'm trying to stay patient and trying to keep working on the things that I need to work on.   This change is long term and for what's going to happen down the road.   I'm happy to see the changes are working well and I'm hitting a lot of good shots out there.   The more comfortable I get with the things I'm doing, you think the chances are that I'm going to play better, so all in all I'm very pleased.  
   
 Q.   Have you been working sort of between rounds or intensive work at the start of the week?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   Very intensive start of the week.   We had six hours straight on the range no breaks.   We had a long session Tuesday.   Eased it off a little bit but working every day and after the round.   I'm pleased with the work that we are doing, and I'm pleased with the way I'm playing.   
This place is great for the crowds and it's going to be great for The Ryder Cup.   The people are awesome and the course is set up absolutely perfect for tournaments.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT