ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 6, 2012
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ANDERS HANSEN:   To go out on a course like this with a few new things in the golf swing is not exactly easy.   When you get out there, you have to trust what you're doing.  
   
 Q.   And it's not exactly easy in terms of the wind picking up today?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   The wind was picking up today.   It's difficult.   It's difficult out there.   I don't think it's going to get a lot easier this afternoon, so all in all, very, very pleased with where I am.  
   
 Q.   And essentially, this is how we expected Le Golf National to play, isn't it?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   It is.   It's very, very tight out there.   I think they cut in the fairways this year just to make it even tougher for us.   If you ask me, they need to keep it a little softer.   If it's going to play much firmer than this, it's going to be very, very difficult.  
   
 Q.   Is there something out there that made you think, this is a good day?   
ANDERS HANSEN:   I never really thought about that.   The first hole, I've been working on a few new things and trying to stick to what I had to do.   I'm very proud of myself to keep doing what I've done, even though there's a few shots that didn't come as I wanted them to, but all in all, I'm still in the learning process of trying to figure this thing out.   It's good.   
   
 Q.   You've had some tidy results, as well.   
ANDERS HANSEN:   This year has not been good at all.   My ball‑striking has not been great.   I've been struggling a bit in my swing.   That's why I made the decision to change coach and start working with Jamie.   He knows my swing and knows what to do, which is important for me to keep things straight.   And now with the wind picking up, it may be difficult and the swing may fall apart a little bit.  
   
 Q.   And you've deliberately been taking easy so far.   
ANDERS HANSEN:   It's been a quiet year.   Starting to reach out there; playing next week, but thought, I have to, got to get my tournaments up there, or else I'm going to lose my card (laughing).   You've got to play 13 events.   It's been a quiet year then.   
   
 Q.   Did you want to change from previous years?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   I pulled out of a couple tournaments due to just haven't felt great about the golf game and a few personal problems.   But you know, it's coming.   It's feeling good now and I felt good coming into this week.   I felt I made a really good decision about the team behind me.   I definitely made the right decision.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT