PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 22, 2016
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Heading out with the conditions ideal, what was your strategy?  
ANDERS HANSEN: Didn't really have one.  Just go out and play and try to enjoy it and hit some good shots, and it turned out all right.   
 Q.  The retirement, was it supposed to be a complete retirement or did you plan to come back and play?  This is your fifth event of the season?  
ANDERS HANSEN: When I decide to retire -- then this top 40 came in and I didn't really know so I had to play five this year, and that's why I've been doing it.   
 Q.  And now you're in this position and playing as well as you are, have you had a little rethink?  
ANDERS HANSEN: Oh, no, not at all.  I'm very, very happy with my life.  I'm very happy where I am.  I have no rethink about start playing golf again.  I'm very happy the way it is.   
 Q.  How nice is it to come out without really having the pressure, you made your decision, nothing really aspiration-wise and you've had a wonderful career.  Is it a real sense of freedom to come out here and enjoy it?  
ANDERS HANSEN: I think it does, yeah.  It probably helps a little bit because it doesn't really matter to me.  Either way it is what it is.  I'm not going to come back and play full-time.  That decision has been made.  I'm enjoying playing and being here and seeing all the guys again.  It's been a while, and five times a year is not too much.   
 Q.  Might change if you win tomorrow?  
ANDERS HANSEN: No, no full-time play for me.   
 Q.  The position you're in now, and you do have a great shot at picking up this title here on Sunday afternoon?  
ANDERS HANSEN: We'll see.  It's just going and play.  There are so many good players out there.  I really enjoyed today.  9-under is great.  It's nice to know that I can still do it even though I'm not playing too much golf anymore.  It's a bit strange, it's a strange feeling to go out and shoot 9-under in my position, it really is.   
I love playing golf, and the reason I retired is that I just didn't want to travel.  So coming here is just a nice week, and that's why I came.   
 Q.  Great score out there today.  What was going right for you out there?  
ANDERS HANSEN: I think everything just went right.  I was playing well, putting well, and bad shots didn't turn out too bad.  It's just one of those things, you know, sometimes you have those days and today was one of those days and tomorrow is a new day.   
 Q.  How is the course playing?  
ANDERS HANSEN: It's playing fine.  It's actually holding up considering -- I don't know how much rain we got last night but it's holding up really well.   
 Q.  This is an attacking course; is it better to be chasing the lead, rather than having the lead around here?  
ANDERS HANSEN: I mean, it's always nice to be in the lead but I'm not really thinking about it.  For me it's just about play tomorrow and see what happens.   
It's been three good days.  The first day wasn't too great, the second day was better and today was even better.  We'll see tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT