SAAB WALES OPEN
June 5, 2011
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on another fine performance?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Finishing second is never bad. I got out of position too many times today and just it was -- I got in such bad positions that I just couldn't recover. I got back pretty well birdieing 11, 12, and then hit a good drive down 14, I only had 94 to the pin but I was just halfway in the hazard. I made a crucial mistake there. I just wanted it up on the green -- shouldn't be that difficult, but it got to me and I hit a bad shot and consequently made bogey on a place where I was just looking to get back into the tournament, sort of put a hold to it.   
 But birdieing 15 and 17 -- I just didn't play good enough.  
  
  Q. And yet you did get back into the tournament, in that you still had the opportunity at the last there.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: I fancied that second shot and decided where the pin was, I was trying to cut it in, and maybe that was a mistake for everything breaking too much from the left and it was so close to being a really, really good shot.   
 A little disappointed on that one. Obviously maybe I should just put it up on the green and gave myself a putt for it, but I was being a bit too greedy.  
  
  Q. You have seen the man that has claimed the title firsthand. How well did he play?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: He played very solid today. He played very solid. That must be nice for Alex, he's such a good guy, and he really deserves to win. He's been playing great golf this year.   
  
  Q. And did you see any sense of nerves in him as you put the pressure on to the last?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: I could see a little bit, but he handled it well. He hit a couple poor putts and a poor chip on the last. But you get nervous when you're trying to win a tournament. So that's how it is.  
  
  Q. When you do have a chance to reflect, another second on the back of Spain, and excellent performances, it's a good run, isn't it, with even bigger things to come?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Yeah, what have I got now, three seconds this year, and a third.   
  
  Q. It will come?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Hopefully.  
  
  Q. Are you one that thinks it will come or --  
 ANDERS HANSEN: No, it will come. I try to stay patient and try to keep doing what I'm doing, but now I've played three weeks in a row where it's just been blowing so hard and I think my swing and my rhythm is suffering a bit. So consequently, also my confidence on my irons which normally is my strength, but it just hasn't been solid enough with my irons this week. Not least is how I know I can play.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT