SAAB WALES OPEN
June 4, 2011
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   SCOTT CROCKETT: Anders, thanks for coming in and joining us, and many congratulations on an excellent day. You seem to be bucking the trend; everybody is struggling out there, and you're soaring to 5-under par. Just give us the theory behind that.  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Well, I don't think there's much theory to it. I hit a lot of good golf shots and seemed to take advantage of the chances that I did have. You know, when I didn't have chances, I sort of tried to keep the ball in play. And I did make three bogeys, so it's a tough day out there.   
 It's very, very windy. A couple of holes where the wind is coming across and you don't even know where to hit it. It was difficult.  
 SCOTT CROCKETT: An excellent finish, you very nearly holed that shot for two, didn't you.  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Yeah, very close. I haven't seen it on TV, but it was close when I got there.  
 SCOTT CROCKETT: What was the clubbing on 18?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: 7-iron.   
  
  Q. Distance?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Distance 190. I think I had 190. I'm not even sure. I think it was 190.   
  
  Q. What was the distance of the putt, a couple of inches?  
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Two inches.  
 ANDERS HANSEN: It was like this.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Literally just the back of the hole. It's been a good season overall, you've been pleased with the way you've been playing this year, haven't you.  
 ANDERS HANSEN: I'm very pleased. Obviously you see in The Race to Dubai where I am. Just haven't won yet. I think I have about two seconds and a third, so that counts towards a pretty good season in my eyes, and I'm very, very pleased.   
  
  Q. Have you ever had an albatross?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Actually I haven't. That would have been the first. That would be nice to tick that one off.   
  
  Q. Is there a prize?   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: A prize? No. Round of applause.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: I'm happy with the eagle. I think the most important thing for me, it was a solid driver, a solid second shot, and in my eyes that counts for more than an eagle does in itself.   
 For me it's more about hitting solid golf shots and staying within myself and do the things that I want to do, and you know, what score comes out of it, is obviously a pleasure when it comes good. When it doesn't come good, as long as I do what I can do, and stick to the things that I'm trying to do, then I'm pretty pleased.   
  
  Q. You're clearly playing with a lot of confidence. So I guess tomorrow, if you were coming down the stretch, a couple of pars to win, it won't be a problem for you.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: I'm not scared, no. I'm not scared. Not at all. I mean, if it happens, it happens. If it doesn't, as I said before, it's all about doing the right things and I think I'm doing all of the right things at the moment. Obviously the results speaks for themselves.   
 So do I have a chance to win? Yes. It's great. If it comes off, it comes off.  
 The funny thing about golf, I can only do what I can do. If someone plays better, well, that's what happens. It's happened a couple of times to me.   
  
  Q. So clearly, almost a laid-back attitude in a sense; would that be fair?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: I'm very laid back. I'm very relaxed about it. I wouldn't say I don't care, that's not the right wording. I don't know the English word for it, but I'm definitely not scared and not scared of playing bad. I'm not scared of winning. It's all about doing what I can do.   
  
  Q. What was your drive at the last? How far did your drive go?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Driver went a long way for having that distance in. So I didn't even check it. But I did hit it quite good.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: 575 minus 190, Brian. You can do the sums later.   
  
  Q. Was Miami the biggest boost in confidence?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: That was a great boost, obviously in a world-class field, finishing third there. And I played actually really got whole week. You know, obviously I made some putts coming in. But the first thing, I played better on the front nine than I did the back nine both Saturday and Sunday but scored better on the back nine. It's a funny game, isn't it.   
  
  Q. Your first two rounds here, were they okay? Did they indicate to you that you were ready to do something like you did today?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: I played all right. I thought I played okay. I didn't strike the ball 100 per cent, but how often does that happen. This is the third week in a row I've been playing; the wind is howling, and it's getting harder and harder to keep that swing together. You try to hit the good shots, and it's just not that easy in this kind of wind.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Anders, well done. Good luck tomorrow.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT