WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2011
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You said yourself you haven't played that well in the United States but you have won two of the flagship events on The European Tour. Is that something that helped you out here the last two rounds?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Obviously once you've tried winning, it makes a huge difference when you've been under pressure. It's very, very important.   
  
  Q. When you told us just a moment ago, you stepped up there on the 18th tee and you're looking at that big, blue body of water out there, it gets into your head doesn't it?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: It does get in the back of your head. I thought I had been driving the ball really, really well this week. I was not that concerned but it was in the back of my head and I did push it out to the right.   
  
  Q. Ten birdies in your last 27 holes, that's great playing, solid 67 in the final round at the Cadillac Championship?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: It was great. It was really a great day. I played really solid on the front side. Just didn't really get anything going. Then all of the sudden, I don't know what hit me. I started making a lot of putts and there you go.   
  
  Q. Could you tell me what the players are facing out there, the ones left on the golf course coming in, the wind seemed to stay down most of the day but the greens looked like they were drying out nice?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: The greens were very, very firm out there. It's not easy to hit it close and you have to make some putts. It's not easy but it's not difficult, but the 18th is going to get your attention and it's not going to be easy.  
  
  Q. Good looks at 16, and 17, you mentioned the 18th. Talk about the tension players face on the 18th tee; it's not as wide as it tends to look on television.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: It's very narrow, especially today playing into the wind off the left. That water is looking at you but you always know if you are going to hit it right you are probably going to lay it up. I don't know how wide the fairway is, but when you stand back there and look at it, it looks very, very narrow.  
  
  Q. This is comfortably your highest finish, isn't it, to date. You've been playing quite a lot of WGCs, for example.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Absolutely. It's great. I do love the golf course, from the first time I saw it, I liked it. I'm very pleased.  
  
  Q. And tell me just about the two 2s, because that really got the round going, didn't it. You don't normally make a pair of 2s.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: The 13th is very difficult. I hit 3-iron to the middle of the green and made a long putt and that was great. That made such a difference. I didn't even try to make it to be honest. I just tried to get it down there and it went in. Just a perfect putt.   
  
  Q. The next one, 15?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: I just hit a very good 7-iron. That pin is far right, and if you it leave it left you have a downhill putt and you want to be right of that pin. I just hit it absolutely on the right side of the green and had a perfect uphill putt.  
  
  Q. When you got to 13, did you guess that you needed at least one more birdie?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: I thought I needed at least one more. So you know, that's why on 16, we talked about it, I just wanted to get it in the fairway. I just gave myself a bad yardage, and there you go. 17, I thought I hit a pretty good shot in there but just a little bit shy.   
  
  Q. Does wonders for confidence when you play as well as that on a course like that in this quality of field, as well. Good points and rankings.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: It's great for the ranking and great for the confidence more than anything.  
  
  Q. What's your plan after this?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Holiday. Three weeks' holiday and then we'll see. I might come to the Masters.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT