100TH OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2016
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First thing's first, you've got to explain yourself, our viewers think you retired last October, and you're now high on the leaderboard at The French Open.  Why?
ANDERS HANSEN: I did the time.  I did retire and I'm going back into retirement after this week.  I just came out to play four events.  I need to play five to keep my status, and this week counts for two, so that's perfect, so I'm just going to play four this week.
Q. You say you have to keep five to play your status, someone who retires doesn't need status.  You're obviously thinking maybe I want to come back?
ANDERS HANSEN: The thing about life, you make a decision and you never know whether it's going to stay that way.  That's life.  You never know what's going to happen.
Q. How sharp have you kept your game?  I hear rumours that you've been playing monthly medals to stay sharp; is that true?
ANDERS HANSEN: I haven't played a lot.  I've played a little bit with the guys at home but not a lot.  I've practised a little bit.
I never expected this, seriously.  Never, never.  Never expect that I could be -- I was really happy if I could make the cut.  I thought that was quite an achievement, and two weeks in a row, be where I am, that's just, I don't know.
Q. How good a score is that today in these difficult conditions?
ANDERS HANSEN: I think it's a brilliant score.  I mean, it is tough out there.  It really is.  But I don't know what to say.  I just kept my head in there.  I just hit one shot at a time and I'm probably pretty relaxed about it because I don't really care.
Q. People are slaving away and you know how hard it is to make a living out on The European Tour.  So how do you come out of retirement and be up the leaderboard two weeks in a row?
ANDERS HANSEN: I wish I could answer that question.  Maybe I'm just more relaxed about the whole thing because it doesn't really matter, because I know the tournaments I'm going to play and I'm not going to change anything.  I'm just going to play them.
Q. What have you done right today?  Seemingly, quite a lot.
ANDERS HANSEN: Well, I think also yesterday, I played very, very solid from tee-to-green.  I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and you've got to hit the fairways out here.  The rough is pretty heavy.  So I got a way with a couple of bad shots, so you know, it's just one of those days.
Q. And when you have those bad shots, you're a proud man but are you able to shrug them off a bit easier this time?
ANDERS HANSEN: Yeah, I think I'm just probably more relaxed about the whole thing, because it is a different scenario these days.
Q. When you look at that board and you see your name up there, do you just chuckle?
ANDERS HANSEN: I have to say, when I came down 15 today and I saw it up there, I was laughing a bit.  I thought, this is just stupid.
Q. But you're now in a lovely position into the weekend.  I know it was similar in Germany last week.  Do you tell yourself that there is a victory chance here, or do you just go with the flow?
ANDERS HANSEN: I just go with the flow.  I try to do my best every time guy out there, and you know, what is meant to be is meant to be.  As I said, it doesn't really mean a lot to me.  Obviously you want to play well and obviously if you get a chance, you want to win.  But there's still a long way to go.  These tournaments are 72 holes, not just 36.
Q. You have other players coming up to you saying, what are you doing, how can I learn from you?
ANDERS HANSEN: Not the last part, but I had a lot of questions, what are you doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT