VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 28, 2011
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ANDERS HANSEN: I played solid today and I played solid yesterday. I thought it I was putting better yesterday than I did today but 8-under, right now, the leaders are 10-under, if they don't go too far away I think it's pretty good.  
  
  Q. But do you feel you got your rewards today?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Not really. But you know, that's the game of golf. It's up-and-down, and you know, 8-under after two rounds, starting the week, I would be happy with that.   
 So you can't complain too much. Just take what comes to you and as long as things goes the right direction, I think you know, you shouldn't complain too much.   
  
  Q. And it is a continuation of some good stuff from Abu Dhabi last week, isn't it?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Yeah, I played nicely last week. I shot 4-under the first day, played nicely and then I had two bad days when I shot four and then 4-under the last day where I finished off really well.   
 I finished the season off really well last year, played really, really good, and so hopefully I can keep doing that.   
  
  Q. What do you think about your position on the leaderboard?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: As of now, it looks all right. But in the afternoon, if it's going to stay calm like it is now, I think the position may not look as good come afternoon as it does right now.  
  
  Q. It does look like you had the wrong end of the draw, the wind and the cold and wet, windy this morning.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Yeah, it wasn't too nice this morning but you get some pluses, you get some minuses. If you go through your career, you probably end up evening it all out.   
  
  Q. What do you think of the place, the course, as opposed to Bahrain itself?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: The people are so friendly here. They treat us so well. I think it's great.   
  
  Q. And the course, the nature of it?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: I mean, it's different. The fairways are in great shape, and so that's really good.   
  
  Q. Do you like it?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Do I like the golf course? I mean, I think the fairways are in great shape.   
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT