UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 19, 2010
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Second Round 64. 10-Under Total. 130

 ANDERS HANSEN: A few putts went in the hole so, makes all the difference.

 Q. And when you score as good as this, it certainly does make the difference. 
 ANDERS HANSEN: It makes it a lot more fun, doesn't it. It's quite enjoyable. Obviously last week was great, and I played really, really good last week, the first two days this week, it's been okay. 
 It has not been quite as on, but I thought last week, the course suited me a little better than this one but I'm quite happy with the position I'm in.

 Q. State what is very obvious, but seems like have a good week, it tails off and you're tired and doesn't work the next and sometimes you ride the crest of a wave. 
 ANDERS HANSEN: Seems to this time, but still two more days to go. But I'm looking forward and hopefully I can keep this going and be a great weekend.

 Q. Certainly not been a bad year, but where is this current crop of good form come from?
 ANDERS HANSEN: I tell you what, it's been -- before last week, it was a very average year but I feel I've been swinging the club quite good, I've been hitting the ball quite good but haven't been able to find the distances and I haven't quite been able to make the putts. My chipping has been poor. 
 But worked really hard on it as of late. Done a few changes privately and in my setup, and you know, professionally set up. So that seems to be a good change.

 Q. I take it that it just takes time for those changes to bed in? 
 ANDERS HANSEN: I did the changes about two or three months ago. So if it all pays off right now, it's unbelievable.
 I think the start of the year, I came off a good year last year where I played really, really solid all year and changed the caddie, my caddie went to Luke Donald unfortunately, so we had to change that. Just seemed to have been taking us time to find a groove. 
 A couple of months we took a weekend together and sort of tried to work things out and tried to make things work instead of just splitting up and go each way with a new caddie. So Nick's been great. He's been working very hard and I appreciate that.

 Q. So it is very much team work rather than just individual? 
 ANDERS HANSEN: I think golf is more than just being an individual. For us, we are out here, we are working so hard, and if you are out here all alone, it's difficult. Nick and I, we worked together a long time, but three years apart. Just need to find the groove again and seems to be going quite good this week so quite looking forward to the future. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT