THE EUROPEAN OPEN
May 28, 2009
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS: Okay, Anders, very well played today. That was a flawless round and I would imagine the eagle later on in the round probably made it a pretty nice day for you.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Yeah, I started off well, and I thought probably the back side was going to be the harder side today, and I turned that 4-under. And going into the other side, I actually thought there was going to be many good birdie chances but I just couldn't capitalise. So, it was nice to make that eagle on 8.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Gives you the lead, nice position to be in at this stage.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Well, obviously at any stage it's always nice to lead the tournament, but the main thing is to be there on Sunday and give myself a chance, so that would be great. A good start, so we'll see.   
  
  Q. You were at Wentworth last week, a place with very happy memories for you, did you feed off of that coming into this tournament, being at Wentworth?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Last week, I really like that golf course. I was a bit disappointed the way I was playing. I wasn't really playing that great. And I finished about in the 20s somewhere.   
 So I think mostly what I took out of it was staying patient all day and then get a 20th place or whatever I finished out of the tournament where I didn't really play that great.   
 The same in Ireland; I played okay, but nothing particularly well, so just trying to stay patient and take things as they come. So that's what I've gotten out of the last two weeks.  
  
  Q. You seemed to give it a run in America for a while. Is that something that you've got out of your system and you think that this is your base and where you'll concentrate?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Yeah, it was great playing over in America. It was a great experience. But I sort of -- it was a bad timing, really bad timing for doing it, because that was my last year of exemption, so I had a lot of nightmares there, thinking I could end up with nothing that year.   
 I think that partly was the reason that I didn't play very well. I didn't really have the patience, didn't really feel very calm about what I was doing. But I gave it a go, and I don't regret it. And you know, it's hard to travel both tours, and my kids live over here in Europe, so really I'm going to have to stay here.   
  
  Q. Do you socialise with the other Danes on Tour, or is there much socialising between the Danes and the Swedes who have a bit of history between the countries? How does that all work?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: I think we have a pretty good relationship within the Danes, so, yeah, we do socialise.   
  
  Q. Danes with Danes?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Danes with Danes.  
  
  Q. Not Danes with Swedes?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Sometimes. I think we all have a pretty good relationship.   
  
  Q. Details of the eagle, please, and also imagine you are going to spend quite a bit of time in South Africa; success there.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Yeah, South Africa has been really good to me this year. I think I've probably played three tournaments there and won two, and finished sixth in the other one. So that was really nice. That was a good start to the year.   
 I'm going to go back and play the two late in the year and get my five tournaments in and see what happens.   
  
  Q. The eagle?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: On 8 I hit a pretty good drive on the right side and hit it just short of the green left. It was actually quite a tricky chip there. So discussing how to hit it but we came up with a plan and it just worked out and it was a very, very good shot, very good chip.   
  
  Q. Can you say what the plan was?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Driver, 3-wood and then chipped it with a lob-wedge.   
  
  Q. And what was so awkward about it?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: Well, it's because we were up the left side, the pin was short left so, we can were not sure whether we could get enough check on the ball to stop it but we found a spot as to where I could land it and then hopefully it's going to work out.   
 It's just one of those things where you are not quite 100% sure whether it's going to work out or not but I hit it beautifully; had it not gone in, I think it was going to be pretty close anyway, but it worked out beautiful.   
  
  Q. Distance?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: I didn't step it up. I was probably like 15 yards short of the green.   
  
  Q. You play here last year?   
 ANDERS HANSEN: No, I didn't. I think I was injured last year. When was this tournament last year?   
  
  Q. July 3.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: I don't remember why I didn't play.   
  
  Q. It was a little later in the season. It was sort of like a month later.   
 ANDERS HANSEN: I don't know why I didn't play.   
  
  Q. End of June, where were you end of June?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: That's a good question. Am I convicted or what? (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Highlights of the other birdies?  
 ANDERS HANSEN: Well, you know, I started 10. I hit a 3-wood, 5-iron to the back of the green and made like a 25-footer.   
 12, the par 5, I hit it just pin-high left in the trap, got it up-and-down, chipped it to like a foot, two feet.   
 15, the par 5, I hit a terrible drive, chipped it forward -- or I hit it forward and then hit it to about ten feet and made the putt.   
 Then 17, I made probably a 40-footer.  
 And then on 6 I guess, I think I birdied that one, I hit an 8-iron to three feet. Made that putt.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Anders, well played. Thanks very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT