BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2008
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 67 very, very good score. 
 ANDERS HANSEN: Thank you very much. Started off shaky and I didn't hit the ball well, but all of a sudden I found something and was solid from 7 on in, just really solid. It was really nice.

 Q. Did you have an idea that you were going well and he was going badly? 
 ANDERS HANSEN: I think at one hole on 15, I hit it to about two foot and someone was yelling that I had that to take the lead, but I didn't really believe it because, you know, he started 18-under and didn't really seem like he was going to go 5-over.

 Q. Tiger Woods won the U.S. Open with a broken leg last week; three weeks ago you had an operation on your knee and you were told not to play this week by your doctors, but you're here and you could win; it's an amazing story. 
 ANDERS HANSEN: It's a bit strange, isn't it. I guess it was a good decision to come play, anyway.
 It was three weeks without touching a golf club. I didn't hit the ball very well the first day. I was shuffling it around and make something good putts. Did some hard work on the range with my coach, Jamie and seemed to just work out and played very nicely the last few rounds.

 Q. When was the procedure?
 ANDERS HANSEN: Tuesday three weeks ago, four weeks ago, the Tuesday after the BMW PGA.

 Q. And what was it?
 ANDERS HANSEN: Just cut off some of the meniscus. 

 Q. Were you told how long you might be out? 
 ANDERS HANSEN: The doctors were saying it was somewhere in between four and six weeks, but the guy who did the operation, he was very positive saying, you know, you could come out and play in about three weeks, so I did. 

 Q. Were you limited at all?
 ANDERS HANSEN: It's been a little sore this week, but I haven't walked very far all week. So having walked 18 holes for three weeks, haven't walked at all, pretty much been sitting on the bike and doing a bit of work on my legs so just haven't walked very far. 

 Q. Did you watch Tiger and think, who knows? 
 ANDERS HANSEN: No. He's special, isn't he. You don't really think that you can do what he can do. 
 It was very solid today. It was nice to play good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT