BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2007
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Congratulations, 69 today, leading the tournament today how does it feel? 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  That's not a very good question, is it?  It's a pretty good feeling! 
 It's nice.  I didn't play all that great today but I thought, you know, it was tough out there and it was playing long.  So I just tried to keep it all together and it seemed to happen.  That's nice. 

 Q.  Coming into the back nine, great birdie on 14? 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  Yeah, I hit a great 4-iron up there and hit a great putt.  It was nice. 

 Q.  On 18, you knew the situation; were you ready to make a birdie? 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  I knew Vijay was in at 7-under.  I think Vijay was in at 7, so I knew I had to birdie to get out of that.  But, you know, also the guys behind had a chance, so you just never know.  You're trying to make that birdie. 

 Q.  Coming back to Europe, you're used to this cold, rainy weather, anything different in the game plan today? 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  Just keep the ball in play and see what happened. 

 Q.  What will you do, head to the range or wait and see what happened? 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  No.  They are just here and we'll see.  It's a great day.  We enjoyed it and enjoyed the crowds here. 

 Q.  They say it's 'horses for courses,' one win, great opportunity for a second after a wonderful birdie at the last. 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  The whole course is playing long.  The two par 5s finishing off, it's not as great birdie opportunities as there's been first couple of days.  It's a little tougher.  It was a tough day out there. 

 Q.  At what point did you see Vijay had posted 7-under? 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  I think on 14, 15 I saw it.  I don't remember but I saw him come up at 7-under, so got to go for 8. 

 Q.  What were you thinking over the last putt?  You knew you had to make that. 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  Correct, I had to make it.  There's not much to it.  Just try and knock it in so I can get a good read on it and my caddie really helped me out and he's been great all week.  I hit a good putt and it went in. 

 Q.  Winning here in the past, how much did that help you today? 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  Well, I think the knowledge of the course probably helped me a little bit.  Other than that, you know, it's not really any difference. 

 Q.  Do you think 8 is going to be good enough? 
 ANDERS HANSEN:  No.  Justin is going to make birdie here, you know, so he's going to go to 8 as well.  Richard Sterne is out there playing 18 and we'll see what happens.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT