DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2006
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Anders, a lovely position to be in, joint leader with one round to go and playing with the world's No. 1 and No. 3 must have been quite an experience.
ANDERS HANSEN:  It's great experience.  I enjoyed it.  I really enjoyed it.  It's what I hoped for yesterday, so couldn't have asked for more.
GORDON SIMPSON:  How different is it, the experience of playing with a Tiger Woods gallery here as opposed to the Qatar Open?
ANDERS HANSEN:  Yeah, he's got his own gallery out there and people are shouting at him.  You know, you've just got to let him deal with that.  It's none of my concern, but it's definitely a different experience than it normally is.
Q.  Were you proud of the way that you played and the way you coped playing with those two today?
ANDERS HANSEN:  I'm proud of the way I held myself up because, you know, it's a tough situation.  I played with Goosen before, but I haven't played with Tiger.  I shot 3 under today.  I didn't play that great but I kept things together.

I thought it was a pretty tough day out there.  The wind was swirling around.  The greens were a bit firmer than they were the other day.  I thought it was a bit tougher today, but, yeah, I'm pretty proud of what I've done today.
GORDON SIMPSON:  What do you think you'll need tomorrow?
ANDERS HANSEN:  It's one of those questions.  You know, I can't do anything about what he's going to do because he's such a good player, and it showed today.  He's coming in in a second and he's probably going to say he didn't have his A Game, but he still got around in 67 and just showed class.
Q.  I know you don't want to get ahead of yourself tomorrow, but what would it be like it win this tournament?  It's been a while since you won at Wentworth and to have a win so early in the season, too, what would it be like?
ANDERS HANSEN:  I don't know.  Hopefully I'll tell you tomorrow.  You know, it's one of those questions, there's still another 18 holes.  I'm proud of what I've done so far.  I'm still up there and I think that's pretty good.
Q.  Do you feel you climbed a bit of a mountain today to stay up there and stay in contention?
ANDERS HANSEN:  Yeah, I think I did, you know.  I played my own game.  I stayed within myself and worked really hard on that.  I can't do anything about    I can't play Tiger's game.  I can't play Retief's game.  I think I said that.  My bank manager would be really happy if I said that, but unfortunately that's not the case.
Q.  You mentioned how the crowd was towards Tiger, how was the crowd towards you?
ANDERS HANSEN:  Oh, I had no problems out there.  I think Dubai is such a friendly place and people are extremely nice here.  I like coming here.  They make me feel at home.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Thank you.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT