VOLVO MASTERS ANDALUCIA
October 30, 2003
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Anders, a wonderful round today, 66, 6-under par to lead the Volvo Masters Andalucia.  It's not often the first man out leads, have you ever done that before.

ANDERS HANSEN:  No, it will be the first time.  Well, it's not the first time leading but the first time playing all alone.

GORDON SIMPSON:  I take it the conditions were absolutely ideal? 

ANDERS HANSEN:   Yeah, I couldn't really find any spike marks, I couldn't really find any divots, I couldn't really find anything out there. 

GORDON SIMPSON:  Except the bottom of the hole, yeah.

ANDERS HANSEN:  No, it was fantastic.

GORDON SIMPSON:  And you used a scorer? 

ANDERS HANSEN:   I had the choice of getting a pro to play with me, but I decided to play by myself and just have a marker with me.  Because as most guys probably know, I'm fairly quick and I really didn't want to stand and wait for some other guy, so I might as well just go on with it.

GORDON SIMPSON:  I don't suppose you're going to be anywhere near first tomorrow morning.

ANDERS HANSEN:   Unless everyone else is going to play really, really well, I'm not going to be first out, maybe second. 


Q.  How far behind you is the next pair then? 

ANDERS HANSEN:   I don't really know.  Probably when I finished, they were probably at 11th or 12th. 


Q.  Do you feel as though you were in the tournament, what did you feel like on your own out there?

ANDERS HANSEN:   That was my scare for the day from yesterday.  I was afraid that I was going to go out and just play too quick and not really feel that I was playing a tournament, but actually I felt that I was keeping things together pretty well.  I kept my concentration level pretty high and didn't rush things too much.  Two hours and 30 minutes is very quick for a golf round, isn't it, around Valderrama. 


Q.  Is that your quickest round ever? 

ANDERS HANSEN:   I think I've done under two hours before in a two-ball.

GORDON SIMPSON:  When was that? 

ANDERS HANSEN:   That was on a course back in Denmark.  But not on the Tour, no. 


Q.  What was your reaction when you found out you were out first by yourself when you saw the draw?

ANDERS HANSEN:   I was all right with it because I saw the field was 57 and I had a fairly good idea that I was going to be first out all by myself.  So it wasn't any surprise to me at all. 


Q.  Did you speak to your scorer?

ANDERS HANSEN:   I don't think she could keep up.  (Laughter.) Sometimes I couldn't find her but she was out there somewhere. 


Q.  Anything in the last couple of holes you did on Sunday to get into the tournament?

ANDERS HANSEN:   As it turned out, didn't really make a difference.  As long as I made the cut you couldn't get past me, as it turned, out but I still knew that it could get pretty close depending on how many guys were tied second last week.  But fortunately, I held on to it. 

GORDON SIMPSON:  Has it been a frustrating season for you, because you started off well in South Africa and you were in the playoff right at the start of the season.

ANDERS HANSEN:   Frustration is probably the right word.  I felt a lot of weeks I really played, I struck the ball well, just haven't been able to score.  Lot of times I've hit the ball on the range well but missed a lot of cuts from out of nowhere.  It's been a strange season, very strange season.  I've still got 54 holes and then it's over. 


Q.  Do you like this course? 

ANDERS HANSEN:   Do I like this course?  (Laughs).

Actually, I do like it.  First time I came here, I didn't really think much of it, but last year I remember, the more rounds you get to play, the more you get to like it.  You start to find out where to hit it and the tricky parts of the golf course, and sort of, yeah, I think it's a great course.  This morning, you go out there and play and it's just as pure as anything in the world.  Condition-wise, you're not going to see any course better than this when you get up in the morning and the sun was out and it was beautiful, you can't really  -- it's inviting to play well.  The greens were excellent. 

I can't believe how well it's drained.  As much rain as we've had, I've only been here since Monday, and as much rain as we have had, I can't really understand how they can drain it that well.  We were playing the ball up today but to be honest, we don't even have to.  The fairways are pure. 

GORDON SIMPSON:  No bogeys, as well, is always a great thing. 

ANDERS HANSEN:   Yeah, I think that's an accomplishment in itself, just playing 18 holes around Valderrama without a bogey.  You won't see that many times, will you?  I was quite impressed by that. 

GORDON SIMPSON:  Do you want to tell us about the birdies, as well.

ANDERS HANSEN:   I started off well.  I hit an 8-iron to about ten feet and made that. 

4, I hit a 9-iron to about 12 feet and made that. 

And 6, I hit a great 8-iron there actually to about eight feet. 

I hit it on in two on 7 and 2-putted.

11, just right of the green in two and chipped and put, chipped it about to two feet and made the putt.

18, made a 15-footer with a wedge. 


Q.  You hit driver at 18 driver, wedge? 

ANDERS HANSEN:   Yeah, you know, I've played the 18th quite a few times now and I don't really know how to play it, to be honest with you.  I just teed off with a driver down the left and send a prayer, and the prayer was answered; I was in the fairway. 

GORDON SIMPSON:  Enjoy your late start tomorrow then, Anders. 

ANDERS HANSEN:   I'll enjoy the rest of the day.  I'm going to go home now. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT