VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2002
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







RODDY WILLIAMS:  Anders, excellent 65 in very tough conditions.  Give us your thoughts, first of all, on how the day went.
ANDERS HANSEN:  Obviously it went pretty good.  65 is a good score.  I felt it wasn't that easy out there.  It's very gusty out there.  It's really hard.  You really got to trust your shots.  You really got to trust what your caddie is saying and trust where the wind is coming from.  
RODDY WILLIAMS:  I has been your form coming into this week, two very rounds, two Top-10s last few events.  Is this a continuation of that?
ANDERS HANSEN: As you say, it feels like it.  I have been playing well the last couple of weeks.  And just it just feels like it keeps going.  I just keep playing well.  I don't know.  I am just really pleased. 

Q.   Any reason for the good play the last two weeks?
ANDERS HANSEN: Well, it has been long coming.  I really worked hard on my game for a long, long time, and it seems like it's just paying off.  And I am starting to get a bit of more confidence and the more confidence the easier it gets. 

Q.   Who do you work with on your game?
ANDERS HANSEN: I work with my coach back in Denmark.  His name is Magnus Landstrom.  

Q.   You have done quite well at this tournament in the past.  Something about Wentworth that suits your game?
ANDERS HANSEN: Really like the course.  I like this tournament.  It is a great setup.  It's a lovely course.  I just like the layout and the things they have done to improve the course this year is good.  And it probably just suits me.

Q.   What is it about your game that fits well with here?
ANDERS HANSEN: I think you need to be very accurate on this course.  You really got to hit the shots, and that does suit my game.  I like courses where you have to think and not just go out there and hit your driver and just not do anything else.

Q.   Was the Tour harder than you expected when you first came on?
ANDERS HANSEN: First when I came out, yeah, it was tougher than I thought it was.  Then probably the difficulties I had when I started probably have made me a stronger person, stronger player, and probably made me work even harder than I probably would have otherwise.

Q.   Would you say you used every club in your bag today?
ANDERS HANSEN: I am just thinking, yeah, I did.  I think I went through them  -- I probably left out the 9-iron.  I almost hit a 9-iron once but I left it out.  (Laughs) I hit an 8.

Q.   Is that unusual that you would use every club?
ANDERS HANSEN: It's very unusual, yeah, because many courses you don't really get to use everything in the bag.  That's what I like about this place, you've got to be able to hit every club in the bag.

Q.   What were your goals at the start of the season?
ANDERS HANSEN: To finish in the Top-20 on the Order of Merit and win a tournament. 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  You were quite close to winning in France?
ANDERS HANSEN: I was very close and I let it go towards the end, but  -- I feel like I learned from that experience and obviously this tournament is even bigger, so I don't know how I am going to react, but I felt very calm today and felt calm last week, and when I shot 65 in the last, and really got to stay calm and let's see what happens.  It's not easy to win a tournament out here.  There are so many great players out here and this week it's probably all the best players in Europe.  You have Monty out there probably playing really, really well finishing well last week, so it's going to be very, very tough.

Q.   Do you have any role models?
ANDERS HANSEN: No.

Q.   In any sport?
ANDERS HANSEN: Not on the top of my head, no.

Q.   Heroes in golf?
ANDERS HANSEN: Not really, no. 

Q.   Played with Colin?
ANDERS HANSEN: No, I have not played with him.  I hope I am playing with him tomorrow.  Looking forward to it.  That would be great.

Q.   Still get mixed up with Soren?
ANDERS HANSEN: Yes, I do. 

Q.   In what way?
ANDERS HANSEN:  Everybody thinks we're brothers, and we're not and it's just a lot of people think Hansen, that's just like 15 percent of Denmark's population is named Hansen and we have known each other for many years and we're good friends but we do get mixed up, yeah.   



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT