ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 4, 2013
Anders Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about the round of the day.   That must be very satisfying; it's a very tough course?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   It is a tough course.   The greens are pretty firm and it's tight out there.   It's a tough golf course.   There's hardly any wind, and you see the scores aren't that great.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you had plenty of opportunities.   
ANDERS HANSEN:   I played actually really solid from tee‑to‑green.   I think I only missed two or three greens.   I putted quite well, so just sort of all came together.   At some stage it seemed a bit easy, but this course gets your attention and next thing you know, you're making bogeys.  
   
 Q.   Of course so many weeks, that is the mantra, but around here, it's very much so; you want to stay out of the rubbish.   
ANDERS HANSEN:   You do want to stay out of the rubbish, and there's plenty of it out there.   Every hole there's something.   One bad shot and all of a sudden you're staring at double.   It's just tough out there.  
   
 Q.   Does it set up for you?   When you're at your best, that is the hallmark of your game, isn't it?   
ANDERS HANSEN:   Yeah, this course seems to treat me very well and I'm playing well, so I do like this place and I do like this golf course.   I think it's a great golf course.   
A lot of the new designers could learn a lot from this.   I was speaking to Alex about it going down the last hole; these new courses, they build them, 50‑yard par 4s and wide open.   Why not put us out on a course like this, and you can see the scores are not that great.  
   
 Q.   I know it's a long way down the road but all the talk is about the venue as The Ryder Cup venue for 2018; so, a fitting one?   
ANDERS HANSEN:   I'm telling you, it's a great venue for The Ryder Cup.   The course is set up perfect for it.   The spectators get such a good view and it's such a great finish to the round.   I think it's going to be a great venue.   I mean, I backed it all the way.  
   
 Q.   Such drama in the last four holes?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   Yeah, the last four holes are very difficult.   17 and 18, very, very long par 4s.   You have 16, a tricky little par 3 and you've got 15; it's a pretty tricky green out there.  
   
 Q.   You spoke about your hand last week.   I take it that all is still fine?   
ANDERS HANSEN:   It's still fine, yeah.   I'm having my operation on Tuesday, so I'm looking forward to get that out of the way and hopefully be ready for the end of the season.   It's not far away, so I'm looking forward to get that done.   
I've had it for years and years and years.   I just had cortisone injected before.   
   
 Q.   Is it a nerve thing?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   You've got this bone up here and you can turn your hand like this.   It's supposed to go into the meniscus, so there's no meniscus, so it goes straight, bone on bone, so no cartilage.   They are going in three different places and they are going to remove a cyst I have here and clean this up and hopefully there's a 50/50 chance it's going to be okay.   The other thing is to take the whole bone out and cut it a bit, but that's a big operation and I would be out for six months.   So we are hoping to do that and it's going to be good enough.  
   
 Q.   Where are you getting it done?   
ANDERS HANSEN:   In Zurich.   
   
 Q.   Do they specialise in that kind of thing?  
ANDERS HANSEN:   I've lived there the last ten years, and my doctor, he knows exactly what's going on and what it's all about.   I feel comfortable with him doing it.   
Just wear and tear from hitting too many golf balls.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT