NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST & 2ND ROUNDS: BATON ROUGE
March 24, 2013
Nikki Caldwell
Theresa Plaisance
Adrienne Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Coach, if you'd like to make an opening statement, then we'll direct questions to the student‑athletes? 
COACH CALDWELL:   Well, I'll tell you, Green Bay is one of those teams that you don't want to play.   A lot of credit to his kids and how hard they played and how hard they fought back.   But I was equally proud of our team for not folding down the stretch and able to come away with the win. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for the players.

Q.   What do you think contributed to them making a big comeback in the second half? 
ADRIENNE WEBB:   Well, with every great team, you know they're going to make a run at some point in the game, and at that point, that was their run to try to get our lead back.   But we really buckled down that last few minutes.   We felt we're not going to lose this lead.   We're not going to lose this game. 
Credit to Green Bay; they were a very great team and very strong in every aspect of their game, but our will to win that game really shows how much that we really want to be here and how we're underestimated a little bit how we can finish out games.

Q.   Adrienne, can you talk about the collision with Jeanne late and what transpired there? 
ReplaceName1: 
ADRIENNE WEBB:   Well, I was originally supposed to go long, and Jeanne was supposed to come to the ball, but I think she went a little early.   We were both going hard, so I mean, that's always a good thing, but you really don't want to run into your own teammate.   But I have to say I really can't complain.   We were both going hard trying to come get the ball. 
But I probably could have maybe rerouted it or she could have waited a little more.   You really can't say anything about timing.   It probably just comes down to that. 

Q.   Adrienne, if you would speak about getting to this point, what this has meant to you to go through the season?   You said at the end of the regular season you wanted to come back and play a couple more games, and now you've won that right to do that.   Just the goal of that and now that you've finally gotten there? 
ADRIENNE WEBB:   The goal is to continue.   That's playing hard.   I really don't want my senior year to end in a loss.   Not just for me and Bianca, but I want to get past the second round for the underclassmen.   Whether that's Theresa or all the way down to Derreyal, we really want to give it my all each and every game so that we can advance in the tournament.

Q.   Theresa, did you feel a little bit of relief after the game was over, the fact that had he had a never‑say‑die attitude and kept coming back like the terminator in this game? 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   Most definitely, you know.   Green Bay has never lost a first round game in the NCAA Tournament.   They have a great group of girls that will do anything to pull out a victory, and that just shows.   They came back from a 17‑point deficit it was, never giving up, never stopping.   They tightened up their defense a lot, and started driving to the goal.   Their guns were hot from the outside, also getting to the rim, that created a little bit of trouble for us.   That final buzzer was a huge relief for us.   Because Green Bay is such a great competition and such a great team, that anything can happen.

Q.   You mentioned the three‑point shooting, and they reeled off three in a row and cut it to six with three minutes left.   What was the sense there?   It seemed they had gone to press to set you guys up, force some quick shots, hitting the three.   What was the feeling at that point to see the lead going away? 
ADRIENNE WEBB:   Well, you have to calm yourself down in order to try and stop the run.   You have to buckle down on defense, gather your team up and say, okay, we are not going to let them score on this possession.   We have to get a stop.   We just really did that. 
After they got that last three, I think coach called the timeout, and she calmed us down.   It makes you realize that we have a lead.   We don't want to lose it. 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   We realized before the game even started that no matter how much of a lead we had, we knew they were going to make a run.   They're not just a team to fold under pressure.   They're great competitors and we knew they were going to make a run.   So when they started scoring, I think 43 out of 5 back‑to‑back baskets for them.   They were really doing a great job getting to the goal and stepping out with that three shot. 
There was just a sense of urgency that we needed to just click and get it done and buckle down even more.

Q.   Adrienne, right after halftime, y'all closed up the first half on the 7‑2 run and at the beginning of the second half you found those two early threes and you all jumped out to an even bigger lead and got the lead up to double digits.   What was it coming right out of halftime that you were able to find those open shots? 
ADRIENNE WEBB:   I would have to say I knew that I had to step up and play my role in order for our team to win.   That was knocking down those open shots.   Our defense was on point, and when I had the opportunity to score, I had to take it.   So finding‑‑ and because of my teammates also finding me. 
When Theresa is doubled or say if there's a penetration and they doubled, I was open for that kickout.   So just knowing that I have other teammates that are going to create also helped create shots for me is an extra benefit, and I didn't want any of my team to go down with a loss.

Q.   The threes were really falling early in the game for them.   But they came in shooting a lot of threes and making a lot and y'all not so much.   But y'all stepped up and made a ton of threes today.   Was that something you did in response knowing that you can shoot that or what? 
COACH CALDWELL:   Yeah, we started playing our inside game.   So when they lock up inside, you have to knock down the outside shot, And Theresa did a very good shot job of that, Bianca did.   I came in a little bit.   But we established an inside presence early in the game which made them collapse on the inside.   When they do that, you have to knock down your outside shots. 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   Yeah, coming in, we knew they were a three‑point shooting team, and a three‑point game really hasn't been our strength this season at all.   I think some of these shots were a bit lucky.   I must say I did call the bank on that three‑point shot.   I knew it was going off the backboard the whole time. 
But I think just coming out and being put in that situation where you feel like you have to knock down that shot just puts a little bit of pressure on you to knock down that shot.   Webb did a great job coming out early in the second half and knocking down a few, and Bianca at the end of the shot clock knocking down a big one.   That could have been a turnover, but it was a three‑point play.   So just little key moments that really helped us out in the end.

Q.   Theresa, I know in the second half you got in foul trouble.   Just talk about how you were able to keep your composure despite being in foul trouble?   Especially at the end where you know things got a little physical? 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   Just coming out with four fouls, it's sometimes to adjust.   I haven't been in much foul trouble this year, but coming out with four, I just tried to stay positive with my teammates.   I have all the faith in the world in my teammates and I believe what they can do.   I don't need to be on the court at all times for us to win. 
We have a lot of different weapons.   They did a great job of picking it up when I came out, and I tried to be the best cheerleader on the bench when I was.   And when it was time to come back in, I had to play composed and maybe not take that iffy block or get out the way if it's a blocked charge call.   I just have to play it safe for a little bit.

Q.   How big was it having this game at home?   In terms of everything, whether it's sleeping in your own bed, obviously the crowd is into it as well, is that big for y'all? 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   Definitely, the crowd played the biggest part in this win.   There was some time in the game where we were struggling a little bit.   We just turned to our crowd and they were right there, cheering us on the whole entire time.   There was one play, I remember, I didn't know how much time was on the shot clock and the girl shot it, and I caught the rebound, and I was about to go on the fast break and I couldn't hear anything.   The buzzer went off for the shot clock violation.   I had no idea because the crowd was so loud. 
We appreciate all the support and all the love that these fans give us, because without them we really wouldn't be able to maybe hang in as tough as we did.

Q.   For either player, when Bianca hit the three that stunted that run they had made inside of 5 minutes, kind of hung the follow through there.   Went down the court and came back with the three‑point plan and drive.   I wonder if you could illuminate what it is about her personality that allows her to play with that swagger in that critical moment? 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   Bianca is an all‑around athlete.   Looking at her, she seems so laid back and so composed, so, I guess, chill, you could say.   Coming on the court, she has that thing about her.   She can do it all; she's an all‑around player; she can take the drive, take the three, post‑up, you know.   Basically everything. 
Bianca's personality, she's actually really goofy and a happy‑going person.   Just that coming out of her is a little taste of what we see in the locker room.   She's just a great teammate and a great person to be around on and off the court.

Q.   Talk about, obviously, it's the tournament.   Knowing that if you lose, you go home.   Now you've got to focus on another team in two days.   Can you talk about how you'll try to carry that momentum into the game against Penn State in two days and try to keep it going, and try to live that dream of making it all wait to the final four right down the road in New Orleans? 
THERESA PLAISANCE:   This momentum is going to be key for us because Green Bay is not a pushover team.   They're a great team.   They were on a 24‑game win streak, so we were a bit intimidated coming into this game.   So carrying this over to Penn State is a big key for us.   Penn State is also a great team.   They have a great outside shot in Maggie Lucas and Alex Bentley.   And their inside game of Nikki Greene is unbelievable.   They're an all-around game that we need to match up against.   The momentum coming out of this win will be key for us.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Caldwell.

Q.   Coach, do you have an update on Jeanne's condition?   Have you had a player that's been beaten up like this like a football player during the year? 
COACH CALDWELL:   I know, Jeanne Kenney, bless her heart.   She has been on that floor more than the free‑throw line, if you will.   If you think about how many times she's taken charges and stood in there and been banged up.   But I don't have an update at this moment, but we hope that she bounces back.

Q.   Was that game more physical than you thought it might be, as physical as you thought it might be?   It seemed to me that that team was a little more physical than I thought they would be. 
COACH CALDWELL:   No, having watched Green Bay and followed what they're capable and what they have done this season, you're not ranked nationally, you're not 24‑game win streak without being physical, without having the toughness about you.   That's one of the toughest teams that we've played. 
I mean, you know, we talk about how tough the SEC is.   They could easily stack up with anybody in our conference.   They're one of the best teams as far as just finding their teammates.   Their penetration to kick, their feel for where everybody is, everybody knows where they're supposed to be, what spacing that they should have.   A very, very good basketball team.

Q.   Having played and coached in tournaments before, how big is home‑court advantage in terms of everything from the crowds?   Just being at home and doing your normal routine and everything? 
COACH CALDWELL:   Well, it's definitely an advantage, if you allow it to be.   We've got an opportunity to play another game at home, and we don't have to have the wear and tear of travel on us, especially for us having a small number on our roster with 8 active players.   It definitely helps us in that regard.   It also helps when you have the crowd.   You want that support, but more importantly, you want the fans of women's basketball. 
This is an unbelievable environment to play in.   This team understands that we have another opponent to face, but if you look at what their record is at our place, it's their home court, if you will, with the 1‑0 record against us.   So it's really, at this point in the ballgame, it goes back to how are you going to play this game and what‑‑ are you going to execute your game plan better than your opponents? 

Q.   Can you just talk about Ballard's play there late, giving you guys a little spark there to at least block some of the momentum and another push.   It seemed like she did enough to stem the tide for you guys? 
COACH CALDWELL:   Well, Ballard all year has grown as a player.   She's shown us time and time again how she can change the complexion of a basketball game.   She definitely performed tonight like a veteran.   The game did not know her age.   She was very composed.   She made some baskets, some big basket when's we needed them, but more importantly, she got some key rebounds as well.   I liked the play of Ballard for us late game.   I thought she did some really nice things for us. 
But her teammates have fuelled her confidence because they believe in her.   She also has a unique relationship with our two seniors where she wants to play for them, and she did just that tonight.

Q.   Could you also talk about Theresa and how she has turned it on her junior year to the point where she's become one of the top players in the country? 
COACH CALDWELL:   Well, when you think about the transformation of Theresa Plaisance from last year to this year, it's incredible.   It started with her taking on ownership in the off‑season and really transforming her body and really getting in great shape, which then made her mentally tougher.   This year she's got teammates that have rewarded her with that hard work.   She understands she needs a Jeanne Kenney, Adrienne Webb, Danielle Ballard, Bianca Lutley.   She needs McKinney who now allows her to play off the ball a little bit.   But Theresa has really taken on this persona of an All American for our team.   She's playing like that.   She commands double teams.   You have to pay attention to her on your scouting reports. 
But her ability to not only give you a power game inside and also her ability to spread the offense and the things that she does on the defensive end, she's definitely one of the best players in the country.

Q.   If you'd be kind enough to offer us a glimpse into your mind when 18 points became 4 points and there were 5 minutes left?   What is going on with you there? 
COACH CALDWELL:   When we got our lead, I literally thought this is too soon, because this isn't us.   We're not that team that have blown anybody out or got ahead of anybody in that manner often.   So I did, I felt that way.   I also felt the team that, when the lead was dwindling, that we'd been in that situation a couple of times. 
But if it did get to late game, I saw a team that knew how to play down the stretch.   Because we've played down the stretch and we've known how to lose.   So they know what that feels like.   It seemed to me that they had the composure, they had the confidence to really finish off this game against an opponent that was bringing everything at them:   The dribble drive, the three, the penetration, the kick. 
I mean, this team, Green Bay did a phenomenal job in executing their game plan down the stretch.   But we equally did so on the offensive end.

Q.   What did you tell them when you called the 30‑second time out in the middle of the 9‑0 run early cutting to the lead?   How much did you remind them of failure versus trying to give them the practical steps and advice there? 
COACH CALDWELL:   Do you really want to know what I told them? 

Q.   Go ahead. 
COACH CALDWELL:   Having played, so I talked to them about being a player.   There are players that get a little tight.   I felt like we were that team right now.   I said, we're tight right now and we're playing that way.   You've got to play this game loose.   You can't be hugged up on your play.   You've got to be on the help line. 
Honestly, I said some other things, but it was along those lines.

Q.   You've always said the first couple minutes after halftime are incredibly crucial and you came out and just went on a big run to start out.   Adrienne Webb was a big part of that.   What allowed you to do that coming out of the half? 
COACH CALDWELL:   What allowed us to do that was our team got the defensive stops that we needed and we were able to push the ball a little bit more in transition.   We got some dribble drive looks, which led to penetration.   Their support defense is very strong.   So we were able to be patient on the offensive end, get some ball movement, some ball reversal, and we weren't quick shooting the basketball.   So I felt as though we were in rhythm, and that allowed us to get the lead.

Q.   I have to ask, where in the world did you find those shoes and how would you describe them? 
COACH CALDWELL:   My stylist (Indiscernible), and I would describe them as edgy.

Q.   Just a little bit of a glimpse forward with this game being so physical and Jeanne going down, and Theresa going down in a scary moment in the second half, you've always said that 8 is enough and you'll have that motto.   But was it a little bit scary with how physical this game was knowing that you'd have to turn around and play a game on Tuesday? 
COACH CALDWELL:   Well, we obviously don't want any injuries, and with our numbers, we can't afford to have any.   But it was a little shaky there with Jeanne, and then obviously Theresa, because then we go to six.   But this team has played that way.   We've played that way all year where we've had six bodies here or that were capable, because we've had sickness, and we've had some injuries, and they've learned how to manage the time and the game and come away with a win. 
So, you know, we're going to obviously take this night to enjoy what we need to, as far as what they accomplished tonight.   And then at 12:01, we'll channel our focus to Penn State.   With you we've played this way all season, so this is not anything new for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT