PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2015
Angelo Mangiro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Angelo Mangiro.  We'll open it up for questions.   
 Q.  Coach Franklin mentioned that you being at center provides a calming presence to the rest of the guys on the line.  Can you speak to that and how you remain calm when things might not be going your way so much.  
ANGELO MANGIRO: Yeah, I think that's part of my role on the team.  Being that senior that's kind of been through some things, understanding there's going to be ups and downs during a game.   
We had a young group last year, inexperienced guys.  This year we have more experience in some spots.  You know, not as much in other spots.   
I like to try to keep a cool, calm, don't let my emotions get the best of me on the field.  We can get corrections and yell at guys not in the public's eye type deal.  I think that's just my role to keep guys positive, tell them to move on to the next play, things like that.   
 Q.  From an offensive lineman's point of view, what is your role in helping a runningback in pass protection, picking up blocks, knowing who is coming from where, in game, in practice, in the film room?  
ANGELO MANGIRO: They're getting coached just as hard as the line is getting coached.  Have that in mind.  Off in the sideline during the game, telling them what we see from our position, kind of figuring out just what unfolded, things like that.  So telling them like what I saw, kind of the linebackers, things like that, where the safety cap is, where it's going to come from.   
Just discussing who picked up who, having factual information.  Making sure we're all on the same page there.   
Those guys do a great job.  They're coming along really well.   
 Q.  Talk about the type of atmosphere you're expecting Saturday night.  Can you comment on the students who are out there in Nittanyville.  
ANGELO MANGIRO: Yeah, I'm excited.  I'm excited.  I kind of keep saying I hope this season lasts for me.  Just had my last opener in the stadium.  I was a little emotional after the game.  It's going to be a night game.  I don't know what the rest of the schedule is going to be like.  Stripe out, things like that.   
The crowd is usually pretty loud and excited.  Everyone prepares in different ways.  But I'm excited for it.   
I know defensively those guys are excited.  Our fans have the ability to really disrupt the offense.  As an offensive player, you don't necessarily have that, but you definitely feed off the energy.  So when the stadium is loud, you feel that, you make a play, you feel the whole stadium shake, it makes you ready for the next one, to get that thrill again.   
 Q.  59 players on both rosters from New Jersey.  How many of these Rutgers guys do you know personally?  Does knowing somebody personally give you in I kind of edge, where you know how to push his buttons?  Is that a tactic that you use at all?  
ANGELO MANGIRO: I'm not really a trash talker.  That's not kind of how I was raised, anything like that.  Buckle my chin strap and go to work kind of guy.   
With that being said, I'm a fifth-year guy.  There's only six of us left at Penn State.  I don't know how many fifth-year guys they have left there.   
Familiar names and things like that, for sure.  But most of the guys I got recruited with to different schools, they're gone.  There's a couple left.  I'm sure I'll say hi to them at the end of the game and things like that.  For the most part, no, that's not me.   
 Q.  Do you feel as if the running game was starting to find something in the fourth quarter the other day?  How much of a carryover do you think that will bring?  
ANGELO MANGIRO: Yeah, I give a lot of credit to Coach Donovan, our offensive staff, for the way they called the game.  Not only are you battling an opponent and situations during the game, they were also battling the weather last week.  That's extremely hard to do.   
We wanted to wear on Buffalo.  Some of those two-yard, three-yard runs, started popping up to six, seven, eight, then you saw some of those big runs in the third and fourth quarter.  That was kind of our mindset.  We were able to execute that.  Hopefully we can continue that this week.  We're going to go out to practice this afternoon, get after it, you know.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT