INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2019
Al Durham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Coach said that I guess you banged your knee. What happened and how do you feel at this point?
AL DURHAM: Yeah, bruised my knee against Marquette. Feeling 100% now; ready to go tomorrow.
Q. You played almost like a Swiss army knife. What's it like now that you're going to be playing some more point guard, and how ready do you feel and how comfortable do you feel and how much does your experience going back to high school help you in situations?
AL DURHAM: You know, I'm used to it. I'm used it playing different positions, and I feel very comfortable in any position I'm put it. I feel like I can do a lot of things to contribute and help the team no matter where it's at on the floor.
I mean, I feel like I've been prepared to play different positions, whether it's point guard, off the ball, I've just practiced it, kept at it every day, and now I'm here and I'm confident what I can do going forward.
Q. Do you have a preference or are you just sort of, Hey, whatever is needed I'm okay with it?
AL DURHAM: I mean, whatever is needed, I'm there. No matter where you put me, I can do whatever you need.
Q. Asking about Armaan, a guy who maybe is having to step into more of a point guard role than he's played, how have you seen him embrace that and is that something you have tried to help him with as somebody what has played really all types of guard positions?
AL DURHAM: Armaan has been doing a great job. He's had to step up, like you said, due to the things that have happened with the team.
So he's been taking it and learning like every other freshman. He's been doing a great job, and I've been trying to help him long the way, giving him tips and pointers here and there. Other than that, he's been doing a very great job. I'm proud of Armaan.
Q. I asked Coach Miller about what year three in October was like compared to year two and one. Wanted it get your thoughts on the same thing. How different has this year been in preparing for a season compared to the first two?
AL DURHAM: I feel like we have upped it a notch. I feel like it's just a different vibe. I feel like everybody is like on the same page. It just feels different. Just a lot of different energy I feel like here, and I fel like we're ready to go to war for each other.
I feel like we've been prepared by coach and the staff, and I can't wait to get it started really.
Q. Al, injuries are not exclusive to any team; happens a lot. How difficult is it for you guys to get into a rhythm, especially early on when you're trying to get the season started?
AL DURHAM: I mean, we all been healthy at one point, been on the floor together, so we've kind of gotten a niche going for all of us together. Injuries happen to everyone, so it's just been everybody has to step up and turn it up a notch now that we're short on a couple guys. We've all learned, all helped each other learn different position, learn different things in the offensive, defense.
Those guys missing is most definitely a big part of our team, but everybody has to step up and do their job and go out there and play.
Q. The depth on this team, the injuries notwithstanding, just how has that helped in terms of guy pushing each other in practice, and how do you think the different combinations on the floor during the course of the season could be useful?
AL DURHAM: You know, different combinations, like you said, we probably can't be predictable if we have a bunch of different combinations that work and go together. The competition is upped. We have been going at it for, what, a couple months now.
I mean, those different combinations, the competition we have with each other in practice, going at each other, I feel like it's done nothing but made us better. I feel like it'll help us in the long run for sure.
Q. With Armaan having to play a lot of point, on the sidelines a little bit have you tried to give him advice?
AL DURHAM: Oh, yeah, most definitely. Whatever he needs help with or the little things that I see with him, like pushing ball or like he could have done this other than that, just like little things with him.
But he's most definitely got it down pat I feel like, and most definitely I will help him with whatever he needs and give him pointers here and there. Not too much to overbear him, but just little things I see to help him uplift his game really.
Q. Can I go back to something you just talked about. Playing with different lineups and combinations on the court, what are the challenges in terms of adapting to maybe going smaller or bigger?
AL DURHAM: Well, challenges, everybody hasn't played Division I basketball. Everyone hasn't played their first official game. You got to teach them the little things here and there about the competition and what to do here or defensive assignments.
So it's just like we all trying to learn I feel like, learn each other and help implement Archie's defense and offense. So there are just teaching moments where I feel like everybody has hit the learning curve with great effort and great listening. I mean, everybody is learning.
I feel like we've done a great job with that. I feel look everybody is on the same page and everybody has it.
Q. You talk about trying to help Armaan with things but not overload him. What's the balance you can strike with him specifically in terms of being able to teach him, offer advice, but not wanting it to be complex?
AL DURHAM: Yeah, he's a freshman. He's learning like everyone else. So I try to keep it like balanced with like little things. Like you got to be able to do this if this gets cut off. If this option isn't open up, this one.
I feel like I give him the little things, because I feel like he doesn't need to be overloaded with information. He knows what to do. He's a great basketball player. He has a great IQ. So I just give him the little pointers and let his game be his game.
Q. Archie has mentioned that one of his goals is for you guys to become an outstanding defensive team. Give me maybe three things that you think you guys need to do real well over the course of the season to reach that goal?
AL DURHAM: Most definitely have to rebound, be able to guard one-on-one, and defend the pick and roll. I feel like we'll be fine most definitely. Those three things and bring aggressiveness and toughness. Most definitely toughness and rebounding and being able to guard one-on-one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT