RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 10, 2014
Holly Clyburn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Happy with your round today? 
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Yeah, I am, very happy, to go out there and shoot under par straight off is very nice, and lunch is going to take nice, so I'm happy.

Q.   How is the course playing?
HOLLY CLYBURN:   It's nice.   It's scorable today.   It's a nice little breeze out there, and I hit a lot of good shots and gave myself some opportunities.   The course is great.   So I'll be surprised if there wasn't be a really low one out there today. 
But at the same time, we're, what, half an hour over time?   People are off‑target; that's it, you're looking for balls, and it's not just like, oh, it's here.   It's in deep.

Q.   Do you think you left any out there? 
HOLLY CLYBURN:   No, not really.   I started bogey, bogey, but it's not really bogey, bogey.   I don't look at it like that.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities and a lot of just shaving the hole, and after how I've putted the past few weeks, I'm very happy.   I'm so much more confident over the ball and I'm happy to go out there and hole some putts. 
I actually got unlucky on 2.   I caught the top of the bunker on my second shot and actually didn't go to the green.   It went the opposite way and the sand is really heavy.   I only just got it up‑and‑down and made a great five really, got me out of danger.

Q.   You must be aware it was a tough start‑‑
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Yeah, I hit a 3‑iron into the first and I absolutely crushed my drive.   I wouldn't say I'm a short hitter either.   A lot of people are going to be hitting woods in there and maybe coming off fours, but I would say it's going to be playing over par today. 

Q.   What do you think will be a good score at the end of the day? 
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Well, 3‑under is leading at the moment, so I'd say 69 is probably a nice start. 

Q.   How do you make your eagle? 
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Nice drive down the middle, hit 4‑iron in to about 15 foot and holed my putt down a left‑to‑right slicker actually.   I'd be happy to 2‑putt and walk off with birdie but took one and came off with eagle.   It was nice and just got the momentum going.   After that, I played great and holed some nice putts.

Q.   Did you like going in the first group?
HOLLY CLYBURN:   It was lovely, didn't feel like it was 6:00 AM. 

Q.   Had you played withKarrie?
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Really enjoyed it until she hit somebody in the face.   She handled it well.   I hope the guy is okay.   She hits it great and she also putts fantastic.   So it's lovely to watch somebody so great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT