RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 15, 2012
Holly Clyburn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER:   Very solid round, you must be very pleased.  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Yeah, I'm very pleased.   Started off well, started to hit some good shots all the way around.   Dropped a couple of shots the back side, but had a nice eagle putt on 18.  
   
 Q.   What were conditions like?   Appears to be easier but scoring is not that low?  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Started a bit tough.   The wind was a lot up, and then it started to drop on the back side.   I think on the last four holes really for us, but now it's beautiful out here.   
Yeah, it's still hard.   You've got to place it right off the tee.  
   
 Q.   Is that the key, just miss the bunkers off the tee?  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Yeah, I think so.   I got in two in the fairways and that cost me bogey.   If you can keep out of them, then I think you'll be fine.  
   
 Q.   You must have been relieved when everything was called off yesterday?   
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Yeah, nice to start fresh and start from the beginning again.   
   
 Q.   What's the plan for the weekend?   
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Just same again, keep it cool and go from there really.   
   
 Q.   Where were you yesterday?   
HOLLY CLYBURN:   I was hitting my shot into the fifth green.   
   
 Q.   And the four bogeys‑‑  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Four.   
   
 Q.   Were you 2‑over for the day or do you remember?   
HOLLY CLYBURN:   I bogeyed the first.   I was a little unlucky on four, because through there, I was hitting it fantastic, I was hitting some great shots and I didn't miss a fairway and I just crept into the bunker on the side, the front side, and I said to my dad, "I'll struggle to get this out."   He said, just try and it just came up the top and came back down.   And I hit another good shot in and it just rolled down to the back and I chipped it to a foot.   
   
 Q.   Your dad was caddying?  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   I stepped in for my caddie yesterday because my caddie got told my the Medicals to rest because he's got cellulitis on his leg.   He was quite lucky we got pulled off, so we had a full day's rest.  
   
 Q.   He's okay today?  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Yeah, he's been on the bag today.   
   
 Q.   What's his name?  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Mike Curry.   
   
 Q.   And he's all right for 36 tomorrow?  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   We should be.   We'll soon find out.   
   
 Q.   Birdies and bogeys?   
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Yeah, I put it in the first one on the right off the tee.   Had a chance to save par and just missed it on the right edge and that was that really.   
Birdied 9.   Actually Angela gave me the line.   We both played short and it just checked up on the front edge.   I missed the putt.   It must have been a 35‑foot putt.   Went perfectly straight and down on the right side.   So I was like, I think should I take it straight and I took it straight and it bent in off the last tee.   
10, I snap‑hooked it, we were waiting five or six minutes on the tee for the other people from the 11th and I hooked it out.  
11, hit a good tee shot, just into the second cut on the right side and I was on an upslope and I hit 6‑iron and kicked left into the rough.   
12, I had 175 uphill into the wind so I drilled a 3‑iron to probably about four foot and popped it in.  
   
 Q.   16, 17, you had a little‑‑  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   I had a bit of a blip.   Put it in the bunker off the tee on 16.   Got it out.   I was right in the face, so I was lucky to get it out and then put it in the green‑side bunker.   
Then 17 hit a railing and kicked right into the rough, tried to get a four but got five.   
And then just started fresh on the 18th.   Hit a driver and had about 220 to the front of the green so I just got my 5‑wood out and gave it a rip straight at the pin.   
   
 Q.   How long was the putt?  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   18, 20 foot down the slope.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow, big day.   
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Yeah, we'll just take it every step at a time really.   Just keep cool.   
   
 Q.   You're more used to playing 36.   
HOLLY CLYBURN:   Yeah, we do it quite a lot.   
   
 Q.   Do you think it's beneficial for you amateurs that you play a lot of links courses?   
HOLLY CLYBURN:   I suppose it is.   I've played quite a few this year, four or five.   
   
 Q.   Got to give you a bit of an advantage?  
HOLLY CLYBURN:   I love playing it, it's good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT