U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2012
Hunter Hamrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Take us through this whole month really.   You go from local and sectional qualifying, you go to the NCAA's, and now you're shooting the low round in a U.S. Open.   I mean, what is that all about?
HUNTER HAMRICK:   It's crazy.   I don't know.   I feel like I'm in a dream or something.   It's like you dream of doing all these things and you tell yourself you can do them and just to be able to keep doing them, and it's like almost every day something new springs on you and you're like, wow, this is the coolest moment of my life.   So, I don't know, I'm just having fun with it and just riding. 

Q.   Can you just talk about your round today and what you did so well? 
HUNTER HAMRICK:   Yeah, I mean the last two days I've made just the clutch putts I needed to kind of keep my momentum going.   Today I started on the front and I got those first six and I got through those, made some nice up‑and‑downs; and I just avoided kind of mental errors. 
When I hit good shots I was able to make a couple putts and so just kind of stayed ‑‑ one bogey and I thought I made the putt that ‑‑ I thought I had should have gone without a bogey.   I hit a good putt and it lipped out.   So I just made all my clutch putts and stayed out of trouble. 

Q.   How much sweeter was it even to finish with a birdie on the final hole?
HUNTER HAMRICK:   It was pretty cool to cap it off, birdie, birdie.   Being your first, what time or whatever you're thinking about the cut, you don't know what it is, I was trying to not even think about that and just telling myself one shot at a time the whole way.   And to be able to cap it like that was pretty cool.   To roll that one in.

Q.   The course is so firm now.   Is this the hardest course you've ever played?
HUNTER HAMRICK:   I guess.   I just got off that round, so you're like, well, if you can do it, I guess it's not that hard, but it's tough.   It's tough to put it in the fairway.   I feel like I'm a straight driver of the ball and my fairways can't be very high.   I'm hitting.   I'm running through about every fairway. 
But I'm in the first cut or just barely in and I'm hitting, I'm keeping it in the fairway long enough that it will roll out so I'm far up there.   It's rolling through the fairway and getting way up there and then getting in the rough.   So I'm having kind of short clubs that I can dig out of the rough. 
But it's tough to put it in the fairway.   That's for sure. 

Q.   You're running off the fairway.   What's helping you score?
HUNTER HAMRICK:   Oh, just playing smart.   Playing to the fat of the green, playing away from the short side and keeping myself with make able putts for par and birdie.

Q.   How do you stay focused now?   I mean it's one thing to make the cut, but you put yourself in pretty good position right now.   How do you stay focused on that?
HUNTER HAMRICK:   I just keep doing what I've been doing.   Playing one shot at a time and that's been my thing.   Just for the last month or so, and it's been working.   Just, you just got to keep your head down and not think about what's going on and play one hole at a time. 
Yesterday I got out it have being my first time with the crowds and everything and didn't play that good.   But today I knew what to expect going into the round and I knew if I could just keep my head down, play one at a time I would be fine.   And it worked. 

Q.   Have the crowds been supportive?
HUNTER HAMRICK:   They have, yeah.   I think I've caught a few more people that know my name now than did earlier in the week.   Earlier in the week I was like, maybe I need to carry my badge every where so they will let me in, about you, no, I've caught a couple people knowing my name and some roll tides this afternoon, so it's pretty cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT