THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 11, 2019
Matthew Wolff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well documented that you came in here today on the bubble to get into Chicago.  How much was that on your mind going out there?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Not really at all.  I feel like I left a lot of shots out there.  I was pretty frustrated with my game and wasn't really thinking about the FedExCup.  I was just thinking about how I could improve like how I play out here.
But yeah, it was pretty much a frustrating week, a lot of stupid mistakes and didn't really get things to go my way.  You know, if they had told me at the beginning of the season that I would be in the FedExCup Playoffs, I think it would be a pretty good year for me.  Just looking forward to learn from this experience and on to next year.
Q. Three months ago you were in college, and now you're a PGA TOUR winner and have job security and next year, you're in the Masters and PGA.
MATTHEW WOLFF: Like I said, I really can't complain.  It was frustrating out here and I feel like I need to work on a few things in my game but it's been awesome playing against the best in the world and I've learned a lot since I've been out here.  Just build on that and hopefully I can have a long career out here.
Q. It's been a pretty busy stretch for you, seven tournaments this week, your seventh tournament in the last nine or ten weeks, but over a month now until the new season starts.  What's the plans?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Definitely going to take some time off.  I feel like I'm pretty worn out.  I played four weeks straight as far as I came out here and then had a week off and then played another three weeks straight.  Along with that, I played a full college season and only got about two or three weeks off right after college.  So for the last five or six months, it's been nonstop playing tournaments and I think it all just kind of caught up to me.  I'm going to rest and get ready for the fall and then have a good year next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT