WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2021
Matthew Wolff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Obviously big comeback there winning those four straight holes on the back.  Just assess the match if you could.
 MATTHEW WOLFF:   Yeah, I think Corey is a really good player, and I think that match play kind of suits him really well.  Stroke play does, too.  I'm not trying to talk anything bad, but he doesn't really make a lot of mistakes, hits it really straight off the tee, and he's just a really solid player.
 I felt like on the front nine I hit that first drive and was one of the worst drives I think I've ever hit, but tried to stay in it and knew that I'd kind of find something.  Was hitting everything else good and kind of just told myself to stay patient, wait for the putts to drop.  Yeah, the back nine I made a little run, made some putts and got a little confidence and mojo.  Like I said, he's a great opponent, but I think I shot -- I don't think the entire day that me or him let up a win of a hole on a bogey, so we both played really solid, and he's going to be hard to beat.
 Q. How is the injury feeling, the wrist?
 MATTHEW WOLFF:   Yeah, it's good.  I think that I hired a new trainer and one that I worked with in college, and we've been rehabbing it and working on that, so that's definitely getting a lot better.
 Just trying to relax a little bit and enjoy my time out here.  It's a blessing and I'm really grateful to be out here, and I think that I was getting a little too far ahead of myself and put too much pressure on myself.  Not only do I feel better physically, but I think mentally I'm in a better spot, as well.
 Q. Did the mental part kind of help the physical side a little bit and the golf game, being able to feel better mentally to help everything else?
 MATTHEW WOLFF:   Absolutely, yeah.  I think you look at the best players in the world, Dustin Johnson and Brooks, Justin Thomas, they're all fiery and they all expect a lot of great shots out of themselves, but they all have really strong mental games.  They never get too down on themselves and they're always in it.  I'm young and I'm still learning a lot.  I still have a lot to learn.  I think it's an advantage that I'm so young because I might be able to learn it and get there a little quicker than some of the other guys that are out here.
 Just like I said, grateful to be out here, and it's nice to play in a WGC.
 Q. What did you maybe learn from kind of the recent struggles that might be able to help you going forward?
 MATTHEW WOLFF:   I think the biggest thing is just the expectations that I have for myself and the pressure I put on myself.  I think internally I put so much pressure on myself, and on top of that, I'm not saying anyone in particular, but I think there's just a lot of pressure on everyone out here to play well in front of the fans and for their family and everything like that.
 To be thinking about all that is -- it might make you focus, but for me it just kind of added everything and made me a little jumbled up, up in the head, and I feel like I've really settled down and learned how to enjoy the game again.
 Q. Do you feel like how you came back on the back nine can kind of help propel that better golf that you see going forward?
 MATTHEW WOLFF:   Absolutely.  I think this round more than any -- I think I've gained a lot of confidence from this in particular.  Didn't start off too strong and Corey played pretty good.  It's match play, so I feel like when you get hot, you can really take it and run with it, and he didn't really give me too much of a chance to get hot, but putts started to drop, and I feel like every part of my game I'm definitely figuring out, and like I said, I'm still young, I'm still learning a lot and making sure to enjoy it because I think I'll be out here for a long time.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT