WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2019
Matthew Wolff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  First start on the PGA TOUR.  4-under par.  What a great round of golf.  Just solid today.  16 greens, you made 112 feet worth of putts.  Talk about your day.  
MATTHEW WOLFF: It was awesome, at the first I was really nervous and, I mean, playing in front of a crowd like this, I never experienced anything like it before.  Got off to a little slow start.  Missed a short one on 11.  But my coach was on the bag for me and he told me to just stay calm and stick to my game plan and every single time just be confident and stick to your shot routine, stick to your game plan.  And from then on I just settled in a little bit, hit some drives in the fairway and gave myself some good looks and the putts were dropping today, so it was nice.   
 Q.  Went to Oklahoma State, you're only three back of another guy from Oklahoma State, Rickie Fowler.  Just talk about the relationship you might have with those guys, I understand you played some practice rounds together.  
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, Rickie has come back to Oklahoma State probably three or four times, so I got to meet him and become friends with him.  And before this week I texted him and asked him if we could play a practice round.  And I definitely got a lot of tips off him.  He told me that to be aggressive when you have the ability to, but these pins and the conditions are a lot harder than college golf, obviously, so he said be smart about it and just have a good time and let loose and don't hold anything back.  Joe, his caddie, he was also nice to my caddie as well, he gave him some tips.  So it was really nice to play a practice round with him.   
 Q.  For people who haven't seen your swing can you describe your swing to the golf world.  You got a little hitch at the start but it seems to work really well.  
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, it's something that's kind of homemade.  As soon as I started golfing I kind of took it upright and with a little hinge in the wrist.  And if no one ever filmed my swing I would have totally just thought it was straight back and straight through.  So to me it feels fine.  And the little hinge, that was, I broke my collar bone sophomore year of high school and I got back and my coach, George, cold me I was aimed to the right and so I needed to open up my shoulders and, my shoulders and my hips.  So from then on I just started doing that little hitch and it kind of turned into a trademark and a little trigger to start my swing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT