U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2017
Matthew Wolff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Okay, Matthew, dramatic comeback.  Were you ready to do that at the end?
MATTHEW WOLFF: You know, I can't go without a fight.  I was playing pretty good all day.  Just making a lot of pars.  Putter wasn't really cooperating in the beginning, and he was draining a lot of putts.  But I knew that:  I still could give him a run for his money.
Coming down the stretch, he put it in the water on 17 when he was dormie, so that was big.  Went a little aggressive with driver on 18, but, you know, ended up birdieing that hole.  So it kind of clicked at the end.
Q. Tell me about that up-and-down on 18?
MATTHEW WOLFF: I had about 15 yards to the downslope of the green, and I had about 30 feet of green to work with.  I had a pretty good lie in the rough, so I was looking to land it on the back edge of the green and let it trickle to the hole.  Caught a little too much ball and flew it a little too far.  So I had about 15, 18 feet for birdie.
But I knew exactly what it was doing, it was just breaking a little left.  Played it about half a cup out, and I was pretty confident that, I mean, they were going to drop eventually, because I was putting good strokes on it all day.  So I just told myself, pick a line, commit, and do what you know how to do, and it went in.
Q. What did you hit to the front -- on your approach shot on 1?
MATTHEW WOLFF: On 1, I hit 7-iron from 226.  Really far downwind, and it was only 203 to carry the bunker.  Especially with these greens, they got really hot and firmed up throughout the day.  So I knew that I just had to just get it over the bunker, and pulled it a little.
But, luckily, I mean, he put it in the left bunker, so it was a really hard up and down.  And I put it just left side of the green, and two-putted.  So it was enough.
Q. How long was that second putt?
MATTHEW WOLFF: It was about eight feet.  I had about 20, 25 feet for my first putt, and nerves kind of got to me.  Decelled a little bit.  But like I said, I felt pretty confident with that second putt.  It was straight up the hill, just left edge, and I made it.
Q. What was racing through your mind through the first eight holes?  He's 3-up, he's making birdies.
MATTHEW WOLFF: I mean, just keep playing solid.  I knew birdies would come for me.  I've been birdieing a lot of holes all week, and just stick to my game plan.  Be aggressive.  Don't let them like -- not faze me, but he's a really good player.  So I just knew that I had to keep on plucking away plucking away, and towards the end, it went in my favor a little bit, so I was fortunate.
Q. What's it mean to you to get to the quarter finals now?
MATTHEW WOLFF: It means a lot.  I didn't play last year, and I played at the Colleton River in 2015, and I lost in the round of 16.  So kind of wanted to make it past there, and fortunately I did.  This was such a good tournament with so many great players.
I don't know, to make it this far is pretty good, but if you're on a roll, you've got to keep on going.
Q. With all this heat, any thoughts not pushing your own bag tomorrow and getting a caddie?
MATTHEW WOLFF: I've been thinking about it, but I might stick with what's working.  I don't really feel -- I feel if I drink enough water and PowerAde and eat enough food, then I'm good.  I've got a couple towels, so it keeps my hands dry from the sweat and everything.
I mean, this course can get a little hilly, but pushing the cart is not too hard.  We'll see.  The maybe I'll get one, but you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT