U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2017
Matthew Wolff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You obviously could be playing with your teammate there in a couple matches.  You guys play maybe the look ahead yet?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, we'll see when it gets there.  But I'm just looking at one match at a time, and thankfully we both won, so that was nice.
Q. You guys doing a lot of stuff together this week?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, I'm staying with him.
Q. You're staying with him?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, we're in the same hotel, because my parents aren't here, so he's just taking care of me and driving me to the course every day.  It's nice though.  Getting a little taste of what next year and the next four years are going to be like.
Q. So you're rooming together?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yes, sir.
Q. So what would that be like if you guys happened to somehow have a quarter final date on Friday?
MATTHEW WOLFF: It would be a good match.  I mean, we both want to win, but, you know we'll see what happens.  We're both playing pretty good right now, and I think it will be a good match.  I mean, it sucks that you have to play like your friend, but at the same time, if you want someone to win, you want it to be your friend, so.
Q. You've still got a lot of golf to play before you get there too.  You're a veteran of this.  You've gone how far in this, round of 16 or quarters was your best finish?
MATTHEW WOLFF: I got to the round of 16.
Q. So you're used to playing in the heat?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, it's pretty hot, but it's more humid, so I'm just sweating a lot, but I'm just drinking a lot of water, got a couple towels to keep my hands dry and everything.
Q. Is it any more special knowing this is your last go around for you?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, I mean, it makes it a little more like, not pressure, but I'd say like I want to win a little bit more because this is my last chance at a U.S. Junior.  But, I mean, you can't look at it that way.  You've got to look at it as one match at a time, and just play my game, and cards go my way, then they do.  If they don't, then...
Q. You got up pretty quickly today it looked like on the card.  You had a three-up lead kind of quick.
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, I made a couple putts.  I eagled one and hit a 4-iron to about six feet.
Q. That's always nice?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, and birdied 4.  Gave one back on 5 with a bogey, a bad bogey on par-5.  But then birdied 6, and then won 7 with a par, so, yeah, I got off to a pretty early start, and didn't get too crazy.  Kind of maintained my lead the entire way.  He was playing pretty good though.  We both didn't give each other too many holes.
Q. You've been around this before.  You know Match Play is fickle, you never know.
MATTHEW WOLFF: It's crazy.  As soon as you think you've got a lead just next hole, and just like that you can vanish.
Q. How important is it -- you've been around enough to play in these events -- is the experience factor for you?
MATTHEW WOLFF: It's definitely important.  Not to get too far ahead of yourself and take one shot at a time.  Because sometimes you think if you're coming down the stretch with only a 1-up lead, you're like, oh, crap, I can't give this up.  I have to play safe.  But you can't really think of it that way.  You've got to think about playing your game and hitting the shots that you're comfortable with.
I mean, I know that if I do that, I'll be kind of hard to beat.
Q. How's a California kid end up in Oklahoma?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Well, I played in the Invitational there, the AJGA for the last two years.
Q. So you kind of go to know the place?
MATTHEW WOLFF: I just love it.  The coaches, Coach Bratton, and Coach Darr are just unbelievable.
Q. I hear this course is pretty similar to that one?
MATTHEW WOLFF: Yeah, it is.  The rough is different.  The rough is Bermuda there and this one (Indiscernible).  I'm pretty sure.  But it's true line.  The wind gets up, and you kind of have to know the direction of the wind.  It's pretty tricky.  But, yeah, just I really liked it, and I thought that Oklahoma State would give me the best chance to get my game where it needs to be in order to go pro.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT