SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 11, 2020
Matthew Wolff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Eagle on 16.  What did you feel like as you went forward knowing where everyone kind of was?
 MATTHEW WOLFF:   You know, I felt like I definitely had to birdie one of the last two.  I played really good all day.  It was a really hard do out there.  It was windy and was it swirling.  Pins were in some difficult spots.
 So I was really happy with how my game progressed throughout the week.  Started off slow at the beginning, but putts just didn't drop.  Even when I shot 61 I felt like I could have made a few more.  As greedy as that sounds, that's just the way golf is.  Game is at an all-time high.  I finished second in my last two events.
 You know, I have a lot of the confidence carrying into the next two weeks and then the Masters, so looking forward to what's next.
 Q. What does this say about -- second in the last two events, one being a major -- how your game has matured in the last little over the year since the win at 3M where you've had some ups, had some downs, but now it seems like the uptick is really getting good.
 MATTHEW WOLFF:   Yeah, I mean, my game has progressed amazingly and at pace that if you would've told me I would've been pretty amazed by it.  I feel like my short game, my putting is really stepping up, which is -- you know, can be nice to rely on it.  When I'm hitting it good and don't have to use those two things, then this is what I do.
 Like I said, every part of my game feels amazing right now.  Congrats to Martin.  I know it's been a while since he's been here, but it's a well-deserved win.  Like i said, it didn't play easy today.  Holding a 54-hole lead is not easy, so kudos to him.
 I'm just looking to maybe get a win soon, but like where my game is.
 Q. How did you feel, just a continuation springboard into the next two weeks as you play big events?
 MARTIN LAIRD:   Absolutely.  Yeah, the C.J. Cup and ZOZO are two of the bigger.  They're invitationals, limited field, no cut.  So like I said, my game feels extremely confident.  There is -- I know it's going to be really strong field, but I'm feeling like I can go out there and win any week now.
 So I'm really happy like I said with where my game is at.  With my caddie, Nick, and my coach, George, we work really well together.  Maybe a win is due sometime soon.  But if I just keep on doing this, I'm sure it'll come.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT