CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MIAMI VS WISCONSIN
December 28, 2017
Travis Homer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What kind of coach is Coach Brown and how much energy does he bring to your offense?
TRAVIS HOMER: You know, he's real to the point.  You won't expect him to beat around the bush with anything.  The type of energy he brings around, it's always excited and running around at practice while everyone is still trying to get awake.  He's just trying to get you in the right mindset for practice every day.
Q. He was a pretty good running back in his day.  How much has he helped you just considering he's a former player?
TRAVIS HOMER: He helped me a lot.  Like coming into Miami, I didn't realize how high I was going through the whole -- that's really a big thing he helped me out, that and pass protection.
Q. Does he talk at all about guys that he coached before like Melvin Gordon?
TRAVIS HOMER: No.
Q. He doesn't bring anything like that up?
TRAVIS HOMER: No, he's just concentrated on us right now.
Q. Does he show you film of him at all playing?
TRAVIS HOMER: No, he won't ever do that.
Q. How would you assess the challenge of this Wisconsin defense?
TRAVIS HOMER: You know, they're big and they're strong.  They're well-coached, so they're a great defense.  I think they're going to pose a challenge for us.  We're just going to try to overcome it, which we can.
Q. I know Coach Brown's experience with those guys is pretty limited, but what has he told you guys to expect?
TRAVIS HOMER: He hasn't really told us anything about the past.  We just watch film on them every day, see what we can do.
Q. Watching the Big Ten title game, did you guys see some things you'd be able to take advantage of?
TRAVIS HOMER: I mean, I'm not really going to discuss too much about that.
Q. I'm not asking for specifics, but you guys --
TRAVIS HOMER: Yeah, whenever you watch film, you're able to see things that you will be able to do.  I think we have a really good game plan for them.
Q. Do you think there will be some big plays there for you guys to make?
TRAVIS HOMER: Absolutely.
Q. One of your teammates was talking about how they play a lot of press coverage on the outside.  They're really aggressive, and if you get past their first line, those are where the big plays come.  Do you agree with that?
TRAVIS HOMER: I think I would agree with that with any team.  With the players we've got, I trust Marvin Stevens on the outside to set up blocks.  I trust my linemen to get through.
Q. What would a win on Saturday mean for you being a local guy and somebody who decided to stay local?
TRAVIS HOMER: I think winning would be big for us.  I kind of see the Orange Bowl as like our bowl because it's hometown, home stadium, all that, our crowd.  I think it will just be good for the community.
Q. Everybody is praising how you stepped up after Mark got hurt and you've done what you've done.  How important was that to you to come in and immediately produce, contribute?
TRAVIS HOMER: Coach Brown, he prepared us running backs to be able to go at any time, so I really just tip my hat to him, just being able to do what he did with all of us.
Q. Are there any running backs that you try to model your play after?
TRAVIS HOMER: No.
Q. I know you played at Oxbridge, right, so you went up against Devin Singletary?
TRAVIS HOMER: Yeah.
Q. Were you able to follow what he was doing for FAU?
TRAVIS HOMER: Yeah, I saw a little bit how he was doing.  He was doing real great up there.
Q. What did you think?
TRAVIS HOMER: I think he was doing great.
Q. This offense, obviously a lot of guys went down, a lot of guys stepping up.  Is that Coach Brown, is that Coach Richt?  Why do you think guys are able to step up when so many guys are hurt and immediately contribute?
TRAVIS HOMER: I think it's just the overall team, though.  You've got the coaches.  The coaches are going to sit there and prepare you well for whenever you need to do it, and the players were just ready.
Q. Talk about your season; you started the year as a backup, then all of a sudden you're the year.  What have you learned from this whole experience leading up to this bowl game?
TRAVIS HOMER: What have I learned from the experience?
Q. Yeah, just from being the starter and getting all these reps?
TRAVIS HOMER: Just that anything can change like that, so you've got to be prepared whenever.
Q. Is there anything about your game that you really had to hone in on once you became the starter?
TRAVIS HOMER: Probably just maintain my stamina.  Coach Brown, he prepares all the running backs well to step up whenever we need to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT