U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2015
Matt Nesmith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk about how quick a start you had today from the back.  
MATT NeSMITH: Yeah, I got off to a good start, birdied 11.  It was a birdie pin and I hit a good tee shot, so it was kind of -- I kind of expected that after being in the middle of the fairway.  And then hit it really close on 13, which helped out, too, and got on a little bit of a run because lately I haven't been able to -- well, I've been a couple over par through the first couple holes and just haven't been able to get anything going early to shoot some good rounds.   
 Q.  Birdied 17 and 18?  
MATT NeSMITH: 17, I hit it about four or five feet, hit two great shots.  18, played just how you're supposed to, hit 3-wood, 2-iron to the front right of the green and two-putted for birdie.   
The back nine was a little bit different.  It was just super solid.  I made -- birdied both the par-3s by making about 40-footers, both of them, but the back was really where I thought I could have -- my back nine, the front nine was really where I thought I left some things out there.  I left two putts dead center, dead in the heart, just about as short as the one on 9.  I left the one on 9 short and I lipped out the one on 7.  I really could have put myself in a really, really good spot, but I'm pretty happy with what I did so far.   
 Q.  And again, the goal is to get to match play and you're off to a good start that way?  
MATT NeSMITH: Yeah, that's the only goal.  Once you get to match play anything can happen.  The only goal is to make it there and see if you can put yourself in a good position to make it a good way in the tournament.   
 Q.  Are you one of those guys that steps on the gas or will you play a little more conservatively tomorrow?  
MATT NeSMITH: I don't think I'm going to do anything different.  I'm going to play the same, my game plan from day one.  I might take a few less chances, but other than that, I'm just going to play the same way I did today and hopefully get the same result.   
 Q.  You've played in three straight Ams and played the U.S. Open and you've had a good summer.  How does all that help you coming into this one?  
MATT NeSMITH: It helps you a lot.  I mean, my first Am -- first Amateur it's almost a little shock to your system.  You hear about it, and it's the biggest thing in your mind and everything, and I think it helped playing the Open.  It kind of made this not as big -- I mean, big, but I'm not as nervous, I'm not as kind of fidgety, so it kind of dumbed it down a little bit, so I was able to relax a little bit more and play a great round of golf.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT