TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2017
Zach Zaback
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Playing in front of a lot of support here, what was your takeaway from today's first round?  
ZACH ZABACK: Today was really fun.  Didn't get off to the best start on the front nine.  Probably nerves got the best of me maybe on the greens, but I still had a blast out there.  I had a pretty good, solid back nine.  Tons of support, people cheering me on.  So it was just an awesome day, regardless of my score.   
 Q.  Tell us about that chip-in for birdie on 17.  
ZACH ZABACK: Yeah, it's funny.  I actually called it to my caddie.  I was like, let's give these people a show.  Let's chip this in.  But no, that was nice to finally get a birdie there.  Hit my spot and rolled in perfectly.   
 Q.  Just on the 14th, your approach there, because your house is pretty much right next to the 14th hole.  So that's got to be a little weird?  
ZACH ZABACK: Yeah, I mean, I was telling my caddie, he was asking exactly where the house was when we were walking up the fairway and I was pointing in the direction.  It was nice to hit a good shot in on that hole because it's kind of my home hole, I guess.   
 Q.  And your parents were there the whole way with you, your brother, too.  What was it like as they were trying to call out to you?  They were pretty good on the back nine, especially?  
ZACH ZABACK: Yeah, it was awesome having them out there.  I know they are going to cheer me on no matter what.  It was nice, my brother lives in London, so he came over for it.  But yeah, it was just awesome having all the family and friends cheer me on out there.  Couldn't have been more proud of the turnout.   
 Q.  Did it feel like your home course?  You say this is your home course, but when you get out there, was the atmosphere, did it seem still like the old TPC?  
ZACH ZABACK: It did.  Obviously it plays a little different in tournament conditions.  Greens were definitely faster, which maybe I struggled with a little bit on the front.   
But I don't quite have to look at the yardage book quite as much.  I know pretty much what I hit off every tee, so it was nice to have that feeling at least.   
 Q.  Did you have to pinch yourself here when you're playing, looking at the names, and now your name is here at home?  
ZACH ZABACK: Yeah, it was pretty surreal out there.  Sometimes I was just like, kind of like was out of the moment for a second.  I was like, wow, I'm actually playing in the Travelers.  But yeah, to see the big names, to see some of the big crowds.  I know when we were on 16 tee, you could -- there's a big crowd on 1.  And I was like, that has to be Jordan Spieth.  But yeah, big names and it's pretty awesome to be playing in the same tournament as them.   
 Q.  There were some pretty good saves, particularly on 13, that was pretty incredible.  Did you feel the groove going into the back nine?  
ZACH ZABACK: Yeah, I felt a little more solid on the back nine.  Kind of had to start getting up-and-down once I started missing those greens.  But I started feeling more comfortable around the greens, and yeah, I was just happy to grind out a decent back nine score.   
 Q.  What did you learn today that will help you not only tomorrow but in the years to come in your professional career?  
ZACH ZABACK: I just learned, you know, one, how good these guys are.  I feel like, you know, I have the game to compete, but I still have a long way to go when it comes to dealing with pressure and all that.   
And just today, I just learned to enjoy the moment.  Obviously I'm going to go practice after that, and I realize what I need to work on.   
 Q.  Such as?  
ZACH ZABACK: Such as putting.   
 Q.  Years from now when you're telling stories about this day, what will you remember?  
ZACH ZABACK: You know, that first tee shot, I hit a pretty good one down 1.  That was definitely a highlight.  And probably the chip-in on 17.  That was nice to get a little roar from the crowd going and to get one back coming in.   
 Q.  Where were the nerves most prevalent for you, do you think?  
ZACH ZABACK: On the greens.  I started out hitting it pretty good but yeah, on the first hole, I hit it, probably had no more than eight feet for birdie and I 3-putted.  So yeah, it was definitely on the greens.  They are quick, so you've got to have a good touch.  Hands a little shaky, doesn't help.   
 Q.  Were there any UCON chants?  
ZACH ZABACK: I heard a few "Go UCON."  That was good to hear, right in the heart of UCON country.  Expecting a few of those.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT