SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2015
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   J.J., great start to the tournament, including a really good finish there with three birdies.   
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, yeah, we teed off in the dark at 7:00, kind of first off, but it was kind of nice once the sun came up.   You're first off with very little wind.   I was able to make a couple birdies on the front.   First round of the year and haven't played a lot of golf the last six weeks.   You're a little stressed out, you're a little anxious to get off to a good start, first round of the year, and obviously to have a nice round like this makes‑‑ it's only the first round, but it's nice to get that first round under your belt for 2015.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your thoughts on this golf course over the years.   
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, I love it.   It's kind of an old‑school golf course.   It's not necessarily how far you hit it, but you've got to keep the ball in the fairway.   A lot of doglegs run out, and I hope actually the wind does blow because it gets a little tricky around here.   It's all about putting the ball in the fairway.   Not a lot of par‑5s, but par‑5s you can reach if you hit it, and you can make some birdies, but at the same time there's some holes that can kind of catch up and bite you if you're not careful.  
   
 Q.   Kind of tame today with the conditions?  
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, for sure, especially the first nine holes or so.   The wind is blowing a little bit, enough to kind of make you work a little bit, but not‑‑ typically here a 15‑, 20‑mile‑an‑hour wind is normal, and we haven't had any of that this week.  
   
 Q.   Just take me through the last three holes if you can.   
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, I hit a great drive on 16 and a wedge in there to about eight feet, made that putt.   Hit a nice 7‑iron to about 10 feet or so on 17, and a nice putt.   And on 18 hit a nice drive and hybrid that kind of chased up to the middle of the green and two‑putted for birdie.   It's a nice way to finish off the day, kind of get out of there early, and go to the North Shore and watch the waves.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT