CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2014
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J.J. HENRY:   For the most part I hung in there pretty well today.   It was kind of a windy, swirly day.   3 or 4‑under par is leading the tournament.   I'm only 4 shots back.   So good, solid round tomorrow and I'll get myself back in the mix.

Q.   Obviously, you kind of hit on it, but just playing in your hometown, does that add some pressure though too? 
J.J. HENRY:   Absolutely, absolutely.   You feel like‑‑ I know the golf course better than anybody in this field.   I've played here since '93 in college, and I used to live in the apartments looking down the 18th tee.   Just brings back a lot of great memories both at school and through the years playing here. 
For whatever reason, I've never had a whole lot of success here, but at the same time there is a first for everything.   I had a chance last year but it didn't work out.   But just to be at home and try to free it up and hit some good shots and make some putts, if I do that, I think I'll be right there.

Q.   You haven't had, I guess, the greatest success here in the last few years. 
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, I haven't, for whatever reason.

Q.   Anything to point to? 
J.J. HENRY:   No, probably just a little extra pressure.   You feel like you want it so bad and sometimes you try too hard.   I'm treating it more as kind of a low‑key.   Like I'm playing in the Fort Worth City Championship and we'll see what happens.   But, that being said, just go out and have some fun and get a good round tomorrow and get back in the mix.

Q.   Today the course was playing pretty fair or is it kind of windy? 
J.J. HENRY:   This golf course plays tough in the wind because you have a lot of swirly shots, lot of crosswinds and pins are tucked close to a lot of the edges, so you've really got to kind of pick your spots.   But if you hit the ball on the fairway, there are some definite holes you can score around here.   For the most part, I did a pretty good job of that today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT