SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 18, 2013
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   J.J., obviously Thursday you set the course record.   Talk about today. 
J.J. HENRY:   Well, I think I was 11 shots higher, and I honestly don't feel like I‑‑ of course I didn't hit it quite as good as yesterday, but the putts just didn't fall like they did yesterday.   Got off to a rough start.   I bogeyed the first two holes, kind of came back, made a couple birdies.   But all in all it was a little disappointed, especially playing the way I did.   But still two rounds to go, I'm right in the middle in the thick of things, so hopefully get that feeling again with the putter like I did yesterday and continue to hit the ball pretty well.   I struck the ball again pretty well today.   I'll take that positive for tomorrow.

Q.   If I offered you this at the midway point, would you take it on Wednesday?
J.J. HENRY:   Absolutely, absolutely.   Only 29, 30 guys ever shot 60 out here.   I had a lot of nice comments from people texting me, calling me, all kinds of good stuff last night, so that always makes you feel good, kind of helps your confidence.   Again, unfortunately got off to a little bit of a shaky start, kind of put myself behind the 8‑ball a little bit.   But all in all it's been a great couple days, and look forward to‑‑ hopefully the weather is supposed to be good again, light wind, so hopefully we can continue to go low.

Q.   We've seen over the years any time someone shoots a 59 or flirts with it, it's so tough to follow it up.   Now that you've been in those shoes, any explanation?
J.J. HENRY:   You know, I honestly thought a little bit about it last night, too.   I was like, gosh, I'd be able to come out and follow it up with something in the mid 60s.   Then when you get off to a bad start like I did, bogeying the first two holes, that would have been tough unfortunately.   For the most part, again, I felt like I struck it pretty well, I just couldn't get a putt to drop on the back nine or I'd still be playing close to the lead or in the lead.   In a pretty good spot with two rounds to go, actually. 

Q.   Even par‑71, even after that sparkling round of 60 yesterday, tough to follow it up, isn't it?
J.J. HENRY:   It is, and of course it doesn't help matters when I bogey the first two holes.   Kind of got off to a shaky start after not even really coming close to making a bogey yesterday. 

Q.   Can you compare and contrast the two rounds? 
J.J. HENRY:   Really just the putter.   You know, I obviously made an eagle on 9 yesterday and a couple things here or there.   I hit a couple more fairways.   That's what you've got to do out here.   You don't hit a ton of drivers, really.   The fairways are playing pretty firm and the ball rolls just through the fairway into kind of some muffy lies and you get some tough little pins.
As far as a ball‑striking day, I didn't really feel like I hit it that much different, it's just a question of getting off to a little better start, obviously, and transitioning some of those birdie opportunities that I just didn't do today. 

Q.   Four back in a place like this where guys just continue to go low, what's that like for the weekend? 
J.J. HENRY:   Well, again, like I said, if I started the week four back after two rounds, I probably would have taken it, get a chance to shoot a 60 and have a lot of positive things happen.   But at the same time it's probably a little bit disappointing because you did kind of separate yourself the first day and now you've kind of brought yourself back to the pack a little bit.   Just got to make a couple putts this weekend and continue to hit it the way I'm doing, and hopefully good things will happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT