JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2013
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   J.J., 6‑under 65 in round 3.   Happy, satisfied?   Or did you leave some out there?
J.J. HENRY:   You're always happy any time you shoot 65.   Jokingly I told my wife, today is her birthday, I'm going to shoot 3‑under on the front and 3‑under on the back, and that's exactly‑‑ I had to birdie the last three holes to do it, but it was just a great day. 
Obviously the crowds are great.   I was playing with Steve Stricker who's just possibly one of the best guys you can be paired with on this course, all his success here.   I figured if I could hang around his coattails I'd probably do okay today.   It was just a fun day to play golf, and hopefully the same tomorrow.

Q.   Daniel Summerhays has just gone to 19‑under.   What do you think the winning score is going to be?
J.J. HENRY:   Well, you never know.   I figured you had to get somewhere in the low 20s to have a chance, and obviously he's playing great today, but the thing about this golf course is you've got to do it for four days, not three days.   It's tremendous playing, but we'll go out tomorrow with the same attitude and see what happens.

Q.   What's worked all week for you?
J.J. HENRY:   I putted well.   To be honest I was a little off early in the week with some of my iron shots, worked hard on the range Tuesday and Wednesday, and started making putts this week, and on this golf course that's really what you're going to have to do.   You're going to have a lot of wedge shots.   The par‑5s are reachable.   So it's going out and converting putts and making a lot of birdies, and I was able to do that the last couple days. 

Q.   Back‑to‑back 65s.   How pleased are you?
J.J. HENRY:   I'm obviously very pleased.   Jokingly I told my wife today is her birthday, happy birthday, but I was going to shoot 3‑under on the front and 3‑under on the back and sure enough I birdied the last three to do it.   Just a great day to play golf.   Obviously I got to play with Steve Stricker, who seems like he owns this tournament, a lot of local support and one of the best guys you can be paired with.   It was a lot of fun and hopefully one more tomorrow.

Q.   This is a course you're going to have to go low and you're within reach but work to do.   What have you been doing well that you can continue?
J.J. HENRY:   You know, I finally made some putts.   I was struggling a little bit around the greens the last couple weeks, and the hole seems for whatever reason a little bit bigger.   On this golf course it really comes down a lot of times to a putting contest because you know fairways and greens are still pretty soft and receptive, and you know you're going to have to go out and shoot somewhere in the low 20s to win the tournament. 
Tomorrow I'll take the same attitude, try to get off to a good start, make some early birdies and see what happens.   But all in all, again, I'm very happy with the way I played, and hopefully continue it the last round tomorrow. 

Q.   Are you off the hook for a birthday present now?
J.J. HENRY:   I think so.   I hope so.   Happy birthday. 

Q.   Obviously good things out there for you today.   You're right there. 
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, today was a great day.   Obviously I got a chance to play with a good friend.   Seems like Mr.John Deere Classic, Steve Stricker.   We had a great time out there.   Unfortunately he didn't make the putts he probably would have liked, but he's just a great guy, very easy to play with, and we had a great time out there.   I made some putts, and any time you birdie the last three holes it usually leaves a good taste in your mouth.   Hopefully more of the same tomorrow and go out and have some fun and see if we can make a lot of birdies again.

Q.   Talk about those last three. 
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, I hit a great 9‑iron into 16 and a nice putt and a really good drive and a 6‑iron into the par‑5 downwind, and had a really nice drive and a nice 10‑foot putt to kind of end the day.   I'll be a little bit far back.   Looks like there's a couple guys going nuts out there, but all in all, it's a great day, and kind of go out with no pressure tomorrow and try to make as many birdies as you can to try and chase the leaders down.

Q.   You've been in this position before.   Do you know what it's going to take?
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, especially this week.   This is a fun golf course.   We were all talking walking off of 16 about how fun this golf course is to play.   There's a lot of risk‑reward.   You can make a lot of birdies, but at the same time you've got to be careful on some holes out here.   I think everybody here would say the same thing.   It's an enjoyable golf course to play, and we get great crowds, the weather has been great all week, and hopefully this sets up for a great championship Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT