TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2013
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round today, J.J.   You gave yourself a chance there for a while. 
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, yeah.   It's a pretty tough day.   This wind is kind of swirly and tough.   The greens are obviously firmed up throughout the week and the weekend. 
But you know, hung in there.   Had a nice little stretch in the middle of the round to get to I think one or two of the lead there and there are some tough holes coming in.   I gave myself some good opportunities, but I guess it wasn't meant to be, but all in all a great week to be back here in Connecticut. 
Obviously reminiscing about a lot of good times back when I was an amateur in '98 playing with my dad on the bag to 2006 and getting a chance to win in front of all these people from around here in Connecticut and New England. 
It's just a great feeling to be back and to be in the mix again.   You're a little nervous, you're anxious.   It's what we play for.   It's what we work hard for, and had a lot of people out there rooting me on, and it looks like we're going to be a little bit short, but again, a great week and it's nice to be home.

Q.   Busy leaderboard?
J.J. HENRY:   Well, to be honest, I'm more worried about what I'm trying to do.   I know I probably had to get to somewhere around 12‑under and I had it 10‑under through 12 holes.   So you know, again, it was a pretty tough day.   Scores weren't real low with any of the leaders as you can tell.   So the course firmed up.
But again, great crowds, great weather.   I think it's the best weather we've had all year on TOUR, and the crowds came out.   I'm not sure, I think we've set record‑number crowds this week or whatever it is.   So it's great to be here.   Travelers is a great sponsor and it's always nice to be home.

Q.   Did you actually put that number in there and say I need to get to 12‑under?
J.J. HENRY:   Somewhere around there I figured.   You know, again, with the wind up, I figured if I could shoot, you know, if I could shoot 5 or 6‑under today, I think it would be a pretty good spot, and then of course to post it and see what happens.   You know, there's some hard holes.   The pin on 17 is extremely difficult today.   16's a tough hole, dead into the wind.
18 is downwind, so if you hit it in the fairway, it's a pretty good birdie opportunity, but you're trying to just hold on there on 16 and 17 today for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT