TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2013
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Kind of a mixed bag for you today, J.J., but still within five shots if things stand up over there.  
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah.   I got off to a good start.   I had it 3‑under there early on the front nine and just couldn't quite capitalize on the back.   It got a little bit trickier this afternoon.   The wind picked up a little bit, the greens got a little firmer, the golf course is firming up nice, so it should shut up for a good day tomorrow.   
But all in all obviously to get a chance to play in front of a big crowd like this with last week's U. S. Open champ, Justin Rose is just a great guy, a good friend and just a class act.   It was fun to spend the afternoon with him.   We both played pretty good, and actually I think we're at the same score, so maybe we'll get to do it again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   If things stay like this and it's a five‑shot and Bubba is in the lead, what's your approach tomorrow?  
J.J. HENRY:   You just gotta play aggressive.   The golf course, there's some holes out there you know you can kind of make birdies, but at the same time there's a lot of risk reward.   That's what makes for great drama, great TV, great for spectators.   
Again, so it should shut up for another great tournament.   This tournament has obviously got a list of great past champions, and again, to spend a day with Justin, who's obviously playing great in winning the U. S. Open last week and maybe get a chance to do it tomorrow should make for a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   When someone has won on a particular course, do we make too much of it by, the fact that you've won here before, it's been a while now, do we make too much of it that you know what to expect and all that?  
J.J. HENRY:   Well, I mean you still have to be on your game and playing well, but there's no question that guys tend to ‑‑ you know, you have a good feeling when you step on certain golf courses, and for me and I'm sure for some of the other guys that have won here as well, obviously Bubba being one who's back in the lead here this week, it's definitely something, whether it calms you or you have good lines off the tee or whatever it might be.   Obviously for me this is the place it's always been kind of my fifth major growing up here in the state, and of course, like you mentioned, getting the chance to win.   So I've got a lot of great memories that I kind of look back on, whether it was when I was 19 and my dad was caddying for me as an amateur to, again, today playing with Justin, who's a great guy who happened to win the U. S. Open last week.  
You know, there's kind of horses for courses, if you will, and obviously a lot's been said about that, but it's true to a lot of extent.   I seem to play well on certain golf courses on TOUR and this being one of them.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT