VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2017
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Second straight 67.
J.J. HENRY: First and foremost, I've got a Major Champion, Mark Brooks, my buddy on the bag.  So it says a lot about him to come out, playing the Champions Tour for three weeks.  Played at Tampa a couple weeks ago.
We play a lot together at home, and to have him come out and really try to help me along, to be honest, it's kind of been a struggle the last year and a half or so.  This is my 17th straight year out here, so I know how to get it done and I feel like I'm getting closer and closer; and to have somebody like him push me along.
And this is a golf course that's really tricky.  You have to kind of place the ball off the tee.  You don't hit driver every hole and you have to plot your way around, and Mark's helped me do that the last couple days.
To be honest I've hit a lot of good shots.  It's a golf course, where you get a couple under, you make a little run, and I had a couple birdies in a row there.  I guess I birdied 10, 11, 13.  Kind of struggled a little bit coming in.  But all in all, it was a great day.  Hope it gets me somewhere within striking distance I hope tomorrow and good out and see what happens.
Q. How many tournaments has Mark caddied for you?
J.J. HENRY: The last couple years, he's caddied for me at THE PLAYERS Championship because the Champions Tour has been off.  We practice a lot together usually at Mira Vista, Colonial, Ridgewood Country Club in Fort Worth are kind of the three hangouts.  It's always fun to learn.  Like I said I've been out here a long time but you always need to try to have something to re-energize yourself and improve or get better, because you can go through the motions after awhile.   He definitely pushes me.  I always say his strengths are my weaknesses and vice versa.   He's a gritty competitor, grinder, never hit the ball very far but always figured out a way to get the ball in the hole.
Q. Is it that fieriness rubbing off on you?
J.J. HENRY: No question about it.  He's hard on me.  There's no question about that.  He's hard on me.  But it's all good in spirits.  Regardless if it's this week or next week or the next couple tournaments, he finds a way to give myself a chance and hopefully that's building towards that this week.
Q. Who is your regular guy?
J.J. HENRY: I have got a buddy, Chris Brown, who has been -- actually started with me this year.  He's a really good player from Dallas.  He's played the Byron Nelson and stuff.  At my age, I just want to go out and -- with a lot of the same similarities.
I'm not looking to do anything different.  I know how to do it.  It's just a question of putting in the time and work.  Obviously your priorities change when you're 41.  I have my two boys out on spring break and my wife staying on the property.
This golf course, I know it's hard and it's not necessarily your typical Florida course, and all the guys really love playing here.  Typically the scores are not really low and if you look over my career, I think that's usually good for me, 12 or 15-under par.  We'll go out and try to have some fun tomorrow, keep hitting shots and see what happens.
Q. What are the boys' names and ages?
J.J. HENRY: Connor who is 12, and Carson who is eight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT