TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2012
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J.J. HENRY:   You know, I don't know.   It was obviously an early start.   6:50 is pretty early to start, but I hit nine greens on the front.   I just didn't hit the ball close enough to the hole and just didn't quite make any putts.
You know, hit 15, 18 greens, so the ball striking was there.   I thought the pins were pretty tough today.   They were tucked and on some ridges and slopes and close to a lot of the run‑offs. 
You know, I made one bad swing on 10 and ended up kind of trying to do something and made double bogey, and I hit a pretty good shot on 16 and went just over the green.   Other than that, just didn't quite give myself enough putts, and when I did, I just was kind of 15‑footers that are breaking two feet right to left or left to right.   It was all over the hole.   It was just one of those days where they didn't want to drop.

Q.   So you never really got it close enough?
J.J. HENRY:   Well, I did hit some close and then I hit two great shots on 13, you know, right in the middle of the green and now I'm putting down the hill and ended up three putting it for par.   So I just could never get any positive momentum. 
Again, I hit 15, 18 greens, so it wasn't like I really played that bad.   I just couldn't quite ‑‑ really couldn't quite capitalize.   You know, you're going to probably make one or two bad swings and make an occasional bogey, and again, I was over par on two holes and hit 15 greens.   I just didn't quite capitalize and make any birdies when I needed to.

Q.   Has that been the story of the year, J.J.?   The flag stick is really not coming through. 
J.J. HENRY:   Not really.   No.   I've actually been putting pretty well.   Just for whatever reason they didn't want to go in today.   Just one of those deals.
But you know, it was a little frustrating, obviously.   I had a week off last week, so I was kind of excited to come back and play.   Again, you know, whether I was a little ‑‑ you know, I was kind of mediocre on the front.   Again, you hit nine greens and hit some good shots, but couldn't quite maybe hit it close enough and then just couldn't quite get it going. 
The wind kind of picked up.   It was pretty swirly out there.   A lot of pins, actually some pins I've never seen in 15 years three paces off ridges, and some of them were ‑‑ it is what it is, I guess.   Everybody needs to play it, but there were some pins I've never seen in 15 years, for sure.

Q.   Did you feel any pressure out there?
J.J. HENRY:   No, no.   Pressure is what it is.   I've won out here, so I figure I could handle it.   It was so early this morning, there weren't that many people out here besides maybe a couple close friends and family.
But you know, I'll go out tomorrow, and maybe I'm saving them all for tomorrow, go out and make six or eight birdies tomorrow, get myself back in it.   Obviously it's not the start I wanted, but by no means if I can continue to hit the ball well and hit 15 greens and get a little closer and make some putts, hit a good round tomorrow and give myself a chance to play on the weekend and see what happens.

Q.   Did you stay up here?
J.J. HENRY:   I stayed up here last night.

Q.   I was going to say, it was a 5 a.m. wake‑up call?
J.J. HENRY:   Earlier than that.

Q.   Oh, is that right?
J.J. HENRY:   I'm on the tee at 6:50.   That means I gotta be ready at 6:40.   I don't think anybody should have to play golf before 7:00.   It's a little early.   Especially when it's the longest day of the year.   It's light till 9:00.

Q.   Is that the first time you ever had a 6:50 start?
J.J. HENRY:   Occasionally we do, but it's more.

Q.   No, I mean you, is that the earliest ‑‑
J.J. HENRY:   No, I've played early before.   It is what it is.   You know, in a good way, hopefully you beat the heat.

Q.   That's what I was thinking. 
J.J. HENRY:   It's supposed to be hot out here this afternoon.   So in a good way it was great you played early.   Just for whatever reason ‑‑ you know, again, wasn't terrible.   You hit nine greens and had nine pars.   It wasn't like I was hitting it all over the place and scraping it to shoot what I shot.   I mean by far it was the worst I could have possibly shot today.   So go out tomorrow and try to make some birdies.   Nothing to lose and see what happens.

Q.   I know it was early and you said you were able to beat some of the heat, but how does a PGA TOUR pro like maybe going off now stay cool?
J.J. HENRY:   You just deal with it.   Obviously you gotta drink a lot of water.   You gotta kind of pace yourself, maybe slow yourself down a little bit.   But you gotta drink a lot and kind of keep hydrated for sure.
You know, we play a lot of warm places in the summertime, and of course, now living in Texas this is a normal summer day in Texas.   Obviously you're wearing pants and doing stuff, but you wear some white colors and you drink a lot of water.

Q.   You mentioned those electrolyte pills the other day.   You said that's becoming a thing out here among the guys?
J.J. HENRY:   Yeah, something to try to keep you hydrated for sure without the sugar and stuff.   It's worked pretty good.

Q.   Did you spend last week up here or were you down in Texas?
J.J. HENRY:   No.   I was at home, down in Texas. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT