HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2012
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   J.J., windy day out there, tough day but a good round.   Talk about it. 
J.J. HENRY:   I knew it was going to be a tough day, just a day to hang in there and try and hit it in the fairway and give yourself some opportunities.   Just didn't make a lot of mistakes today.   Obviously I knew startin' the day if you could shoot under par you could keep yourself in the hunt, and that's exactly what I did. 
I was able to make a couple of putts coming in, and I have a chance to win a tournament tomorrow about an hour from where I live.   I was actually a player consultant with Harrison Fraiser for the D.A. Weibring redesign, so I feel like I know this golf course pretty well.
You know, it's all about having a good time.   My 7 year old son was out there following me around and slapping high fives, so we made the best of a hard day today that's for sure. 

Q.   Is it more pressure because family is here, or does that give you more support? 
J.J. HENRY:   Probably a little bit of both, to be honest, but anytime you can sleep in your own bed and come out here and have a good time, and I had the purple pants on, the TCU purple pants, so we had a good time‑out there today, and I look forward to the challenge tomorrow. 

Q.   Talk about the wind.   It didn't seem to bother you today.   Do you expect it to be a problem at all tomorrow? 
J.J. HENRY:   I think it's the same type of forecast, so you have to hang in there, you're probably going to make mistakes, but you've got to be patient.   There are lots of cross‑winds, so you have to be patient, pick your spots, take advantage of the par 5s. I did that today. 
How fun was it?   Again, under the circumstances a challenge out here, there is no doubt.   It's the same for everybody, and you've got to make the best of it. 

Q.   Talk about being in contention close to home here. 
J.J. HENRY:   Ironically the only other time I won on TOUR was in 2006, and I grew up in Connecticut, so I won there, so in a way I feel like I know how to do it.   I've done it before, and obviously this is where I call home now and grateful for so many friends and people out here supporting me. 
I heard a lot of "Go TCU, go Frogs" out here, and this is week and next week are special for me, because obviously you place pressure on yourself to play at home, but if you look forward to it and you play well it can carry you over the top. 

Q.   Talk about the purple pants. 
J.J. HENRY:   It was kind of‑‑ I whip 'em out every now and then.   I get a lot of comments, good and bad, but mostly good.   Playing so close to home and TCU it's a must here and next week for sure. 

Q.   Anything different this week? 
J.J. HENRY:   No.   My game has been getting closer for a while.   Ironically I had a good friend, Mark Brooks, caddie for me last week.   He's won seven times at the PLAYERS, and he was a hard ass.   It was fun to have him challenge me, and he said how close I am to playing well, and whether it's this week or next week or two months from now. 
I learned a lot from somebody I've looked up to, his demeanor and intensity for the game, and the shots around the greens that are maybe my weakness, and I have had those shots this week, and it's paid off. 

Q.   Is it an advantage to have worked with D.A. here‑‑
J.J. HENRY:   You know the humps and bumps, and idiosyncrasies, but you've still got to hit the shots, and on a day like today you have to get out there and battle.   You know it's going to be tough and maybe 6‑under, 8‑under, I figured would be leading, so I figured if I shot under par I would have a chance tomorrow, and I did. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, J.J.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT