TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2011
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. J.J., you worked yourself right into the mix here.  
 J.J. HENRY: Yeah. Well, actually, you know, I knew cuts starting out that the scores were going to be pretty low, but it was nice to be the first group off, kind of right in that split.   
 You know, obviously even looking back yesterday, the last seven or eight holes this tournament is kind of like my fifth major, growing up in Connecticut and obviously winning in 2006, so I was proud of the way I hung in there just even that in my second round to be able to kind of finish it off and then to play great today, obviously.   
 The scores are going to be low still. The leaders are still playing a lot of holes, but it's nice to get a good solid round in today and see if I can do the same thing tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What's the talk about for the amateur out there who's playing so well and he's among the leaders now?  
 J.J. HENRY: Yeah. I think it's great. I haven't had a chance to really see him much, but I can remember I played here as an amateur back in '98 and I was just trying to make the cut and here he is trying to win the golf tournament. So that being said, you know, it just goes to show you there's a lot of young players now, even still in college -- of course, you know, you saw what McIlroy, 22, did at the Open last week.   
 And you know, it says a lot about the game of golf for sure. These kids aren't scared, and they come out here, and I think he almost shot 59 yesterday. So good for him. Curious to see what happens over the weekend obviously as you get closer to the lead and know it's that much closer to the finish line. But obviously he's a great player, and be interesting to see what happens on the weekend.   
  
  Q. Could you talk about your round today?  
 J.J. HENRY: Yeah. It was a solid round. I had six birdies and a bogey. I started on the front nine, birdied 3, 4 and 9 on the front nine to shoot 3-under 32. Birdied 11. 11, 13 and 16, and unfortunately three-putted 17 and missed a short one there. But it was a pretty solid round.   
 Obviously the greens are still soft and receptive. The course is in great shape. It's starting to firm up a little bit, but it's still pretty soft out there, so it's going to be a putting contest over the next 27 holes, whatever is left for everybody.   
 But you know, again, go out tomorrow with really nothing to lose, kind of go out and see if I can shoot as low as I can and see what happens.  
  
  Q. You might need like 62 tomorrow; right?  
 J.J. HENRY: Well, I mean who knows. Again, I've done it out here before. I think I've shot 62 or 63 that one Saturday when I won, and on more difficult conditions when it was a little firmer obviously.   
 But I'm not necessarily looking about that. I feel like I'm playing great, and as I mentioned, my game is probably in the best shape it's been in probably 12 years on TOUR coming into this week. Like I said, you still have to make the putts and hit the shots. But that being said, I'm excited about the second half of the year. I feel like I'm doing the right things, putting myself in a position to hopefully win a golf tournament.  
  
  Q. It was before your time, but they used to say (indiscernible) was a putting contest. Is that a bad thing?  
 J.J. HENRY: Well, I mean I'm more of a ball striker, so I'd prefer a little sterner test, if that makes sense. But you know, it's the same for everybody. Any time -- these players are the best in the world. Any time you get in soft greens and fairly wide fairways and soft fairways and the golf course is in great shape, you're going to see a lot of low scores.  
  
  Q. And no wind.  
 J.J. HENRY: And no wind. It's starting to pick up a little bit, but nothing -- there's really not that much out there.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised they're still playing lift, clean and place?  
 J.J. HENRY: No. It's wet out there --  
  
  Q. Is it?  
 J.J. HENRY: -- for sure. I mean you get in a lot of spots that are still kind of dicey and a lot of lot of mud balls, so I don't know what the plan is tomorrow, but normally actually even when it starts to dry out is normally when you pick up more mud. So I don't even know what they're going to do tomorrow, but it'll be interesting to see for sure.  
  
  Q. Did you get into a little trouble on 15 and work your way out of it?  
 J.J. HENRY: Well, I just pulled my tee shot a little bit. We had a long wait off the tee and just pulled it just a little bit. It caught the hill and actually was right up against the hazard line there and really didn't have a shot. I was lucky, I actually made a great par and then hit a great shot on 16.   
 But you know, I missed some chances, too, you know, so you know, you're never disappointed when you shoot 65, but I left a couple out there and maybe that's the difference between really having a legitimate chance tomorrow to win and just a chance to kind of have a good finish. So regardless of what happens I'm playing well. Even regardless of how I play tomorrow, I'm looking forward to the second half of the year.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT