RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good day?
 J.J. HENRY: It was fun. I got off to a great start birdieing my first two holes, 1 and 2. And actually, I think I made five birdies on the front. 
 So you know, the golf course obviously was receptive, the greens, but obviously you gotta keep the ball in the fairway. If you keep the ball in the fairway here, with the greens being a little soft with the rains, you're going to have some chances. But I converted a lot of good putts. 
 For me it feels like it's been a long time coming. I felt like, you know, recently I felt like I've been playing pretty well, just kind of shooting the worst I could shoot, if you will, and just not making enough birdies. And today I rolled the ball really nicely, really was the difference between a good round, seven birdies and making two or three and being back in he middle of the pack. 
 So obviously a lot of golf to play, but I'm really excited about the way I'm playing, and on a tough golf course, kind of an old-style golf course that suits my eye I'm looking forward to the weekend.

 Q. It really even looks like you played better than you scored. The aggressive play on 15 led to a bogey, but it was a good play. 
 J.J. HENRY: Yeah. You know, actually, we talked about that. We must have just misjudged the wind a little bit. We thought it was a little bit more in our face, and really kind of hit right over the flag. I was thinking that was a pretty good shot. 
 You know, you can only really see the top half of that flag as it is, so it was just over the green. And you know, this rough is very obviously hit or miss. It's gnarly around the greens. It's very difficult to get the ball up-and-down. 
 So you know, the key this week is hit fairways and hit greens, and obviously there's some par-5s that are playing downwind, both 9 and 11, and you know, you just gotta pick your spots. Get the ball in the fairway and give yourself some chances. These greens are fairly small, but if you keep it under the hole, you're going to have some birdie opportunities.

 Q. The greens weren't hard the first round. Are they even more receptive now?
 J.J. HENRY: No doubt. I mean I think we got quite a bit of rain last night. I wasn't even sure if we were going to get to play at all today. Looks like skies are somewhat still okay, and we got seems like already half the field in. So if we get any golf at all, then hopefully maybe get everybody in today definitely helps.

 Q. J.J., great playing. Good luck on the weekend. 
 J.J. HENRY: Thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT