TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2010
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. J.J., I guess that finish you had on 18 just kind of capped off the whole round today, huh? Great birdie out there. 
 J.J. HENRY: Well, I started with three birdies and ended with a birdie. You know, actually I hit the ball probably just as good the first two days, actually. I went back to my putter I've used for two years. 
 For whatever reason I switched putters the first two rounds, and I felt just wanted to mix it up and try something different. 
 I felt good Tuesday and Wednesday and gave it a go, and it wasn't quite as good as it was. You always go back to what works, and today -- again, I'm hitting the ball well all week, but to finally make some putts and to shoot a good round today and get myself back in the mix. 
 The golf course is obviously conducive to low scores. The greens are still soft. The fairways are wide and pretty soft, and not much wind, so you're going to see some good scores. But again, any time you shoot 64 on a Saturday you usually feel good about yourself. Hopefully I can do it again tomorrow. 

 Q. Great move on moving day. What took the old faithful putter out of your good graces to begin with?
 J.J. HENRY: I don't know. I'd been hitting the ball pretty well, maybe trying to mix it up for a week. 
 Obviously I love coming here and playing. I have a lot of great memories here, and I thought maybe something to kind of jump start my week and my round, have something new; and it just didn't work out. I was just hoping to get through, especially Friday, I was hoping to kind of get through, and I knew I was going to go back to my old one today. 
 Again, I feel great. I'm driving the ball well. I'm hitting some good iron shots. And again, the golf course is receptive to some low scores, so you're probably going to see some low scores out there this afternoon.

 Q. I want to ask you about one other thing. I know on Monday you have your charity event here in Connecticut for The First Tee. Tell us about that. 
 J.J. HENRY: Looking forward to it. I'm having an event down in Fairfield, Connecticut where I grew up at the Patterson Club. They just redid it, beautiful new clubhouse, and the golf course redesigned.

 Q. Donald Ross course. 
 J.J. HENRY: Actually it's a Trent Jones golf course.

 Q. Is it?
 J.J. HENRY: Yeah. And looking forward to it. We're all trying to benefit The First Tee of the met New York and here in Connecticut. So I think we got 24 groups. It's sold out. I'm going to do kind of a clinic and one of those trick shot tours in the morning. We're going to go out and kind of a junior a.m., if you will, and then a little program after, so it's a nice way to kind of help out the kids in The First Tee back home. 

 Q. You can add a putting clinic to it, after today. 
 J.J. HENRY: Well, hopefully. That would be nice, for sure.

 Q. Well done. 
 J.J. HENRY: All right, thanks, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT