ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2016
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know it was a long day, but you managed to pull a 5-under 67 out of it.  Just a few comments on the starting and stopping and the long wait.  
J.J. HENRY: Yeah, we were just joking, it's kind of fun to catch up with some old friends I haven't seen a while in there.  But it is what it is.  I've been out here a long time.  I think this is my 16th year out here, and you've got to kind of roll with the punches.  As you know, this time of year and wherever we play, it seems to -- kind of like clockwork.  But luckily I was able to get off to a good start today.  I felt like I was hitting the ball really well and made a couple putts, tried to carry the momentum, and be able to finish it off with two, two and a half holes late today make that dinner and New Orleans taste a little better tonight.  It sounds like I'll have probably a lot of time off, too, before we start the second round.  Maybe go out a little bit tonight and have a little dinner and sleep in a little bit and get ready to hopefully do it again tomorrow.   
 Q.  I heard you saying you were feeling good.  Did you feel a round like this coming on?  
J.J. HENRY: Yeah, I really did.  It's been a little frustrating.  The last couple weeks haven't been real good.  Frankly the year hasn't been great.  I've made a lot of cuts at events, but for whatever reason I haven't put four rounds together, so it's been a little frustrating.  Like I said, I kind of know what to do out here.  I know what to expect with the time I've been out here, and it's just that one round or that one week to kind of get the momentum and you can ride it for a long time out here.  My ball-striking is there, and I feel like I'm hitting the ball as well arguably as I probably ever have.  I've been a little kind of iffy on some of the putting and some of the things, but I feel like if I get the right speed and make some putts, continue it the next couple days, I feel like I have a pretty good shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT