TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2009
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   J.J. HENRY: It was nice, I didn't expect to hole the second shot. But to do that, it settled me down a little bit. I got a little anxious because I always want to do well playing close to home.   
 But, you know, I think I'm in a pretty good spot. Go out, and maybe work on my putting and chipping a little bit. And kind of enjoy the rest of the day and get ready to play tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How much less stress is there when you come to a course where you know you can score and the conditions are right?   
 J.J. HENRY: For whatever reason, this golf course suits my eye. I've obviously had one in 2006. So golf courses, for whatever reason, it's the way, you know, if it suits your eye and you enjoy coming and playing.   
 Obviously, when I'm playing well, I enjoy feeding off the crowd. And there's no doubt. I know a lot of the little kind of bumps and valleys and where to on put the ball and where to miss it sometimes even on this golf course.   
 It's definitely a huge event. I've been playing here since an amateur back in 1998. I've always said this is kind of my favorite event for obvious reasons growing up here.   
 As a little boy, trying to get autographs from the pros. And now to be out here kind of doing it for a living, it's pretty cool.   
  
  Q. Talk about the Connecticut connection?  
 J.J. HENRY: There's no doubt, it's obviously an extremely unfortunate situation. Especially when he was turning his life around and really playing golf again.   
 You know, I can remember, Ken was somebody in the area that kids kind of looked up to with the success he had. And hopefully I can be somebody like that for young kids.   
 But, you know, it's someone that obviously any tour player, we're a big family out here. And Ken's probably that much closer to the fact that we're both from Connecticut. So, it's just extremely unfortunate and did he have devastating situation, and hopefully he can make the most of it and get back out here and continue his career.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the way you overcame losing the ball there?   
 J.J. HENRY: Well, it's one of those deals. I got a free drop, obviously. I didn't hit a real good drive. I kind of blocked it to the right. It was nice to make par on the hole. It's a birdie hole today to make a drop. I had a birdie shot. And it's probably the closest I came to making bogey all day.   
 For the most part I played solid golf. But it was nice to start out with the 2 to get the ball in the hole, that's for sure.  
  
  Q. What did you get?   
 J.J. HENRY: I hit a driver, and the pin was up front. I hit a gap wedge, kind of took one bounce, landed four or five feet short and went by. It was pretty cool.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT