MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 27, 2009
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Just some general comments on the round.   
 J.J. HENRY: Yeah. I felt really confident starting out. Warmed up really good, and obviously played well yesterday, and even in the Pro Am, made a lot of birdies. I like the way this golf course suits my eye.   
 You got different shots in the wind, but I played the ball and keep it in play. It's a fairly tight golf course. But I bogeyed 9 to shoot even on the front, and actually bogeyed 10 and made five birdies coming in.   
 Again, it's two left, but I'm in a good spot. I feel like I'm playing with a lot of confidence. That's the most important thing. I'm looking forward to the weekend.  
  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Did you notice any difference in the conditions between the two days?   
 J.J. HENRY: Very similar. Slightly different wind yesterday, but for the most part it blew consistently, probably 20 miles an hour. At least you knew which way it was coming, and you could play.   
 The golf course is in great shape. Beautiful place, and we're all enjoying ourselves, and hopefully good golf continues.  
  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Is this your first year here?   
 J.J. HENRY: First time. Yep. You know, '07 I guess I drew match card, and then last year just the schedule I needed a week off. So I'm excited to be here, glad to be here, and more importantly, I'm glad I'm playing well.  
  
 NELSON SILVERIO: Give a quick history of your birdies on that back.  
 J.J. HENRY: Yeah. I bogeyed 6 and then bogeyed 9. I bogeyed 10. I hit a pretty good shot, just went over and missed about a 3-footer for par there. Then I bogeyed 11. Birdied 13, birdied 15, birdied 16 and birdied 18.  
  
 NELSON SILVERIO: You had a lot of long putts?   
 J.J. HENRY: Just -- you know, let's see. 9 I made about probably a 10-footer for birdie, straight up the hill. 11, I made about a 10-footer. 13, I made about a five-footer.   
 14, I hit it in there about five feet and missed it. And then I birdied 15 from about 12 feet, 16 from about six feet and then 18 from about probably 20 feet.   
 So yeah, made some good putts. Actually, I seemed to drive the ball pretty well, which on this course you have to do, so I like the way it sets up for me.   
 I've just been playing more consistent. I'm excited about this year. I'm in the weekend, and I've put in a lot of work. Been around for nine years now. So I kind of know what to expect. I'm looking forward to it.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT