U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2007
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Do you feel satisfied?   
   J.J. HENRY: Yeah, you know, actually I made a couple good putts, but to be honest with you, tee to green I feel really well and I think I probably only missed maybe two fairways and three greens all day, and on a demanding golf course like that, I gave myself a lot of chances, especially early on and unfortunately couldn't shake one in the hole and I finally got one to drop on 10. But from tee to green I hit the ball as good as I've ever hit it.   



 If I continue to make putts I feel so good about my ball striking from tee to green, it's hard to make putts, as we all know, but that being said, if I hit in the right spots and keep keeping the ball in play, that's the most important thing.  It is a second-shot golf course so you have to play well off the tee.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel like the course was getting harder or faster?   
   J.J. HENRY: Yeah, the wind blew pretty good this afternoon, probably more so than it did all three practice days, so I think I've played it now, what, four times, three, four times, so I think it's the kind of golf course especially off the tee and there's a lot of blind tee shots and the more you play it and visualize things and see what's going on the easier it becomes, by no means not that it's easy, it's an extremely difficult test, we all knew it was going to be like that, there's obviously a lot of golf left but I didn't shoot myself in the foot and as well as I'm striking the ball I'm excited about tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about Fred Funk mixing it up with the new kids?   
   J.J. HENRY: It's a good course for Fred. I'm hitting a lot of irons, a lot of woods, and for somebody like Fred he's a contender for sure.   
  
  Q.  A lot of people said the softer greens are probably playing as easy as it could play and the pin placements were easier?   
   J.J. HENRY: How many guys are under par, one or two guys? Two guys? And it's only the first day. Again, anything, a couple over par, 3, 4 over is a heck of a score, probably all week anything around 72, 73 is probably a pretty good score and there is no question, obviously, I think we're anticipating good weather going forward, so the golf course is going to firm up a little bit and you're going to have to put the ball in certain places on these greens.   
  
  Q.  Could you go over your birdies and bogeys for us please?   
   J.J. HENRY: Had a great shot in on 3 just above the hole and 3-putted from about 15 feet, knocked it about 4 feet by and missed it.   



 8, again, everybody knows 8, still extremely difficult hole location today even with the up tee, the back left there and 3-putted, hit it on the front of the green, 3-putted again.  So those were my only two bogeys and no birdies on the front.   
  
  Q.  Any great saves?   
   J.J. HENRY: I have a strong 4-iron and I tried to hook it around the corner and it got to the front of the green. 10 I made a great putt, I was knocking on the door on the front nine and couldn't get it in, but I made a 30, 40-foot putt and broke 15 feet or so from left to right and I got it going there, and my only bad drive of the day on 12 and I ended up making a bogey on that long par 5 and followed up with a good drive and birdie on 15, hit an 8-iron in there 12 feet left of the hole, and parred the last three holes, so pretty solid round.   
  
  Q.  Ticklish putt there at the end?   
   J.J. HENRY: Yeah, the chip was one of those you had to be aggressive on or you could probably leave it right at your feet and unfortunately it came out a little bit, but it was a great way to end the day on a 4 or 5-foot slider for par. That's a difficult hole as we all know and, again, there is a lot of golf to play, but I'm excited about the way I'm playing and looking forward to what lies ahead.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT