PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2006
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J.J. HENRY:  Actually I still played real good.  Even the shot I hit    I thought I hit a good tee shot on 16 and it clipped the tree and went left and I ended up making double bogey on a good shot unfortunately.  That's what happens sometimes in majors.  You've just got to hang in there.  I didn't quite convert on some of the opportunities today.  I'm still only about five shots back with two rounds to go.

You know, again, I feel like I'm playing great, so I've just got to go out and convert a little more.  I'm hitting a lot of good shots, just a question of making some putts.
Q.  You laid out to about 125 and the approach at 16
J.J. HENRY:  It is what it is, unfortunately.  It happens sometimes.  I maybe tried to get too aggressive and still make par as opposed to just taking my medicine, you know.  But again, if I go out and light it up on the weekend, who knows what might happen.  We get out a little earlier before the leaders tomorrow and try and post a good number.  I feel like I'm playing well, it's just a question of going out there and doing it.
Q.  Do you think there's any pressure on the other rounds with the Ryder Cup still?  Is it any increased?
J.J. HENRY:  It's up there, sure.  Obviously it's in the back of my mind, but at the same time, again, I feel like I'm playing well, so I've just got to go out and keep hitting good golf shots and everything will take care of itself.
Q.  Were you doing any leaderboard watching?  Some of the guys right around you are going to be disappearing this weekend.
J.J. HENRY:  Obviously it was pretty crazy out there playing in front of that three some.
Q.  Were there other guys out there?
J.J. HENRY:  Yeah.  I mean, it seemed like everybody on the entire golf course was on the hole, the hole they were on and the hole in front of them, which happened to be our threesome.  It was pretty crazy out there, there's no doubt.

But that's why we play.  When you're playing good, you're hitting good shots, you kind of feed off the crowd.  You know, obviously any time you play in front of a group like that, you're going to have a lot of people out there, and just like anything else, you've got to just go out there and deal with it.

Again, if you're playing well, you can kind of feed off it because when you hit good shots and make putts, they're screaming and yelling for you, too.  It can work to your advantage, as well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT