BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2015
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. J.J., another good day out there for you. Get some comments.   
J.J. HENRY: Yeah, it's nice to get off early with fresh greens and little wind. Kind of tricky with some rain and stuff, but the golf course was pretty soft and receptive, so if I kept the ball in play gave myself a lot good chances.   
As I mentioned yesterday, I love coming here. I was fortunate enough to win here in 2012 and had a handful of other good finishes.  
For whatever reason the golf course kind of suits my eye and I just enjoy being out here kind of up through the trees and the mountains. Just a beautiful place to be this time of year.  
   
 Q. I know it's early, but clubhouse leader after second round has to feel pretty good.   
J.J. HENRY: It does. Like I said before, I was fortunate enough to win this tournament in 2012, so regardless of how you play, I've always got a lot of good memories and vibes and stuff.   
To be somewhere close to the lead after two days...   
In this format anything can happen obviously. Got to put the pedal to the metal, and that's what I plan to do this weekend.  
   
 Q. You mentioned the weather out here. You think it was advantageous playing early as opposed to late?   
J.J. HENRY: Well, I mean, it's pretty nice out right now. It rained on us the first couple holes. Standing on the tee at 7:00 a.m. in half dark and rain wasn't the nicest thing.   
It turned up pretty quick. This golf course is tricky in wind. With soft greens and little wind, I think guys will probably take advantage of it.   
   
 Q. Before you go, just comment about an interesting moment I hear on Wednesday during the Pro‑Am.   
J.J. HENRY: Yeah, my wife joked maybe somebody needed to knock you on your you know what, ass, to kick you in gear to start playing well again.  
We had a great group in the Pro‑Am, and the group in front of us playing (indiscernible) kind of coming back at us. I heard fore, but it wasn't good enough. I got kind of hit right here. Big old welt. Kind of knocked me right to the ground with a driver. Kind of a wake‑up call on Wednesday.  
 As I mentioned, maybe there was something to it. Kind of knocked all the stuff out of me and I'm ready to go this week.   
 Q. Bogeyed on 16.   
J.J. HENRY: Bogeyed 16. It's a tough hole. Pin is back right. Hit is pretty good bunker shot to six feet and unfortunately just missed it on the high side.  
Really the only bogey I made. Again, you keep the ball in play out here you give yourself some chances. Really that's kind of the plan this weekend.  
   
 Q. Most of you guys hit pitching wedge, 9‑iron in from a lot of these holes.   
J.J. HENRY: Yeah, it is. The golf course played a little longer today because the fairways are soft. Traditionally when it kind of gets dried out here the ball goes a long way. That's where I think some more of the local knowledge comes in.   
I've played here so many times. When wind blows, when you're at altitude, when you're at elevation, up and down these hills there is a lot to kind of muster. Pete Jordan played the tour for nine years has been caddying with me and he was on the bag with me when I won in '12. So I think we've kind of figured out roughly how far the ball goes, and hopefully we continue to do that this weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT