PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tell me about your day.
J.J. HENRY:  I played great, really good.  Honestly, I probably didn't miss but about two shots all day long.  I played really solid.  I knew the key to the day was keep the ball in the fairway obviously.

I worked hard the last couple days.  I felt really good like I talked to you, and now today, and I'm proud of the way I played.  Obviously playing in front of Tiger and Phil, it's a lot of people and kind of wild and crazy out there.  So I'm proud of the way I played, I really am.
Q.  Did some of the crowd spilling over that we talked about possibly happen?  Did you notice that today?
J.J. HENRY:  Well, I was playing great so I was trying to feed off the energy of the crowd.  There were probably 40,000, 50,000 people.  It seemed like 40,000 were on about two holes, the hole in front of them and the hole they were on.  Of course we were playing right in front of them.

There was a lot of energy out there.  Obviously this is an exciting week for me, a chance to lock up a Ryder Cup spot.  Obviously I'm playing well and hopefully I can keep doing what I'm doing the next couple days.
Q.  We talked about how good Sunday at Hartford was.
J.J. HENRY:  I played better today probably than I did any day but Sunday at Hartford.  Just the way I struck the ball, I think I missed maybe one fairway all day and just a couple greens.  I didn't make a bogey, and if you don't make a bogey in a major, you're probably going to be all right.  Four birdies and no bogeys, it's a pretty good way to open up a major.
Q.  What about the way you ended your round here?
J.J. HENRY:  Absolutely.  I hit a great shot, a 9 iron in there from about 150 yards to about six feet, so it was a good way to end the day.  Again, hopefully look forward to continuing doing what I'm doing.
Q.  What are your thoughts in the 8th position for the Ryder Cup?  Do you think about it at all?

A.
No question it's in the back of everybody's mind.  We all kind of know where we stand, and the magnitude of this week, but at the same time, I'm just trying to go out and just play golf.  You know what, if it's good enough, it's meant to be, it's meant to be.  I'm going to go out and try to play every shot as best I can and add it up at the end and hopefully it's good enough.

I'm only 31.  I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing, and again, I'm excited about the opportunity, but it's not the be all and end all.
Q.  Is there any added pressure, though?
J.J. HENRY:  Absolutely.  It's tough not to think about that.  I think it's a career changing type thing, to be able to play with those other guys and learn from those other guys.

Golf is such an individual sport that the team aspect of it is something I kind of miss.  I've always played athletics growing up, and I played all different sports.  I was the captain of virtually every team I played on in high school.  To always be a part of a team like that is something I relish the opportunity.
Q.  Tell me about your three birdies.  You had a six footer at 9.
J.J. HENRY:  Second hole today, the 11th hole, I made about probably a 20 footer, a 3 wood and a wedge in there, hit a great drive and a wedge to about 20 feet, made it.

I made the turn, hit a perfect 3 wood and got it down there where I had another good number, hit a wedge about 15 feet left of the hole, made that.

4, a really good hole.  I hit an 8 iron up the hill to about six feet and knocked that right in.  I was kind of disappointed I didn't birdie 5 and 7 to be honest with you after hitting perfect drives.  Two reachable par 5s and I just didn't make birdie there.  Then I made a great birdie on 9 to finish it off.

Obviously I think there's a couple scores that are going to be lower, but I'll take that and run.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT