KEMPER INSURANCE OPEN
May 27, 2001
J.J. Henry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible.)

J. J. HENRY:  Each week each round and I knew my time would come, I stayed patient.  And so when I did put myself in a position like this hopefully good things would happen.

Q.  And the feeling with a handful of holes left and you're on the leaderboard?

J. J. HENRY:  That's definitely, I'm out here to try to win the tournament, but regardless of what happens it's been a great week and something I can build on the rest of the year.

Q.  You're on a roll today and now we got to go to bed and play tomorrow.  How do you feel about that?.

J. J. HENRY:  I'm disappointed.  I was definitely feeling it out there today.  And I played great this morning and carried momentum into this afternoon's round, regardless of the rain delay. And luckily I came out firing again after the second rain delay. From the 7th hole through, I had just teed off or just finished the 14th.  I got four holes left and hopefully I can just kind of finish strong and see what happens.

Q.  You're dead tied with Frank, you have four holes, he has nine.  Who has the advantage?

J. J. HENRY:  I can't really control what other guys do. I'm just going to go out and try and hit the golf shots and give myself an opportunity.  It's, this tournament has obviously been, in the back of my mind, being a rookie and Frank has been out here awhile.  He's a great player and I'm sure I'll have to finish strong to win.  But I'm just going to go out with a good attitude and hopefully it will happen for me.

Q.  Tell us what it's like going in the wet and soggy conditions.  Tell us what that's like.

J. J. HENRY:  Playing 36 holes, it feels like 54.  And I only played about 32 today.  It's been a long, long day.  But I think in a way it's to my advantage.  I mean, I'm only 26 and I feel like I'm in pretty good shape.  So I'm really not that tired.  It's been a great day.  And this is something I've worked for all my life, to give myself a chance to win a golf tournament.  So, to be honest with you, I mean, I'm ready to go.  It's just unfortunate that we had the severe weather.

Q.  How wet is it and what does it do to your game?

J. J. HENRY:  Well the golf course is playing very, very long.  And you just got to try to slog through it and try to hit good golf shots.  Clean crisp golf shots.  If you do catch it a little fat, the water is going to hit it and crazy things will happen.  But all in all, with as much rain and as much soggy conditions we had, I think they did a great job to get the course in the shape it's in.

Q.  Any advantage to going home now and knowing you have four holes tomorrow instead of starting and stopping?

J. J. HENRY:  Well, it's funny, the second round I had to finish on Saturday morning in virtually the exact same position I was in after the rain delay to finish my second round.  In the middle of the 14th fairway.  And here I am standing on the tee and I was able to shoot, I finished 2-under par.  So that's got to be a little bit in the back of my mind.  I'm going to go out and keep the ball in the fairway and hit it on the green and give myself a chance.

Q.  Is there any way to describe how you feel about not finishing tonight?

J. J. HENRY:  I would have thought that a lot of guys are wanting to leave the tournament tonight, but we can't control the weather and all you control is your game.  And hopefully we will all  come out tomorrow and finish the tournament off.

Q.  What are you going to be thinking about tonight knowing you're possibly four holes away from your first win?

J. J. HENRY:  Well I'm going to really try to go and rest, grab some dinner, go to bed early.  Hopefully think good thoughts. But I'm really not going to change anything.  I'm playing great. I'm playing with a lot of confidence.  And really, regardless of what happens, it's been a wonderful week.  And the crowds, the fans have been real supportive of me.  I've been lucky, it seems like in a way they're really pulling for me.  So I'm going to go out tomorrow and hopefully things will fall my way.

Q.  Do you have any holiday plans?  Were you going to do something tomorrow?

J. J. HENRY:  I was actually, being from Connecticut, I'm only about four and a half, five hours from here.  And we always have kind of a family and friends Memorial Day party.  But I'm sure that will be on hold.  Hopefully, maybe we can have a celebration party.  But who knows.  You know, I'm not trying to get ahead of myself.  I know I got a lot of golf to play.  And regardless of what happens, it's been a great week.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT