QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2014
Petra Cetkovska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. CETKOVSKA/L. Na
  7‑6, 2‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Quite a match.   I think she had a 3‑1 lead in the third set and you came back.   You just really kept after her.   Talk about how you feel.   
PETRA CETKOVSKA:   Well, it's a little bit difficult to describe at the moment, because I just sit down from the court, and it's an amazing victory.   
It's a little bit difficult to really describe exactly what I feel at the moment, because it's been like 30 minutes only that I step out of the court.  
But I'm very, very happy with the performance that I did today.   Even though I was 3‑1 down in the third set, as you said, I could manage to make it and get through.   So I'm really, really happy, of course.   Amazing win for me.  
   
 Q.   Was it something you did or something that she did or a combination?  
PETRA CETKOVSKA:   Well, I think certainly it was a combination of both things, but it's a tennis match.   As you know, in a tennis match, anything can happen.   It's over only when the match point is done.  
   
 Q.   I believe it's only the second time you have ever beaten a top 3 player.   Radwanska was the other one.   She's the reigning Australian Open champion.   That must give you a lot of confidence for where you are at the beginning of the season.   
PETRA CETKOVSKA:   Well, of course, that's, as I said, it's amazing, and, yes, it will certainly give me confidence.   
Yeah.   It's great.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations for this wonderful win.   How do you feel after this big surprise of beating Li Na, No. 2 in the world, and qualifying to the next round?  
PETRA CETKOVSKA:   Well, as I said, as I said just now, I feel great.   Yeah, I mean, I cannot not feel great.   It is normal.  
So, yeah.   It's just ‑‑yeah.   
   
 Q.   How do you keep yourself calm?   Because it's a great win, but then there is tomorrow.   You have to come back and play.   A lot of players, after a big win, have trouble keeping themselves calm and in the moment.   
PETRA CETKOVSKA:   I'm just tired.   I'm tired, too.   That's why.   I'm just so happy that I win, and I'm just trying to concentrate for tomorrow.  
I had a great win, yes, but it's very important to keep concentrated for tomorrow to get ready again.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel that Li Na tired during that match?  
PETRA CETKOVSKA:   Well, I was not really trying to concentrate on her, but I was trying to concentrate on myself and what I should try to do.   So I cannot really say if she was tired or not.   
I did not notice, no.   Maybe you can tell me.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday Li Na had difficulties to win her first game.   For you it was very possible today to win?  
PETRA CETKOVSKA:   Well, if I go on the court with knowing or that it is not possible, it's better not to go on the court.   I tried hard.   I tried everything I could, and it was working today.   
I don't say it will work always, all the time.   Today it worked.   So I did believe, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT