NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 25, 2011
Petra Cetkovska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. CETKOVSKA/M. Bartoli
  7-5, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Talk about the day, the delays, the rain.   
 PETRA CETKOVSKA: Well, the delay, it is always difficult to wait because of the rain and because of the weather conditions.   
 But I think we were lucky that we could finish today.   
  
  Q. How does it affect you in terms of warming up and staying focused?   
 PETRA CETKOVSKA: I was warming up two times. It doesn't hurt me. It is even good to do something, to don't stay and do nothing within five or six hours, to keep me a bit in action, to don't fall asleep, yeah, to stay concentrated, to stay in the match, in the match already.   
  
  Q. Both sets you were down 5-4. What happened in the last games for you?  
 PETRA CETKOVSKA: Well, I was trying to be even more concentrated because at these moments, always the end of the sets, these moments are the key moments. I tried to do the best, tried not to miss anything, not to give any single point.   
 Yeah, it was good.   
  
  Q. You have Li Na next. Your thoughts about playing her. How have you done against her?  
 PETRA CETKOVSKA: She's a great player. She's having a good season. I think I played her like two or three years ago. I lost.   
 So I'm looking forward to this match. I hope it's going to be a good match. It's going to be a nice opportunity. Yeah, so I'm really happy to test my game against such a great player as her.   
  
  Q. How were you playing heading into this tournament? Did you feel like you were playing well coming in?  
 PETRA CETKOVSKA: Well, I had quite a good week last week. I qualified, and I passed one run. I lost to Svetlana Kuznetsova 6-4 in the third. I don't want to say that I was feeling great or something, but it was like a nice promise that I might qualify or I might do something.   
 But I'm really surprised of this result and I'm really happy for that.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT