AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 17, 1999
Tim Tschida
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TIM TSCHIDA: Yeah. I got the best position I could on that play, and that play itself,
when the second baseman comes into the baseline to field the ball, and the runner's there,
it's very difficult to get the angle that you want without getting in the way. And I tried
to stay out of the baseline as best I could. If he misses the tag, he can still flip to
second or flip to first. When I looked and Knoblauch went like this to tag him, I was
looking through the runner. He made, in my judgment, very little effort to avoid being
tagged. By the way, I called the play on reaction, on the reaction of the runner and the
reaction of the fielder; that he made the move and threw to first. It appeared to me as
though he got him. I couldn't get into a position where I could see daylight between the
glove and the runner. The only position I ever got to see that daylight came when I got to
the dressing room and saw it on television. 
 
Q. Having seen the replay, do you now feel you made the right call? And if you didn't
make the right call, are you in a position to make the same statements Rick Reed made in
New York?
 
 TIM TSCHIDA: I'm not sure what his statements were, but no, I didn't make the right
call. 
 
Q. Was any help either asked for or offered by an umpire who might have seen daylight
between the glove and the runner.
 
 TIM TSCHIDA: No. In fact, that was Jimy's argument all along. He said, "I realize
there isn't anybody else you can go to on that play." The first base umpire's in
position for the play on first. You know, it's one of those, like I said, it's a very
difficult play to get the position that you want, and that's a frustrating thing for an
umpire because we like to call everything properly, and we like to be in a position where
we can see everything. And the only way I could have gotten into that position was
probably get in the way of the play, and I think that's a little bit of overkill. 
 
Q. Jose Offerman said first you told him he missed the tag. Then when Jimy Williams
said he changed the story and said he was out of the baseline. Would you comment on that?
 
 TIM TSCHIDA: I never said either. I said what I said to Offerman, I got you out on the
tag. And he said he never touched me. When Jimy got there, he said why is he out. I said
because in my judgment, I felt he tagged him. There was never anything -- I never said
anything other than what I just said. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT