ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 14, 2020
Andrea Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









ANDREA LEE:   Yeah, I feel really good.  Had two really solid rounds of golf.  Yesterday the conditions were pretty tough but hung in there.  Had six birdies and had a few mistakes but really had to grind.
Today the conditions were much nicer, but you know, still had to really stay patient out there, I had a lot of 30-, 40-foot putts for birdie and had to just lag them up there and 2-putt all of them and not be too aggressive.  So kind of took the opportunities when I -- when I had them, made a couple birdies, but other than that, it was just a pretty steady round of golf today.
THE MODERATOR:   Have you ever been to Scotland?  Have you ever played links golf before?
ANDREA LEE:   I have.  Actually our team, our Stanford team, we took a trip to Scotland last September for like ten days, and it was so much fun.  I mean, we played some of the best courses around.  Got to play St. Andrews, one of the Gullane courses, Kingsbarns, and North Berwick, just to name a few, so it was quite the experience.  So I'm excited to be back.
THE MODERATOR:   What was the reason coming over to Scotland?
ANDREA LEE:   My coach is from Scotland, plus it's the Home of Golf.  She tries to have a trip with the team once every four years.  So it's pretty special.  We're so lucky to be able to have that opportunity.
THE MODERATOR:   You get to spend an extra week in Scotland after your performance at the Marathon Classic, being able to secure an exemption into the Women's Open next week.  How exhilarating was that for you, and what were some of the emotions with not only a top five finish but a place in next week's major.
ANDREA LEE:   Yeah, it was definitely really exciting.  I got off the course, shot 6-under and knew that I had a really good chance of getting one of the ten spots to qualify for the British Open.  Kind of refreshed the scores throughout the day but realised that I had secured my spot.
It's super exciting.  One of my goals coming in last week was to be able to qualify for The Open.  Really looking forward to it.  I've never played in the tournament before, so I'm really excited.  I can't wait to go to Royal Troon.  I heard it's beautiful, amazing, and yeah, I just can't wait.
THE MODERATOR:   You played some spectacular golf those couple days in Toledo, especially at the marathon classic, what did you learn about your game those first few weeks and what have you been working on since coming here to Scotland.
ANDREA LEE:   The first week at Inverness, it was pretty tough.  I have to say the LPGA did not set that course up super easy, so it was like a nice welcome back.  Definitely the nerves were there.  Had a pretty rough first day but came back strong and finished the last two days even par.  So that was kind of a big confidence booster going into the next week at the Marathon.  Didn't put any expectations on myself.  Just did the best that I can.  Had a great first round and struggled the next two days and had a fantastic last round.  Just learned that I have the opportunity to put four good rounds together, even though I might have a bad day here and there, I always have the chance to come back.  I think that's what I've learned so far playing on the LPGA is just staying super patient out there and like anything can happen, especially on the last day.
THE MODERATOR:   You had a really special caddie for the first two weeks in Toledo, David Brooker, who is usually Jin Young Ko's caddie.  Did he give you any advice before coming to Scotland.
ANDREA LEE:   He told me, because I really like to hit my 60-degree wedge a lot around the greens.  He said try the 50 or a pitching wedge or even a 9-iron or 8-iron.  I worked pretty hard on that the last couple days in the practise round, and honestly it's really paid off.  He's given me some good golf.  He was so great in Toledo.  We got a long really well.  It was really great to work with him.
THE MODERATOR:   Now that you do have these two competitive rounds under your belt as we head into the weekend, you safely are above the cut line at 2-under par, what is there to work on going into the weekend, and what are you going to be focusing on as you take on the Renaissance course again?
ANDREA LEE:   I think just continuing to hit good drives.  You really have to putt it in a good position to hit the greens out here.  If you hit it a little right or a little left, it can go in the thick stuff, the fescue.  Just continue to hit straight drives and probably going to work on some of my approach shots because I had a lot of lag putts today.  But yeah, hung in there and yeah, just continuing to chip around the greens and getting a feel of the firm surfaces.  I think all those I'll try to work on for this weekend.
Q. What I want to ask you, has all your training in junior days, where have you done it all or has it been mixed?
ANDREA LEE:   Mostly in the United States.  I've had the chance to come over to the U.K. and Germany before for like team events, but mostly in the United States.
Q. And as a junior, what kind of record did you put together?
ANDREA LEE:   Record as in like my ranking or?
THE MODERATOR:   I would say some of what would you consider your biggest accomplishments.
ANDREA LEE:   Biggest accomplishments, well, played well in the American Junior Golf Association, that's probably the biggest junior circuit in the United States.  You know, won a few pretty big tournaments there.  Was 2014 Rolex Junior Player of the Year, which is pretty special.  Yeah, I would say those are my biggest junior accomplishments.  Besides that, having qualified for a couple ANA Inspirations and a few U.S. Women's Opens.
Q. So would you say you have an All-American game?
ANDREA LEE:   Yes, I guess I would say that (laughing)
Q. And how would you describe an All-American game?
ANDREA LEE:   That's an interesting question.  Just trying to be a solid player all around.  It's not like I have this expectation of being an All-American or trying to label myself as something.  But just trying to work on every aspect of my game and let it go from there and just have fun at tournaments and just do the best that I can, I guess.
Q. And when you look at U.K. golfers, how do you see them?  Do they strike you as different?  You're just having a glance, I know, but do they look as if they have been brought up to battle winds or conditions, or what strikes you?
ANDREA LEE:   Yeah, definitely.  I haven't had the chance to play against U.K. players as of yet, but they definitely have an advantage in tougher conditions, I would say.  It's not as windy as it is most of the time in the States.  It get pretty cold here, or I think it's pretty cold here all year round here in Scotland.  I would say that having to battle tougher conditions, maybe they would probably have a slight advantage.
Q. It gets pretty cold and windy in Palo Alto.  Is this something that's helped coming in, and how have you worked at flighting the ball down and picking some good numbers on a golf course like this?
ANDREA LEE:   Well, first, I mean, Stanford has pretty good weather for the most part.  It does get kind of cold but most of the time it's nice.
But yeah, for conditions like this, I do try to flight the ball down, especially against the wind, so the wind doesn't take my ball up in the air.  And try to put my ball in the middle -- or towards the back of my stance.  Kind of try and punch it, really follow through strongly so that it kind of penetrates through the wind.
THE MODERATOR:   Are you going to be thinking of these experience that you had with your college golf team as you take on the next two days here in Scotland?
ANDREA LEE:   Yeah, definitely.  Coming here I was thinking about that trip and how much fun I had, and honestly that's all I was trying to do here.  I mean, yesterday, teeing off, I was like, it's so cool, I'm in the Home of Golf and I'm in Scotland and it's just so cool to finally be out here and competing as a professional.  So I'm really taking that all in this week and just trying to enjoy every moment.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT