U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 4, 2016
Andrea Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I want to do a fun little piece with you.  I noticed at lunchtime you were having lunch with Eun Jeong and also your friend Robynn Ree and your parents were there.  Is that unusual to be competitors and to be friendly like that?  
ANDREA LEE: I mean, we're all really close, so I mean, there's no like intimidation factor or anything.  It's just sitting down and having lunch.  It's fine.  But once you get on the golf course, it's a whole different story.  You want to beat each other.  But yeah, I mean, we like each other's company, all of us, so it's just nice to be around them.   
 Q.  Eun Jeong just came over here and took a picture of you while you were doing your interview, and you guys are going to play each other tomorrow.  Is that weird?  How do you divide it up?  
ANDREA LEE: It's a little weird because we've played against each other a couple weeks ago at the U.S. Girls' finals obviously, and I played really well in the morning, but Eun Jeong just came back and played really strongly in the end.  I'm over it.  It was a really good experience.  Took a lot of positives from that week, so hopefully I'll just play my game tomorrow.  We're really close friends, and just going to have fun.   
 Q.  I guess there's a lot of mutual respect there, too, isn't there, with you two?  
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, we're both really great players, and we both respect each other.  We know our games really well, and anything can happen tomorrow, so I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Robynn, she lives in Redondo Beach and you live in Hermosa Beach.  How close is that?  
ANDREA LEE: It's five minutes apart.   
 Q.  How often do you see each other?  
ANDREA LEE: We see each other like pretty often when she's not in college.  Like over the summer I saw her a few times after she came back.  We hang out, go to the movies, eat dinner together.  It's weird getting paired up in such a big national championship like this.  It's hard, but at the end of the day, it's who wants to beat each other more.   
 Q.  This summer Eun Jeong's mom, I believe this is the first time she's been able to come over in the summertime to watch her play.  I had met her, but obviously she's from Republic of Korea and your family is Californians, you live here.  But is it kind of cool to be able to -- it sounds weird, to have this cultural exchange, you're American and they're Korean and you have Korean heritage?  How does that work?  Is it kind of fun?  
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, it is.  You know, I have only seen Eun Jeong's mom a couple times.  We actually took a vacation to Korea last December and got to meet her for the first time.   
 Q.  In Korea?  
ANDREA LEE: In Korea, yeah.  We're just really close with Eun Jeong's family, and at U.S. Girls' we had Korean food together I think like four times.  Everywhere we go we try to look for Korean food.  It's my culture.  Even though I'm from the United States, I still take every aspect of Korea as my own.   
 Q.  Do you speak Korean to your parents?  
ANDREA LEE: I speak both.   
 Q.  So you go back and forth?  
ANDREA LEE: Mm-hmm.   
 Q.  I know everybody is picking on you, but your karaoke was very good.  I have a feeling Tiffany Joh is going to want your autograph.  Do you really like to do --  
ANDREA LEE: I do.  I go to karaoke with my mom and my friends back at home.  It's really fun.  I'll probably do that when I get back home after this.   
 Q.  Really?  
ANDREA LEE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Have you ever won a karaoke contest?  
ANDREA LEE: Oh, all the time.  I consider myself the best out of my friends that I go with.  I mean, up there I was like trembling.   
 Q.  What do you like to sing?  That was Bruno Mars I think you were singing.  
ANDREA LEE: That was Stan Smith.   
 Q.  Is that your favorite?  
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, I just have a few songs that I always sing when I go with my friends, like Bruno Mars, Sam Smith, some Adele, Maroon 5, kind of mainstream and like hip-hop songs.   
 Q.  So you've got a pretty good repertoire in golf and in karaoke?  
ANDREA LEE: I guess I do now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT