U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2016
Andrea Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're on 17, you're down one.  What are you thinking?
ANDREA LEE: I mean, yeah, I came off a bogey on 16, and it was a little disappointing.  But just went into 17 thinking anything can happen.  Still have two holes left.  I've seen match plays before, and people always come back.  I just thought that I could accomplish that.
Yeah, I had a really good birdie putt on 17, really boosted my momentum, and as you can see on the tee, I kind of pulled it.  I think I was just a little nervous.  But yeah, I managed to pull off a really good second shot, left myself a really close putt for birdie, and it managed to go in.
Q. What was your distance from the left rough here on the 18th, and what did you hit?
ANDREA LEE: It was 140 yards, and I hit a 9-iron.
Q. And how many feet was your putt on 17 for birdie?
ANDREA LEE: I'd say like 17, 15 feet.
Q. You've played in this championship many times, four times.  This is your fifth?
ANDREA LEE: This is my fifth time, yeah.
Q. What's it mean to you to finally reach the finals?
ANDREA LEE: I mean, it means the world to me.  I'm just taking it all in right now, but yeah, I'm new to being in the finals.  I'm playing with a really good friend of mine, Eun Jeong tomorrow, and obviously she won this event last year, so I'm going to be competing against the top player.  But yeah, I'm just going to stick to my game plan, hopefully play like I've been the whole week, and see what happens.
Q. How do you know Eun Jeong?
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, I met Eun Jeong a few years ago at the US Women's Amateur, and then we actually were quarterfinalists playing against each other in the 2014 Women's Amateur.  I beat her that day, and you never know what can happen tomorrow, but yeah, we're really close, kept in touch, played a few rounds when we were back in LA.
Yeah, it's going to be really fun to see what happens tomorrow.
Q. It's been a little bit of a busy summer with the Curtis Cup and now coming in here with all the events.  How are you feeling?  Are you a little fatigued after this week and all the events you've been in?
ANDREA LEE: I actually played, I think, the least I have lately.
Q. Really?
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, I cut out a few junior tournaments earlier this year because of school, but yeah, Curtis Cup was my most recent event, and that was a blast.  We had an amazing time in Ireland with my team, came here this week not having too high expectations, but I'm really excited finally getting to the in the finals of a USGA championship.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT