U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2016
Andrea Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got off to a pretty good start, and you won two holes in the first five or so.  What enabled you to get off to that fast start?  
ANDREA LEE: You know, I was just playing my own game.  I wasn't trying to think of what Waverly was doing.  I was 2 up on her early but then she got it back to all square through 9.  But I wasn't trying to think about the score too much and just focused on what I was doing, and it turned out well.   
 Q.  You mentioned the two holes that you lost there to even things up.  Was she just    did she get into a zone there or did you kind of relax and get too comfortable?  
ANDREA LEE: No, I think I made a couple of mistakes.  On the par 5 they put the tees up on No. 7, and I put my second shot in the bunker and the pin was placed on the left, which was not the best place to be, so I ended up parring and she managed to make a birdie.   
And then on No. 8, the par 3, we both pulled our shots into the bunker, and she got up and down but I couldn't.  I was like a little bit frustrated there but not too much.  Just tried to keep playing my own game and focus on what I was doing.   
 Q.  You rebounded well, birdieing three of the last five or six holes or so.  What happened there?  Talk about that.  
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, you know, I really took advantage of the par 5s and my short wedge shots.  They put the tees up on No. 11, so I had about a 55 yard shot into the green, stuck it and made birdie, and then next hole same thing, I had about 65 yards and stuck it again, made that.   
Then just kept doing what I was doing, and then on No. 14, we actually both were over the green, and she chipped it close and I had like 30, 25 feet off the green for par, and I actually made it, which was incredible.  It was really a moment to remember for sure.   
 Q.  You play Hye Jin in the semifinals.  Do you know her very well?  Have you played against her before?  
ANDREA LEE: No, I just met her this week, actually.  One of my good friends, Eun Jeong, she knows her, so I managed to meet her through her, and she's playing really good golf.  She's the No. 1 seed, but just not going to try and think about what she's doing hopefully, and we'll see how it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT