MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 6, 2020
Andrea Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. All right, Andrea, one round done at Highland Meadows and you're 4-under.  How comfortable were you feeling out there today?
 ANDREA LEE:   Yeah, I actually didn't get off to the best start.  I had to save a couple shots for par out there in the beginning; then had two birdies on 8 and 9, so that kept the momentum going.
 Hit really great shots.  Hit fairways and greens pretty much all the back nine and capitalized on a couple more birdies, so I had a solid round today.  I was pretty satisfied with it.
 Q. How does it feel to be back on the LPGA Tour?  I know you graduated from Stanford in your time off.  Other than that it's been quite a challenging couple of months.
 ANDREA LEE:   Yeah, it's definitely been crazy.  I mean, I'm so excited to finally be back out here and competing against the best.  It's always been my dream, and finally kick starting back the rookie year.
 So it's nice to finally be back out here.  Yeah, I'm just really looking forward to a good week.
 Q. You've got a unique caddie on the bag, veteran caddie on the bag.  Explain that partnership and how you think that's been going so far.
 ANDREA LEE:   Yeah, it's been going great.  Last week he actually was supposed to caddie for Gaby and I did schedule to have him this week.
 Yeah, unfortunately she tested positive.  I guess it kind of worked out for us.  I got to have him on the bag a week early and get to know him.
 I know he's caddie for Lorena Ochoa, Suzann Petersen, and is Jin Young Ko's current caddie.  So it's really nice to have him on the bag.  He has so much experience and really kept me calm out there today.  Just not trying to talk about things other than golf and it was nice.  So he's been a great help.  Great green reader, be so it's been good.
 Q. As you've transitioned into a touring professional now, has he been giving you any nuggets of advice?
 ANDREA LEE:   Honestly, he's just keeping me really lighthearted out there for the most part.  He doesn't try to throw me advice here and there.  Maybe some course management.  Kind of learning from him a little bit and how he thinks of the course and how he manages it.
 But apart from that, he's just been awesome.  I think we just get along really well and we have nice conversations out there.  Just keeping me really positive.  Yeah, he's been great.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT