U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Andrea Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Seemed like your putter was red hot early and then you had the three‑putt on the 7th green.   Is it fair to say that momentum kind of turned there? 
ANDREA LEE:   I don't think so.   I mean, I think that was kind of the start where all my bogeys happened.   I bogeyed so many, 9, and a few more after that, and you can't afford that do that here at match play.   Definitely disappointed with the way I played today, but Kristen played really well.   I didn't play so well.   It was kind of disappointing but overall I had a great championship, so I'm really proud of myself.

Q.   Overall you say you're disappointed in today, but this is your third Am.   You had a missed cut, a round of 32, you made it to the semifinals.   Overall do you leave this week feeling better about your game?
ANDREA LEE:   I do.   I mean, I just had a really bad day today, but I take a lot from the championship.   I got a lot of experience, and it definitely builds my confidence going into the rest of the year and next year, so hopefully I can come back and do better next year at the end. 

Q.   Talk about Gillman's performance today.   She seems to kind of be on a roll after a big comeback yesterday. 
ANDREA LEE:   Yeah, it was really impressive yesterday.   She was 4 down with I think five or six to play, and she ended up winning.   I thought that was really impressive.   I thought maybe I could do the same thing today, but she kind of closed out on me on No.14 when she knocked her birdie putt in there.   Congrats to her.   She played great, and I wish her all the best tomorrow. 

Q.   Quarterfinals in the Junior and then the semifinals here.   Tell me what you learned from those experiences that could help you going forward? 
ANDREA LEE:   I really learned how to be patient out here.   There's so many rounds of golf in match play, and you just really have to play positive with yourself, even if you're down in match play.   I really take a lot from the last two USGA championships that I've played in.   I'm really proud of myself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT