U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Andrea Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That had to be a tough match.   
ANDREA LEE:   It was tough, but I don't think that either of us really played to the best of our abilities today.   There was a lot of missed shots and missed putts.   But I hung in there and made the putts that I needed to, made a couple long par putts, and it ended up this way, so really happy.   There's still things I need to work on for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to work on?  
ANDREA LEE:   Definitely my driver because it was kind of erratic a little bit today, and I kept hitting it from the rough, and the ball wouldn't track or might be short or long, and it was pretty hectic, so definitely need to work on that.  
   
 Q.   I know you said you struggled, but was there any particular hole out there that stood out where maybe you didn't struggle, where you did well, when you were maybe able to pull ahead a little bit?  
ANDREA LEE:   No.13, a par‑4.   I hit it long again and then my chip kind of went down the hill, and I had about a 25‑footer for par, when she only had about a 20‑footer for birdie.   I managed to make that, and that was definitely a momentum booster for me.   You know, I saved a couple after that and birdied the par‑5, No.15, so that just kind of built it up from there.  
   
 Q.   I've seen you guys hanging out together, chatting throughout the week.   It's kind of an interesting dichotomy, it's such an individual sport but you guys are good friends.   What's it like playing against people that you like to hang out with, that you're friendly with?  
ANDREA LEE:   It's definitely hard, pairing up against someone that you're really close with.   At the end of the day you just have to play your own game, worry about your own shot, and just‑‑ you obviously want to beat each other, but we're really close.   I had a lot of fun with her today.   
   
 Q.   And then tomorrow you're either going to have Sue or Kristen.   What do you know about them?   
ANDREA LEE:   That they're both really great players.   I just heard that Kristen was 4‑down coming into the last four holes and won every one of them.   That's really impressive.   Whoever I pair up against, it's going to be a tough match.  
   
 Q.   How are you playing right now?  
ANDREA LEE:   I'm playing pretty well, other than a couple erratic shots right now.   But tomorrow I'm just going to stay patient, try and play like I've been playing, and just focus on my own game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT