U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2019
Andrea Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I believe you had six one-putts in a row.
ANDREA LEE: That's what they told me, yeah.
Q. You didn't even realize it?
ANDREA LEE: I didn't even know.  The first three were for par.  So they were great saves.  The next three for birdie.  And the putter just kind of felt hot today and it was just rolling them in nicely.
Q. You were the last one off this golf course yesterday, about dusk and first one off today.
ANDREA LEE: Yeah.
Q. What a difference a day makes.
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, it feels good to put my feet up a little early today, especially after yesterday's match; it was straight to dinner and straight to bed and an early wake-up call.  So it feels good to be able to rest up today.
Q. How is your body this morning when you wake up after a long day?  Obviously not only the marathon match, but you also had a match in the morning.
ANDREA LEE: Yeah.  Yesterday, it was pretty tough.  I was beat.  I literally knocked out in bed.  But it was kind of tough to wake up.  But once you get out here and start warming up, I mean, you're playing for the biggest amateur championship.  So the nerves kicked in and the tiredness kind of went away.
Q. You played loosely today.  You guys were four-ball partners last year at the Curtis Cup.  Was that a weird feeling?  I think you guys have ever played in a USGA match?
ANDREA LEE: Not against each other.  It's always tough to play against a good friend especially in these type of match play events.  But at the end of the day we want to beat each other and move on.
And I played really solid golf today.  And I know that she didn't have her best game today.  But I'll take the win; but, yeah, I know she's a great player and I wish her the best of luck in the future, too.
Q. Are you feeling stronger and stronger as the week goes on?  Is your confidence gaining?
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, definitely, especially after yesterday.  Just grinding out the match against Alexa.  I think I learned a lot about myself and I learned that I just have to stay really, really patient even if I'm down by a lot.  So just really grinding it out is what it takes to win out here.  So that's what I'm going to try to do tomorrow.
Q. How does it feel to make the semifinals?
ANDREA LEE: It feels great.  I made the semifinals back in, I think, 2014, 2015 at Nassau Country Club.  And it feels really good to be back in this position.  I know that match play anything can happen.  I can't really expect to win every match, but just to be able to make it this far I'm already really proud of myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT