U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Andrea Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You had a nice stretch there at the end.  Four birdies in five holes.  What kicked in?  
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, I played steady golf all day, just kind of parred my way through.  Had eight pars straight and then bogeyed on 9, but stayed really patient out there.  The pins were tucked today.  Just try to put it in the right spots and kind of worked out on the back nine.   
Took advantage of the par 5s and managed to birdie the 6th hole, the tough par 3, which was kind of a bonus, I guess.  And then finished off here on 18 -- or 9 with a birdie.  So really happy with the way I played today.   
 Q.  After Nationals, what did you do to get ready for this championship?  
ANDREA LEE: I think Nationals definitely prepared me for this week, I guess endurance-wise too and just playing against the top collegiate players out there, like Maria Fassi, Jennifer Kupcho.  They're all out here.   
Just competing with those guys and playing a round of match play out at The Blessings, which is a really tough golf course.  Had to hit the ball really well.  So I think that helped prepare me overall.  I didn't have much time between Nationals and the U.S. Open this week,  so, yeah, I think that definitely helped me.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the school work you've been doing this week?  
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, so I had an essay to write.  It was due last night, but my teacher got back to me at like 9:00 p.m. saying, oh, I'll give you a one-day extension.  I was like, great, I pretty much just finished it.   
Yeah, so I've been in the lobby.  You can ask Christina Lance somewhere.  She's been sitting in the lobby every single night since I got here.  Yeah, it's tough to balance school and golf sometimes, but kind of got used to it, I guess, at Stanford.   
Almost done, just a couple more weeks left.  It's been fun, yeah.   
 Q.  What class was it?  What was the essay on?  
ANDREA LEE: It's an ethics and bioengineering class.  It's a writing class.  I had to write about four essays this quarter for that.  It's kind of tough to write.   
 Q.  How long would the essay turn out to be?  
ANDREA LEE: It's actually only 900 words, but they're very strict on the word limit, and I have to write really concise arguments.  So it's hard to condense that into a 900-word essay is kind of tough sometimes.  But it's done now.   
 Q.  Do you have more to do this week, or are you done with school for the week?  
ANDREA LEE: I have final papers to write now for next week.  I'm not done with school yet.  I finish, I think, next Friday.  But I have papers due next week too, so I'll probably get started on those, and you'll see me in the lobby again.   
 Q.  So were you motivated by the men's team at Stanford?  
ANDREA LEE: Yeah, definitely.  I watched them win yesterday.  I was in the dining area the whole 2 1/2 hours for the back nine.  But, yeah, it's really inspiring what they've been able to do.  I'm really proud of them.  They worked really hard this season.  Yeah, I'm just -- can't wait to go back and celebrate with them.   
 Q.  Thanks.  Good round.  
ANDREA LEE: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT