BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS POLAND
February 6, 2016
Magda Linette
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








U.S.A./Poland
1-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Give us your thoughts on that match overall to start with.
MAGDA LINETTE: Well, overall obviously the first set was, you know, like Sloane was more in the control and I was like missing a lot.  I couldn't find a little bit the rhythm in my match.
She's a player who changes the tempo a lot and the spins.  Maybe doesn't look like it, but she's a very tough player for the opponent because you have a feeling she can do basically everything and she's everywhere.
So I was kind of looking for myself there to find my game.  Then I decided to be a little bit more aggressive and I just a little bit sacrifice maybe the last game of the set, but it obviously paid off in the beginning of the second set.  I was definitely more aggressive.
I just regret I didn't follow that up, you know.  I had the chances.  I didn't use them.  I stopped doing what I was doing 4-0.  Obviously she's top 30 player.  She's not going to give me just like this a set.
I should have some more guts and go for my shots and I didn't.  She came back with even better game, and then it was really difficult to do something because she came up with amazing shots.  At the end, I was like giving my best, but she was just better at the end.
Q. Was the heat or fatigue a factor at all?
MAGDA LINETTE: The heat?  Yeah, I mean, it was really hot, but I don't think the match was that long.  I don't think it was like (indiscernible), but it was definitely really hot today.
But still, the match was one hour, ten minutes.  So I think after like around two hours then I would start feeling it a little bit more.  Then it would have some influence.  But I think until then it was still too short still.
Q. I think it was at 4-All in the second set and you had some very tough points where Sloane got that break.  The crowd was really into it.  I know you're used to that with Fed Cup, but did that affect you in any way?
MAGDA LINETTE: Not really.  You know, I was actually quite happy with my attitude today because I really could like turn off myself from that.  I was not listening to that at all.  I think maybe I grow up a little bit finally.
I don't think so, but she just came up with amazing shots that more affected me than the crowd.  I just try to be focused on my game and not what's happening outside of the court.
Q. How many days have you been in Hawaii with the Maui challenger and this?
MAGDA LINETTE: I think around two and a half weeks.  Yeah, pretty amazing.
Q. So is your game different anywhere?  What have you learned over the two and a half weeks between the challenger and this?
MAGDA LINETTE: Well, definitely when I played the challenger I didn't have matches.  I had food poisoning on the beginning of this season and I basically played my first match in Australia against Monica Puig, so I really needed some matches.
That's why I just played really bad in the challenger.  But then I lost like the second round match, but I played a little bit better.  You know, it was more handling my nerves and of course to get used to the stress.
I think that just helped me that I came before because I knew here I am going to have that on a higher level.  I sacrifice the challenger to get used to it and get into the season.
Because on the beginning I actually lost, you know, my chances to play some matches to get used to the match rhythm.  We've been just practicing really good.  I think I was just like in a really good form because we just practice really well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT