NCAA REGIONAL SOFTBALL TOURNAMENT: BATON ROUGE
May 19, 2018
Gerry Glasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
UL Lafayette - 15, Fordham - 3   
COACH GERRY GLASCO: Really proud of our girls.  Tough game last night.  Tough, tough loss, and thought they responded really well today.   
Came out, and I thought Martinez has been outstanding for us in the leadoff spot for the last -- all during the Sun Belt Tournament and again this weekend.  I think that she's showing senior leadership, moved her into that lead-off spot.  It's not her natural position in the order but she's been outstanding, and to start the game off, I believe with a walk, and the next time up she got a hit, as well.   
I thought she set the tone for us.  I thought our senior, Jylee Jo Trahan, was also outstanding in relief to come in and give us four really strong innings of one-hit ball, three strikeouts, one walk.  I thought she was out standing.   
We put Watts in; I thought she gave us a spark in that first inning.  Put two seniors up in the top of the order hoping to give us some leadership up there and they did a great job, throughout the lineup, one strikeout, six walks, something we worked on all year is trying to get runners on by walks and eliminate our strikeouts, put the ball in play.  We don't have a lot of power but we put the ball in play.  Hopefully will create pressure on the defense and I thought they did a good job of that tonight.   
Really proud of the freshmen at the bottom of the order.  I thought Chaumont come in and did a really good job.  Carrie Boswell did an outstanding job and Kourtney did a good job, I think three freshmen had six hits between them, and that's really good for our future to see them having a bit of post-season success and get them feeling comfortable here in the regional.   
 Q.  After the offense draws last night, how important was it to go out first inning and rally?  
COACH GERRY GLASCO: We are a young team.  As far as even we got some seniors but we are limited in this type of pressure situation I think in our experience.   
I thought it was really important -- it's not that we can't hit.  If you watch our BP and our practices, they have been tremendous for the last three weeks in a practice setting but in a game setting, they don't even look like the same ballclub.   
So it's learning to deal with pressure, learning to deal with situations and be able to hit the same in the game as we do in practice and that's really tricky, because you don't want to think and hit.  You cannot think and hit, and at the same time, when you start talking about what you have to do, you create that thinking mentality.   
It was really important I think for us to get out and get our bats going and to get some momentum going in the game here, too, today.   
 Q.  Casey struggled to hit the ball probably better than anyone in the post-season.  What's been different about her swing now as opposed to the regular season?  
COACH GERRY GLASCO: Well, if you look at the last 15 games, she's been like a .300 hitter for us.  You know, even when she's batting .200, it's like somebody, you look over and you're excited she's on deck.  I never, ever dread her coming up.  I'm always excited about her at-bat because you don't know what you're going to get.  She's got a lot of power and she's got a lot of potential.   
She's kind of bloomed into a great hitter and it's just a matter of time and her learning how to understand how to be patient, and I think that's what we've seen.  We saw her be a little bit more patient and go to the middle of the field when she's had success, as opposed to wanting to hit the ball hard and pulling it and getting out in front of us.   
 Q.  Carrie, also was doing what she does a lot, hit the ball hard to right-center.  
COACH GERRY GLASCO: Yeah, she's a very good opposite-field hitter.  She's been very well-coached.  She gets inside the ball and drives it, and you know, we put her in and she worked herself for 9- or 8- all the way up to 4-hole and probably put a little bit of pressure on her.   
With young kids, I like to get them in three or four games and when I get a sense that they are feeling pressure, I like to set them out and let them watch the game, rather than feeling pressure, and just remember how good it feels to get in the game and relish the opportunity.  I put her back in the lineup today and I thought she responded tremendously well.   
 Q.  Rematch with Houston.  Approach it the same way, differently?  
COACH GERRY GLASCO: I hope we're more aggressive.  We want to be aggressive and we want to play an aggressive game.  Obviously they have got a very good pitcher, and you know, you're limited a little bit on what you can do as far as hit-and-runs and some of that stuff to create because of her ability to throw a strike or get a whiff by a batter.  But we can definitely be more aggressive on strikes and be more aggressive on balls in the zone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT