NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 23, 2009
Mike Komisarek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE KOMISAREK: With the team you had last year, the team built on it, to go further than the second round. And you know, when you win in this sport, things take care of itself, so.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MIKE KOMISAREK: I've had nothing but great experiences in Montreal.   
  
  Q. One of the NHL managers has called the League many times and said, how come every time there's a fight -- you throw a lot of clean checks. Has anything happened to you where somebody has come up to you with a clean check?   
 MIKE KOMISAREK: I think there's a time and a place for it. My stance has been, you know, you've got to fight for the right reasons, you know.   
  
  Q. Did anything happen to you, were you throwing a clean check?   
 MIKE KOMISAREK: Absolutely. Every night. It happens every night where you hit someone and, you know, the opposing team will feel like they have to make a statement by challenging you to a fight.  
 You know, for me to go off and go off the ice with a guy that specifically goes out there and looks to fight, it's a no-brainer. I'm there to keep the puck out of our net and stay on the ice and make it uncomfortable for the other team's goal scorers every time they're on the ice.   
 So, you know, fighting has always been a staple of hockey. I love the physical nature of the game.   
  
  Q. But I mean, we're not talking about whether fighting is good or bad, but if guys come out fighting or just this checking is concerned about hitting?  
 MIKE KOMISAREK: You know, it's not -- I guess it's tough to say. It's not my call.   
  
  Q. Would you say you're just like a kid in a candy store today?   
 MIKE KOMISAREK: This is a really good experience. You look around the room, and you know, a lot of these guys you're playing against, you're trying to take off their heads. So it's nice to be in the same room and on the same ice as some of the best hockey players in the world.   
  
  Q. Today do you feel like you're proud of who you are? Not just a Montreal Canadien, but being in the Centennial, the All-Star Game, and being chosen to play on the ice. It's a dream come true. The bar is pretty high for the rest of your career.   
 MIKE KOMISAREK: Absolutely. It's definitely humbling. And I'm really thankful to be voted in by the fans. Not only to be representing the Montreal Canadiens in that centennial season. This is a dream come true. And to be here this weekend in Montreal, I mean, everyone knows how passionate this city is about hockey, but there's no better stage than Montreal for people to come in and see some of the best players in the world.   
  
  Q. Can you put into words what hockey is to you?   
 MIKE KOMISAREK: You know, people have been talking lately, I saw there's a professor that was teaching -- I think it was, you know, "Hockey as a Religion." And that's how passionate people are about the game here.   
 You know, people live and breathe and die by our team. We'll lose on on a Saturday night, people will come to work on Monday pissed off, you know. And we'll hear about it.   
 For the most part everyone's very respectful and kind, and people will always come up to you and shake your hand and wish you luck. Also, maybe give you a couple of pointers.   
 So it seems like it's all in good will, though. People are very kind. You know, people are always eager to offer their point of view. But it's a great place to play.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like that separates players who want to be in that place?   
 MIKE KOMISAREK: It can definitely get -- how can you say? If you like that sort of spiciness, I don't know how to describe it, what's the right word. But it's a hockey hot bed. And, you know, we're right in the middle of it.   
 Most times we're under a microscope. But, you know, I'd much rather play in a city like this where people know a lot about the game than, you know, somewhere where I'd walk down the street and no one would recognize you.   
 Back home I could probably wear my jersey out and no one would know, but things are a little bit different here, so it's a great city.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 MIKE KOMISAREK: You know, it's tough for me to say. I don't see any difference. Maybe, you might interpret the media as being scrutinized a little bit more. But there's no better place to play and win. You know, when you're doing well here, and you have success here, they put you up on a pedestal.   
  
  Q. I just heard it might have been somebody like Daniel Kelly.   
 MIKE KOMISAREK: Yeah, it seems there's been a lot of that going around lately.   
 I was at the hospital earlier this morning, and I was doing this Lion's Den, and here we are opening this room for sick children to go and play video games and watch TV and be on the internet. And a reporter comes up to me and asks, what line do you think I see Vinny Lecavalier working? I was just shaking my head.   
 It is what it is. You know, people are just very passionate in this city about hockey, so.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT