NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 23, 2001
Mike Komisarek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Mike, what does being at the top of the draft round mean to you?

MIKE KOMISAREK: This has been a lifelong dream, and ever since I got drafted by Montreal, I've been speechless ever since and I can't even begin to tell you how I feel right now.  As for Montreal, it's a great organization and I'm thrilled and honored to be a part of such a great organization and just speechless right now.


Q.  Mike, growing up in the United States, I mean obviously you're a hockey fan, but what does it mean to be drafted by one of the original six teams with the history like one of the Montreal Canadiens?

MIKE KOMISAREK: They obviously have a story tradition.  They've been a very successful organization in the Stanley Cups.  I'm just honored and thrilled to be their first-round pick, that they thought so highly of me and I'm just very lucky to be part of that.


Q.  Mike, have you got any idea of a timetable on how much longer you're going to be in minors, when you want to turn pro?

MIKE KOMISAREK: I mean right now I guess we're taking it one year at a time, and hopefully in the near future I'll be able to help the Montreal Canadiens.  Anything could happen. 


Q.  Are your plans now to go back to Michigan next year?

MIKE KOMISAREK: Yes. 


Q.  On the tape on the board we saw a nice picture of you looked like Scott Stevens.  I mean you like to play that style?

MIKE KOMISAREK: Yes.  Being a big guy, I use my size to my advantage, and beef is a presence.  And it's just like I said, a big guy, I gotta use my size.   I enjoyed watching Rob Blake and that's one player I tried to emulate.  And guys like Chris Pronger and Scott Stevens I just try to take little things from their game and incorporate it into my game. 


Q.  Could you just talk about your coach, a guy who played in the NHL, had a pretty good career of his own; what kind of influence was he on you?

MIKE KOMISAREK: Coach has been a tremendous influence on me.  I've been very fortunate to play at Michigan and I mean he's always been giving me support and always pushed me in the right direction, gave me great advice and I'm just thrilled to have him as my coach.


Q.  Last year Montreal took a another defenseman from the States.  Do you know Hainsy at all?

MIKE KOMISAREK: Yes.  I actually had a chance to play in front of Hainsy at World Juniors over in Russia.  He was one of our top defensemen and hopefully one day we'll be on the ice together.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT