RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 14, 1996
Lionel Roux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LIONEL ROUX:  I played him twice.  I beat him in Indian Wells and he beat me in Toronto.

LIONEL ROUX:  Yeah. 


Q. He had the one break early and then from then on it seemed you were at or above his level.  What was the change early in the match?

LIONEL ROUX:  Yeah, I was down 5-2 in the first set and you know, I think I tried to hit the ball too early, so after I just tried to put the ball very hard on the court, with a lot of top spin and after he made a lot of mistake and that is why I came back.


Q. He mentioned that the wind was blowing around and kind of bothered him.  Did it affect you that much? 

LIONEL ROUX:  No, you know, you just -- I just play my game, you know, and that is all I am trained to do.


Q. Is this one of your better wins of this season of this year of a top 25 player?

LIONEL ROUX:  Yeah, I had a couple of good matches against the top player, like two weeks or three weeks ago I played against Richey Reneberg and I lost in three sets.  I had a couple of matches like this, since the beginning of the year; against Voinea; I lost 7, 5 in the fifth set in the Australian Open; so you know, since couple of months, I am playing very good.  I made two semifinal in big challenger, so you know, since couple of week I am playing pretty good and I hope it is going to continue.


Q. What was the difference maybe this time than in those other matches? Were you maybe concentrating better?  What was the difference to pull you through this time?

LIONEL ROUX:  I don't know.  Maybe I was a little bit lucky and some, you know, when I served for the match at 5-4, you know, the first two points was very close and I was up 30-Love and after, you know, it is more easy, so, you know, sometimes it is for him.  Sometimes it is for me, so it happens. 


Q. You had a lot of -- most of your -- it seemed most of your action earlier in the year was on clay.  You didn't do much, didn't play much on grass.  It seemed like then you came  to the hard courts.  Was there an adjustment much for hard security?

LIONEL ROUX:  No.  I didn't play any match on grass court.  I have to play the qualies to get in the draw, so I prefer stay on clay courts, because I think my game is better on clay and on hard court because I don't -- no service volleys, something like that, so I didn't play that much on grass courts.


Q. Coming to hard courts from clay, that is not a problem?

LIONEL ROUX:  It takes just one week.  I practice one week on hard courts and after I play the tournaments, so it was okay.

LIONEL ROUX:  I played Etlis on clay.

LIONEL ROUX:  No, I didn't play Edberg.


Q. That would be a tough situation, I guess, any time anybody is playing Edberg this year?

LIONEL ROUX:  Yeah.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT