ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2020
Shaun Norris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  1-under par through seven holes, not much happening and 7-under for the next nine. Tell us about that 64.  
SHAUN NORRIS: Hit the ball nicely. Gave myself a couple of chances. Didn't fall the first couple of holes but I told my brother, I feel like I'm hitting the lines and starting to feel the greens. As soon as I made the putt on 8, and then 9, just started feeling like it's snowballing. I started hitting better shot close to the holes. Really giving myself super opportunities after that.   
 Q.  Wonderful play from you in recent weeks. The last 14 starts, playing mostly in Japan, a win, three seconds, seven top five finishes. What's been clicking in the game?  
SHAUN NORRIS: It's been a rough year last year after losing my father. But my brother is back on the bag again and feels like everything is working at moment. We are having a lot of fun out there, and that's the main thing. Really happy with what's happening.   
 Q.  Obviously 37 years of age now, been a pro since 2002, started playing full-time in 2011 but you've been off our radar for most of that time, until the last three or four years, and you're now zooming up the World Rankings potentially into the Top-50 and those great opportunities. Why mid 30s did you suddenly kick into play?  
SHAUN NORRIS: I tease my mom and my brothers a little bit; it's a fine line, I started maturing with age. I think I started to understand the game better and my capabilities and just playing to my strengths. The courses are good and good competition. It's nice to actually see that the game is rising like this.   
 Q.  How excited about the opportunity now, obviously this is a marquis event on The European Tour, so early on the season, such a great start?  
SHAUN NORRIS: Who wouldn't want to win this event, one of the Rolex Series Events to start off the year would be fantastic. I'll stick to my game plan and just see what happens and go from there.   
 Q.  Just a normal day for you, it looked so easy. How did you find it?  
SHAUN NORRIS: I wish it was so easy all the time. I hit the ball well and gave myself a bunch of good opportunities. Late on the front nine, I started feeling like I could read the greens and get a good pace on it. I really gave myself good opportunities and started knocking them in.   
 Q.  Any part of your game today you weren't satisfied with?  
SHAUN NORRIS: No, not really. Nothing I can complain about. I hit some really good shots out there and really started building up a lot of confidence. When I started making a couple putts, it just felt like, okay, cool, just give yourself chances. You've got the putter feeling good.   
 Q.  You have six professional wins under your belt, four of those on Japanese soil, with the greatest respect, why has so much of your golf in recent years been in Japan?  
SHAUN NORRIS: Got my card in Asia about five years ago and started to play The Asian Tour and won an event which was co-sanctioned with the Japanese Tour and a good friend of mine told me, listen, take a membership up. The Tour is very good and the courses are phenomenal and you'll learn a lot. Over the last four years, I think overall, my game has grown a lot. So I've really learnt a lot out there. It's nice to be able to take it out and bring it out here.   
 Q.  Your best finish on The European Tour was in Joburg, you finished third. Leading the pack here in a Rolex Series Event, what would it mean for you to top that?  
SHAUN NORRIS: It will be a dream come true to win a tournament or European Tour event, never mind the Rolex Series. I'm sticking to my guns. Stick to the same game plan and just go out there and have fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT