THE 147TH OPEN
July 21, 2018
Shaun Norris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's it like golfing it Tiger?  
SHAUN NORRIS: It's crazy.  Absolutely crazy to think so many people can follow a person.  There's a couple of holes that people may be standing 15, 20 deep on each side.  I think best word to describe it all is the way Russell Knox put it, it's like playing with a mythical creature.  It doesn't feel real.   
 Q.  Before you stepped in the 1st tee box and shook his hand, had you ever spoken to him before you got there?  
SHAUN NORRIS: Never said a word, no.  I've seen him and just walked past him.  But, no, never played with him or anything like that.   
 Q.  What was the sort of conversation like to you guys when you were out there?  
SHAUN NORRIS: Well, he's good friends with Ernie.  So we typically talk about rugby and things like that.  What kinds of things we did in school days.  So things like that and yeah.  Basically, asking where I played and where most of the golf I play, which is in Japan.   
 Q.  The crowd was okay?  
SHAUN NORRIS: No, the crowd was fantastic today.  When they needed to keep quiet, they kept quiet.  So it was really good.  The people showed manners and really respected us out there.   
 Q.  What was it like to be part of the atmosphere with Tiger?  
SHAUN NORRIS: It's amazing.  I mean, he's really hitting the ball well, and I think he's moving in the right direction again.  I don't think he's very far away from really taking everybody on again.  No, it was great fun to play with him.  Really a pleasure to play with him.  He was really good fun to hang around with.   
 Q.  Was there a difference in (inaudible)?  
SHAUN NORRIS: You can see that he knows what he's doing out there.  He's on top of his game again.  I mean, he's swinging it well.  He's putting well.  So you can see he's moving in the right direction.  I learned a lot from him, just watching him play, taking on the course, breaking down each hole, and taking it on from there.   
 Q.  Did it seem like the atmosphere really picked up around him from where you guys started in the round to where he was on the back and making birdies?  
SHAUN NORRIS: Definitely.  The first couple of holes was only about five or ten deep in the crowd.  Round about the turn, it definitely moved to 15, 20 deep on each side.  Definitely something I wasn't used to, but it was good fun.   
 Q.  Talking about your own round, you had a couple of mistakes around the turn.  
SHAUN NORRIS: Yeah, a couple of bad mistakes around the turn, but that happens in links golf.  A couple of bad bounces here and there is going to happen unfortunately.  But I'm glad I pulled it back.  So, yeah, looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Are you going to make a move in the final round?  
SHAUN NORRIS: Yeah, definitely.  See if I can finish well and take it on.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
SHAUN NORRIS: He's close.  He's very close.  I wouldn't be surprised if he came out in the next couple of months and is really fiery.  He's hitting the ball exceptionally well.  I think give it time.  He's doing the right things, and he's definitely going to be at the top in a couple months time.   
 Q.  How do you like his chances tomorrow?  
SHAUN NORRIS: I think he's got a great chance.  If he hits the ball the way he did that first nine, I mean, round the turn, make a couple of putts.  He actually left a couple out there.  So I mean, you never know what could happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT