THE 146TH OPEN
July 22, 2017
Shaun Norris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SHAUN NORRIS: We took the course on a little bit today, played a bit more aggressively, and it worked out nicely.   
 Q.  The fact that you were playing effectively on your own with no real pressure, that obviously helped?  
SHAUN NORRIS: No, I had my brother on my bag and actually felt very calm out there.  We took it out like playing back home.  Just a normal round, we had fun.   
 Q.  What did you make of the pin positions and the conditions, as well?  
SHAUN NORRIS: There were some funky pin positions out there, I can promise you that.  The greens are a little bit more receptive.  The fairways are softer.  So you could play a little bit more aggressively and take some of the pins on.   
 Q.  Could you expect a few fireworks from the leaders this afternoon?  
SHAUN NORRIS: I wouldn't expect any less.  The course is out there to take on.  So, yeah, I'm sure a couple of them will take it on like I did.   
 Q.  Your background, this has been quite a journey over the years.  Did you ever think you'd be doing something perhaps like this this morning?  
SHAUN NORRIS: Well, I always knew the game was there, but I've always had to travel around and take it on different ways, so if I'm playing in the States, playing in Asia, and now in Japan.  It's been quite a journey, and very happy to be here.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SHAUN NORRIS: For sure.  Looking forward to it.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SHAUN NORRIS: Well, the anchoring system, I tried an event out with a shorter putter and never felt comfortable.  A friend of mine who actually used the long putter said, just cut it down four or five inches, feel like you lock your left arm.  He said, "I'm strong enough to lock my arm and I don't have to anchor it."  And a couple of weeks after that I won again in Asia, and I just kept on going with it.  I've never felt uncomfortable about it not being anchored.  And I'm still happy with it.   
 Q.  Do you feel a bit pressure (inaudible.)  
SHAUN NORRIS: No, not at all.  Because a referee can actually walk with me.  I know in my rights I'm actually a long way from touching myself.  So they can come walk with me.   
 Q.  Have you cleared that with a rules officials?  
SHAUN NORRIS: I've had officials actually walk with me in Asia.  And they can stand right next to me, for all I care.  I know I'm in my rights and that's just the way I've been brought up.  I'm never going to try to take advantage of anything.   
 Q.  Have you ever played with a marker before?  
SHAUN NORRIS: No, that was the first time, and Gregg was an absolutely pleasure to play with.  Really nice guy.  A local boy from here.  It was good fun.   
 Q.  Any difference from playing a normal round of golf with one of your peers?  
SHAUN NORRIS: No, not really, it just felt comfortable.  We had good fun out there, had lots of laughs.  It actually felt very good.   
 Q.  Weather-wise, it must have been like a different country out there?  
SHAUN NORRIS: Actually felt like I was back home.  South Africa is perfect, and that's what it felt like.   
 Q.  Did he give you any tips?  
SHAUN NORRIS: No, he just says he knows the course inside out but he felt so nervous on the first tee.  He said he's played this course a hundred times but he's never had so many people stand around the fairway.   
 Q.  Were there lots of people?  
SHAUN NORRIS: I was actually impressed on how many people were standing on the first fairway and around the green.  So it was really, really fun to have so many people out there and spectators watching us.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SHAUN NORRIS: I said to him, "Just enjoy yourself."  It's a great opportunity for him.  And he can only learn from this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT