BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2011
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/A. Roddick
  6-3, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. That was an exceptional final shot at the end of a pretty good performance. You must be pretty pleased with that today?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, for sure, especially with the backhand return. I tried to, yeah, to put on the court, and it was an incredible shot. I really don't know how I did it, but, sure, I played well all the match.
 I was playing incredible to win 6-4, 4-2. I could do a double break point, I had double breakpoint, but I didn't do it. After I fight a lot; he played more aggressive, and it was tough for me to finish the match. 
 I am really happy with the backhand return.

 Q. Are you especially pleased with the way you approached the game tactically, as well? You were slicing, giving him lots of loopy shots, getting him frustrated. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I tried to play deep and with a lot of topspin. That's my game.
 So I know against him it's the best way to play, so I know for sure I played well. I felt really confident with my backhand, and that was the key of the match.

 Q. In the tiebreak he hit that great forehand to make it 5-All. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah.

 Q. Were you thinking, I'm in trouble at that point?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, really frustrated with it, because I did an incredible volley, so it was tough for me to see his forehand on the court. 
 But I tried to keep focus. I was tense after that, but I could play well with the backhand. It was good for me to finish 7-5 in the second set, in the tiebreaker, because in the third it could be difficult.

 Q. Djokovic has had three matches that he's won so quickly. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, yeah.

 Q. You're looking forward to a match like that? He's the in-form player in tennis at the moment. It's exciting for you?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, it's exciting. I played with him in practice one week ago. He played unbelievable, too. He's a favorite of the match, for sure. I'm confident I can do a great match. 
 I think I can play well in, as I said, a big match against him. I feel confident, so I have nothing to lose. This is the best way to play a good match.

 Q. Can you compare your level now to before the suspension, like where is it?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, for sure, for sure. When I was 7 in the world I didn't play better than I a, playing. But I am more... 

 Q. Consistent? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: No. (Through translation.) No, I work, keep going. I have nothing bad, you know. 

 Q. Momentum? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I'm playing really good, no pressure. I am confident, so I felt great. But after this suspension, as I said, it was really tough to come back. So I'm really happy to play at the level I'm playing, because I know it was tough to come back. But it really is difficult.

 Q. There's another player, Wayne Odesnik, who was suspended, and he's coming back. It's not the same situation as yours, but what was the reception of the players to you when you came back?
 RICHARD GASQUET: I have nothing -- nothing special. It was all the guys were really, really nice with me. Everybody knows I had a bad story, so, no, everybody was nice with me.
 I can swear, I have no problem at all.

 Q. What do you think it will be like for Odesnik?
 RICHARD GASQUET: I don't know. I don't know his story. As I said, every story is different. Mine was really difficult. I don't know his story at all. 
 But for sure it's tough mentally for him to come back, yeah. 

 Q. Do you have a new coach?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah. 

 Q. Piatti?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, Piatti, and Grosjean, Sebastien.

 Q. Is that helping?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, yeah, for sure. I'm playing good. I'm feeling happy with him, so that's important to play tennis. I play with a lot of feelings. I need to be great mentally. So yeah. 

 Q. It's an interesting combination, a Frenchman and an Italian. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, for sure.

 Q. What was the electricity there, perhaps?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah.

 Q. What was the thinking behind bringing Ricardo in?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Sebastien is not traveling all the time with me, so it's good to have Ricardo all the time in Monte-Carlo, Roma. 
 But, yeah Sebastien, he's a great friend of mine. He's a nice, nice person. The same with Ricardo. That's the most important for me, to be with nice guys. 
 Yeah, he have a lot of experience, so for sure. They tell something, I'm listening it a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT