BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 25, 2009
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/S. Bolelli
  6-7, 6-3, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Well played. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Thank you.

 Q. What are your thoughts on the match overall, the quality of the match?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Well, the first set I played bad I think. 
 I stopped really well, and that's why I won the match, because from the baseline, he played better than me. 
 I felt nothing, not so much with backhand and nothing with forehand, so it was really difficult. He's such a powerful player, his topspins, and he has an incredible forehand, so you have to do other things to go to the net. 
 And for sure, I tried a big shot at five-all on the line, and it was good for me, because the ball can go out. It's all on the line. So I won the match after with the serve. I was afraid; it was a really lucky hit. I tried, and it was wonderful for me. I tried to do two shots like that.

 Q. Did you preplan at five-all to do that?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, yeah, I had to, because if I a doing the same, he has such a big forehand, so I could lose the point. So I tried, but for sure, I missed so many shots with my return backhand. So this one, it's on the line. That's tennis. That's a big shot of mine, but I was maybe a little lucky. 

 Q. What do you remember of playing Andy at Wimbledon last year? You could potentially play Andy here. What do you remember? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: He's playing better right now. He played better than when he did at Wimbledon. It was turning point, beating me I think. And Wimbledon, after for him, he played wonderful in the summer in US Open. 
 Yeah, he has more confidence now, and he's won so many times. He's playing wonderful. But that's why he's playing great because he has wonderful backhand, he never miss, and he's really, clever on the court. 

 Q. Do you think there's any particular reason why he's done so well in the past six months? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: He's playing good. Just because he's good, because he played wonderful. He won a lot of matches and he took a lot of confidence after winning a lot of matches, and he's playing just really, really good. That's why. He's in good form.

 Q. And you were No. 7 in the world. How hard is it to stay at that level, because getting there is one thing; staying there is something else. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, it's really hard. Andy is better, so he went to four in the world, final in the US Open. I never did it. But I was seven, and I was a little bit injured last year, and it was difficult for me but I'm trying to come back. I have to win a lot of matches, and I'm sure I can come back in the Top-10. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT