BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 24, 2009
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/M. Safin
  6-3, 5-7, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. As first-round matches go, that was up there with the best of them, wasn't it, really? That was as high a first-round quality match as you could hope for. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, it was really hard, because I had to play against Marat. You never know with him; he's such a talented guy. He was not playing well in the first, but in the second set he made really bad shots. That's why I lost this set. 
 But I was really trying to win the serve, and it was very important. I had to win this match and I played well in the third, that was the key of the match. 

 Q. How do you prepare to play Marat Safin? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: I have to serve well, to play good, to upset Marat, and he's not playing his best. 
 But when he's playing his best, it's really hard for everybody and I just have to play my game, to focus on the match, and I did it. 

 Q. When you have a potentially tough first-round encounter, how much confidence does that give you going ahead? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I'm feeling confident. I'm playing well this Australia. I played a lot of matches there. 
 I had pain with the shoulder last week, so I didn't know if I could play here. I am happy because I have no pain. That was the most important for me. I don't know; I'm playing well. I won Marat, so I feel confident for my next matches.

 Q. Was your serve your biggest weapon, your most productive shot?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, it's really important for my game. I have to serve well and I did it, and that's maybe why I won this match. It was important for me to serve well.

 Q. What are your goals for this year? What would you like to achieve this year?
 RICHARD GASQUET: To come back in the Top-10. I was in two years ago so I will try to come back in the Top-10 again, yeah. 

 Q. Do you think it's helped you, there's been a lot of expectation are you in France; has it helped you a lot that Simon and Santoro have had such a good tournament?
 RICHARD GASQUET: I don't know if it's helping me. I really don't know, but it's good for -- I know it's good for French tennis. I'm not just me now. 
 Two years ago, it was just me in the Top 20, I remember, so that's really good for French. A lot of people are interesting about French tennis, especially in France. I am happy with that for sure.
 After that, I don't know if there is less pressure on me or not. I'm trying to do my best and that's the most important for me to enjoy it and to do my best.

 Q. But do you find there is less attention? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, I think for sure, because I see some guys playing really good, French No. 1. So for sure, there's less attention. Yeah, that's normal. 

 Q. Apart from the mental aspects, what areas of your game do you feel like you still need to improve?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Forehand for sure. Serve and forehand and physical education, for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT