MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 15, 2009
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/J. Chardy
  6-2, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Semifinals last week and semifinals this week.
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yes. Now, it's good for me because I won great players, two in the top 10. Yeah, so, no, I played well. 
 I was unlucky with Stepanek last week. I could win, but he played really good. But I tried my best, and I'm happy to be in semifinal. Why not reach the final tomorrow? I will try. 

 Q. Is it too soon to make comparisons between Brisbane and Sydney? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I was playing well in Brisbane, but I'm feeling more confident because I won more matches. I'm playing good. I won in two sets all my matches in Sydney, so I will see tomorrow. 

 Q. I know very little about Jeremy. Tell me a little bit about him. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, he's really impressive because he's powerful. It's hard to play against him because he serve really well, and after he can do a lot of things. He's really talented and powerful, so it's hard to play against him. 
 He's really strong, so I have to be clever on the court, to return well, and I played a good tiebreak. It was important. 

 Q. How would you compare your form this time with your previous form in the Australian tournaments? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: I'm playing better than two years ago, I'm sure. I was in the -- I am 25, I think. I was in the top 10 last year, so it's my goal to come back into the top 10. 
 I think I'm playing a good level. Maybe not my best, but with a lot of victories like in Brisbane and Sydney, I can reach the top 10, yes.

 Q. What are you doing better now? 
 RICHARD GASQUET: My serve; I'm physically stronger, I think. I have one year more than last year, so I'm physically stronger. Maybe serving better, too. So I will try to do a great season. 

 Q. The match out on the court now is your next opponent. Give us a view of what either opponent is for you tomorrow. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Both are difficult. I lost against them all the time. I never won Nalbandian and never won or Hewitt. 
 They have a difficult game for me because they never miss, not so much. So it will be a big match for me. I won't be the favorite. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT