WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2008
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. GASQUET/M. Fish
6-3, 6-4, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Richard Gasquet.

 Q. Are you relieved to have gotten past a potentially dangerous first-round opponent?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, it was really tough. When I saw the draw, I told my, it's really difficult. It's one of the toughest opponents I could play. Yeah, I played a really good match today. 
 No, I knew I played well in the practice. I had no pain with the knee, with everything. So I knew I was playing well. But I had to play a match. It's different. 
 But, yeah, I played a great match, for sure. 

 Q. And was it easier than you expected?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, for sure, because I was playing great. Today it was one of my best match maybe in the career. I was playing really good with my serve and my backhand. So it's important to play well with the serve and my backhand. It's important. 

 Q. With Tsonga and Monfils injured, do you feel you're carrying French hopes on your back here in Wimbledon?
 RICHARD GASQUET: I don't care. For sure, I don't care. I have to play for myself, you know. It was difficult for me with my injuries, with everything. So it's not a big problem for me. I am sad for them because they are friend of mine, but it's not a big problem. 

 Q. Could you say that was one of the best matches you played since the quarterfinals here last year?
 RICHARD GASQUET: It's different because it's a great player, but Roddick is one of the best players in the world. So is different. But I played a wonderful match, for sure. 

 Q. Nice to be back on Court 1?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I like to play on this court. No, but it's not because I played on Court 1 I played well, it's because I practiced well, I'm feeling good. For sure I played well. I like this court. Sure, I like to play in Wimbledon. But you never know. I could lose against him. 

 Q. Do you feel refreshed, having taken the break over the French Open? You withdrew quite late on. Do you think it was a good thing you did?
 RICHARD GASQUET: I had no choice. I had a problem with the knee. It's not a good thing, you know. I didn't win a tournament. I didn't play well on clay court. It's bad for me. I prefer to win more matches before to play a Grand Slam. 
 But now for sure I'm fit. I'm ready for my next match. 

 Q. You looked in very good form at Queen's. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I have no injuries. I was really tired. I had injuries. I couldn't play well. In Queen's, I was feeling well. I could play some great matches. It was important before Wimbledon to play these matches well there in Queen's. 

 Q. Do you feel grass is your best surface?
 RICHARD GASQUET: It's a good surface for me. Best, I don't know. I can play on hard court. I played great matches, too. But it's a good surface for my game for sure. Best, I don't know. One of the best for sure. 

 Q. Do you have any idea why it's good for your game?
 RICHARD GASQUET: I serve well. I return well. It's important on this court, you know. So maybe that's why. 

 Q. Based on today's performance, do you think you can repeat your good result here last year?
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, for sure I can. I can play a good tournament. For sure I'm feeling good. We will see in two days. But I can play a great tournament, yes. 

 Q. Sébastien Grosjean next. You must know each other quite well. 
 RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, it's a tough opponent. He didn't play a lot because he had injuries, for sure. But he's a tough opponent. He's so talented. He was one of the best player in the world before. So it will be a great match for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT