TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 13, 2007
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  With one win, you're in a good position.  The final match against Rafael Nadal will be a key match for you to qualify for the semifinals.  How do you feel about the rematch with Nadal?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, I'm feeling really good because I played a good match with Rafael, so I was confident after this match because I just lost 6-4 in the third.  So it was important for me.  It wasn't 6-2, 6-1 or anything.   
 I played well.  Yeah, I was confident.  So today I had nothing to lose against Novak because he's 3 in the world.  No, I just had to enjoy the moment to play in the Masters Cup and just to play my game.  I did a perfect match.  I played a lot of amazing shots with my backhand and everything, so it was a really good match for me.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of your opponent for today's match?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Djokovic?   
  
  Q.  Your opponent, yes.   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  He's incredible.  He's just an incredible player.  He's 3 in the world.  He did the semifinal in Roland Garros, semis in Wimbledon, final in US Open.  You have just to say he's a perfect player.   
 He's really young.  He's just 20 years old.  He can be No. 1 in the world.  He can win a lot of Grand Slams in the future for sure because he's really young.  He has a lot of talent.   
  
  Q.  You took the first set in your first round robin match.  You took the first set this time.  You had the advantage and lost to Nadal.  Tonight you stepped it up.  Any lingering doubt in your mind tonight about today's game?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, it's another match.  With Nadal, you know you can win a set, but it's not a match.  It's really hard to win Rafael.   
 I knew it was really difficult for me to win Rafael 6-3, 6-3 or everything.  So, no, I hadn't it in my mind because it wasn't Rafael.  With Nadal, you never know with him.  He's such a warrior in the court.  It's never finished with Rafael.   
 So, no, I was playing good with him.  With Rafael I played a good match, too.  I was confident before to play Novak.   
  
  Q.  You have been to many cities to play.  What do you think of today's audience?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It was a really nice crowd.  There are a lot of fans here.  It's wonderful to play for me in the Masters Cup with a lot of crowd.  Every Chinese is really nice with me.  It was my first time here in Shanghai.  So, no, it's wonderful.   
 Everything is really nice with me.  It's a perfect tournament for me.   
  
  Q.  We noticed that after you served, you would keep on hitting that ball.  Is it superstitious?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, it is, for sure (smiling).  It's a superstition for me.  I'm not hiding it.  Yes, it is.   
  
  Q.  You are a young age.  These days players at your age, like Rafael Nadal, they overwhelm you.  From this you have more pressure or more motivation?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, more motivation.  For me it's not pressure.  I'm a little bit famous because I'm playing in the Masters Cup.  It's not a pressure for me.  It's just a good motivation because I'm playing with the best player in the world.  So it's incredible for me to be here.   
  
  Q.  In the first set, a ball got broken and then you lost two games.  Did the ball interrupt you?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, it's not a problem.  It's just a point.  It wasn't important.  The ball was broken, but it's just a point.  It's more Novak was playing really well.  He broke me at 4-1.  It was 4-2, so after he was mentally great and he played well.   
 But, no, after I was leading 4-3.  Everything was good for me.   
  
  Q.  Yesterday your fans brought two T-shirts for you in the Hilton.  Are you surprised there are a lot of fans for you in China?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, you are surprise because there are a lot of Chinese like me.  I'm really surprised with it.  Yeah, it's really nice for me to play in China.  It's my first time in here.  I'm really surprised.  It's wonderful for me.   
  
  Q.  Those two T-shirts, which one is your preferred one?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  The T-shirts are in my room.  Both, the one with my picture, it's really nice.  The fans are incredible with me.  I am really happy with it.  It's a gift.  I will keep it in France for sure.   
  
  Q.  Yannick Noah has helped you out a lot with your game and your application to the game.  Can you tell us when was the last time you spent time with him and what things he's taught you?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, he help me a lot.  It's not because I withdraw in US Open.  I didn't do it because I didn't play there.  No, I really wanted to meet Yannick.  He's a great champion.  He has a lot of personality.  It was important for me.  He's positive.  He's charismatic, too.  He likes me.   
 Me, I like him a lot.  Yeah, I will try -- he's a great guy and I will do the future with him.   
  
  Q.  When did you last spend time with him?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Before to go to Madrid, one day before to go to Madrid.  I have him in the phone a lot of time.  Now he's singing.  It's not easy with the jetlag and everything.  Yeah, I'm trying to keep in touch with him.  No, he's important for me.  He's a great guy.  I like him.  Yeah, I like him a lot, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT