WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2007
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  With all the rain we've been having this week, it must be quite a relief for you to have your match over in the space of one day. 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, I was nervous because I had to play Monday, so I stayed two days in the locker room.  That was really hard for me. 
 But, you know, I am in the fourth round, so I had to wait.  I had a lot of pressure on this match because I wanted to be on quarterfinal. 
 I had a lot of motivation for this match, so I could wait.  It was difficult, too, when I stopped at two sets to love for me, because after I played more aggressive and it was hard. 
 I am really happy to win in three sets because you never know what kind can happen if he win the third. 

 Q.  Was the third set a problem for you? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It was more difficult in the third set because he served better.  The first was really, really hard for me, too, because he broke me two times.  It was hard.  But after in my games return, I played good. 
 It was a great match to win in three sets. 

 Q.  Did you feel you improved with each set? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, I played better and better.  In the first set I was a little bit nervous because we wait a lot of time today.  I was nervous.  He broke me in the first game. 
 But I played good in the first, better in the second, and better and better in the third.  I played my best tennis in the third set. 

 Q.  Was there anything about your game that was particularly pleasing today? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Maybe he had to go more to the net.  He played with me in the baseline.  That's my game.  I like to play this game.  He play maybe too much in the baseline. 
 He had to come more to the net for sure with his big serve, his volley.  But me, I am happy with all my strokes.  I played good. 

 Q.  Is it any more difficult for you playing another French opponent? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, of course, it's hard.  I know all my friends, that's my friend, so that was really hard.  But I had to win.  I was in the fourth round.  That's hard.  But I had to win the match. 

 Q.  How far do you think you can go now? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  You never know.  If you're confident, that's my first quarterfinal.  I was maybe four times in the fourth.  So I'm happy for my first time to be in quarterfinal.  I never won Roddick.  I lost two times. 
 Now I have no pressure.  I have nothing to lose against him tomorrow.  I have to play my game.  But for sure he's the favorite of the match.  But I'm sure I can play a good match. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts on Andy this tournament?  Have you been impressed with the way he's playing? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  He has to be for sure on quarterfinal.  When he's playing here, he is all the time on quarterfinal.  Maybe he wasn't lucky all this year with Federer, because if Federer wasn't here he could win two Wimbledon maybe because he lost the final against him, the semifinal.  But he's a great player. 

 Q.  Will you be doing anything in particular to try to beat him?  Will you change your tactics at all? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I have to be aggressive, but it will be hard with his serve for sure.  That's not easy on my serve after I have a lot of pressure, because I don't want to lose my serve because after with his serve, that's incredible.  That's really difficult. 

 Q.  How have you been killing time in the locker room?  What do you to when it's raining? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  These two days? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Just talk with other players because they wait.  Everybody wait.  Nadal wait.  I spoke with him a lot of times.  But that's hard because I stayed two days in the locker room.  I was nervous because it's a fourth round.  That's difficult. 
 But, no, I am happy to finish this match. 

 Q.  Did you make new friends in the locker room? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I know every player, so I am friend with everyone.  That's okay.  I had pressure, so that's not easy to speak a lot. 

 Q.  How do you find Nadal in the locker room? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Nervous because it was difficult for him.  He had a lot of pressure because he didn't finish the match yesterday, so I know it was really, really hard for him.  He was really happy when I saw him after his victory.  He was relieved. 

 Q.  Why are there so many French players at Wimbledon and hardly any British players? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, that's incredible.  I saw the draws.  There are a lot of French guys in the draw, in the top 100.  That's a lot.  I don't know. 
 Yeah, I don't know why now we have a lot of guy.  But that's really good for us because we are young.  We have a lot of good players.  I think we can play really good in the future. 

 Q.  You're the only French player left in the men's draw.  Does that put more pressure on you? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, no.  I am really happy to be on the quarterfinals.  Against Roddick I have nothing to lose.  No, I don't have a lot of pressure against him. 
 I had more pressure today because I wanted to win this match.  But, no, I am the last French, but that's okay, too.  To be in quarterfinal, it's great for me. 

 Q.  What were your expectations coming into the tournament? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I didn't know what could happen here.  I played bad last week.  In Halle I played not good.  Even in Roland Garros.  I didn't know what I could do here. 
 But I felt good.  I was happy to be in Wimbledon because it's a Grand Slam.  I like to play on grass court.  I like this tournament.  So I had a lot of motivation. 
 I played better and better during the tournament.  Now I am in quarterfinal.  I'm feeling good.  Maybe I want to go more.  I will try to do my best tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT