ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2018
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. GASQUET/A. Seppi   
6-0, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  When you went to sleep last night, were you dreaming of such an introduction?  
RICHARD GASQUET: No.  I would never have imagined to win such a good player.  I know he had a very good beginning of the season.  He had good results on Grand Slam tournaments.   
I wouldn't have imagined I would win just before the rain and in three sets.   
 Q.  You really led in the match, in the beginning of each set.  
RICHARD GASQUET: He made quite a few errors, and he gave me quite a few points.  And I didn't let him get back into the game, and that's what allowed me to win.   
I'm 100% in physical shape, which is already something really good, so I think that everything is going for me.  Everything is fine.  We'll see on the next match.  Today was great.  I hope the next match will be as good.   
It's always a pleasure for me to play here.  It's quite different from other tournaments.  The atmosphere is totally different.  It's a good feeling to be here.   
 Q.  There was kind of a slack in the third set.  It was difficult to remain concentrated and focused?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, but I managed to break very soon afterwards.  I think it was a good match today.  I didn't make any mistakes or errors.  It's true that I got to win a few points that were very useful, especially towards the end, because I had two sets in advance.   
 Q.  Are you following the same routine every year, or did you change?  
RICHARD GASQUET: No, I would say it's the same.  My mother comes up from the south of France.  My father doesn't come and hasn't come for a while.  He feels better at home.  It's tiring to come here.  It's very crowded.   
It's exactly the same routine, season after season.  Maybe at one point it will stop.  And I must say I'm always delighted to play here.   
But of course there will be fewer and fewer, but for the rest, it's the same routine, nothing has changed.   
 Q.  What does Fabrice Santoro give you as tricks on clay?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, as for tricks, what I can say is that he gives me the same kind of tips than Grosjean or the others.  These are people that have a lot of experience.  They played on the circuit, on the tour, and it's very important.   
It's always the same thing:  You have to try to serve well, play a long shot.  And it's every year that I do the same thing.  But as physically I'm in good shape.  I feel very comfortable on the court, both with Santoro and with Tulasne.  I feel very comfortable.   
It's not with them that things are wrong.  If I lose it's something else.  But on the court, I must say, there is absolutely no problem.   
 Q.  Do you know who you're going to play in the next round?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, I had a look.  I have already tried to win this round.  It's not going to be easy knowing that my opponent plays well.   
But all the matches are hard, and they're getting harder and harder every time for me.  I had much more stamina when I was 8th or 9th.   
But it's always complicated.  I think Jaziri, it will be a difficult match.  And we'll see.  We're going to play one match at a time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT