MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO
April 17, 2007
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Can you draw some lessons from this match?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I don't know if I can draw some lessons.  The only thing I can say is that it would have been very tough to lose.   
 In Davis Cup I already lost 8-6, so this time it would have been really difficult to accept.  But he was hitting so hard that with my one-hand backhand it was difficult.   
 I was staying back.  He has one of the best forehands in the world.  The match was tough.  I'm very pleased that I fought until the end.  This is the only thing I want to remember.  Mentally and physically it was tough.   
  
  Q.  How are you physically?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I only started playing again on Friday and Saturday.  I had a sore toe after the Davis Cup, so I was not prepared for this tournament.  I didn't expect to play three hours today.  I hope I'll be able to recuperate.   
  
  Q.  He was up 2-Love, 40-Love.  What did you think then?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  He can really be angry against himself for that game.  I was not playing well then, and he really had to crush me at that precise moment.   
  
  Q.  On the matchpoints, couldn't you have taken more initiative?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I didn't miss.  He was the one playing on the lines.  He really can regret that game at 2-Love.  It was good for me.   
  
  Q.  When you see him playing one then two then three incredible shots, don't you start thinking you should take more risks?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I wasn't expecting him to play those forehands all over the place.  Congratulations to him.  I can try to be more aggressive, but what I did was to play deep shots and waiting for the short one to come.   
 It was him who was playing well.  As I said, I didn't expect such forehands.  I really served very bad.  It was a very bad match service-wise.  I had lost my rhythm, and on top of it he's a lefty so the zones are different.  The only thing I can regret is my serve, not the rest.   
  
  Q.  You often play long matches like against Youzhny and this one.   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes.  Five hours and three hours.   
  
  Q.  Can't you take more initiatives, or do you prefer to play the same game as today with more security?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I try to play deep and to hit the ball early.  But he has an exceptional forehand.  It's very difficult to hit the ball high on the bounce.   
  
  Q.  You have difficulties playing against injured players apparently.  First Youzhny and now Verdasco, who had problems with his abdominals.   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It's hell.  They become euphoric and they come up with unbelievable shots.  But I had no choice today.  I had to fight back.   
 He came up with exceptional shots.  It was not easy.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT