MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2007
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Did you find it tough to get back up today after a pretty tough match last night? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, I was really tired.  In the first set I was tired because I slept at 4:00 a.m. and finished at 1:00, so I slept at 4:00 and I was like so tired in the first and second, but I did my best. 
 I played so much easier yesterday.  It was a tough match today, but Moya played well pretty much.  I did my best and I fight, but I lost.  I don't play really well because I had no legs, no juice, so it was not easy for me. 

 Q.  Originally until the second set it looked like you found a different rhythm? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, I played more aggressive in the second set with my backhand, and I served well.  I did not receive and I had to be more aggressive to win Moya.  He played really good.  With his forehand, he has one of the best forehands.  It was really difficult to play to his backhand. 

 Q.  How do you see now Moya's chances to win the tournament? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It would be real because maybe he will be tired tomorrow.  He had a lot of tough matches, so we will see, but I think of course he can win for sure. 

 Q.  Will you be looking for that same aggressiveness you brought late in the match against Volandri in the Australian Open, the first round of the Australian Open? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, I was looking, I saw my draw before the match.  This match was really important for me.  It was a semifinal so I wanted to win.  Of course I was looking for my match against Volandri, but this match was very important for me. 

 Q.  What do you think of your draw for the Australian Open? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It's a good draw, I think.  It's never easy.  Volandri is a great player.  I can lose against him.  But I think I have great chances to win him.  It's a good draw for me. 

 Q.  How do you feel like your preparation is -- 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It's perfect.  I did quarterfinal in Adelaide, semifinal here, so it was perfect preparation for me for this Australian Open. 

 Q.  Quarter, semi, so maybe final in the Australian Open? 
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I hope.  It will be difficult, but why not? 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT