ROGERS MASTERS
August 13, 2006
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  After the first set, I guess it looked like your plan was working to a T.  What occurred in the following two sets?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I did a fantastic first set.  I was really good with my forehand, with my backhand.  I played wonderful.  He missed a little bit.  6-2 for me.  He didn't serve well, so I could return good with my backhand.  It was the key of the first set.   
 After, I didn't play -- I had three breakpoints in the first game in the second.  I lost this point.  After it will be really hard because I know with Roger when you have some chances, you have to do it.  If I do 1-Love break with me, it would be another match.   
 After he did a fantastic second set, I had no chances.  At 2-Love for him, I had two breakpoint.  I miss them.  After it will be hard for me.   
 In the third set, I was a little bit tired because I did a lot of match.  He has more experience in these matches than me, in this final than me.   
  
  Q.  It seemed like Roger took a while to get into his game.  You talked about his first serve.  You played him before.  How close to his best was Roger today?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I don't know if he played his best match.  But me, I played a wonderful first set.  I'm sure he can serve better in the first.  Me, I returned really good.  I was really aggressive in the first set.  I tried some best shots with my backhand.  It was a really good first set.   
 Maybe Roger didn't do his best set, but after I'm sure he played his best match in the second and third.   
  
  Q.  You consider him somewhat of an idol.  Do you ever find yourself in awe of him when you're out there?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I didn't say.  It's not my idol.  He's a little bit young, just five years more than me.  Maybe Pete Sampras was my idol, but not Roger.  I have to play with him.  Sampras was my idol, but not Federer.   
  
  Q.  Did you think in the first set, when you were playing so well, that maybe today is another day that you can beat Roger?  Did you think he was less than perfect today?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, I think I could win because I was leading 6-2, Love-40 on his serve.  I could win this match.  If I do this game, it's another match.   
 He played wonderful on these breakpoints.  After, it is difficult for me.  No, I did my match.  I had no pressure before this match.  It was a fantastic match for me.  But Roger was the best.  I have to achieve my game to play against him.   
  
  Q.  Is it dangerous to think maybe you can beat him because then he'll come back and raise his level of play?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  It's better for me to say I can beat him than I can't.  But, no, he has more experience, more matches than me, more wins than me.  I am just 20, so I have time to play him.  I know in the future I can beat him.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about how much of an improved player you are since you met Roger at Wimbledon?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I was a little bit tired in Wimbledon because I won a title the week before in Nottingham.  It was on grass court, on the Centre Court.  He knows this court.  Me, I never played on this court before Roger.  It was really hard for me.  But I prefer to play him on a hard court or clay court.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your own development as a player over the last 12 months, how much better you think you are now than perhaps that first time that you beat Roger on clay in Monte-Carlo?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I played better than last year in Monte-Carlo against him.  I played better today than last year, I'm sure, because he didn't play a great match.  But today he played solid.  But I'm sure it was a better match today than last year in Monte-Carlo because I have more experience, I have a better -- physically I run better in the court.  I served good.  No, it was a good match.  But he has been the best today in the second and third set.   
  
  Q.  How did it feel to be the first Frenchman to reach the finals here?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I am really happy.  It's a great week for me.  I won five great players.  I won Berdych, Murray and Blake on this court.  No, it's great I did the final on a Masters Series against Federer.  I lost in three sets.  It's a fantastic week for me.  I am really, really happy to play a final in a tournament like Toronto.   
  
  Q.  Like your idol Pete Sampras, Roger also has trouble on clay.  Is that the only thing that really separates him from being perhaps the greatest of all time, his struggles on clay?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  If he wins Roland Garros, of course he will be the best of the game.  But maybe he is the best of the game now.  I think he is like Sampras now.  He won eight.  I don't know his title.  He is really young.  He will be like Pete Sampras for sure.  I'm sure he can win Roland Garros.  He did the final.  It's wonderful.   
 Maybe if he wins Roland Garros, he will be incredible.   
  
  Q.  You probably know Tennis Canada hired Louis Borfiga to do what he's done with the French players.  How important was Louis in the development of a lot of the French tennis players?  Do you think he could find the same success he had with the French players with the Canadian players?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I don't know.  In France he has a great success with INSEP, with our juniors.  He had Escude, a lot of players, a lot of great players.  He's a great guy.  It's great for Canada players to have this guy because they will achieve their game with him for sure.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT