ROGERS MASTERS
August 11, 2006
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  You've played brilliant tennis for a while now and are playing very solidly here.  Only lost one set.  Does it help you to be sort of flying under the radar with so much attention being given to Federer and Nadal, even Berdych because he beat Nadal?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, it's not a problem.  I know there is a lot of attention in Rafael and Roger.  It's normal because they are 1 and 2.  But it's not a problem for me.  I played good because I am in confidence.  I played well against Santoro.  After this match, I have a lot of confidence.   
 Of course, on center court, he is 5 in the world, here on center, hard court, it was great for me.  Yesterday it was a great match, too, because Verdasco is a great player.   
 No, I won four guys, really good guys.  It's not because of Rafael and Roger, we have a lot of attention on them, it's not a problem for me.   
  
  Q.  You returned serve very well.  Was that important?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, I served well and I returned well.  I think against him it's important because he is really aggressive, so I served a lot of first serves.  If I did a lot of second serve, it will be difficult because he has a great return and after he hits the ball really hard.  So I served good.  I returned good.  It was the key of the match.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel you're back to your best now, as good as when you beat Federer?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I'm sure I play better than last year in Monte-Carlo for sure.  Even when I lost against Roger in Halle or Wimbledon, I played good than last year in Monte-Carlo against him.   
  
  Q.  Do you like somebody coming at you, giving you a target to aim at?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, I like the guy who hits hard in the ball because I like to do a lot of passing shots.  I did a lot of passing today with my backhand and forehand.  I breaked him twice in the second set because I did a good passing shot.   
  
  Q.  Did you see him play against Nadal?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I didn't see him.  Maybe he was a little bit tired after Nadal.  I don't know.  I was sure it will be difficult -- it would be difficult for him to play against me after winning Nadal.  It's always difficult to do another match after a big victory.   
 But, no, I know him because I played against him in junior.  I know he's a great player.  He will be 5 in the world at the end of the year, he will be 5 for sure.   
  
  Q.  Where do you think you will be?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I don't know.  We will see.  But him, I'm sure he will be.   
  
  Q.  You mentioned he might be a bit tired.  Now that you got this over in two sets, you have an afternoon, got it out of the way.  Any extra rest that you can get as opposed to Roger who plays tonight, does that help?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I'm sure it's not a problem for Federer.  He won Grand Slam.  We play two sets here.  It's okay for every player because Roger won seven Grand Slams.  For him, there is no problem.   
  
  Q.  Nadal and Roger have been so good.  When Nadal goes out in your bracket, do you see that as a big opportunity for you?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  We never know because Berdych won Nadal.  I was sure Berdych can win me.  Of course, maybe I prefer to play Berdych than Nadal, but you never know.  Berdych can win me every day.   
 It was a great match today because he's a great player.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT