ROGERS MASTERS
August 9, 2006
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  I think that's your best win since you beat of Roger Federer.  It must feel very sweet, the victory.   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, maybe it's my best victory since Roger last year.  It's a great performance because I won him here, not only clay court.  No, it was on a hard court here in Toronto, so it's a great performance for me.  I played a fantastic match today.   
 I am really, really happy to win this match.   
  
  Q.  You seemed very fluid.  Your strokes were going in a very smooth path.  Can you talk through the match, how it went?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, today I play good.  I felt my stroke really, really good.  It was okay.  I served good.  I had a great backhand.  The difference was my backhand on his backhand, I think.   
 I don't know if he played his best match.  But me today, I played really good.   
  
  Q.  Were you afraid that he was going to come back at you in the second set?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  I was a little bit afraid because I was leading 4-Love, 5-1.  5-1 to 5-3, I was a little bit afraid, of course, because I had to serve for the match.  I played a great game.  After, if I lose this game, it will be 5-4.  It would be difficult after.   
 But I won 6-3.  I was really really happy.   
  
  Q.  You've had a lot of problem with injury.  How is that now?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Since two months it's okay because I had a problem with my stomach, here, against Russia.  I was injured.  After since two months, I play good because I won two tournaments, won on grass court and one on clay, so I had a lot of confidence before this match.  It's great for me to win James.   
  
  Q.  The arm is okay now?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, my arm is okay.  I am lucky because I think it's finish.   
  
  Q.  Your ambition now?  The next match or do you have ambition beyond that?   
 RICHARD GASQUET:  We never know.  Everybody is strong in this tournament.  We will see.  I hope to win my next match.  After, I will see.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT