MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 20, 2018
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. ZVEREV/R. Gasquet   
4-6, 6-2, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  It was an extraordinary match, but you must be disappointed.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, yes.  It's very tough to lose that one.  It was an incredible match.  We were both tired.  At the end I was quite affected.  I had to run all during the match.   
He's very strong.  He fights a lot.  That's why he's top 4 right now.  He's a great competitor.  An incredible match.  It hurts to lose 7-5 in the third.  The match point was crazy.  It wasn't in my favor.   
 Q.  Did you feel tired, you were saying, at the end?  
RICHARD GASQUET: I had some cramps at the end.  The match was tough.  It's been a while I haven't played such a tough match.   
I enjoyed the match a lot on the court, but I'm disappointed I lost.  It's tough really.  7-5 in the third.  It was a great match.   
 Q.  You must feel satisfied after a match like that.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, I know I can play the best players.  I didn't play well in Marrakesh.  I wasn't feeling well.  I was not fit.   
But now I feel it's coming back.  I can win these types of matches.  But he's a great competitor.  He fought incredibly well.  He deserves the win.  He's two meters tall, and he runs as if he was 1 meter 75.  For his size, he runs extremely well.   
 Q.  Maybe this match can give you new momentum for what is coming up next.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes.  I only played eight matches since Marrakesh.  Of course, physically the best thing you can have is this kind of match.  Now I need, of course, to make sure I recover properly.   
I know I can play these types of matches.  If I keep it up, I know I can have good results.  It's the best thing that can happen.   
It's a pity I lost it in the end.  But that's tennis.   
 Q.  In the second set, you were able to come back.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, it was tough because the balls were very heavy.  They were not bouncing.  It was very different from the rest of the day.   
But I was able to fight till the end, to break back several times.  At 4-3 I made a few mistakes.  He was playing well, too.  At 4-All, 5-All, there were breakpoints I didn't convert.   
He's a very good player.  We know that in important moments he doesn't make mistakes.   
 Q.  What is your schedule now?  
RICHARD GASQUET: I'm going to play in Budapest.  I'm going to rest a little bit before, and I will go there and try to do my best.  I know when I'm fit, I can beat any player.  I have to stay in good condition.  That's the goal.  You can't afford to have little niggles here and there.   
 Q.  Did you ask specifically to play the last match today?  
RICHARD GASQUET: No, not at all.  The conditions are special, but I didn't ask for it.  I think for my game during the day is better.  But I'm not going to think about that.  It was a great match today.  It's too bad I lost it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT