ROGERS MASTERS
August 10, 2005
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  English questions first, please. 


Q.  You were going along very nicely, 5-3 up, until the rain came.  How big a part did that play in the match? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yeah, it was difficult to play after the rain.  I was a little bit tired because I did a double-fault.  I didn't play a good match, but I played my match.  It wasn't good today.  But next time it will be better, I think.  Sebastien played a good match.  I am happy for his victory. 

Q.  Do you feel that you lost momentum?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, I lost.  After the rain, I lost.  With the light, this was difficult for me.  I didn't see the ball very good.  But it's the first time I play with the lights.  No, it wasn't easy for me. 

Q.  And how difficult is it to play another French player? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  At the beginning, is difficult.  But after it's okay.  It's the same.  I think it's the same. 


Q.  How do you feel after this match? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I didn't play a great match, but at 5-3, I made a double-fault.  I was not playing offensively enough in the tiebreak, not aggressively enough, for this surface.  It was not a good match.  I didn't have enough energy for this match. 

Q.  Did you feel you had this energy before play was suspended? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Before play was suspended, I was strong, I was hitting hard, and I came to the net.  But I cannot always play great matches.  I have to lose to know what I have to improve. 

Q.  What did you do while play was suspended? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I found it very long.  I was not well right after. 

Q.  In the first set, you played two fantastic games to go 3-2, 4-2.  At 5-3, you served. 

RICHARD GASQUET:  At 5-3, the Lightning and the thunder disturbed me a lot.

Q.  On the point at 30-All, when there was lightning and thunder, did you hear the speaker make loud noises? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, I heard all that.  Those are bizarre things that can happen.  But I'm not used to that.  The chair umpire should have stopped at 5-3.  I asked him 10 times to stop.  It hurt me not to have stopped at 5-3.  I should have won the first set, but the chair umpire was not good in making this decision. 

Q.  Do you think Sebastien took more advantage of this suspended play situation than you did? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes.  He's more used to that than me.  He played very well. 

Q.  Is it the first time you played under the lights? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  It's not the first time I played under lights, but on the circuit, it is the first time that I played under the lights.  It's not easy.  Under the lights, it's not easy.  It's not the same game at all. 

Q.  In the tiebreak, you also double-faulted.  Is it a coincidence or were you nervous? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I don't double-fault that often usually, but everything was going bad for me.  The suspended play, the fact that I was not playing well, everything went against me. 

Q.  You were expecting many more good things from this match than what you really got?  Must be quite a deception. 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Losing against Sebastien has nothing to do with it.  I cannot always win.  It's good to lose to see what I have to improve.  It's the first time I have a suspended play situation.  Losing against Sebastien is not a problem at all.  I'm even happier to lose against a Frenchman than someone I don't know. 

Q.  The fact that Nadal was next in the draw, did this add to your nervousness? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I would have been very happy to play him, but I'm sure there will be other occasions, just like I've lost against Grosjean.  There will be many more occasions to play against him. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT