TMS MONTE CARLO
April 16, 2005
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Are you disappointed, frustrated?  You were not far from reaching a final.

RICHARD GASQUET:  It's very clear that I was close to the final, but I feel tired.  I gave my best.  At 2-Love I thought I might be able to make it, but it was my 17th match.  He went out of his way to get this match.  He played winners.  I have to give him credit for this victory.


Q.  You've been playing at a very high level.  Although you were tired, you never let go.

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, I played my best because it was a semifinal, and against Nadal on top of it.  I'm proud of what I did today.  I have no regrets.  He went out to grab this victory, and I just hope it will be my turn next time.


Q.  Do you think he was fresh because he only played two-setters before?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Even if I had been more fresh, he might have been able to win all the same, but at least I would have had more chances.  In spite of the fact that the result was 6-3 in the third, I regret nothing.


Q.  What lessons can you draw after the quallies and up to today?

RICHARD GASQUET:  It was already very good to come out of the quallies, but the match against Federer was just fabulous.


Q.  You were coming to Monte-Carlo when you were a little boy.  Now you were in the semis.

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, I'm 18 and I'm in the semis.  I was here when I was 12, 13, 14; therefore, it's super.


Q.  Do you feel you've reached another stage?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, I'm confident.  I have a lot of experience.  I feel well physically and tennistically, and I feel good in my mind.


Q.  Was this week a turning point, or was it a dream?

RICHARD GASQUET:  It was a beautiful week.  The victory against Federer was a dream.  Already, when I was in the quarters, I thought it's already wonderful.  But after Federer, I thought it was incredible.


Q.  What about your future?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I know I must continue.  We'll be practicing a lot.  I always have been serious about that, even during the six months when things were not going so well for me.  There's no reason why these results will not continue.


Q.  What is your program now?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I'll have some rest because I'm not going to Barcelona; I can't go.  But I'm going to Rome and Hamburg and then Paris.

Q.  The fact that you were tired showed because you called the trainer.  Were you already tired when you stepped on to the court?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes.  It was my 17th match in three weeks.  At 7-6, 2-Love, I didn't feel so good, and he was sending back every ball.  I had breakpoints, but he made very good passing shots then and I was not very lucky.  I gave everything I had.


Q.  During this match were you already thinking about tomorrow and about winning tomorrow?

RICHARD GASQUET:  No.  It wasn't a problem for me if I lost the final tomorrow.


Q.  You had four breakpoints in the third set.

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, but I was tired.  I was not lucid anymore, and he played very well on those particular points.  There's nothing to say.


Q.  Did you believe you could close it in two sets?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes.  Even at 5-4 when I was coming back I believed I could make it.  I tried never to let go of that set, even when I was down 5-2.


Q.  How is your back?

RICHARD GASQUET:  The pain is due to the number of matches I've been playing.  It's only sore muscles.


Q.  Did you expect you would be able to dictate the points instead of being at the receiving end?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, because I'm an aggressive player and I play many winners.  He never changes his rhythm.  I knew I could dictate the game, but he was very present physically.  If I had felt better physically, I would have had more chances because I was doing well in the second set.  But he was able to send back some balls that nobody else could send back.


Q.  If you had won, would you have been able to make it tomorrow physically?

RICHARD GASQUET:  No!  Best-of-five!  Against Coria!

Q.  After that match today do you have an idea now of your level of game?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, I know I can face a player like Nadal, and I know I have possibilities of winning against such a player.


Q.  I'm coming back to your future.  After this week, will you feel pressure?

RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I know what pressure is.  I am able to manage it.  My level is there.  The only thing I must not do is be inconsistent.


Q.  The match against Federer, did it have a triggering effect?

RICHARD GASQUET:  No, it was mainly a great surprise.  It made me feel confident.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT