TMS MONTE CARLO
April 15, 2005
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  During the match did you realize what the score was?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I thought I was about to beat him.  It would have seemed absolutely impossible before the match.  I don't know where I am now.  During the match I just tried to keep on going until the end.  It is fabulous.  There's no other word.


Q.  What did you think when you played your first matchpoint?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I tried to do a topspin volley.  I just didn't know how to play anymore.  He is the No. 1 in the world.


Q.  Monte-Carlo seems to suit you very well, because at 15 years old you beat Squillari here.

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, it all started in Monte-Carlo.  It just means that I can play well here.


Q.  You said it was without hope before the match, but what did you feel on Friday when you started playing the quallies?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I was certainly not thinking about Federer.  I was just thinking about beating Arazi in the first round.  If someone had told me before what would happen, I would not have believed it.


Q.  How does it feel to win a match like that?  What's your reaction to it?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, it's fabulous.  After this matchpoint, I had to wait three or four seconds before I really realized I just beat Federer.  It's still very difficult for me to realize.  I don't know where I am anymore, but I know tomorrow I'll have to keep on going.


Q.  Why do you think you beat him?

RICHARD GASQUET:  He played very well in the beginning, then he started becoming a bit nervous.  I was able to return well and to play crosscourt, which bothered him.  I don't know what I did better than he did.  It's difficult for me to analyze the match right now.


Q.  Federer said you had the tools to become a top player.  Does that feel like a real compliment from him?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes.  I'm used to people saying that, but from him it's really fabulous.  But I must keep on going starting from tomorrow.


Q.  Tomorrow you will have to play Nadal. 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I believe if I play well, I can bother him.  It's going to be difficult to go back on the court after Federer, but at least I feel confident.  I hope I'll be able to win again.


Q.  It seemed that you have to win your matches twice.  The same thing that happened with Federer happened with Davydenko.  Where do you find the strength to keep on going?  Do you have some words that you think in your mind?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Things just go well.  The opponent starts playing not as good, and I raise the level of my game.  I try not to get nervous, and I try to go and grab the victory.


Q.  What happened to you when you missed your first matchpoint?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I didn't react well because it was an easy shot to miss.  But even if I had lost, I would have been happy because I was competitive when facing the No. 1 in the world.  I would have thought that I'm still young and I still have possibilities.  But of course it would have been frustrating after having a matchpoint.  I was able to come back into the match, and I played a very beautiful tiebreaker.


Q.  You said you didn't know what your level was right now.  Now that you beat the No. 1 player, can you tell?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I know I'm playing very good tennis.  It would be stupid to say anything else.


Q.  During the last three years you had bad moments.  Were you sometimes afraid that you would not be able to make it to the top?

RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I always knew I could make it.  What is difficult is to be consistent the whole year.  I know that I didn't do everything very well during those past years, but at least I accumulated some experience and I practiced a lot.


Q.  After the first set you started playing better.  You relaxed?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, I was more relaxed and I started playing better and he started missing also.


Q.  Were you always optimistic about your future, or did you have doubts sometimes?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Every player has his doubts, but I knew I could make it so I had very few doubts.  Every time I lost a match, I started working again.


Q.  Making a matchpoint with your backhand the way you did is extraordinary.

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, it's true.  Even in practice I can't do it.  So, imagine, against Federer on the court...


Q.  You never let go.

RICHARD GASQUET:  He started playing not so well.  I was dominating in the rallies.  I played very well in the end of the second set and the third set.  I was returning well.  I was confident.  At the end of the third set I became a bit tired and a bit tense.


Q.  How will you manage to forget about that match for tomorrow?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I will succeed in forgetting that.  Before playing on center court against Federer, Eric told me that the only thing I had to do was to enjoy myself, and I succeeded in enjoying myself today.


Q.  Will you be able to find your motivation again for tomorrow?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Of course.  It's a semifinal.  It will be normal to be motivated.  It doesn't matter if I have to play Nadal or someone else.


Q.  What was your best match before today's match?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I don't know.  I had several good matches.  Maybe Buenos Aires in the semis, or the final in Metz last year.


Q.  I was talking about the best player you've ever beat.

RICHARD GASQUET:  I was very pleased with my victory against Massu in Buenos Aires.  I won 7-5 in the third.  That was my best match.


Q.  Federer had trouble with your second serve.

RICHARD GASQUET:  I was surprised that he was missing his returns on my second serve.


Q.  Do you feel there is pressure on you and Nadal?

RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I'm used to it.  It's good to have two young players in the semis of a Masters Series, but I'm used to it.  He is ranked 17, so he is the favorite.


Q.  Will you be able to sleep well after this?

RICHARD GASQUET:  I will have no problems.  When I am off the courts, I am different.  Of course I admit it's going to be a bit difficult in the beginning.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT