TMS MONTE CARLO
April 14, 2003
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  You were very disappointed by this match? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, it's the only thing you can be after that match.  It was very difficult for me today because before, in practicing, in playing other players, I was playing good tennis.   So it was not a matter of tennis; it was rather a matter of emotions, thinking about what happened last year.  I was very, very nervous.  
 
Q.  About your emotions, was it the amount of points you had to defend that was a problem? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  No, not at all.  The points didn't count.  But it's just that last year I played so well here, and I really wanted to do the same this year once again.  But, of course, it didn't happen.  But I wanted it badly. 
 
Q.  Last year, as you just said, you did very well here.  How would you sum up the progress you've made since then, and how do you think your game has developed? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, given the match today, you might think, "This one didn't improve a lot."  But in fact, I'm serving better.  Physically, I feel better.  There's no doubt I'm playing better than last year, but I wasn't able to go through the first round this year.  
 
Q.  Has it been tougher than you expected? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Of course.  I mean, I just won four games.  Of course it was more difficult than I expected.  
 
Q.  Is it the first time you were so nervous on court? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, it's the first time.  
 
Q.  At what stage did you become nervous:  In the middle of the match, or in the beginning? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, as soon as I started warming up this morning I felt nervous already.  And in the beginning of the match, I was broken in the first game and this didn't help me at all.  
 
Q.  Can we say also that the quality of the game of your opponent was a factor, because he played a very solid match? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Of course, he played very well.  It was not an easy draw for me.  I should have played better, but there's no doubt he played very well.  
 
Q.  You're working with Eric.  Are you going to work on something specific that you saw during the match? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  No, there's nothing to work especially on after that match.  It's just the way it happened today.  
 
Q.  You say it's been tougher than you expected.  In what way has it been tougher?  Have you found the pace of the match more difficult to adjust than juniors, or the power, the strategy or what? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  In fact, the most difficult factor was managing my emotions.  Although he was a very strong opponent, maybe I wouldn't have won anyway even if I had played a great match, but I could have done better.  
 
Q.  Sorry.  I didn't make myself clear.  I mean what have you found most difficult in terms of moving from the juniors ranks into the senior ranks?  Is it the pace of the game, the strategy, the power, or is it a combination of all?
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, it's a combination of all (laughter).  
 
Q.  Is it the first time you are as disappointed as that? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, if I were happy, it would be stupid.  I mean, half an hour after the match, after losing on such a difficult score, I mean, it's normal that I'm disappointed.  
 
Q.  Was there a stage during the match when you felt more relaxed maybe? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, when I broke him back at 2-all, I thought, "Now it's going to be better, it's okay."  But, in fact, it was all the same afterwards.  
 
Q.  You don't know all the players yet on the senior tour.  Does it happen to you, that you step on the court and you are very surprised by the game of your opponent, that you didn't expect? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I just knew it would be very difficult because recently he had very good results.  So he is a very good player.  
 
Q.  The fact that you haven't had these emotions before, do you have a sports psychologist at all at the Academy, or have you ever felt the need of one? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I really don't want psychological help.  It's too tiring.  I prefer to step on the court, play, and then after that enjoy myself.  I don't like psychological help, I don't want it.  
 
Q.  So if I understand you well, you think it's just an accident today and it will never happen again?
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, it better not happen again.  No, really, I believe it's an accident and I hope it will not happen again.  
 
Q.  Your friend Nadal just qualified and he's going to play his first round tomorrow.  What do you think about him? 
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  He's a very good player, and especially on clay courts.  I saw him play yesterday and I was very impressed.  He's a very good player, and I think it's good for tennis.  
 
Q.  A general question, what did you learn in tennis since last year, I mean, with all the matches you've played and the teaching you've benefitted from?
 
RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, I just learned that it was very difficult and that things don't happen right away.  You have to work, you have to keep on practicing and working hard.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT