TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2002
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  What is your main feeling after that match?  Is it happiness after a good first set?  The second was not so good. 

RICHARD GASQUET:  It's already very good to be in the second round of such a tournament, so the only thing you can feel is happiness.  He played well.  He is among the best players in the world.  It's not easy to play against such a player.  My score was a good one.  It wasn't easy. 

Q.  Did you have the feeling that if you had succeeded in coming back at 5-all, it could have changed many things? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Maybe.  But in the important moments, that kind of player always fights a lot.  So it would have been very difficult all the same. 

Q.  Did you feel he was a bit nervous, a bit trembling? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, maybe he was a bit trembling.  But even at 5-all he would have played well because he's not just anybody.  So I believe it would have been difficult. 

Q.  In the second set what happened?  You were aggressive in the first points of the set, you tried to do something and then...? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I was a bit tired.  I had won three matches which were quite difficult against very good players.  It was very difficult playing today.  Especially if you're not at your best against such a player, you don't make many games. 

Q.  Were you trying to take more risks? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  No, but he was making less errors and I was a bit tired.  It was not easy. 

Q.  Was it a nervous tiredness? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  No, mainly physical.  I was a bit nervous in the beginning.  But after, that kind of thing goes away.  It was mainly physical. 

Q.  When you were in the locker rooms a few minutes before you entered the court, how were you?

RICHARD GASQUET:  A bit nervous.  But it was a great match to play, so that was normal.  But I was quite nervous, that's for sure. 

Q.  How can you explain that you were able to defend yourself in the game?  We had the impression, though, that you had trouble with your serve, especially the first serves. 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I was quite tired, so it was not easy to push with my legs.  So I was not serving very well, that's for sure. 

Q.  Did you feel any difference between this player and your other opponents? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  For sure.  He's among the Top 10 in the world.  The others are just Top 50 or 100, and that makes a great difference in the game. 

Q.  His shots are heavier?

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes.  He returns and serves better, so it's more difficult of course. 

Q.  Are you another player now? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  No, no (laughing).  Now I'll have to go back to the smaller tournaments because I'm not going to play tournaments like this one all the time.  First I will have to win the little tournaments, and then we'll see. 

Q.  In the locker rooms, the other players look at you differently? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  They look at me more than in the beginning of course.  But... a little bit more, yes. 

Q.  We have the impression that you were able to read his game pretty fast.  In the first game, on his serve, you didn't return very well.  But after, it came well.  Is it one of your qualities  - good vision of the game, of the opponent, to feel where he's going to play?  We have the impression you knew where he was going to put the ball. 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I don't know.  Usually I can read serves pretty well and all that.  But such a player serves super well.  I was able to read his serve, but it was still very difficult to return afterwards.  I returned quite well today, that's true. 

Q.  Now what is your program? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I'm going to play the smaller tournaments from ATP and junior tournaments. 

Q.  The French Open will be in juniors or seniors? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Juniors.

Q.  In seniors it won't be before next year or in two years? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I don't know.  I'll try to do my best in juniors. 

Q.  And if you are offered a wildcard for the French Open...? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, for sure I would take it.  But it's not certain I will be offered one.  And if they don't offer me one, it's not bad at all.  I will concentrate already on the junior tournaments. 

Q.  You're not going to play the quallies for the French Open? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  No.  There's a preparation tournament in the French Open for juniors, so I won't be in the quallies. 

Q.  What is your program for the next days?  Is it rest? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Originally I was supposed to go to Germany.  But with the results I had here, I would rather rest and not go there.  Afterwards, I don't know. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT