TMS MONTE CARLO
April 15, 2002
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.


Q.  Many congratulations.  Are you beginning to think it's all a dream? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Of course.  I've been playing three matches, winning three matches, and winning the third one first round in the main draw.  It's extraordinary. 

Q.  How come you are such a hard fighter, fighting for two and a half hours on the court like this? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, last month I was in Spain, and mentally and physically it was very hard also.  I think here it's as difficult as it was there. 

Q.  Playing in front of a French crowd, does it put more pressure on you? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  It's better to play in front of a French public because they're cheering for me. 

Q.  We're having a little bit of difficulty believing that you're really 15.  Have you always been so composed on the court, even at a young age?  Have you always been a composed player? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I'm almost 16 in June (laughter).  I played many matches before.  And it's just the continuity, I keep going.  But it's not because I won three matches that it's going to continue that way, I have to make it continue. 

Q.  How happy are you to have a day off now, having played so much? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Of course I prefer to have a day's rest, especially that it's going to be Robredo or Safin.  I prefer to play Safin on Wednesday rather than tomorrow. 

Q.  Were you ever nervous during that match?  Yesterday for the quallies you said that you were very relaxed and let go your shots.  Was it the same today, or were you more tense? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  After the first set I became a bit more nervous because then I was starting to think about a probable victory.  In the third set then, I didn't let go my shots easily anymore because I was really getting nervous. 

Q.  Do you think challengers are as difficult as here?  Don't you believe here it's going faster, that it's a higher level? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, of course it's more difficult here.  But I acquired a lot of experience during the last month in Spain, and this experience is helping me a lot.  I played against very good players on clay in Barcelona, so they were playing at home.  So it was difficult. 

Q.  We know both your mother and father are tennis teachers.  Did either of them play to any sort of level? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  The beginning of Second Series in France.  I don't know how it corresponds to the English ranking...

Q.  Probably a lot better.  (Laughter).  Was there any suggestion at any time that you might have concentrated on another sport and not tennis? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Well, it's true that when I was younger I was playing a lot of soccer and rugby, when I was about 12 and 13.  But this was playing with my pals, so it was fun.  And I was playing a bit less of tennis at that time, but I always preferred tennis. 

Q.  Could you say something in English for the international media, please.

RICHARD GASQUET:  I'm very happy to win this match because Squillari is in the Top 50.  It's very good for me to win this match (applause). 

Q.  After playing three matches in a row, did you request a day's rest? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  No, because I didn't know it was possible.  But it's better that way. 

Q.  Have you always had a one-handed backhand? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes, yes. 

Q.  Are you going to play the French Open as a junior or as a senior? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  No, I'm going to play the Juniors in Milan and the Juniors in the French Open.  I'm not playing the quallies in the main draw of the French Open because it's at the same time as the Juniors in Milan.  So I'll be first in Milan, then Juniors in Roland Garros. 

Q.  One or two players and coaches I was talking to during and after your match all said that they thought you could also play very well on grass.  Have you ever done so? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  I never played on grass yet, but I played on fast surfaces already and I liked it very much.  I like grass  - I think I will like it. 

Q.  Will you play in the Juniors at Wimbledon this year? 

RICHARD GASQUET:  Yes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT