ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2017
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. GASQUET/A. De Greef   
6-2, 3-6, 6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  What would you say about this match?  It's been three weeks without competition.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Not obvious.  Not obvious.  Not easy.  I had not played enough competition, so a bit difficult physically speaking, mainly.  The most important thing for me is not to feel any pain and to continue this way during the tournament.   
 Q.  But how do you say that?  Why do you say that?  Is it because you couldn't keep the pace during the whole match?  How did you feel on the court?  
RICHARD GASQUET: It's difficult to keep your pace from A to Z during the match.  I practiced well, but then since my appendicitis, I have had many physical issues.  So I'm trying to be back as best as I can.   
 Q.  I think you were hoping for this type of match perhaps in terms of your resistance or the length of the match?  Would you say you wanted to have an easier match?  Is it better for you to be back on center?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, I played a match.  I won.  I'm happy I decided to hang on and stay there, I did my best, my maximum, and this is it.  I'm happy this is a win for me and I'll be able to play on Thursday again another match.   
 Q.  Well, at the end of the day, what would you say?  You're a bit worried after the match, given your physical condition?  
RICHARD GASQUET: I felt better, that's true.  In the past, I felt better, a lot better.  We'll see.  We'll see what happens next.  We'll see on Thursday how things go for me.  I think it will be better.  This match will have been good for me.   
 Q.  What are the points that were the essential ones?  For instance, when you were returning you were not taking enough risks, I suppose?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, well, my shots, not enough strength in my legs, rhythm, pace, moving to the right, to the left, all types of things.  I hope it's going to be better on Thursday.   
Then he played an excellent second set.  He played well.  All matches are difficult to win, you know.  I'm happy because I can play another one on Thursday.   
 Q.  Maybe you didn't know him enough, De Greef.  That is, did your coach talk about him?  Is it bothering or not or you have enough experience you don't need to do this?  
RICHARD GASQUET: No, I watched him play on the Internet.  I watched his matches.  I knew what to expect, how he was playing, when I was on the courts.  You know, today there is so much you can see on the Internet, so many matches.  So I knew what his game was like before I was on the courts today.   
 Q.  Now, De Greef is a player that probably impressed you to some extent.  He's ranked more than 100 global ranking.  Do you think he can be in the top 100?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, he could be in the top 100.  He's got a good backhand, runs a lot from the right and the left.  He defeated Cuevas in Brazil and played well in Bordeaux.  He's a good player.  He has skills.  Maybe he's missing experience, but he has everything he needs to be in the top 100.  He has the level.  There is no doubt about this.   
 Q.  Physically what would you say?  You're tired, exhausted?  
RICHARD GASQUET: No, I'm okay.  I'm okay.  This is it.  I'm going to rest.  And I will be ready on Thursday.   
 Q.  (off microphone.)  
RICHARD GASQUET: Tennis.  Tennis.  I will try and recover and be ready on Thursday as best as I can.   
 Q.  I think you were bickering with the umpire.  I didn't understand.  I was watching the screen.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, because I was too long.  I was too long probably.  No, I was ready to serve, but then I thought, well -- and she talked about coaching, and she didn't say anything.  No, the guy?  He can talk?  It can happen to him but not more than anybody else.  Frankly, I thought, has she got anything against me?  I had the impression it was the case.  I don't know.  It's the way it is.   
 Q.  Tell me if I'm wrong.  Didn't it happen against Anderson in Estoril or am I saying something that's wrong?  
RICHARD GASQUET: You say lots of silly things but not this time.  It's not a silly thing you said.   
I don't know.  I have been playing, you know, for four years with him, no problem.  But over there that's true, a point of penalty.  This time no, too long to serve.  And then a second serve.  It's silly.  It's so silly.  That's all can I say.   
I was about to serve and the crowd was shouting, shouting.  I was waiting a little, and then I was about to serve, and then she said, Warning, second serve.  She said.  It's so big, so huge.  No, I can't say.  I can't explain what happened, what came to her mind.   
Well, it's the rule.  You know, maybe one second, okay.  There is no need to bicker about a one-second fault.  I had to take the ball.  I don't know when.  It should be -- I think it's when you start moving your arm up that -- well, I knew I...  Anyway, I can't say.  Don't know.  I don't know.  Can't tell.  Weird.   
 Q.  Your next opponent, what would you say about him,  Estrella Burgos?  
RICHARD GASQUET: I was defeated in South America.  All matches are difficult to win.  I'll do my best to win against him.   
 Q.  Could you describe with your words his backhand?  It's the best backhand in the world to me.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, then, you have said it.  Yeah, that's true.  His backhand is amazing.  So I played against him at Bogota.  Slice is the best thing you can do.  He won so many tournaments over there.  Is it in Quito?  He won three times in a row when there is altitude, playing in altitude.  He's impossible to defeat.  No errors.  He makes no errors.  I think this is where he grew up.  That's true.   
I'm not saying something, you know, look at his results in South America.  He wins everything.  If it's playing in altitude, he's got this slice, you know, and the balls are never out.  I was there.  Three meters in height.  And I was trying to do things and the balls were going out everywhere.  He's so amazing playing in high -- courts that are really high, had no chance to defeat him.  I hope at Roland Garros it's going to be better balanced.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How special is it to play in front of the home crowd here in Paris?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, we are very, very lucky to have a Grand Slam at home.  We know that.  French players, as I say, really lucky can play in front of our crowd, that's amazing for us.  Of course, it's incredible.  Every time we have to play on center court or Suzanne Lenglen, it's always an honor for us and the crowd is cheering a lot for us.  So that's great.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT