BNP PARIBAS MASTERS PARIS
November 1, 2016
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. GASQUET/S. Johnson
6-4, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. What was it like playing a great match in France in front of a crowd cheering you on?
RICHARD GASQUET: It's always a great pleasure to play with the crowd.  Said already the same thing in Roland Garros and Bercy.  That's why French players want to perform here.  It's very important for us.
It's a night session match.  The crowd is cheering a lot for me, so I felt it be on my shoulders.  It's always very nice.  That's why I'm playing.  That's why I like to play tennis in Paris, here and Roland Garros.  That's why it's very important to win matches here.
Q. You won big points playing volleys at the net.  How important is it for you to back your game at those crucial times?
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, it was crucial moments.  I think I won 14-12 in a tiebreak.  It's not so usual.  It's a big score.  And of course it was a big moments in the tiebreak.  Was very tough.  Of course I did many great points, especially great return at 6-5 for him.
Yeah, that's why it was a great match for me.  That's why I'm happy with the way I played.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Seven set points saved in the same set.  Do you remember the last time you did that?
RICHARD GASQUET: It's many of them.  In the second set I had many break points.  I was upset I didn't make them.  But he has a very big serve.  It's a fast surface, also.  And I thought I could have won earlier if I had made those break points.
I was not losing many points on my serve, but he played very well in the tiebreaker.  He was up very early in that tiebreaker.  At 6-2, I was able to make some lucky points.  And the return at 6-5, I was impressive.  I was so far away.  I couldn't be further, I guess.  It was a miracle to put the ball in.  But you need them.
Q. There were many people in your box today.  How is the transition between -- with Sebastien Grosjean now coming in?
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, Sebastien wants to spend more time with his family.  He's been traveling a lot.  He's been traveling for five years a lot.  So I want to thank him, first of all.
We started working together in 2011, and I was down in the rankings at the time.  And with him, I finished three seasons among the top 10 since 2013, and I owe him a lot.
He gave me -- he allowed me to enjoy tennis again, because before I had problems.  So now he became a very good friend.  We are very close.
I spent exceptional moments with him, and I would like to thank him warmly for that.
But I needed, of course, to find another coach.
I would have continued if I had been able to with him, because things were going very well.  But I can understand very well his point of view.  My choice was to work with Thierry.  No hesitation there.  I have known him for a long time on the tour.  He knows tennis very well.  He really has the ability to be a coach.
So I think now I'm back to a good level.  That's where I wanted to be.  Physically, I feel good, too.  I think with a good break, I will be able to play well in 2017.  I think things will go well.
Q. I guess you're going to talk with Thierry, but Thierry is also the coach for Benoit.  How are you going to share?
RICHARD GASQUET: I have no problems with that.  Benoit, either.  We asked Benoit, of course, if he was not bothered by this.  I get along well with him, since always.  I have absolutely no problems sharing a coach.  We started in Melbourne in Australia, already.  Then it's going to be Sergi in Indian Wells and Miami.  No problem to share with Benoit.  He's a friend.
I immediately thought about Thierry when Sebastien said he wanted to rest a little.  And I think I have another couple of years ahead of me where I can play at a good level.  I'm very motivated for next year.  I think things will go well with Thierry and Sergi.
Q. Do you have guarantees from Thierry?  Will there be a priority for you?  Your schedule will not be the same as Benoit, I guess.
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, Sergi was happy to work with Thierry, too.  Sergi also said he wanted Thierry, and I felt the same.  No hesitation there.  And the fact of being with Benoit doesn't bother me at all I say.  I have no problems with that.  A few years ago, I shared a coach with Nicolas Mahut.  It's not a problem.  No worries.
The main thing is I hope it's going to go well with Thierry, but he knows my game.  I listen to him on TV several times, and I know he's a good coach.  He knows how to be a coach.  I'm motivated.
Q. Do you already have plans for the next weeks?  When are you going to work with Thierry?  Only in Australia?
RICHARD GASQUET: First I'm going to go to Barcelona.  I want a real break.  Once I played the Masters.  Once I played the Davis Cup.  Once I had a pain in my back.
So now I'm going to have three full weeks in Barcelona.  I really want to prepare the next year, because it's been three years I haven't been preparing the next season properly.  So now I want to stay a long time with Sergi in Barcelona.  I want to play outdoors.  I really want to practice there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT