WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2016
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/M. Granollers
  4‑6, 7‑5, 6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. How good does it feel to get tough win today?
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, it's a Grand Slam match. You know, it can be always difficult, especially with the conditions. It's a different tennis sometimes because of sliding so much. 
It's grass court, so sometimes it's not only tennis, you know, so you need to concentrate a lot. I start well, but I did a bad end of the first set.
Yeah, he played well so I had to fight. I did the second set. I took a lot of confidence after that, and I'm happy to win because I think it was a tough match. 

Q. During the match a little rain started. Does it bother you?
RICHARD GASQUET: We know, you know, in Wimbledon you can stop. Even if it's raining just a little bit it's impossible to play.
It happen a lot of times to me last few years, so I know what to expect here in Wimbledon. It's okay. 

Q. I think your condition is the best, and you're a very experienced player. When you have like tough year or tough time in terms of maximize your resources, what do you do to overcome like slump?
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, right, it's normal to have tough times. It happens in a career. You have many injuries sometimes. In my career I had some serious injuries. 
Of course it's always difficult to come back. But, you know, we are professional tennis player. We need to come back to try the best to recover. And of course sometimes you play bad, you play good if you are injured. 
I still enjoy to play tennis. That's most important for me. I feel motivated 100% of mental. So that's why I'm coming back. 

Q. Also, do you look to psychologist to try and help?
RICHARD GASQUET: No, not too much. Talk a lot with my coach. Not so much. 

Q. Mid Sunday, what are you going to do? 
RICHARD GASQUET: I hope to be there. I'm playing Saturday, so if I'm winning I will practice. We see. I hope to win on Saturday, to stay here on Sunday. We will see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT