WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2016
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/A. Bedene
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. That match looked a lot closer than the scoreline suggested. A lot of breakpoints. 
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, especially on grass court, if he is doing all these breakpoints, it can be another match. He had many in the second set. 
As I said, it could be another the match. I think I played well. I saved all my breakpoints. I did mine all the time. Of course, it's a close match because he's playing very good from the baseline. He's a very dangerous player, has a good serve. 
To win in three sets, it's a good match for me. I'm very happy with the way I played because I know he's a dangerous player. 

Q. Are you hitting the ball a little bit harder than you used to?
RICHARD GASQUET: I try. I'm trying to. Of course, when I'm playing well, I'm doing it. Not every match, you know, but I think I am trying to serve better, trying to play more consistent, to go more to the net. 
Sometimes it's working. But if I want to be in another level, I think I need to do it. 

Q. What did you think of the time violation you received in the third set?
RICHARD GASQUET: I think he can tell me during the changeover, he can tell me, yeah, Be careful. He didn't tell me at all, so I didn't think at all. 
I think, yeah, it's a little mistake. But that's the rule. Some chair umpires told me, Be careful, next time I will do it. But, yeah, this time he didn't tell me at all. I think that's why I was surprised. 

Q. What are your thoughts on France hosting the Euros, and how closely are you following the French team?
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, of course, it's very important for French player, for France. Of course, I think they have everything to be in semifinals. They will be the favorite. 
But, of course, I'm follow them a lot. Every day, every time I can read something, yeah, I'm watching all matches. Of course, I think they can win the title this year. They are really close for me to win it. 

Q. What do you make of Iceland and the threat to France in the next game?
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I think it will be tough. You know, every match is difficult. I think that's a tough match. They are favorite. France is a very good team. They play solid. Big talent. Of course for me, they will win. But they need to be careful because Iceland has nothing to lose. But for me, we have a good team. 

Q. How often in a year do you think you would have to take antiinflammatories or something like that for pain before matches? A lot?
RICHARD GASQUET: You will be surprised, yeah, so I prefer not to tell (smiling). A lot. 

Q. Is this something a lot of players would have to do?
RICHARD GASQUET: I don't know with other players. But I do, yeah. Not during practice, but before matches. 

Q. I imagine it's not something you want to do. 
RICHARD GASQUET: No, of course. Sometimes I have no choice. I am working a lot to be healthy. Every day I'm working, working to have no pain, but sometime it happen. It's nothing crazy to take antiinflammatories. I imagine all the players are doing it. 
But, yeah, in other sports, I know a lot of football players, they do it a lot, too. 

Q. I notice you use your own white towel instead of the Wimbledon towel. What is the reason?
RICHARD GASQUET: Because I'm sweating a lot. With the white towel, it's more dry. It may be stupid, but I do it. 

Q. How do you like how the Wimbledon towels look and what do they mean to your family and friends? Are they asking you for them?
RICHARD GASQUET: Of course, everybody is asking me the towel. That's why I took it after the match. I have two towels, I take in the bag to give to my family. Every player are doing the same. 

Q. What do you think of the Wimbledon towel?
RICHARD GASQUET: Very nice. An incredible towel. When I stop tennis, I will be very happy to have these towels. That's why I take it.

Q. What's your record for regripping your racquet? How fast can you do it?
RICHARD GASQUET: Of course, I'm the fastest to do it. I'm sure about it. I didn't win a Grand Slam, but to do that I'm the best (laughter). Sure about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT