ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 3, 2020
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  R. GASQUET/T. Fritz
 6-0, 3-6, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. This broke a four-match losing streak going back to the US Open.  Why do you think you won today?  What was different about today's match compared to some of your recent ones?
 RICHARD GASQUET:   I just think I had a big injury just after US Open.  Couldn't practice at all.  Just play Roland Garros but without practice.  Then I had to play Medvedev in St. Petersburg and de Minaur in Belgium.  That's two of the best players in the world.  They were favorite of the match.
 Now I'm feeling a little bit better.  I could practice in indoors.  That's why, yeah, I know the court, I like to play here in Bercy.  Even if there is no crowd, it's different, but I still used to play here.  That's why I could play a good match because Taylor is a solid opponent.  He has a big serve.  So I'm happy with the way I played.
 Q. Was it difficult to concentrate at all with no fans there as normal?  It would be a good crowd to see a match that you play in there.
 RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, of course.  It's totally different.  You know, especially here in Bercy there is a lot of crowd cheering for French players.  So of course when you play with no crowd it's very, very strange.  Situation is strange.
 But I think we are lucky enough to play.  That's why I want to play.  I want to fight on the court, and I'm happy with the way I won.  You know, it's still a victory even of course not the same, as I said, but I'm happy.  Even if there is nobody, I'm happy to win.
 Q. What do you think about your next match against Diego Schwartzman?  You won the previous three times against him.
 RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, now it's totally different story.  Now he's No. 8 in the world.  I'm 56.  So when I played against him, you know, I was top 10, top 20.  He was maybe 40, 30.
 So it's another match.  He will be the favorite of the match because I'm not the same level, I'm not the same ranking.  Still I have nothing to lose.  I know him.  Of course he's playing very good.  I know his game.
 But I know how tough it is to play against him.  I try my best.  Of course, as I said, even if I won three times, I'm sure he's the favorite of the match.
 But everything is different.  Every match is different.  Now he's a top-10 player.  He's a solid player.  So it's not the same thing, as I said.  But you never know.  I try my best.  I'm happy with the way I played today.  I hope to recover well and to play good tomorrow.
 Q. Why do you think Diego improved so much this year and arrive at top 10?
 RICHARD GASQUET:   Because he's a very solid player.  The technique is perfect.  Perfect backhand, perfect forehand.  He's running well.  He doesn't do mistakes.
 As I said, his technique is perfect.  He's one of the best players from the baseline.  He's very clever on the court, he fights a lot.
 He's a solid player.  He deserve his top-10 spot.  He played very good, especially in Paris, in Rome.  I know it will be tough because he's one of the best players.  I respect him a lot.  I know how tough it is to play against him.  As I said, he's top 10 coming from the baseline.  Backhand and forehand is very clean.  He hits the ball very, very clean.  That's why he's so good.
 Q. You were talking about your previous matches with Diego Schwartzman and different situations, but obviously you have lost no sets.  In two of them you have won on hard courts.  So will you take a look at those matches, the videos, in anticipation to the next one to see what you have to do and what you think you have to do to repeat those results in the next round?
 RICHARD GASQUET:   No, I know I need just to play my best tennis.  It was in a final I remember.  Then in Monte-Carlo I was playing really good.  Now it's three years later.  I had some injuries.  Now he's playing more solid.  He's No. 8 or 9 in the world.
 That's why it is totally different match for me.  He will be the favorite even if I won him three times.  I know what is it.
 But I played good today.  I played good.  I'm in Bercy.  That's the courts I really like to play.  I'm in Paris.  So I know I will play a good match to win.  We will see, but I'm sure I will play a solid match tomorrow and I try my best to win.
 But as I said, he's No. 8, I'm 56.  It's a different story than some years ago.
 Q. Last time you played with him was last year, and also was on hard court.  Anything special that has to do with your serve and your backhand in terms of facing this match, or you talk of your game in general?
 RICHARD GASQUET:   I played a really good match last year, maybe my best match was in Cincinnati against him.  I played good.
 I know I need to play with big rhythm because he's playing very good from the baseline, so I need to play well, to serve well.
 Of course the court is fast here, so that's why I try my best, you know.  I know it will be tough, but, you know, every match is different.  I'm sure I have the weapon to win the match, but as I said, I will fight and we will see.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT