ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2016
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. GASQUET/K. Nishikori   
6-4, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  13 times lucky for you to reach the quarterfinals, that must feel very special?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, it's true, because I lost five times, four or five times in fourth round.  Very difficult, especially against Wawrinka a few years ago, I think I was leading two sets to, two sets to love.  So of course, it's a great match for me to win the No. 6 in the world on central court in Paris.  That's great.   
 Q.  So after the rain suspension, you started playing really good.  So did you try to analyze Kei's play during that time, and did you find...  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I think it was very important time for me to stop after that, because I was playing not good.  I was playing far from the baseline and very slow.  And of course my coach talk to me very loud, and that's why I did a bad game coming back.   
But after I think I played well.  And of course I took a lot of confidence after winning that set.  I played much better in the second set, and also with the crowd cheering for me, it was a great moment.   
 Q.  You lost against Kei in Madrid and Rome.  Did you change your strategy today against him?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I knew if I want to win this guy, I need to play very, very deep and very fast, because he's playing with big reason.  If I'm playing short like I did in Rome and Madrid, I have no chance to win.   
That's why when I came back on the court I did better things on the court, and that's why I think I won.  And of course very important for me to win the first set.   
 Q.  You have had some memorable matches against Andy, I think two here and the one at Wimbledon, as well.  So what do you remember of those?  What do you think you need to do differently this time?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I think that's one of the biggest fighter on the court.  He's fighting so good.  He's best physical condition on the tour with Djokovic.  Of course he's in confidence.  He played well this year, winning in Rome.   
I know what I need to do.  I need to play very offensive, because if not, it will be difficult for me to win.  So of course I need to play good match.  Of course he will be the favorite, but I have nothing to lose and I want to try to win this match.   
 Q.  After you won a third set, Kei was coming back, and he was fighting back and he took that set.  Then first game in the fourth set you broke his game with very good volleys and forehand winners.  Could you talk about the importance of that first game of the fourth set.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, of course, it's very important to win this game, because he was winning the third set.  He played well.  He's No. 6 in the world.  I knew it was a battle to finish the match for me.   
But I start playing very good in the fourth, and it was, for my confidence, was very good to end and to play better.  That's what I did, and of course I lead the game in the fourth and I think I played an amazing set.  That's why I could win this match.   
 Q.  How important will the crowd be for you on Tuesday?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, the crowd is always important, you know.  And like Davis Cup match for me today.  Very, very good for me.  I want to play well.  It's always important to have the crowd cheering for you, as they did it on the court, and I admit it made a big difference for me.   
And of course it will be the same on Tuesday, but for sure I need to play in big match to win Andy.   
 Q.  You played very determined today, mentally very strong.  Maybe you were extra motivated to beat Kei after defeat twice.  
RICHARD GASQUET: No, just motivated, you know, to play in Paris in the fourth round against one of the biggest player in the world with all the crowd cheering for me in Paris.  Biggest stage in the world for French player.   
That's why I really wanted to win this match, and of course I'm really happy, and because I did.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  So you took 13 years to reach the quarterfinals.  Why today?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, it's raining, right?  Yeah, it's raining, Man.  What can I say?   
Three years ago against Stan it was pretty close.  Djokovic I lost twice.  Once against Murray.  It's a question of game play, of level.   
Mentally it's fine.  It's just the game play.  You need to go for it when you want to win this type of match, and I delivered today.  Perhaps more than usual.   
 Q.  Maturity?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Maturity?  I don't know.  I'm now in the habit of doing Grand Slam matches.  I have done quite a few in the past, but I really wanted to do a good match today, and I think this rain interruption did me a world of good, because we had a very good chat.   
I was at 4-2 in the first.  I wasn't following the right strategy.  If I don't hit back with this type of player, there's no way I could have won.   
Winning the first set was great for the rest.  It was a big game.   
 Q.  Is this your best memory, even better than Berdych in the Davis Cup?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, yes, of course, because I have gone one round further than usual.  With Wawrinka, I didn't push through.  Now I'm just on the biggest court in the world for a French tennis player.  It's really important for me to succeed there.   
I think the backhand was good, the service was good.  I think I played much better as soon as we restarted the game, and really that interruption did me a world of good.   
 Q.  In the fourth set we heard you asking people to buckle up, to be polite.  Were you a bit nervous?  
RICHARD GASQUET: No, I don't really see what you're talking about.   
 Q.  When you told people to shut up.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Oh, well, the point wasn't quite finished, and people were, like, talking during the point.  I don't think they did it on purpose, but, you know, when you're out there playing, you don't always say the best thing.   
But it was disturbing me.  It was just for a point.  So not that big of a deal.   
 Q.  Could you talk about the tactics change that Sergi recommended?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, he said, If you want to beat top players, if I'm with people who are not top seed, it's okay, but if you're with these top-seed players, they have a very powerful backhand.  You need to be able to follow the pace because the pace is faster and faster as these players get better and better.  So you also need to be able to whack the ball from the baseline, and that's what I tried to do.  Like in Rome or like in Madrid.  If I had played him the same way as there, I wouldn't have won.   
 Q.  Did the match against Berdych help you?  There was a lot of very good atmosphere.  You're playing with a red, white, and blue outfit.  Is it an anecdote or kind of a patriotic thing?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Grand Slam helped me last year, too.  I beat Stan in Wimbledon, Novak in the US Open.  I think I'm now better at the five-set format.  A couple of Davis Cup matches, too.   
I really enjoy playing tennis, these types of matches, and I enjoy playing Roland Garros with the public.  It was a big match for me, and I'm really happy that I played so well and won.   
 Q.  When you talk about Sergi Bruguera, beyond the match, what has he contributed to your play apart from in the French Open?  What has he contributed since you have been working together?  
RICHARD GASQUET: I think that when you get good results, I think these guys have amazing experience, much more than coaches who have never played tennis.  They can see how the game play is doing, they can see when my balls are too short or they can see when I'm playing too far, and they try and fine-tune that.  The pace of the balls.  They see tennis.  They know what it's about.   
That's what I really like about him.  It's this huge experience.  He's played the biggest games in the world, and you can't make that up.  That's why players often take coaches who have won Grand Slam finals, because their experience is very powerful.   
 Q.  You have often had very tough fights against Murray.  How do you think that's going to be next?  
RICHARD GASQUET: He's a huge fighter.  He runs all over the place.  You never get a free point.  He has a very powerful mind.   
When the point is important, he serves fast, he sends back, physically he's perfect.   
He's a big competitor.  And he always hangs in there and wins these matches.  Makes very few mistakes, is very good at defense, too.  He's confident.  He had a surprisingly difficult start to this tournament.   
But he played very well in Rome and Madrid.  He's the No. 2 player, and for good reason.  Because he's a great player.   
 Q.  You were talking about the pace that you had to have against Murray, but you need to be physically very fit in order to do so.  You change anything in your prep recently?  
RICHARD GASQUET: No, physically I feel good.  I think I have made good progress over the past years.  That's not why I lost the matches.  It wasn't for that.  I just needed to serve better, just needed to go up to the net.  That's the only way to defeat very big players.   
I know Murray well.  We have played together very often.  He's always defeated me in the Grand Slam, but I'd like to change the tide.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT