MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2016
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. POUILLE/R. Gasquet
4-6, 7-5, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Were you nervous?  We felt you were a bit a annoyed at the end of the match.
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, in the third set.  It was difficult to stay calm.  I didn't want to smile at that stage.  I was a bit annoyed, indeed.  But that's sport.  When you feel something getting away from you...
From the start, I didn't feel well.  I didn't hit the ball behind the service line during the whole match.  I couldn't see well.  I couldn't see the ball.
At 3-All, 4-All, I was up Love-30, and I couldn't see the ball because of the sun, the shadow.  I was not able to win those games.  I wasn't able to play well.
He took his chances.  He served well.  I made 800 backhand cross-courts that didn't go beyond the service line, so I was not in good shape today.
A bit tired at the end.  It was not a good match.  The only moment where I have regrets is that there are moments in the match at 3-All, 4-All, where I could do something, even if I was not playing well.  I was not able to do that.  That is my regret.  But that's the way it is.  It was not very good.
I had opportunities to break him.  It could have been one set all.  In the third set, my level dropped.
Q. He seemed calmer.
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, he was calmer.  I was not hitting the ball cleanly.  He plays well.  I know he's able to play extremely well.  He's a great player.  He has a good forehand, a good backhand.  He moves better than he did before.  He served well.
Again, I tell you I'm regretting those moments at 3-All and 4-All where I made too many mistakes.  These points are extremely important.  I know that.  I know I must not make a mistake, as I did today.
Q. Did you feel during practice that you were not well today?
RICHARD GASQUET: Not really.  But I know I have to raise my level.  Of course, the injury was tough for me.  Now I need to come back.  But it's difficult.
But anyway, I'm coming out of this match without having any pain in my back.  I'm already happy with that.  Now I'll try to start again.  But, of course, I am able to play a lot better than I did today.
Q. Novak said he was tired.
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, after all the matches he won, I understand he needs some rest.  This is something you can understand.  I have no problem with that.  But everyone has his own problems.  I need to take care of mine.  I have a lot of work to do.
Q. Do you believe your opponent can be the new generation?
RICHARD GASQUET: He plays very well.  He might be the next No. 1 French player.  He's a very good player.  You need to congratulate him for his match.  He hit the ball well.  He served well.
Of course, at 4-All I made mistakes.  But he played well.  I need to congratulate my opponent.  I'm sure he will become the No. 1 in France very soon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT