BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 6, 2015
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/R. Gasquet
  7‑6, 3‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English. 

Q. You obviously played very well in that match and still came up on the losing side. Can you tell me what he does that means even a lot of your best tennis is not good enough?
RICHARD GASQUET: Because he never missing. You know, even if you are winning, as I did in the third set, I know he never miss a return. Always putting the ball in the court, playing very fast from the baseline, serving well. He's very clever on the court. Fighting so much. That's why. It's Andy Murray.

Q. If you finish 9th, are you still hopeful of being able to have a part to play in London?
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, we never know. I did it two years ago, I couldn't play. But last year, I think I played an alternate, one match or two. I don't remember. Why not? We will see. 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French. 

Q. What are your feelings after that match? You played a good match, but Andy Murray is too strong? 
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, a good match? Well, it's a pretty good match, no? I think it's more than a good match. I was unlucky on the set point. He made an incredible shot. There are only three or four players who can do that. A chip just coming back to hit the line. It's enormous. He was able to come back then. 
I mean, the fight was extremely physical. It was extremely tough. He never gives away anything. Never makes a mistake. He always makes you run. Every time you make him move, he's able to return the ball. He's a real fighter.

Q. You believe if you had this break in the beginning of the third set you would have been able to win it? 
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, I still had to hold four serve games after that, so it's a bit tough. But of course it would have been another match, a different match. But, you know, it's never over until the very last point. 

Q. Is it because it was too tough physically?
RICHARD GASQUET: Well, at 2‑1 I made a great return, but I missed a backhand that I shouldn't have missed. Just one or two mistakes at 4‑3, and then it's over. 
He has so much experience. He knows exactly how to win. He knows how to come back. So you can't afford a single mistake if you want to beat him. 

Q. We saw him sometimes hold his back or his thigh. Were you thinking he was getting hurt, or does he do that all the time?
RICHARD GASQUET: I knew he would be able to play another two hours without any problems. No doubt about that. He has one of the best physical condition on the tour, so I have no doubts about his physical condition. 

Q. So do you feel now you are very close to the top players? You're more consistent?
RICHARD GASQUET: I believe I deserve the ranking I have today. I'm already quite happy to be back within the top 10 players. It's already a goal I had. 
But now I need to beat the players that are better ranked than me. I really need to beat them. I'm not that far. The more I will play them, the more I will have a chance to win those matches. I will try my best next year for that. 
I'm very happy to be among the top 10, because after the US Open, I really worked hard to be back to that ranking and to play a lot.

Q. What happens between this Masters 1000 and London? What are you going to do? Practice?
RICHARD GASQUET: I'm going to practice a little bit, but not too much. It will be a bonus if I'm able to play there. We will see what Isner is going to do. Because if I'm 9 or 10, it's a different thing. 

Q. You didn't lose much. 
RICHARD GASQUET: It's only against Sock or Tomic that I had bad losses. Otherwise my season was very consistent. I was able to have good results even in Grand Slams. I'm very happy with this season. I won many tight matches, so it's a very nice season for me. I'm very happy.

Q. About your game, what did you improve? Can you explain?
RICHARD GASQUET: I was trying to serve better and return better. Physically I'm fit. I moved well on the court today. I was always there on the ball. 
I really believe I deserve my ranking today. It's great to be back within the top 10 after the problems I had. Now I'm going to try to go even further. I want to be even better next year. It's good to have new goals. I'll try to have a good season next year.

Q. What did you think about the atmosphere today?
RICHARD GASQUET: It was great. It was fantastic. The crowd was behind me from the beginning to the end. It's fantastic. I love playing in France. There is no problem, no, never. It's great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT