BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 5, 2015
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/K. Nishikori
  7‑6, 4‑1 (ret.) 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
   
 Q. First set was tough, was tight, physically and mentally, too. Many break points to save. How did you manage this?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, there was that break point. It was 5‑All, and we had difficult rallies before that, and I was able to save those break points. If he had made it at 5, it would have been more difficult for me.   
So it was very important for me to win that first set, because there were many rallies. Physically it was very difficult and very few unforced errors. So it was important to win 7‑6 after almost one hour and 10 minutes.   
After, I don't know what happened. I don't know exactly what he had, some pain. I hope it's not serious, because he stopped.   
But I played well. I made very few unforced errors. I was hitting hard on both sides. Serving well.  
   
 Q. So tonight you might have done two things at the same time. I mean, he got hurt. You beat him. And did you talk with him?  
RICHARD GASQUET: No, no. We'll see. It's in 10 days, so there is time to recuperate. I'm going to try to go as far as I can in this tournament, meanwhile.  
   
 Q. Can you talk about how you managed physically after the sixth point of the tiebreaker? Apparently your legs were just burnt out. How did you do?  
RICHARD GASQUET: I was lucky that we changed sides. It was really tough. My heart was beating hard, and I took a lot of time. It helped me.   
And then he made an unforced error at 3‑All that helped me a lot, too. I had a good idea and it was my experience that told me to stop a very long time after at that point because we had run back and forth. So with the change of sides at 3‑All, I walked very slowly, for sure.   
   
 Q. So how do you see your next match against Murray?  
RICHARD GASQUET: He's one of the best players in the world. He's extremely difficult to beat every time because he makes few unforced errors. He returns everything. He feels the game extremely well. He's one of the best competitors on the tour. He's really tough. He hits hard on both sides. He runs a lot. He has no weaknesses.   
It's complicated to play against him. I played him several times already on the tour, and often our matches were very tight. But to beat him, you need to give it all. He's really tough.   
   
 Q. Do you feel now you are able to play several tournaments back to back a lot better than you used to? You were in Basel. So in spite of the tiredness, we can see you're fit.   
RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, I feel good. I played many matches lately. In Wimbledon, I was able to play five‑setters. In the US Open, too. And then physically you have to improve after that. I have been able to play several months in a row now, and physically it helps.   
Last week I played a lot, too. But even if I am tired, well, your body gets used to it, and you are more fit for the next tournaments. Your body gets used to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT