WIMBLEDON
July 10, 2015
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/R. Gasquet
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   You won a lot of new fans out there on Centre Court.   They fell in love with your beautiful backhand.   Is that any consolation at all?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I tried to do my best.   I did a good first set.   I did some great backhand.   
But, of course, I would like to do a little bit better then after that.   I tried to be aggressive.   I try my best.   I did a good match.   It was tough to do better.   Sometimes I did mistakes in the tiebreak, of course.   Some backhand I could put on the court.   
It was 2‑All, then it was 7‑2 very fast after that.   It wasn't good.   He never miss on some returns.   He serves well.   That's why he's No.1 in the world.  
   
 Q.   When you saw Novak seemingly have a bit of an injury, did that give you a bit of a lift?   What was going through your mind at that stage?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   No, it was nothing crazy because he didn't take the timeout, three minutes.   He just take the changeover.   It was nothing serious, I hope, for him.   
   
 Q.   The tiebreak, was that the key to the match?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   It's better winning the first set.   I could take confidence after that.   It's tough when you are losing to the No.1, 7‑6.   Then he played better.   
So, yeah, the tiebreak was important.   But it's just one set, it's not all the match after that even if I'm winning this tiebreak.   It can be another match, but it's not everything.  
   
 Q.   It felt like you were the better player in the first set.   Did you feel that, too?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, from the baseline I was playing great.   I was playing fast.   Going to the net with a lot of confidence.   
But the key, yeah, he serves better than me, returns better than me.   Then when you have these two shots on grass court, it make the difference, yeah.   
   
 Q.   It's been a good tournament for you.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, of course, it's been a great tournament for me.   To lose against Novak in semifinal, it's very nice for me.   I did my best.   I'm really happy the way I played and the way I finished the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Your grass court season is not over yet.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   No, of course.   We are staying to go to Queen's Club.   Of course it's important competition for us, for France.   So, of course, I want to recover a little bit, to be ready for next week.   
   
 Q.   If Murray wins and plays Djokovic, who do you think will win?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   It's very difficult to say.  
   
 Q.   Who should I put my money on?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Really, to be honest, I really don't know.   Even me, if I have to put money, I don't really know to put.   It's 50/50 for me.   Everybody can win.   
   
 Q.   What is the single most difficult thing when you're facing Novak?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   His return.   His return.   That's the best because he never miss.   Never miss a return.   You all the time serve, you serve.   The ball is always on your side again.   It's very difficult.   You never make so many aces.   
He doesn't make unforced error.   Even from the baseline he's playing fast with a lot of aggressivity.   He take the ball early.   
Yeah, that's why it's tough.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT