WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/N. Kyrgios
  7‑5, 6‑1, 6‑7, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   When you saved those two match points and won the set, did your mind go back to last year at all or were you able to keep positive?
RICHARD GASQUET:   To be honest, a little bit, yes (smiling).   Yeah, a little bit, it's true.   I throw the racquet.   It's true, I broke one. 
Yeah, a little bit.   Because that one was on my serve.   Last year I had nine on his serve.   The first one was on my serve.   Yeah, he did great shots in this tiebreak.   I couldn't finish, 7‑6 for him. 
Then in the fourth set, he had two set points at 6‑4, and he did mistakes.   He serve incredible in this tiebreak again.   It could be 7‑6 again, could be a fifth set. 
Yeah, it could be a nightmare for me again.   I'm happy to finish in four. 

Q.   What is the general experience like playing against Nick Kyrgios?   I couldn't be sure if he was arguing with you, the fans.   Must be a crazy experience to be at the other end of the court?
RICHARD GASQUET:   To play against him? 

Q.   Yes. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, but it's okay for me.   I didn't see that things, when he talked to the crowd, talked to me, if he didn't talk to me or something. 
To be honest, I have no problem with that.   The problem I had, yeah, he served well.   Even if he's doing some mistakes, he can stay in the match with his serve. 
Yeah, for me, sometimes is different on the court, yeah, than other players.   Is possible. 
Not big things.   Nothing crazy.   He's talking to the crowd, yeah, a little bit. 

Q.   There was a moment in the second set where he appeared to give up on the service game.   Did you notice that?   What did you make of that?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, he was a little bit angry, a little bit frustrated, I saw that.   Yeah, but I knew in the third set, it could be a different game. 
Sometime it happen.   He's not the only one to did it.   Even the best player in the world did it in the past. 
It's true, he give me a little bit this set.   But I knew actually it wouldn't be the same in the third and fourth.   But he played much better.   He's a fighter.   After that he fought a lot. 
Of course, I don't know what happened.   He was a little bit frustrated, but... 

Q.   Is it hard to concentrate when a player does that?
RICHARD GASQUET:   It's good when the opponent is not playing good, is doing some mistakes.   Is good for me.   I have nothing to complain about it. 
I knew it shouldn't be the same in the third.   He played much better.   So I'm happy to finish in four set because I saw little bit last year, same court, same thing.   It's good for me to close that match. 

Q.   Do you think he was playing under par which helped you to win or did you think you had to raise your game in order to win the match?
RICHARD GASQUET:   I start well, the match.   The first set was open.   He could win that one.   Sure, in the second one, he did many mistakes.   Then he was a little bit better than me in the third.   He broke me.   In the start of the fourth set, the same, he was leading.   Yeah, he can win that match, of course. 
It was a close match, yeah.   He was serving incredible in the tiebreak, doing three aces.   Everything could happen after that.   So I'm happy because he did some, again, two double‑fault to close the match.   It was nice for me. 

Q.   What's he like away from the courts?   Is he a player that other players like and are friendly with or is he a bit of a loner that keeps to himself?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, no, it's a nice guy.   I told it before the match.   He's a very nice guy.   Always talking to everybody. 
So, no, it's a good guy.   I have nothing to complain about it. 
Even today.   He's talking sometimes to the crowd, umpire or something. 
But me, I broke one racquet, so the same. 

Q.   You're being very generous about him before the match.   Do you still feel the same about him as an opponent?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Of course. 

Q.   Any gamesmanship?
RICHARD GASQUET:   I have nothing to complain in the match.   It was okay.   It was okay on me.   I have nothing to tell about it. 
Is true, he likes the show, of course.   Everybody can see that.   But I still think it's good to have some players like that on the circuit.   Sometimes people are talking because the players are boring or something.   Now we have someone who is doing different things. 
I think is good for us. 

Q.   You're back in the quarters after many years.   How does it feel to be back?   Does it help that you managed to get through a situation you didn't succeed in last year?   Does that give you any extra confidence?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I'm playing great.   I beat Dimitrov third round on Centre Court.   Winning Nick today.   Last year I lost. 
I'm very happy to be back in quarterfinals.   I lost many times in a Grand Slam in a fourth round.   It's very good for me to be here in quarterfinal.   Now we will see what will happen.   I am feeling good.

Q.   Do you think smashing that racquet helped you win today?
RICHARD GASQUET:   It's possible, yeah.   Maybe I will have a fine. 

Q.   Worth it, though?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah.   I felt better after that, yeah.   I was very frustrated.   Last year I had nine.   11 match points in a row.   I think you can understand if I am frustrated.   Everybody can understand why I was. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT