WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2015
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/G. Dimitrov
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you sum up that performance?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I'm really happy with the way I played, especially to win on Centre Court.   My first time I'm winning on that court, so it's a great feeling for me.   To win in three sets against Dimitrov, it's a big match. 

Q.   You held serve throughout the match.   That must have added confidence, as well. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, of course.   I'm feeling confident now, especially winning in three sets on Centre Court against a guy like Dimitrov.   It's a great performance for me.   I'm fresh for Monday. 

Q.   Your next match is against Nick.   You played him last year.   Didn't go your way.   Can you reflect on that match and how different do you feel today compared to last year?
RICHARD GASQUET:   It was an incredible match.   Very tough because I had nine match points and I couldn't do it, so it was a big match.   Of course it was tough to lose.   He played incredible.
Of course after that he won Nadal.   It was a big thing for everybody.   Of course it's revenge.   I played him this year in final in Estoril but it was on clay.   It's much different. 
Of course last year, even if I lost, it was a match we never forget, me and him.   And for sure because it was his first match he won against a good player, I was top 10, and me, when you are losing with nine match points it's very difficult.

Q.   Was it difficult to get over it?   Did it stay in your mind for a while?
RICHARD GASQUET:   No, it's tennis.   Life goes on after that.   It's not incredible.   You have many tournaments.
But of course it was a tough match.   When you are with nine match points, it's always difficult to forget.

Q.   He talks a lot during matches and engages the crowd.   He's is a different kind of player.   Is it easy for you to stay focused when you're playing someone like that?
RICHARD GASQUET:   I have no problem with that.   I think it's great for the game.   He has a good personality.   He's fun to watch on the court.   He's nice off the court.   That's the most important.   He respects the players off the court.
He's always talking in the locker room.   I think he's a nice guy.   On and off the court he's a good player for tennis.

Q.   What is key for you to do against him in the next match?   He's improved quite a bit since you played him. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Most important is return of serve.   He has one of the best serves in the world.   He has a big forehand.   He's a tough opponent because he has such a great serve.   And to return him on grass, it's very difficult.   That's why he's one of the best players on this court. 
He won Raonic today.   I didn't see the match, but I imagine he played and served incredible.

Q.   You have beaten Grigor five times now.   Why do you think you play so well against him?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, it's a good record, but I don't know exactly why I'm playing well against him.   Maybe next time I will lose.   You never know what can happen.
But of course I played him many times.   I played good matches, especially here on the Centre Court, and it was a big match for us, so it's a great performance for me.   I'm really happy with the way I played. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT