ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2015
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  R. GASQUET/G. Gigounon  6-3, 6-4, 6-0  br />  THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   Q.  How do you feel physically after the match?  RICHARD GASQUET: Well, no pain.  That's the most important thing.  The first match is always a difficult one to play.  The first set was difficult.  I was a bit nervous.  It was difficult for me to play well. He was okay, relaxed.  He broke me several times.  I won the first set.  That was good for the rest.  My third set was really good.   Q.  Your serves were not very powerful during the first set.  How come?  RICHARD GASQUET: The balls were heavy.  The weather was not good.  It was difficult for me to hit even from the baseline.  It was not just my serves.  I was not really feeling well, but then afterwards we had long rallies.  It was difficult for me to breathe correctly.  But then afterwards, you know, I ended the match really well. It's the second round now.  This is what counts.   Q.  Are you satisfied?  Because you have played less than two hours on the court.  RICHARD GASQUET: Yes, I'm satisfied.  He was playing well.  He's a talented player.  I could have lost the first set.  The second one was a bit tight as well. You never know what can happen.  But it was okay.  Each time I had a break point I won it. So I'm happy to have won the match and to be 100% present for the second round.  That's the most important thing for me.   Q.  Were you surprised by how well he played?  RICHARD GASQUET: No, he qualified himself.  I saw him when he played for the qualification matches.  I know he was fast.  I was not surprised.  He was relaxed.  He didn't have anything to lose, so no surprise as far as this is concerned.  It's the first round of Roland Garros.  All the matches are tough.   Q.  Now, it's the second round.  Your other possible opponent has reached the fifth set.  What can you say about this player?  He specializes on clay?  RICHARD GASQUET: I defeated him last year, and he plays well on clay.  He won tournaments on clay.  He's won against good players, so it's always physically difficult to play against him. But I know what I have to do to defeat him.  I will do my best to win and to go as deep as I can.   Q.  A physical struggle.  Is that what you need today?  RICHARD GASQUET: No.  You know, I played him several times, many tournaments and matches on clay.  I'm ready for this fight.  Nothing to do with last year.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT