QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 7, 2015
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/S. Bolelli
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Well done.   You seemed to be hitting the ball very well at certain stages of that match.   Did you feel like that?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I think I played well.   I start well.   Winning 3‑0.   Then I finished 6‑3.   And start of the second set, I did the same thing well at the start of the set.   It was important. 
I think I did just a bad game in the match at 3‑0 for me, but then I played better and better.   I'm really happy to win 6‑3, 6‑2.   It's a great match for me.

Q.   Why did you play better and better?   Is it just getting used to the surface of the court and the conditions?
RICHARD GASQUET:   No, I need to play many more matches, I need to practice every day, and I will be better and better.   So I need to do it with no injuries, and that's my goal:   to be fit every day. 
Then of course I will improve my game.   I need to win, to build confidence.   That's why I'm here.

Q.   How do you feel physically now?   100%?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I think I'm feeling better.   I feel no pain in my back.   That's I think the most important for me, so I need to do the same for tomorrow, to play matches, to build my body back. 
We will see what will happen tomorrow.   Of course it will be more difficult with Berdych, but I will try my best.

Q.   You have got a good record against him, though, haven't you?   You have beaten him more often than not. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   He's a great player.   He's very big opponent, top 10 since many years now, so I know it will tough for me. 
But as you said, I won many times against him.   I know him since I am a child.   Now I played many times.   We will see who will be the best tomorrow, but I think we will play a good match. 

Q.   Is it exactly the kind of match you need to prepare for a Grand Slam?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, of course.   I need matches to prepare for the season, to improve in my game, to improve my physical condition.   I expect a big match tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT