BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 29, 2014
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. BAUTISTA AGUT/R. Gasquet
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   So the doubles and the singles.   What does it inspire you?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Nothing at all.   The doubles, really nothing.
The singles are much more inspiring to me.   The guy played extremely well, and for me it's a bit difficult to play on that kind of surface that is fast, but especially where the ball doesn't bounce.
So this is difficult for my game.   It's difficult to topspin.   I believe he played extremely well.   It was difficult to play for me.   I don't know why he's not better ranked.
I didn't return well, but I fought until the end and the guy was better than I was.

Q.   But you're not injured?   The thigh is okay?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Physically I'm fine, and my tennis is not bad, but playing against a player who plays flat the way he does on that kind of surface, indoors, is difficult for me.   I believe he played very well.
Of course I'm not happy that I lost 6‑4, 6‑2, but I think he really played a really good match.

Q.   So you haven't had many victories.   Is that going to be a problem for the upcoming Davis Cup?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, I'm really disappointed that I lost here, of course, but after the Davis Cup it was really tough to go to Asia.   After the Berdych match, my thigh was hurting a little. 
I think in Lille it's going to be different.   I have no pain.   My tennis is not bad.   I feel good.   And the surface will be different.

Q.   Even if you say you were focused on this tournament, aren't you already thinking about Lille?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, but I was there to win that match today.   There's no excuse.   No excuse at all. 
As I said, I believe the guy played extremely well.   The surface is not my best surface because there is no bounce.   It's the worst surface for me.
And as years go by I see that it's not getting better.   I never had good results on that kind of surface.   But it's not because I was thinking of Davis Cup that I lost that particular match.
Now, in Asia it was tough.   When you go to Asia it's for three weeks.   After the French Open where I spent a lot of energy, it was difficult to start playing again. 
So now I'm ready to play on clay.   I have no injuries and I'm fine. 

Q.   Do you believe in the end that maybe it's better in a way that you lost?   You'll have more time for the Davis Cup final. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   I don't see anything positive losing 4 and 2 on center court here in Bercy.   But, no, it's over.   Of course, yes, it's true, I can focus 100% on Davis Cup.
But anyway, I'm happy that I'm not injured.   I'm 100% physically.   I have no pain and I'm going to play now on my best surface, so I'm happy.   I'll be happy to change surfaces, play on clay, and play in another stadium.
I'm going to start practicing as soon as I can to be ready.

Q.   Can you tell us how you're gonna spend the rest of the week here and the next week?   Are you going to play a lot of tennis or are you going to get some rest before?   How are you going to adapt to clay?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, yes, I think we have an advantage because we have two weeks to practice on clay.   It's an advantage compared with the Swiss. 
Now, winning or losing matches is maybe not the most important thing.   The most important thing is to be fit physically, playing really good, better than I have ever played since the French Open. 
I will really try to start practicing as soon as I can on clay so I can sort of be in advance.

Q.   Stan, who just came here, said that there were many other important events in the end of the season other than the Davis Cup, and he didn't want to think too much about the Davis Cup.   He could be injured before that.   And for you, is it easier?   Simple?   Just playing here, playing the Davis Cup? 
RICHARD GASQUET:   I would prefer to play the Masters.   I can't say the contrary.   But a Davis Cup final is different.   I honestly prefer to play a Davis Cup final than going to the Masters.   I have been last year.   I know how it is. 
Anyway, it wouldn't change my life if I had to play again in the Masters, but it would be better for me to play well in Davis Cup.   Especially since we're playing at home, so it's more important to me.

Q.   When you were young, do you have a precise memory of a Davis Cup final that you maybe watched on TV and that you were... 
RICHARD GASQUET:   I saw the '91 and the '96 ties, and 2002 in Bercy.   We watched it here, like everyone else. 
And now being in a final is something extremely important, and I'm happy I can think about it now.
And now it's good because this is the only goal I have.   But I would have preferred to win today.

Q.   What is your opinion on Roger Federer playing here, playing everything?   Do you think it's crazy, it's a risk he's taking?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, two semifinals in a Grand Slam, only this is what I did, so it's difficult for me to say anything for Roger.   He has a lot, a lot of experience.   He's played hundreds of matches and Grand Slams, so I believe the decision he's making is made knowing exactly what he's doing. 
I mean, everything can happen, of course, but I believe that during his whole career Roger managed his schedule extremely well. 
So if he decided to do that, he has his own reasons, and he certainly knows what he's doing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT