ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2014
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. VERDASCO/R. Gasquet 
      6‑3, 6‑2, 6‑3

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English. 

Q.   Just about the match and how you felt.   It seemed like your back was affecting you out there.   Just how you felt overall. 
    RICHARD GASQUET:   I think he just too good for me.   When I stop for two months, the level is too high for me, especially after playing two matches.   I was a little bit tired before playing yesterday. 
    As I said, he played all the clay court season.   It was tough for me and he deserve this win. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   The fact of starting late yesterday evening, did that really impact the results or have an impact on the results today?
    RICHARD GASQUET:   No, that's not the reason I lost.   Sooner or later it was not the reason for my being defeated. 
    You know, I didn't have much left in me, and, you know, the other match before had tired me.   My back was aching a little, so I was not really well before I stepped on to the courts.   I stopped for two months, so this level is too high for me. 
    It was predictable.   Yet I tried to fight as much as I could to the end of the match, but it was very difficult.   What I miss is strength to play at this level.

Q.   Now, when you were on the courts at 8:30, did you know or did you guess that you wouldn't go to the end of the match because it was too dark? 
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, that was better for me.   I knew that I would play two matches, and therefore, you know, I didn't have four or five sets in my legs already, so that was okay.   I was almost happy to go back home yesterday evening. 
    It didn't really affect me at all.   It was an anecdote to play yesterday and to continue today, no problem.   Not at all.
    The problem was the level.   It was too high.   As I said before, I had backache, and I was tired.   He played so well, so that's all it is. 
    You can't have only 10 days of practice and defeat him. 

Q.   You were saying you were not strong enough.   Is it because you didn't practice or hit enough balls?
    RICHARD GASQUET:   It's the level of the game.   It's so high.   And I stopped for so long.   It's incredible to reach the third round.   This is something I couldn't have hoped for, given the level I had reached four days before playing.   You know, I didn't even think I would reach this third round.
    Now I'm careful, but I don't want to hurt any longer.   I mean, physically, the results is positive.   I can't hope better than that.   You know, let's not kid ourselves about this. 

Q.   You have done something good and your back is not that bad.   Yet you look like you're disappointed even though you have had good results. 
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, you know, it's the third round.   It's great.   But then of course you're disappointed if you're defeated anywhere.   You'll always be disappointed. A loss is always difficult to take. 
    But this one is not that bad, is it?   And I did my best, as well.   But I'm disappointed because I thought, well, maybe the fourth round. 
    But, you know, I'm not at my best.   Therefore, reaching the third round is almost a miracle. 
    He plays well, as well.   So it was not easy for me, not obvious.   I'm not strong enough.   And it's my legs.   It's the strength that I miss. 
    And he hits the points really strongly. 

Q.   How are you going to get ready for the grass season?
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, I'll take care of myself.   I'll work on my body.   I hope that I'll continue on the same path.   The most important thing is that I've started this tournament.   You never know what can happen.   I have no pain, I think, which is very important. 
    Then I'll practice.   I'll try and work on my physical condition day in and day out.   I'll work, I'll work.   That's the only thing can I do to come back is to work.   It's courage and work.
    There is no secret about it.   There is nothing complicated in tennis.   It's very simple; to reach your best level of game you have to do this 100%.

Q.   Will Sergi be with you?   Probably yes.   What do you expect from him on grass because this is not your preferred surface?   Can he help you mentally for Wimbledon?
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, either clay or hard surfaces, it doesn't really matter.   What matters is the mental approach.   He knows tennis.   You can say what you want.   When you play at a high level you know more about tennis than those who have never played. 
    There are moments and situations he knows, because he's experienced them that I feel as well.   When he speaks to me, I feel what he says.   So he's going to be positive for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT