BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 7, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/R. Gasquet
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How have you found the atmosphere on court this week?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   The atmosphere is very, very nice.   It's the best court in indoor I never played on.   
I think it's wonderful.   The court is perfect.   A lot of people.   The atmosphere is great.   
Of course, it's disappointing for me to lose two match in a row, but I try my best.   It's, as I said, very nice to play on this court.   
   
 Q.   You obviously have had a very good season.   Is there anything you've taken from this week that you can put into your off‑season for 2014?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, of course.   I'm taking a lot of experience playing this Masters because the level is very high, very difficult.   So, of course, it's very good for me to play these match for next year.   
I think I'm taking a lot of information for 2014, and I will try to do better.   These guys are tough, are very great players, the best in the world.   So I need to improve on my game to play these guys.   
   
 Q.   Do you notice anything different playing Federer now than in previous seasons?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I think it's a great court for him.   To play him indoors is very difficult for my game.   He's playing fast, especially with the forehand.   Yeah, he's still a very good player.   He's still able to win the tournament, yeah.   
   
 Q.   One of the features of the tournament is you get well‑known sports people here, Olivier Giroud and Laurent Koscielny.   Do you get to know these sports people throughout your career?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   They are friend of mine.   It was very nice for them to come here.   I saw them on the corner.   It was nice they support me.   I thank them for coming.   I appreciate it.   
   
 Q.   Richard, usually French players are here.   Tsonga got to a final.   Do you think they appreciate the work you are doing?   Roger today said if you don't get to the finals, you are not mentioned.   Do you think the work of the French players is appreciated all around?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Appreciated?   I don't know.   We're trying our best, of course.   We are not Federer, Nadal.   No French won a Grand Slam.   But we are just trying the best we can.   Everybody can't be No.1.   
So, as I said, we are just trying our best to improve our game, to be better tennis player.   That's why we are playing tennis to improve and to try to win that guys.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about the men's game in France at the moment.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, we are a lot of great players in France.   Of course, we are two in the top 10, a lot in the top 20.   We are a great team next year for the Davis Cup.   We are a lot of consistent players.   
We are happy with the way France is playing in tennis.   
   
 Q.   During the match, a graphic went up where you were standing in this match compared to when you beat Roger in 2005.   You were behind the baseline.   Did you try to bring the game to him, attack him more?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I think I tried to play more aggressive.   Especially Roger, he takes the ball very early.   I need to play more aggressive.   Sometimes he did it.   Sometimes I did it.   
But, of course, I need to play better and more aggressive to win these matches especially in indoors.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT