BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 31, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/K. Nishikori
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us what happened in your mind between 7:00 and 7:30?   When you saw the match point of Berdych, was it total excitement or what?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, it's very special to be in that kind of situation.   You can try to say you're not looking, that you will be concentrating on your own match, but I wanted to know because I was relieved when I knew I was qualified so I was not so tense for my match.  
I mean, it's sports.   It's normal I was relieved that he lost.   And then of course I knew after that I had an important match to play in Bercy here in front of a full stadium.   I was very motivated for that match, but just one coming right after the other one was the best situation I could dream of.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your qualification for the Masters?   The first time you didn't have so many problems; this time you had more problems and you made it in a more difficult way.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, it was more difficult for me to qualify this time than six years ago.   It was tough for me to come back, and today I believe the tennis is at a very high level.   
I won three tournaments and I went far at the US Open.   Almost had no injuries during the whole year.   It was a full season, and that is an award for this very good season.  
But I believe it was tougher to get qualified.   I played a lot better than six years ago when I went to Shanghai.   I'm very proud to be able to go back to the Masters this year.   
If I had been told two or three years ago that I would qualify again for the Masters I wouldn't have believed it.  
   
 Q.   So about your emotions, watching the end of the match between Raonic and Berdych, did you kiss Berdych?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   I saw Piatti, who was very tense.   He was telling me, Concentrate on your match, focus.   But I could see him and I knew it was difficult for him, too.   The tiebreaker was really tough.   We were many watching it.   
Berdych played a very good match, and this helps.   It helped me when I went onto the court against Nishikori.   But you can't expect others to lose.   I needed to win my matches.   It was easier for me, though, knowing I was qualified.   
I really wanted to win that match, because whatever, it would have been really tough to finish the day losing.   It was a very good match.  
   
 Q.   About the match against Nishikori, how did it go?   It was quite tight in the beginning.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   I was trying to play high balls because I know he prefers to have a good rhythm.   I was able to break him early.   It gave me confidence.   The surface is fast and the serve is very important, so I was able also to play well during the second set.   
It was a full match.   I had no letdowns.   The day is perfect.   You can't dream anything better.  
   
 Q.   If Nadal wins tonight you will have good taste of what is going to happen in London the week after.   How are you going to live that?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, I tasted it at least ten times already against Rafa, and I know it's difficult.   It's going to be a big match.  
Maybe this is the surface where I have most chances of winning ‑ a lot more than on clay anyway.   
In spite of that, he will be the favorite.   But I need to go and play that match.  
   
 Q.   But you played a lot this season and that was a risk you took, six weeks in a row.   In Moscow you wanted to go; the team was not so sure you should go.   Can you explain?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   If I wanted to try to qualify, I needed to play a lot.   If I hadn't been to Moscow I believe I wouldn't be qualified tonight.   It's as simple as that.   
It was good for me.   I was able to win matches and make many points, so it was a good choice.   
Very simply, I wouldn't be qualified if I hadn't been in Moscow, so I believe I was smart.   
Of course, I would have liked to play better in Shanghai, but I lost early.   Physically, it was tough.   
Now here in Bercy it's the sixth week in a row, but I have no choice.   I won many matches this season.   I think I played well tonight, but it's not very easy.   
I had to play those tournaments, because even after the US Open I was playing well.   Beijing, Moscow I had good results.   
   
 Q.   "Masters" is a magical word, a magical atmosphere.   You were in London last year as a substitute.   Can you talk about it.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, the stadium is absolutely marvelous.   It is very prestigious.   I think it's even above what I experienced in Shanghai.   It's always full.   We feel people are extremely excited.   
There are only very big matches there.   It's absolutely fabulous for me to be qualified.   I'm very proud of it.   
I will have only tough matches, but I love the stadium.   And the crowd is great.   It's a lot of fun.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   Can you just talk a bit about the year you have had and obviously the fact that now you've reached London and your thoughts about going back to that season‑ending event?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I think it's a big achievement for me to go in London because I did a big season, playing well, winning three tournaments.   For sure I played well even in US Open.   Qualified for the for semifinals.   
So, yeah, of course.   I won 50 matches this year, so it's an incredible season for me.   So it's difficult to do better for me.   I never got injured, so of course it's wonderful for me to go there in London.   It's a big achievement.  
   
 Q.   Can you remember 2007 and qualifying and what that was like to play in the tournament?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, of course.   It was in Shanghai.   It was a long time ago, six years ago, so for sure it was a big ‑‑I fight a lot all the year to qualify for London.   You know, I won many matches.   I played well.   And of course, yeah, I'm very happy to go there.   
It's the six years ago I went in Shanghai, a long time, so of course I want to enjoy there.   Yeah, of course it's not over, all the tournament.   I'm still in Bercy.   
But, yeah, I'm looking forward for the next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT