WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2019
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. GASQUET/D. Schwartzman   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  If you could just talk about the match a little bit, saving the set points and getting to another Masters 1000 quarterfinal.  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, of course was an important first set.  He was leading 6-4 in the tiebreak.  Yeah, it was the key of match to win this set, because it was a one-hour-long set, physically very difficult.   
Yeah, I feel more confident winning it and then I could break him start of the second set, winning 3-0.  I start well.  Of course the last game was tough for me.  I felt a little bit pressure, but it was a good game for me.   
He's a very good player, very solid from the baseline.  It's a great victory for me.  It's a big tournament here, and it's important for me to be in quarters.   
 Q.  He had you at 5-2 and 6-4 in the breaker and you won that.  You broke him in his first service game second set.  Do you think he was maybe still holding on to that?  
RICHARD GASQUET: It's important to win first set, you know.  We played one hour.  Lots of rallies.  Of course I feel better winning this set.   
For the mental, it's important.  That's why I could break him in the second set.  I feel more confidence, playing more offensive.  I served better, so, yeah, it's a good match.  It's a fast court, and when you can serve well, as I did today, it's important.   
 Q.  What is your favorite shot to hit?  Is the backhand down the line one of your favorite shots to hit?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, I think.  I think of course the backhand is better than forehand.  Yeah, it's a stroke I did well today.  I managed to do it very good, and I think it was one of the keys of the match.   
 Q.  You have been having big wins and big moments on tour now for 15 years.  When you first came on tour as a teenager, would this longevity have surprised you or is it just kind of expected?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Yeah, of course.  I was not thinking I would play until -- I'm 33 now.  Of course I come here, I wasn't -- 2005, first year.  So, yeah, it's a long, very long, but I still enjoying it.  I'm still playing well.  I still like to play matches.   
Yeah, I don't know how long I will play.  Maybe two, three years.  It's tough to say.  Yeah, I still like it.  And of course it's a big longevity for me, but you see a lot of players who are playing late now, so it helps for me to play more and more.   
 Q.  What's changed for you, if anything, over that time span you just talked about?  Anything in your game?  Have you had to tweak any parts of your game or your fitness?  
RICHARD GASQUET: It's tough to say.  You know, it's tough to say what change when I was a teenager.  I was 7 in the world in 2007, so it's tough to say.   
But for sure physically the game is bigger now.  It's much tougher than before.  The physical condition is high level now, more than when I started in 2005.  It's more difficult.   
Of course I work a lot to feel better on my physical condition.  Yeah, of course.  Mentally I still like to -- I still enjoy to play.   
 Q.  Have you had to change your diet or anything?  Is it pretty much the same since you have been on tour?  
RICHARD GASQUET: I see physio more often than before.  Of course when I was 20 years old, I tell you, I didn't see physio so much.  But now, at 33, I need to see the physio every day.   
That's the difference, the big difference.  As a teenager, when you're young, of course, it's easier to recover faster.  Now at 33, you have to be very careful.   
 Q.  As a young player, did you model your backhand after anyone in particular?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Not so much.  Not so much.  It's a natural stroke.  You know, I played always one-handed backhand, even when I was six, seven years old.  Yeah, but of course I practiced a lot on it, but it's something natural for me.   
 Q.  In your comeback from surgery this year, was there a moment where you felt like you were rounding into form and finding your top tennis again?  Or was it not until this week?  
RICHARD GASQUET: Last week, I was feeling better last week winning Nishikori.  Was a very good match for me.  7-6 in the third.  Physically was tough.  I managed to play from the baseline very fast, you know, playing my game.   
That's why after this match I felt I was playing better.  That's why now I can play with the high level like today.  You know, you need to be fast, you need to serve well, you need to be strong.  Last week after this match I felt better.  Of course it's a long process, but today it was a big match for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT