U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/R. Gasquet
      6‑4, 7‑6, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   I know it's so soon after your match, but you had a great run here.   Are you able to look back and take a lot of positives out of the tournament as a whole?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, of course.   I made the semifinals, so for sure for me it's a big step.   Last time I did it was six years ago, very long for me.   
    But of course it's very nice to finish a tournament and to be in semifinal.   Of course I'm a little bit disappointed.   I think I was close to win the second set.   I could do the break in the second, you never know what could happen in the third.   
    But I think he was little bit better than me.   No problem with that.   Of course it's a very good tournament for me.  
   
 Q.   He comes in with such a great record on hard courts, and he hadn't lost serve.   You changed that.   You could take some small victories out of that, too.   You played him well.   
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I don't know if it's a victory to win his serve.   I'm not sure about it.   I think it's better to win one set or more.  
    But it's true, in a Grand Slam it's even tougher to play against him because it's three sets to win.   
    But, yeah, I did not a bad match, but it was 3 sets 0, so at the end he was the best on the court.   I think in the second if I could do a break and serve for the set.   We will never know.  
    But it's Nadal.   That's why he's the best player, especially on hard.   He play well.   I'm happy with the tournament I did.   
   
 Q.   Judging this year's performance, one of the best year of your career, one semifinal, two fourth round, and Wimbledon third round.   How are you looking back?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I'm playing well.   I'm I think in top 10 for the race, so for sure it's a big achievement for me.   Last year I finish in the top 10.   This year when I start the year I wanted to play the Masters Cup.   I'm still in the race to do that, and I will try to play in London this year.   
    I think there is not so many tournaments to play, so I'm still in the race, and I will try to do Masters Cup.   But for sure it's a good year for me to play here semis.   It's a big result for me.   
   
 Q.   How much of a confidence builder has this tournament been for you?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   I can take a lot of confidence with this tournament because I did two five sets and I won them.   Physically I played well.   Mentally I was tough, too.  
    I did two big matches against Raonic and Ferrer.   So for sure it's very nice, very good for me.   I know I can play long matches.   I know I'm ready to win this fight, and that's big for me.   
    Yeah, I think I'm more confident after the tournament, this tournament, and I hope I will play good in the future.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT