U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/D. Ferrer
      6‑3, 6‑1, 4‑6, 2‑6, 6‑3 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You won the first two sets, lost the next two.   Going into the fifth set against a guy you have only beaten once before, what's going through your head?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Even if I was leading two sets to love I knew it was David Ferrer.   I knew he's a big fighter so I knew it was not over.   He played well in the start in the third set.   
    Fourth set I played well too, but he was a little bit better than me.   So I knew I had to keep my serve in the fifth, and that's what I did.   I did a bad game at 3‑2 for me, and then I was leading 4‑1.   
    I knew I was so close to win this match, and I fight a lot to finish.   Especially at 5‑3 I was a little bit nervous to go in the semis of US Open, and I managed to do it.   It's a big victory for me.  
   
 Q.   You lost a lot of close five‑set matches in your career.   What does it mean to you, this match, and the last match against Raonic?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   I think I lost it, but I won some, too.   So it's in the middle, you know.   I don't want to say I lost all the time in the fifth set because I won against Roddick in quarter in Wimbledon.   Two days ago I won in five set too.   
    It's true I lost sometimes too.   But always difficult for me when you are losing this kind of match, especially when your are winning, 5‑2 in the fifth, I really wanted to close that match to win, because it's Ferrer, center court in US Open, so it's a big chance for me to go in semis.   
    I knew in the fifth set it was a very important set for me.  
   
 Q.   We don't know for sure who your semifinal opponent is, but if it is Rafa, your record on the pro tour is not so great, but can you talk about ‑I was trying to be nice ‑but can you talk about the match you played when you were 13?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   I saw on YouTube that video sometimes.   People are talking about this video, you know, when I played against him, against Rafa.   YouTube and I can see I'm winning against him, so I don't believe it sometimes (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us how weird that was?   
    RICHARD GASQUET:   No, I didn't know him when I played him, you know, when I was 13 years old.   He was already fighting a lot already, already running so much, and I remember I won maybe 6‑4 in a set, and I told my father after, He's a big fighter.   
    I didn't lie; I was true.   In the future, this one is biggest player in the world in the history.   So for sure I won that time at 13 years old, but since this match I didn't...   
   
 Q.   Where was that, do you know?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   It was a match in Tarbes, one of the biggest tournaments for the younger children under 14.   You know, it's good to win under 14, but is better to win on the pro, and I didn't.   But life is long, huh?   We are only 27 years old.   Even me.   So why not?   We will see.  
   
 Q.   Your record against Ferrer wasn't so good, either.   
    RICHARD GASQUET:   No, no, no.  
   
 Q.   But today what was the difference?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   I was losing 8 to 1 against him, so it's difficult.   But I'm really happy to win against him, especially in five sets, especially in a quarter in center court.   It's a big victory for me.  
   
 Q.   It's been a while since you have been to a semifinal.   
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, six years ago.   I did a great match against Roddick winning 8‑6 in the fifth; today I won in five sets, too.   For sure one of the biggest victory.  
   
 Q.   That fifth set, you know, it's very hard to put Ferrer away, but you showed a level of maturity that, you know, since that all the hard work you have been doing, a lot of fitness.   And since that pays off, like how is your confidence in the fifth set?   Certain times you are playing a little defensive.   How did you change to continue being aggressive?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, for sure I think I work a lot physically.   Was a little bit tired after Raonic.   We play 4 hours 30 minutes, but I knew I could play another big match.   I was feeling not so tired this morning.   
    And I knew I had to be aggressive.   My backhand was working very good today.   I think it was the key of the match.   I played a lot of down the line, and it work very good.   
    Yeah, for sure I played aggressive.   I knew I had to start well, too, and I managed to do that two shots.   And when I'm serving great and I have this backhand, I think I can play well.  
   
 Q.   If you play Rafa with the record you have had, how do you maintain confidence going into the match?   And do you feel you're playing at your highest level you have played in recent years?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I think it's very difficult to play against Rafa.   I'm not the only one to lose, to have this record.   But it's very difficult because he's powerful, especially with the forehand.   
    No, I'm in semis in US Open.   I want to do the best I can do.   I will try to go in this match to win.   If not, don't go on the court.   
    But I know he's the favorite of the match.   Nobody will say I'm the favorite.   But, yeah, I want to play a big match.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're playing at the best you have played in the last few years?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I'm playing very good.   I'm in semis in US Open, so for sure I'm playing my best tennis.   To win Raonic and Ferrer in five sets you need to play your best tennis.  
   
 Q.   This is the second five‑setter in a row.   How are you holding up physically?   How are you feeling right now?  
    RICHARD GASQUET:   Right now for sure a little bit tired (laughter).   
    But I have two days to recover.   I'm playing Saturday.   That's make a big difference for me.   I think Saturday I will be fresh.  
    But, yeah, especially I was a little bit ‑‑this was difficult, because Raonic, we played big match.   But today was the same.   I managed to fight in the fifth.   It was a big victory for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT