MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 19, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. FOGNINI/R. Gasquet
  7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   You played the first set well.   In the second set, it seemed like your level wasn't the same. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I think he played better than me.   I lost a little bit of confidence after losing the first set 7‑6.   It's always tough. 
Yeah, he played better than me, he returned well.   I think he did a great match.   I'm happy for him. 
I didn't do my best today.   But it's tennis.   I tried my best.   I hope next time I will win. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   Was it complicated today?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, clearly.   I didn't feel good today and there was that set point in the first set.   I was very close, but my legs were not moving.   I was always far behind.   I was not playing deep enough. 
He was running very fast, and I was slow.   I had no energy. 

Q.   You were not able to hit many winners. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, it was tough for me to serve.   I was not feeling well.   I'm extremely disappointed.   I believed it was possible for me to win.   But I know I came to this tournament without preparation and I'm paying for that right now. 

Q.   Did you believe you would do better today?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, I played well yesterday.   But, as I said, I didn't have any preparation coming into this tournament, and I'm not 100%.   I tried everything I could.   I thought I would be able to reach the semis. 
In the second set, it was really tough for me.   In the tiebreaker, I stayed back instead of moving forward.   I really didn't play well.   In the second set I totally collapsed and he played very well. 

Q.   That set point when you were 5‑All or 5‑6?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, I didn't feel well from the start anyway.   But I'm not trying to find any excuses.   I simply didn't play well. 

Q.   And what about the crowd? 
RICHARD GASQUET:   It has nothing to do with it. 

Q.   Didn't you have the impression they were slightly in favor of Fognini?
RICHARD GASQUET:   To say the least.   But this doesn't make me lose at all.   It's just that I wasn't able to move forward. 

Q.   What do you have to say about his game?
RICHARD GASQUET:   He played extremely well.   He was very fast and I was really not at my top level. 
I have no excuse.   This match is really disappointing. 

Q.   What was your level of fitness for that match?
RICHARD GASQUET:   I don't know.   It's difficult to say.   I always want to be 100% when you come to a tournament, and I was not at 100% at all.   I'm really disappointed I have to stop here.   I had the possibility of winning that match. 
Now I'm happy because I will be able to rest.   I really need to stop a little bit. 

Q.   Are you paying for the great number of matches you played, more than 30?
RICHARD GASQUET:   A little bit.   On the other hand, I'm not the only one playing, feeling tired.   But I must say I was extremely tired for that match, and he played very well. 
I should have moved forward much more than that.   I was trying to play my cross‑court backhand, but it didn't work. 

Q.   Do you believe it's wiser not to play Barcelona?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Oh, I'm not going to go there.   I'll try to get fit for Madrid.   Playing this American tour, then Buenos Aires was tough.   I knew it beforehand. 

Q.   It's not really your concern, but what do you think of the match between Jo and Rafa?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, Jo is playing well right now.   Of course, Nadal is the favorite on clay.   But Jo might have the crowd behind him and he hits very hard. 

Q.   What about that passing shot on the set point that you played right into his racquet?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, it was a poor passing shot.   But my return was too short anyway.   I didn't deserve to win that point.   But seeing the match afterwards, it would have been better for me to win it. 

Q.   Were you ready to play three sets?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, yes, but I felt from the beginning of the match that it was going to be really tough.   I was not able to move and I paid for that.   I would have needed those points at the net. 
But I must insist on the fact that he played a fantastic match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT