MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/M. Cilic
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   Are you happy not only with the victory but the way you played in this match?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, it's a very good victory.   He's a very high‑ranked player.   I played well.   I returned well.   I made very few unforced errors.   
Maybe I could have moved forward a bit more.   But anyway it was a beautiful victory.   
In the beginning, I was not feeling so well.   But afterwards I got into it.   
   
 Q.   There were two key moments in that match.   At 5‑All 40‑Love for you, and he came back to deuce, but you managed to make it.   And then at 3‑All in the second set.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, I believe I managed those points pretty well.   The match was tough and he could have won it in the second set, and the first set was also very tight.   We played very good rallies.   It was not easy, and it is important for me that I was able to win.   
   
 Q.   What about Fognini next round?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   It's going to be extremely tough.   He beat Berdych today.   He made very few unforced errors and it's going to be a quarterfinal in the Monte‑Carlo tournament.   
   
 Q.   How can you explain that the past two matches you played against him, he was able to make only four games?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   I don't really remember.   It was a long time ago.   I believe he improved a lot since then.   We're going to play on clay here.   It was on hard.   He likes playing in Monte‑Carlo.   He likes playing on clay, so it's going to be tough.   
   
 Q.   Is it going to be an all‑Italian match from the supporters' side, because you had some Italian supporters today.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   It's normal.   We are very close to Italy here, although we are in France.   I will try everything I can to win the match.   But he's a very dangerous player.   
   
 Q.   You only reached the quarterfinals three times.   It's not much.   It was a long time ago, as well.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, but I had to play Nadal in the second round.   So it's good for me to be in the quarters here.   I'll try to go further, if I can.   I believe it's possible, although it's going to be difficult tomorrow.   
I'm ready and I'm hoping I'll play a good match.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised that he plays at that level?   He reached No.28 today.   He was No.32 before.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   I'm not surprised.   He played very well since he was a kid, and I believe he deserves to be better than top 28.   He can be top 20 anytime.   He has the level for that.   
   
 Q.   When you stopped with your ankle and all that, was it just a parenthesis, because you seemed to come back with the same level you had before, as fit?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   But I didn't have a good preparation for this tournament.   Sometimes physically I felt I was a bit lacking.   
But I came here with a confidence from Miami.   I hope I'll feel better tomorrow.   I believe I was able to negotiate the important moments in this match very well.   
   
 Q.   Is the best match of your career the one you played against Federer here, winning it after saving a match point?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   I have very good memories of that match.   At the time I was top 100 in the world.   I was certainly not a favorite.   I went into the court thinking I would lose 6‑Love, 6‑Love, and I ended up winning!   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT