MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 16, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/B. Paire
  6‑1, 3‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   In that third set, it seems you were changing a little bit the height of the ball.   He played very well the second set.   Did you change your game and use similar aggressiveness as well?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   I tried to be more aggressive.   For sure he played better than me in the second set.   I lost five games in a row.   So it was difficult.   
He was being more aggressive.   I was playing a little bit short.   That's why he played well.   I tried to start at the start of the third to break him and I broke him 2‑0, 3‑0.   That's why my confidence went up.   I won 6‑1.   
It's a good victory for me because in the start of the set everything could happen.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   We know you are not trying to find any excuses, but coming back from Argentina, you must be exhausted.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   'Exhausted' is not the word.   I'm not about to die.   But it is not easy, indeed.   Coming back from Argentina, even though I didn't play myself, it's pretty tough.   
Today my opponent play extremely well and he was hitting hard, and sometimes I was very far from the ball.   But thanks to my experience, I was able to raise my level of tennis in the third set and I ended up winning.   
   
 Q.   This is your first clay court tournament.   Are you happy with this match?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, in the first set I made mistakes and he was playing well.   In the second I lost five games in a row.   But fortunately in the third set I was happy that I was not broken in that game where I was down Love‑30, and this gave me confidence, and I played well in the third.   
That was an important match to win, and I'm happy with the result.   I'm happy I won the first round because now I'm only playing Thursday.   
   
 Q.   So you have physical problems and also it's your first clay court match.   Are there other problems you have?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   No.   These two are already enough.   I had trouble moving on clay today.   It felt strange.   So really I'm happy I was able to win that match.   Also I was able to play 100%.   My ankle is a lot better.   
Of course, I wasn't able to practice in Argentina, and after being back from Argentina either.   So I knew I really had to fight on the court.   But my confidence is there.   
   
 Q.   We're talking about the collateral damages of Argentina, of the Davis Cup.   Does it apply to you?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, maybe.   Although I didn't play, as I said, so maybe I'm less 'damaged' than the other ones.   What is difficult to deal with is the drop in pressure, the sudden drop in the pressure, and it's tough to get going again.   I was lucky here that I got a bye.   
This was a first round on clay and also I had some physical worries, so it was tough.   
   
 Q.   What was most difficult on the clay?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   I had trouble sliding sometimes.   But here at least you don't go to five sets.   During the past two weeks I rested my ankle, so everything went well.   But I need to practice more on clay.   
   
 Q.   How long will it take before your ankle is totally recovered?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   I don't exactly know.   But what I need to do now is play matches.   As I said, I didn't practice in Argentina, and when I got back either.   So practicing is important now.   
   
 Q.   Is there any risk of getting your ankle worse if you play?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   No, there's no risk at all.   It can't get worse.   It just hurts now and then.   
   
 Q.   You wanted to be really honest, and you decided that you were not able to play the Davis Cup tie.   So now people are saying it's your fault that the French team lost.   What do you think about that?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Maybe the fact that I went to the semifinal in Miami made people think I could have played.   I'm sure in Miami, if I hadn't had this injury with my ankle, I could have won the tournament.   I'm not the kind of guy who overestimates himself, but I'm sure I had everything in my hands to beat Murray.   It was very unfortunate that I had this injury.   
I knew it was totally impossible for me to play five sets in Buenos Aires.   It was impossible.   I'm used to having people criticize me, even if I didn't even play.   The most important thing for me is that the captain and the team understand.   As to other people's opinion, it's not so important for me.   
   
 Q.   Do you believe you're a target for the press all the time?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   No, no, I wouldn't say that.   I'm not feeling sorry for myself or anything like that.   I know you have to write articles, so it's good for you.   Personally it doesn't bother me.   
So I knew with my ankle I couldn't possibly play five sets for the Davis Cup.   Of course, I'm disappointed that things didn't work out.   On top of it, I was not able to help.   So I'm the first one to be disappointed.   
It was really like receiving a kick in the head because I knew the team might need me to play on clay, and I was extremely disappointed with this ankle thing.   
   
 Q.   What do you expect from this clay court season?   You are starting with a high ranking.   What are your goals?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   My first goal is to play well.   I know I can do well in Rome, Madrid and also the French Open.   I went twice to the Round of 16 there, against Djokovic and Murray.   But I'm sure I can do better.   So I want to go further than the Round of 16.   
I will try everything I can and try to go as far as I can.   
   
 Q.   Among the top 10 players, many of them have been injured, are coming back.   Does this change the favorites for the French Open?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   I believe in the French Open the favorites will always be the same.   Federer is going to come back.   And the best players will be the top favorites again.   I'm not sure it's going to be more open than other years.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT