SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 29, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/R. Gasquet
  6‑7, 6‑1, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tough match tonight.   What was happening with your feet?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I had an ankle problem already from Indian Wells, so I felt a little bit and I have some problem feeling bad with that, but I try my best.   
For sure when you have to play a guy like Andy, it's tough.   I think I didn't lose because of that.   I lost because he's very good.  
   
 Q.   When did you start to feel the problem in your ankle?   Because the first set you seemed to be moving well.  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I felt better in the first but was tougher in the second set.   I try my best, you know.   It was a little bit difficult for me.   
And Andy is not missing a shot.   He always returning me, always he serves well, he runs good.   It was tough for me.  
As I said, I didn't lose because of that.   I lost because he was better.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you had a good shot if you didn't have the foot problem?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   I don't know.   I don't know.   I think everybody has problem with their body.   I felt mine tonight a little bit.   It happen to every player, so I managed to play with.   I think it's not because of that I lost.  
   
 Q.   What makes Andy Murray and David Ferrer so tough?   What makes them so tough?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Because he feels the game incredible, you know.   He's doing everything incredible.   He serves well.   He returns very good.   He runs a lot.   He defends.   He's the best defender in the world and he never miss.   He's a very good player.  
   
 Q.   Also David Ferrer.   You have obviously played him a lot.   You have had trouble with him.   What makes him so good?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   The same.   I think both are very good players.   They have all the shots of tennis.   Physically very good and never miss.   They run very well from the baseline, so they are tough player to beat.  
   
 Q.   Obviously it's tough to lose, but what are the positives you take out of this week?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, for sure it was very nice week for me.   To do semis in Miami it's a great tournament for me.   I think I could win today.   I won the first set, but I try my best and for sure it's a great week for me.   
I'm really happy with the way I play this week.   First set I play great.   I try my best to win, but he was better to win.  
   
 Q.   It seems like your success was mostly moving forward.   Is that what you are going to try to do more in the future?  
 RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I'm trying to perform to improve my game.   I work a lot.   I'm playing a lot of tournaments.   I played well.   The confidence is going on every week, week after week, and for sure I'm very motivated with the rest of the season.   I try to win this kind of match in the future.   
 Q.   What is your next tournament?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Davis Cup in Argentina next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT