SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 28, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You have been playing well all year.   Was this one of the best?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I won two tournaments, it's true.   But here it's Masters 1000.   It's a big match, quarterfinal, center court.   It's a little bit different.  
As I said, it's an important match.   You can go to semis, one of the biggest tournaments in the year.   So I'm really happy with the way I played.   
It was a good match for me.   And I think, yeah, I was solid mentally.   I was playing very good.   So, no, I'm really happy with the way I ‑‑I'm in the semifinal.   It's an important match for me.  
   
 Q.   The only other Frenchman who has done well here is your coach.   Is he telling you good things?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, he's telling me good things every day, for sure.   He did finals so many years ago, so I will try to do the same as him.   It will be tough.   For sure tomorrow I have a difficult match to play.   
I know Andy.   I have played a lot of times in the past.   I'm sure I can do it, but for sure I will try to do the same as Sebastien.  
   
 Q.   There were some reports that you were having some ankle problems in Indian Wells.   Is that feeling better?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, every day I am feeling better.   I have a physio every day here, so that's important for me.   He helps me a lot.   
So I think I twist an ankle in Indian Wells, so now it's better.   For sure it's incredible for me to be in semis here.   I didn't expect that after Indian Wells, but tennis you need to fight.   I did great against Almagro, and tonight I feel better.  
   
 Q.   What sort of challenge does Andy Murray give you as an opponent?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, he has all the shots of tennis:   serving well, returning incredible, running well.   He can play well in the attack.   He's one of the best attackers in the world.   He can do everything on the tennis court.   He's very clever.  
He's an unbelievable player, but I know his game.   I think we played a lot of times already in the past, but for sure he will be the favorite.  
I have nothing to lose, and I will try to play a good match.  
   
 Q.   With your results here, you're going to move to No. 9 in the rankings, and you could go as high as No. 8 in the tournament.   Have you set any specific ranking goals for yourself this year?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   No.   I just try to play my best on every match, every match.   It was good to win some tournaments this year.   I already did, already won two, and I think last year I finish in the top 10.   It was important.   
So this year I try to play the Masters Cup.   You know, last year I was an alternate.   I did some years ago, so I will try to do again this year.   I am starting well the year.   I am able to do it.  
   
 Q.   You have two coaches, right?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What is it that one offers over the other?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, I think it's good for me to change sometimes.   I think Sebastien can't travel every week with me.   He has family and everything.   He's happy to come with me on some tournaments.   I really like to be with him.   He has a lot of experience.   He played on the tour.   He was one of the best players in the world.   So, no, he's a friend of mine.   I really like to be with him.   He's important for me.   
Piatti is the same.   He was coach of Ljubicic.   So both have a lot of experience.   Both are clever, and I really like to practice with them.  
   
 Q.   Any tactical difference between the two?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   No, nothing different.   You know, they have the similar point of view on my game.   I need to go more to the net, to play close to the baseline.   
Yeah, both are, I think, the same.  
   
 Q.   I wanted to pick up on what you said on one of your previous answers.   You said you have nothing to lose.   In some of the matches you have played against Andy, you have been in big situations leading at Wimbledon and he came back to win.   How much different do you feel on a court when you don't have much to lose?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   I feel, you know, I can play better with my ‑‑I'm more confident in my strokes, you know.   I can go and try a lot of things because I have nothing to lose, and I can be very dangerous.   
For sure, I know I can win against Andy.   As I said, he's the favorite.   He's No. 3 in the world.   But I know his game.   I know how he plays.   I play so many times against him.   We did great matches in the past.   
But, yeah, as I said, I will do my best to win him.   And for sure I have nothing to lose, and I can go on the court to play aggressive and try to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT