QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 5, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. GASQUET/N. Davydenko
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   How do you feel now? 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Very happy.   It's normal.   I win in Doha.   It's a big tournament.   It's the first of the year. 
As I said, a lot of big players won here, like Federer, a lot of big guys, big names.
I'm really happy with the way I played and fight.   He was playing fast in the first set.   I just try to keep focused and to fight a lot, and I did it.   You know, I'm really happy with the way I won.   It's important for me to win the final.

Q.   How do you see yourself for the Australian Open?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, very good.   I think I'm in confidence.   When you're winning a tournament like that, it's perfect.   I played a lot, so for sure I will be ready for Melbourne. 

Q.   Did you feel that physically you had more than he did throughout the whole time?
RICHARD GASQUET:   I think I was a little bit fresher than him in the third set, but he's playing so fast so he could break me in the second game in the third so everything could happen.   He could win, too.   We were so close together, so it was a big match, big fight.
I'm really happy to win 6‑3 because it was tough for me.

Q.   Do you think the turning point of the match was in the second set when you were down a break point and you could have gone down... 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I think he missed a break point, important one.   I think that was the difference, and I played a good game and for sure a big tiebreak.   I winning it very close, and then in the third set it was another match.   I feel more confidence.   Physically it was another match, too. 
I fight a lot, as I said.   You always want to win the final.   You know, it's important for me.   I lost a lot of finals in my life, so I wanted to win. 

Q.   What were your thoughts when he went off with the injury?   I mean, you didn't seem too happy that he was taking so much time, but at the same time did you think that maybe when he came back that you had a clear advantage?
RICHARD GASQUET:   For sure, I knew it was ‑‑it's never easy, but those are the rules.   It's not a big problem for me.   I wanted to keep going, to break him in the first game.   I couldn't do it.   And he could break me in the second game so he could lead 2‑0 and then it's another match.   I managed to break him at 3‑2 and 5‑2, and it made the difference.

Q.   Davydenko said you beat him physically.   Do you think it was actually physically or it was your technique, also?
RICHARD GASQUET:   I think physically, for sure.   It was a big match, long match.   In the third set physically he's coming.   I think he was playing unbelievable, and technically he was playing so fast it was tough for me to play. 
He was playing with a big backhand, very fast.   It's tough when he's playing like that.   He's very tough.   I tried to do my best.   Most important is to fight.   I just wanted to do it, and I did it.   I won the tiebreak in the second set and I played well in the third. 
You know, it was a big fight.   I defend a lot, and I run a lot, so as I said, it's important for me to win.   It's never the same tournament when you win or if you lose in final.

Q.   I read that you pulled out of Sydney.   Is that true? 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I think, I mean, I want to be careful with elbow and everything.   I had a problem in the past.   I did five matches here, so I just want to be ready for Melbourne.

Q.   But you are feeling fine?   It's just precautionary?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I'm feeling fine.   I need to recover, to fly well to Melbourne, and we will see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT