QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 1, 2013
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/J. Hernych
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Were you pleased with that?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I'm happy to win the first match of the year.   It's never easy, always tense.   
Two months I didn't play in a tournament.   The first five games were difficult for me.   I was near to be breaked, and he didn't do it.   And I felt more confidence in my game, and I tried to focus on my serve.   I'm happy with the way I played.  
It's good to win.   Now I have another match tomorrow, so that's good.  
   
 Q.   After breaking serve in the first game of the second set, you seemed to feel more comfortable after that.   Is that true?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah.   When you break the guy in front of you, you feel more confident after that.   It's important to be in front and to lead the game, and I prefer to do it and I did it.   I'm happy.   
As I said, I played well.   My serve was good.   It's nice for me to win.   I hope to play well tomorrow and to win again.  
   
 Q.   I think you only lost five points on your serve throughout the whole of the second set, which is very good.   When you serve well, does that give you confidence?   Is it like a barometer?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, the serve today, it's very important.   Everybody has a big serve, but you need to serve well in the match.   That's a big weapon.   That's the most important in the game.   
So when my service is going well, the rest of my game is going well, too.   It's very important.  
   
 Q.   You played quite a lot of the match quite a long way behind the baseline.   Is that the way you still prefer to play, or do you...   
RICHARD GASQUET:   The way I still prefer to play.   Sometimes I know when I'm playing good, I'm going more to the net.   That's what I'm doing every day in practice, and for sure I need to do it in a match.   I need to improve on that stage, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Will you feel more comfortable now you've got one match behind you?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, for sure.   It's always better when you're winning.   You feel more comfortable in your game, but for sure every match is difficult.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT