BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 31, 2012
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/K. Anderson
  7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   It was a strange match.   We felt it was quite uneven.   There was this tiebreaker, and then you felt better?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   I played a very good match.   I was a bit tired in the third set.   I think during the first set I played my best tennis of the year.   I couldn't play better than in the first set.   
I made winners with my forehand which doesn't happen to me every day.   I was feeling good.   I played incredible breakpoints.   I'm just disappointed with the beginning of my third set.   I was supposed to dominate the game, and I lost 3‑Love very quickly.   I was a bit tired, though.   
Otherwise I believe I played well for the first two sets and he played a great match.   
   
 Q.   You have incredible statistics in the first set.   When did you lose the match?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   I think the turning point was the beginning of the third set.   I played incredibly bad there.   I should have been confident.   I was playing well.   But he served well and played well at that moment.   He was making no mistakes from the baseline.  
I believe my first set was one of the best of my whole year, but of course it's the end of the season.   I'm tired, and this took its toll in the third set.  
   
 Q.   Are you disappointed?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, I would have liked to be among the top 10 this year and in the Masters, but I tried everything I could during the whole season and I played well.   
It's always disappointing to lose here at first round, but tennis is a very difficult sport.   You play 10 months a year almost every week, and it's very difficult to play all these tournaments back to back.   
I felt I was tired today.   I was happy with my game today, but I am disappointed, yes.   I must admit he played well.   He was impressive.   He served extremely well, made very few mistakes from the baseline.   Not bad.  
   
 Q.   When you played him before, did he play that well?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   No, today he played a lot better than usual.   I also played better than last year.   I was in better shape.   He really played a great match.  
The surface is not very fast and the balls don't bounce very high.   My backhand topspin is not very effective.   He's a tall player, so for him it was easy.   Really, I have regrets for the beginning of the third set.   That was not good.  
He was very good during the whole match, but I am disappointed that I lost.   I would have preferred to do a better tournament here.  
   
 Q.   When you saw the draw, did you have hopes?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, as I said, I didn't have much energy.   I'm a bit tired.   But I was believing I could do better.  
Now it's finished for me.  
   
 Q.   Well, you might go to London as a substitute.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, there are many other players right behind me.   It's still possible for them.   We'll see.   
   
 Q.   If you're a second substitute, are you going to go?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yes, I will go.   If it was in Asia I might not go.   London is not far away.   
But as I said, many other players can still beat me and go there instead of me.   But if I am a substitute, yes, I believe I'm going to go.  
   
 Q.   So if the season now is really finished, what would you like to do?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Well, if I'm not going to play the Masters, then I'm very happy that the season is over because I'm a bit tired and I had to travel a lot.   And also, tennis is very competitive.   Many players are playing very well.   You need to win those matches every week.   It's extremely tiring and you need to be very fit.  
I'm lucky because I was not injured during the year.   I had a good season.   I'll be top 10 or 12.   It's my level.   But when I see the players better‑ranked than me, I believe I can beat them.   From top 8 to top 10 the players play in a similar way, and beyond top 8 to top 1 they play a lot better than the others.  
It's up to me to improve my game to be able to improve my ranking.   But I believe this was a very good year for me, and I'm disappointed that I lost today.  
   
 Q.   If you had one regret for this year, what would it be?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   Wimbledon.   There's not only that match, there are other matches I could have done better.   But I could have been in quarterfinal in Wimbledon, and I didn't win that match.  
If you see the players that I lost to, you can always do better, but I believe it's not a bad record.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT