ROGERS CUP MEN
August 12, 2012
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/R. Gasquet
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How was it to play this week?   It was crazy with all the rain delays.   It seems like when you got to the final did you feel the energy going down maybe? 
RICHARD GASQUET:   No, it's okay, you know, we're used to it.   It's difficult, but for sure when we play in Wimbledon or sometime in Paris or even in New York there is rain, so we are used to have a lot of rain sometimes. 
For sure it's difficult, but it's the same for every player.   It's not a big thing for me. 

Q.   Talk about your reality throughout the match. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, it was a tough match.   You know, it's a long time I didn't play a final of this kind of tournament.   It's a big tournament.   I felt a little bit more pressure.   It's tough when you have Djokovic in front of you and you are not playing your best tennis. 
It's very difficult.   He's going all the time with his backhand very early, so he's an incredible player.   He played much better than me for sure. 

Q.   Since 2004 this tournament has been won by the perennial big four.   Talk about the challenge that the other players face trying to break into that selective group. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   It's very difficult to come after Olympics, but I think the most difficult was for me and Novak, because he played Sunday, me I played Saturday. 
Yeah, for sure for best player it's very difficult.   Like Andy Murray or some very good players, when you win Olympics for sure the week after it's tough.
But as I said, Djokovic played last Sunday, so everything is possible. 

Q.   You were just talking about fact that you hadn't played a final at this level for quite some time.   Did it really just come down to experience when it mattered?   The two of you were pretty close for the first six, seven games, and then he just took off. 
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, then I played bad.   I had a very bad game at 4‑3, and it made the difference.   After he took confidence, and me, my level was down.   Then when you are losing with a guy like him, it's very difficult to come back. 
Yeah, for sure I want to play better, but I try my best.   As I said, it was a tough final.   I could do better, but when you play Novak, he has a very good level, so it's very tough to play against him.

Q.   After the match Novak had some kind words to say about you, including that you have the talent to be in the top 10.   Are you surprised it's taken you this long to get back to a Masters Series final, and how close do you feel you are to becoming a regular presence in the top 10?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, I was in the top 10 some years ago.   I'm not far.   Maybe next week I'm in top 15, so I'm not for from top 10.
It's tough to play finals in Masters like that.   They're very good players.   You have to win incredible players.   Yeah, I will try to do that again.   I'm sure I have the level to come back in top 10, and that's my goal. 

Q.   Novak's return game just seems so good.   Does it just sort of wear you out as a match goes along sometimes?   Is it frustrating?
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, because he's the best returner in the world, especially with his backhand.   So for sure on hard court he's the best player in the world.   It's very tough when he's returning like that if you have to play him.   It's a big weapon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT