ROGERS CUP MEN
August 11, 2012
Richard Gasquet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/J. Isner
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   First of all, congratulations on your qualification to the finals.   Whom of the two Serbian players would you like to meet in the final match, and why?   
RICHARD GASQUET:   That's not a big problem for me to play against Novak or Janko.   You know, I think maybe Janko has less experience than Novak because Novak won so many tournaments.   Maybe it's easier to play against Janko.   But for sure if he's winning against Novak he will be very confident.   So that's not a big problem.   
For sure if I have to play against Novak he will be favorite of the match.   With Janko, we never know.   It's not the same.   For sure they are very, very good player both.   Both are playing very, very good.   
   
 Q.   It's been six years since your last Masters Series final, which of course was right here.   Talk about how your game has changed from being a 20‑year‑old breaking through to now at 26?  
RICHARD GASQUET:   It's very tough to know.   I think now there are more very, very good players.   Like before when I started was just I remember Roger and Nadal was coming, but now there is four incredible with Rafa, Roger, Novak, and Andy.   
So the top level is much better I think.   The best tennis in the world now since a lot of times.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the impact that Ricardo has had on your game this year.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, it's nice for me to have two good players.   I'm with Ricardo.   He has a lot of experience.   He coach Ljubicic.   Now on some tournaments I'm with Sebastien Grosjean, and he was No.4 in the world.   So I have a lot of respect with him.   
I'm very happy to come back to the final here in Toronto.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the challenges of playing against such a tall player as Isner.   
RICHARD GASQUET:   Yeah, for sure it's a typical player, it's very different.   The key of the match was to return well, and I did it.   I tried to return all the time to make him play.   
Then I like to defend.   But of course I had to do big tiebreak, and I did it.   I played incredible in the tiebreak and then I felt well.  
I felt more confident winning 7‑6.   I think yesterday we both played two matches, so it's tiring.   I feel more fresh after winning the first set.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT