OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 21, 2004
Taylor Dent
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  What will you be telling your grandchildren about that one? 
 
TAYLOR DENT:  I can't believe I lost.  No, I don't know.  It was a good match.  The crowd was having a good time.  It was the longest match I've played in terms of a set.  It was 16-14, is that it?  You know, it was a good match.  I mean, it was a shame I lost, but it was fun to be a part of.  
 
Q.  How is the disappointment in missing that bronze medal?
 
TAYLOR DENT:  You know, I was pretty disappointed.  But that's, you know, the nature of every sport.  Someone's got to lose, and unfortunately today it was me.  But I was very proud of the way I fought out there.  Things really weren't clicking for me with my game, but I was fighting hard and I gave myself every chance to win.  So I can't ask anything more of myself.  
 
Q.  You said the crowd was having fun.  It seems like the Chilean crowd was having fun.  Did you wish the American crowd was having a bit more fun?
 
TAYLOR DENT:  Yeah, they had some fun at times, unfortunately not much more fun than the Chileans.  But, you know, I wish I could have won that for everybody, but it just didn't happen that way.  It's a shame.  But, you know, hopefully in four years I'll have another chance.  
 
Q.  So you want to come back in four years?
 
TAYLOR DENT:  Oh, yeah, for sure.  I'd love to have a chance to play again.  
 
Q.  Is the disappointment blunted somewhat that you're playing your best tennis of the summer right now? 
 
TAYLOR DENT:  Yeah, like I said, I can't be really disappointed with the way I handled myself out there and the way I gave it, you know, everything I had.  I mean, results-wise I'm playing the best tennis.  I may not be hitting the ball as well as I, you know, have been, you know, recently.  But, you know, you're not going to hit the ball great every day.  And, like I said, I was fighting so mentally tough out there - and even yesterday.  You know, that's all I can ask of myself.  So, you know, I'm proud of what I did out there.  
 
Q.  Looking ahead to tomorrow, are you going to be out watching Mardy's game?
 
TAYLOR DENT:  I think I will be.  I'll have to see.  I might have to get back and play a tournament in New York, Long Island Open.  But we'll have to see.  I'm going to make some calls tonight and see where I stand because I might get fined if I don't play.  But I'd love to stay and watch Mardy.  I think he's got a great chance tomorrow.  You know, it will be a fun team atmosphere.  
 
Q.  Overall Olympic experience?
 
TAYLOR DENT:  Overall it's been great.  You know, I can't really draw any negatives other than the fact that I lost two matches.  Even with the way I played, I'm still you know -- like I said, I'm so happy that I just -- I think I'm on the right track with my game.  You know, I think my ball-striking will turn around.  And, you know, I'm just really, really excited with the way my game is progressing right now. 
 
Q.  Can you talk me through your energy level, probably fatigue if it played a factor, heat. 
 
TAYLOR DENT:  Oh, it wasn't that hot when we were playing that third set, so that didn't play any factor.  I don't know.  Fatigue, I feel fine.  I don't know, maybe it will hit me in a couple -- you know, like a half hour or so.  But right now I feel fine.  And I'm sure he does, too.  It was very energizing playing in front of all of those people.  You know, the adrenaline just kind of keeps you going, so you don't really think about it too much. 
 
Q.  Looking forward to The Open, do you feel pretty confident, more confident than you've ever felt, going in?
 
TAYLOR DENT:  Yeah, I'd say for sure because I know that -- I know now that even if I'm not playing my best tennis, I'm going to have chances to win just about every match I play.  And that's a great feeling going in there.  So, you know, that does give me a lot of confidence, even just coming off of these two losses.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT