TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 14, 2001
Taylor Dent
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Taylor. 


Q.  Yesterday Mardy talked about his dreams in tennis.  If you had one dream that would come true in the sport, what would it be?

TAYLOR DENT:  My dreams of tennis are pretty high.  I don't know.  I'd rather not comment on that one.  They're pretty high, though.  They're very high.  I can't reveal. 

Q.  Can you talk a bit about the way you played this tournament, your match today?

TAYLOR DENT:  Well, I haven't been serving a whole lot because of my back.  You know, I got away with it a little bit yesterday.  Served good on some big points.  Today I'd be interested to see what my first serve percentage was.  It would be appalling, I would think.  I don't know, I'm just not serving well.  You know, that's easy to fix.  I just haven't been serving a whole lot because of my back.  And that was it.  You know, I played the points, you know, the way I should have played them.  I fought hard.  Just my serve is the only thing really I'm disappointed about.

Q.  That's such a big weapon.  You must be pretty encouraged with how things went today. 

TAYLOR DENT:  You know, like I said before I hurt my back, I beat Norman.  I've been encouraged for a little bit.  You know, I just have to get my serve back to the way it was before I hurt my back.  That just takes a little sweat out on the court. 

Q.  Pete was talking about practicing with you in Los  Angeles, that he really thinks you have a big game and a future.  What does it do for you to be able to be around him? 

TAYLOR DENT:  I couldn't really, you know, describe the actual, I don't know, experience it gives me just to practice with Sampras.  He's probably the best tennis player of all time.  It's tough to put into words what I learn out there while I'm playing.  You know, I learn how he competes in his own way.  So many things.  It would take me all day to say.  I mean, every time I practice with him, I feel it makes me a better tennis player by a lot.

Q.  How often do you get a chance to practice with him?

TAYLOR DENT:  Whenever we're back in town together.  That's not that often.  But when we do, we probably practice on average every other day. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT