TMS - CINCINNATI
August 9, 2000
Taylor Dent
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: Questions for Taylor. 

Q. It seemed like you were just so close. Is that the way you felt, a break here, a
break there, it could have been a different story?

TAYLOR DENT: Yeah, for sure. I mean I don't know if you guys were watching the match or
not, but I had a couple huge opportunities in that second set to, you know, get up a
break. I forget whether it was to break for the set or to break to serve for the set, but,
you know, I was holding pretty comfortably. It just comes down to a couple of points I'd
like to take back. I was pretty close. I'd like to have seen a third set. 

Q. He was obviously impressed with some of your second serves, felt like you obviously
were -- felt you could go for it and take some chances?

TAYLOR DENT: Well, that's how I serve. I actually -- I served, you know, I don't know
what I was serving my second serves. I looked over a couple times, it was 104. I normally
serve high, like 108 on my second serves, you know. That's normal for me. 

Q. Next week are you taking a wild card in Indianapolis?

TAYLOR DENT: I don't know. If I get a wild card, I'll take it for sure. But I think the
chances are fairly good I'm getting a wild card main draw. So if I'm offered, I'll for
sure take it. 

Q. Did the rain affect you one way or the other?

TAYLOR DENT: No. I mean I'm pretty laid back in the locker room, so... You know,
Sampras had to deal with it, too. So it was okay. 

Q. You said earlier this morning about with so much pressure being on you and Roddick
and some of the other players that you -- that didn't seem to be too much pressure for
you, that you really were looking to make an impact when you go up against anyone like a
Sampras, Agassi, whoever. You certainly did that tonight. Do you feel more and more
confidence as far as doing that with top players?

TAYLOR DENT: Yeah. Every match I play, you know, I was -- like I said this morning, I
was a little unlucky with that Sampras match because I got injured. I would have liked to
have kept playing there. 

Q. Which match?

TAYLOR DENT: In Wimbledon. 

Q. You said Sampras match?

TAYLOR DENT: Sorry, I meant Agassi match. I just came back from that. I had a rusty
start at the LA Open, Mercedes LA Open. I come here, I'm feeling healthy, I have a few
little odd injuries but who doesn't? So I feel like I can play with the best of them, and
I think I've proven that at Wimbledon and here. So, you know, I'm looking forward to every
match I get now. 

Q. What about working with your dad? How has that been for you as far as travelling
around?

TAYLOR DENT: I mean it just makes life easier for me. I mean that's the simplest way I
can put it. He's -- he kind of does everything for me, you know. He makes it pretty easy.

Q. And to have someone you can talk to and trust?

TAYLOR DENT: Yeah. Piece of cake. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT