NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SPURS v SUNS
May 26, 2005
Jim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  All different words floating around.  Is the desperation setting in?  What was the mood here today?

JIM JACKSON:  Be honest with you, man, got to go play.  Got to do what we have got to do to win a game.  Not a lot of talk, not a lot of strategy involved.  What we have to do, do to our best ability.  If they beat us, they beat us.  We can't, you know, not allow us to execute the half court, defensively, especially.  Again, it's not the offense, we're scoring enough points, so defensively, got to give the effort. 

Q.  Maybe two or three plays in each game you guys could be up 2-0?

JIM JACKSON:  Missed shot, missed opportunity, offensive rebound, knowing defensive assignment, against a great team like San Antonio, those things come back to haunt you.  Sometimes it may not be in the fourth quarter, it may be a play or two that happened in the third.  Or a play or two that happened right at the end of the second quarter going into halftime that you don't realize comes back to affect you.  Those are the plays that you have to eliminate to beat a team like this.  Because when you make mistakes against this team, they capitalize on you. 

Q.  Is this saying how important Joe Johnson is to this team?

JIM JACKSON:  I don't think anybody is really understanding what I am saying.  It's not the offense.  It's defense where we're lacking.  We're scoring enough points.  We're getting enough plays.  It's defensively, whether Joe is here or not.  And Joe will be a great asset because he will be a taller defender on Tony Parker which will help.  But it is defensively where we have got to stop him.  Point blank. 

Q.  Extra body out there, extra body to help out Steve Nash?

JIM JACKSON:  He will and he will provide a bigger body guarding Tony Parker, trying to force him out of the lane and shoot jump shots over him.  But, again, it's from a defensive standpoint, I think, that we have got to focus on. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT