NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 3, 2015
David Blatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Coach, what can you tell us about what you've discovered about LeBron's relationship with Cleveland and how the fans regard him?   How much pressure is there on him to sort of deliver this thing even though he told people to be patient?   
COACH BLATT:   Well, you know, I've said many times that LeBron made a very courageous and also heartfelt decision to come back home and to take the responsibility of trying to bring a championship to Cleveland.   That's no small thing, because there is a lot that goes along with that.   And the dynamic of that whole story has been very, very special, and very, very involved, and he's handled it beautifully.   
Obviously he's come back to Cleveland as a very mature and dynamic leader who is ready for this kind of challenge.   And I think he's relished in it.   Obviously, us being here with the opportunity to compete for the World Championship speaks volumes to what he's done and to what the team has done.  
   
 Q.   You've coached in a lot of pressure games in Israel.   Does that prepare you in any way for what is going to come next here?   
COACH BLATT:   Well, knowing me as you do, it's not only Israel.   I've been in a few different situations that have hopefully prepared me for this level of competition.   Obviously, the NBA Finals is a unique and very special and challenging situation.   I just feel lucky to be part of this team and to be part of the drive for this goal.   We're here with the opportunity, and obviously, we want to take advantage of it.  
   
 Q.   All week long, and Steve was in here earlier, you guys have been referring to the meeting you had last summer.   Could you give us a little bit more clarity on the timeline?   Was it in June, late June, July?   Also both of you have spoken about how there was a bonding based on basketball philosophy, things like that.   But was there also sort of a bonding based on the fact that the two of you have different kind of roots in other parts of the world in your backgrounds?   
COACH BLATT:   Well, the meeting took place actually in LA in early June.   I was still in the midst of trying to win the Israeli National Championship, which ultimately, we did.   But I was in the States due to the misfortune of my father passing, and we were able to hook up at the LA airport for a short meeting after I attended the funeral.   
We were just two guys that have a great love for the game that have had varied and different experiences but whose paths have crossed in unusual kinds of ways.   We just sat down and had a great discussion about the game and about the ways that we thought it should be played and about life in general.   You know, hit it off just as two people.   I knew then Steve was going to be greatly successful just because of the kind of guy that he is and the kind of knowledge he has.   
Steve and the Warriors have had a tremendous season.   I'm not surprised in the least, and it's just kind of fun and ironic that the two of us meet under these circumstances, as opposed to other circumstances that we could have been together in.  
   
 Q.   Just a year ago you coached games in small arenas in Israel and now you are coaching in the NBA Finals.   Did you ever stop to think about the unbelievable process you've made in only one year?   
COACH BLATT:   Well, you should know well that I also coached a lot of games in very big arenas, including the Euroleague final in Milan that we won.   So, no, I'm not at all uncomfortable or don't find this at all imposing.   It is special, and it is a tremendous feeling to be part of this great, great league and to be able to be a part of the Cavaliers on their journey to trying to bring a championship to the city of Cleveland for the first time in over 50 years.   
So it's thrilling and it's exciting, and it's joyful to be in this situation.   Is it at all unusual or uncomfortable for me?   No, I've been in situations like this before many times, as you know.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how Kyrie's status at all affected your preparation this week in terms of what he could do and what he couldn't do?   Is there any part of you that's just kind of anxious to see how he comes out in Game 1, what he's able to do?   
COACH BLATT:   Sure.   You know, without having Kyrie at full strength for quite some time now, preparation‑wise, and game‑wise, playing, not playing, number of minutes, ability to perform at the level he normally does, and most importantly for him to be able to function without furthering injury, those are things that are constantly under consideration, and constantly on our minds as a staff and as a team.   It's made it difficult.   
But that is the situation.   You know, as we have in every other case this year, faced that with the same resolve and the same no‑quit attitude and have made it our model for no excuses.   We play, and we play to win regardless of the situation.  
   
 Q.   As you know the Cavs, especially in the second half, collected a lot of big, tough wins against good Western Conference opponents on the road.   But with the Warriors being so good at home, does it take something extra to get a game here?   I think they only lost two or three all year at home.   
COACH BLATT:   Certainly, yes.   Their record speaks for itself.   They're not only a high‑quality team, but they've been a great home team.   They're not in the NBA Finals for no reason.   
So to win here certainly is a difficult task but a necessary one for us, and we've shown throughout the playoffs that we have the ability to do so, and we'll do our best to do just that.  
   
 Q.   Was Kyrie held out of practice for precautionary reasons or did he suffer any type of setback?   You know, parts of practice.   
COACH BLATT:   Just to try to maintain his health and to allow him to progress in a solid fashion.   There was no specific setback, no.  
   
 Q.   What is it like off the court?   You've had one season, but what is it like everywhere you go, whether it's on the bus or outside a hotel, what's it like being around LeBron?   Does anything kind of stand out like, wow, that was kind of crazy or that was kind of cool?   
COACH BLATT:   What's it like being around him outside of the court?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
COACH BLATT:   Get out of the way.   Lot of people want to touch him.   Lot of people want to talk to him, and I just try to stay out of the line of fire.   I feel for him.   I really do.  
   
 Q.   Anything you saw that kind of surprised you?   
COACH BLATT:   Except for the forearm shiver I saw this lady give a man when LeBron came out of the hotel this morning in order to get a better picture, no, nothing surprises me.   That was a little rough, though (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT