NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v HAWKS
May 24, 2015
David Blatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is Kyrie going to give it a go tonight? 
    COACH BLATT:   Even as we speak, he's back with the doctors being evaluated, and it's a game‑time decision. 

Q.   Some people who were here early saw Kyrie really kind of putting himself through the workout, almost like a game‑like situation.   When you're trying to figure out if he's going to play, I mean, are you comfortable with someone, I guess, going as hard as he was going for as long as he went? 
    COACH BLATT:   Well, I wasn't here, so I don't know how veritable that is as to how hard he went or didn't go.   But I can tell you that he's being evaluated now by the doctors, and we'll make a decision game time on whether he goes.

Q.   Despite your obvious focus, how much are you paying attention to the Western Conference Finals?   If so, what do you think about what you've seen over there? 
    COACH BLATT:   Like everyone, I take a look at the game, or parts of it, because I love basketball and this is our business.   Obviously, if we're successful going forward, we'll play one of those two guys, but I'm not concentrating too, too much on it as of yet. 
    That series is taking shape the way it has, and I wouldn't really care to comment too, too much right now on it because I don't think it's appropriate.   But we'll see going forward what happens. 

Q.   I know you don't want to give your game plan away or anything, but how are the Hawks different without a Kyle Korver? 
    COACH BLATT:   Obviously, Kyle has a very particular skill set, and he's a very impactful player for them.   How exactly are they different?   Of course, the obvious that he's a shooter of the highest level and he's a guy that they work well and hard for to get shots, and he works very hard to get shots, which puts pressure on your defense. 
    He's also a very smart player.   He's a guy that can catch and read, helps very quickly, and if he has to drop it off or make an extra pass because he's drawn defenders to him, he does and will willingly. 
    Also, he has a certain stature in that team, a veteran, experienced All‑Star player that obviously is part of the fabric of that team.   So certainly, him not being there is a significant thing.   It doesn't guarantee us anything, but specific to your question, Kyle is a big, big part of what they do and has been.

Q.   Coach, when you see players like Delly playing where he holds Teague to 1‑for‑14, you see James Jones fronting a guy who's maybe 75 pounds heavier, four inches at least taller than him, doing a very good job on that, how do you feel about your players and what they've shown you with that? 
    COACH BLATT:   The guys are playing with a lot of grit, just like we have all season.   We're playing through and overcoming obstacles that come our way, and that's because the guys have character and are fighting the elements and are doing everything they can do to help their team when called on or as part of the major role that they may have. 
    That's a good thing.   Those are good players and good kinds of people to have on your team, no question.

Q.   Coach, you mentioned before the series started about you felt like pressure is always placed on the home team.   Is that the same situation when you win the first two on the road and then come back home?   How does that work with you? 
    COACH BLATT:   I don't know.   I haven't experienced that yet.   Haven't been in that situation yet.   What I did say was not exactly that.   What I said was the first game on the road is the pressure game.   That's what I said. 
    That being said, we're coming home, and we need to win the game, no question about it.   That's what we're here for. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT