NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 13, 2015
David Blatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Obviously you know how this works.   Steve Kerr makes his move.   Everyone says let's see what David Blatt can do.   Is there a move for the Cavs?   And really quick, LeBron said his biggest challenge was going to Boston in 2012 down 3‑2.   For you, how does this compare to something like maybe EuroBasket in '07 where you're going and playing the world champs on their home floor?   
COACH BLATT:   Well, I think that we've made more than our share of adjustments throughout the course of the entire playoffs, not only in this series.   Every game brings out new things and certainly presents new challenges.   
If you look at the one game, it makes you think okay, we've got to change this, that and the other thing.   If you look at the four games, in three out of four of those games we were pretty good doing the things that we did.   So I think you'll see a combination of both of those possibilities.   
We've got to continue to do certain things really well.   What we need to change, we will.  
   
 Q.   You guys, I think, were 6‑for‑29 in open looks in Game 4.   It was the third game in five nights.   How much of the total result of the game can you rationalize based on we missed shots and our guys were tired?   
COACH BLATT:   Certainly part of it, but that's the game.   Some nights the ball doesn't go in for you, so you have to do other things better.   In looking at the tape, that stat is pretty accurate.   It was pretty telling and pretty significant.   But there were enough other things in that game that we could have and have to do better in order to win even a game like that.  
   
 Q.   Will you look to go deeper on your bench just to give your starters a little more of a break, or will you stick with pretty much the seven‑man rotation?   
COACH BLATT:   Well, you know, the funny thing about that is Golden State played seven guys in the game as well.   But we did appear to be fatigued.   We did let down somewhat.   It was the third game in five days for us, and we've been a little bit shorthanded for quite some time now.   So if that's necessary, that's what we'll do.  
   
 Q.   How confident are you that you can put in Shawn Marion after him not playing much in the series?   How confident are you that he can come in and make an impact?   And if so, what makes you feel that way?   What gives you confidence in Shawn?  
COACH BLATT:   Well, first of all, I'm not sure why you're picking out any one particular name, unless you want to suggest to me what the next rotation should be.   
But listen, we've got a lot of experienced players on our roster, and a lot of guys have been through these battles before.   Some of the guys have not played a whole lot.   Our results have been pretty good as we've been playing, but, again, I believe in those guys and their ability to step in, if necessary, and do what needs to be done.  
   
 Q.   Much is being made, obviously, about their adjustment and playing small ball to start the game off.   But you guys did start the game off 7‑0.   Tristan had a couple of offensive rebounds, and it seemed like the size was really going to work to your guys' factor.   What happened?   Like did y'all go away from something at that point?   What happened after that?   
COACH BLATT:   I'm not going to sit here and give away too, too much.   There are things, as I said, in that game that we could have done a lot better and that Golden State did do a lot better.   We got to lock in on those things.   We've got to come with greater energy and greater purpose and a higher sense of urgency than we had in the last game.   
We've had a couple of days here to recover.   I believe that's going to be helpful.   This is a tough series for both teams.   A lot of things happening.   It's the best of three to win the NBA Championship, the World Championship.   
So I like the situation we're in.   I like the challenge that's in front of us, and I can't wait to play tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   The fatigue factor, we're talking about it, you've mentioned a little bit.   How much does an extra day fully help?   What is done in those days to make sure that the recovery is good enough to be able to have the effort you had in 1 through 3?   
COACH BLATT:   Well, it certainly helps.   Doesn't guarantee anything.   You've still got to come and play.   But it certainly helps.   At this time of year we're getting close to‑‑ both teams are getting close to their 100th game being played.   
You don't overpractice.   You spend a lot of time in recovery mode, active recovery, treatment, rehabilitation, and a lot of rest.   Working as much on the mind as you do on the body.   Hoping you can come out and be focused and be responsible in everything that you do on the court.  
   
 Q.   So far in The Finals we haven't seen a game where both Steph and Klay have gotten hot.   The two top offensive options for the Warriors.   What do you attribute that to?   What have you done to keep them from getting hot at the same time or get on a roll?   And what is your level of concern that they still haven't had some breakout moment yet here?   
COACH BLATT:   First of all, very conscious and very concerned.   They've done that all year, and they've more than proved their value and their ability to have big games.   
We've just really guarded them.   Put an emphasis on certain things, and players on our side have stepped up and met the challenge.   As a team, we've done a pretty good job helping out and being in position and forcing them into tough shots.   
You know they both have the ability to take and make tough shots and they both have the ability to have a breakout game.   You can't always guarantee that you can control that, but you can do little things and big things that limit them or at least make it difficult.   That's what we've got to keep doing.  
   
 Q.   In the first three games LeBron James averaged 41 points and they went as close as you can get.   Now in the fourth one he had only 20 points and that was exactly the lead.   Is that a mark that you guys set, LeBron has to be around 40 points?   
COACH BLATT:   No, we didn't say that.   But obviously we need LeBron's production and we need him to play at the highest level that he can.   It's not only about his performance, though.   We've got to get performance from everybody.   At times we've got to take the pressure off of him.   He's carrying a heavy load on his shoulders, and he's carrying it brilliantly.   
It's almost funny when you say a guy had a 20‑point game it's not up to par.   That's kind of funny.   But realistically we know that LeBron's production is critical to us, and for the most part he's given that and more, much more.   
So hopefully he'll come to tomorrow's game a little bit more rested, like the rest of the guys, and physically feel good to attack the game the way he's been attacking.  
   
 Q.   Timo was so good for you guys offensively in Game 4.   He seemed to really take advantage of the mismatch in size, but defensively he was out on the perimeter more than he's normally accustomed to.   What can you do to help him defensively when they're that small and there is no one his size to bang inside?  
COACH BLATT:   Well, there's things he can do.   Certainly we've got to do a better job getting out and contesting shots and matching up in the ways we want to match up with so that the advantage plays well for us at both ends.   
But, listen, Golden State is a tough team to guard.   Not everything you do or everything you want to do necessarily works as effectively and efficiently as you'd like to see.   
There's always two teams playing.   Sometimes the other guy's a little better.   We've just got to do everything we can to be on top of our game, and we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   With the protection of hindsight and the fact that you won that game, can you tell us about how you felt about your team going into Game 2 and how that compares, if it does, to how you feel about this game?   
COACH BLATT:   The reality is this:   You've got to win four games to win the series.   The same dynamic exists now that existed before Game 1.   I'd rather go back to Game 1.   We've got to win on the other guy's home court once, and we've got to win at home.   
So how we feel coming into this game in comparison to Game 2 here, it doesn't really mean anything.   It's a three‑game series.   All of that is in the past.   We've got to come out and play high‑level basketball, and we've got to come out with great energy and great intensity and control the things that we can control.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT