NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 11, 2015
David Blatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We just saw Delly out there warming up, saw Shump out there warming up, so they're obviously ready to go.   But is there a minutes restriction on either one of them, or are they good to go as long as you need them? 
COACH BLATT:   No, we haven't decided any minutes restriction.   We're just hoping that Delly's tank is as full as possible, and Shump doesn't take an additional hit to the shoulder or anything beyond the norm that would limit him severely.

Q.   I understand your family from Israel was here for the game Tuesday night.   Just wondering are they here again, and, if so, are you excited to have them here? 
COACH BLATT:   They're all in.

Q.   That's great.   Did they have a good time at the game Tuesday night? 
COACH BLATT:   It's Cleveland.   Of course they had a good time.

Q.   Both Coach Kerr and Steph said they believe that they'll see more of David Lee in Game 4.   What problems does he present for you, and now that you've had a chance to kind of go over what happened in Game 3, do you feel better prepared for that lineup? 
COACH BLATT:   Well, we've seen David play, and he's played against us during the course of the season, and Golden State's a deep team.   They have a lot of different options.   If that's the way they decide to go, we'll be ready for it.

Q.   There was news that not only Delly but also LeBron was cramped during Game 3.   Is he okay now?   And are there some restrictions, if that's possible, with LeBron? 
COACH BLATT:   With LeBron?   I doubt it.   You know, I think he‑‑ like all the rest of the players, he's laying it out there and giving it everything that he has.   Obviously he's playing heavy minutes.   It's no secret we're down a few major players.   LeBron recognizes the situation and has lifted his game and has gone out further than the norm. 
But that's something all of us have to do.   All the guys have to be ready for it.   I think the guys are up to the task.

Q.   You said the other night that you guys are playing offensively the way that you want to play.   How much of your playbook have you just tossed out as a result of the injuries to the guys you've had? 
COACH BLATT:   In any different situation, you have to act and react accordingly.   Seven‑game series or a long series you're going to see a lot of adjustments.   You're going to see a lot of not necessarily changes, but a lot of different, small, different tactics, things that you can do effectively according to the situation and according to your opponent. 
Also, I think in these type of games when there is so much on the line and every play is played with such great intensity, you know, naturally you sort of pare down your selection.   You're looking for very specific things and you're trying to do those things as well as possible and with regularity. 
So I don't think we've thrown anything out, but we haven't been using everything, that's for sure, because we don't have the same roster, as you mentioned before.

Q.   Do you have anything special to say to the players on that occasion, like the famous talks you used to have in Maccabi before the game?   And if yes, what kind of things can you tell them? 
COACH BLATT:   Every game has a life of its own, and every story has a different turn and a different take.   So we're always conscious and thinking about how we can help motivate our players or how we can simply help them to get ready for the game, and I'm no different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT