NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 19, 2017
Kyrie Irving
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
West - 192   
East - 182   
 Q.  Kyrie, how much fun do you have in this game?  You're still having fun, I see, huh?  
KYRIE IRVING: Oh, yeah, man.  The moment and experience of All-Star weekend is something that I try to enjoy, especially now that I'm getting older in the league and being around all these great guys.  It's really about the experience.  The NBA does a great job of putting on a great show for the fans, activities going on all weekend, appearances for all our respective sponsors.  It's just good to bring just a ton of people around just for the game of basketball.   
I mean, able to connect and meet great people and really just have fun and enjoy the weekend.  So I try to do all of that.   
 Q.  Do you enjoy the high scoring-ness, or do you kind of wish there was a more defensive intensity, especially early on?  
KYRIE IRVING: I mean, I think I filled up the stat sheet in the steal box.  I was laughing with James Harden because he was trying to get assists, and I was trying to get him some TOs.  In an All-Star game like this, guys aren't trying to get hurt.  We all enjoy the company of each other's presence.  But at the same token, us as competitors, when it starts getting close, you can feel it.   
For me, I would love to play in a competitive game.  I know we play in competitive games in the summer, pickup games, but I think going forward, the All-Star experience will probably get a little harder in terms of defense going forward.   
 Q.  Kyrie, what you just mentioned there about going forward the games might be a little bit more difficult, is that something you guys would actually have to discuss as a group or maybe you have discussed it?  
KYRIE IRVING: I mean, I told my team tonight, a couple of my teammates that I was just going to come out and try to come out aggressive and keep the pace going.  But they're a little matador in terms of the layups that they let go, a few guys standing at half-court.  It's all in good fun, but I definitely think that, if we want a competitive game, guys will probably have to talk about it before the game because some guys -- you know, we got DeMarcus, Kawhi, and guys in their seventh, eighth, ninth seed, and they're definitely trying to -- not Kawhi.  Excuse me.  But just guys in general trying to get ready for the second half of the season is far more important, which I totally get.   
For me, I haven't played since Wednesday, since we played the Pacers, and getting out and getting up and down, a little cardio is always good.  Going forward, I'm sure we've got to talk about it and just go out and compete.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT