NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Kyrie Irving
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is it this moment in this league?  
KYRIE IRVING: It's awesome, man.  Second time in New Orleans.  It's great for the growth of the game.  Being here with all these great players, going out in the community and making an impact.  Just really being part of something bigger than yourself is so awesome.  You try to take advantage of each and every moment here.  All these great guys and the great community here that the league breeds and grows, it's so awesome to be a part of.   
 Q.  How is it for you playing with LeBron James and also playing against Stephen Curry?  
KYRIE IRVING: Oh, man, it's awesome.  Playing with LeBron is awesome.  You learn so much, just how to be a consummate professional, how to really be engaged every single day.  When you have great mentors around the league, it makes it much more special.  The competition in basketball and all the great players you get to play against is an added bonus.  You get to go out and play the game you love, leave it all on the floor.  There's got to be a winner.  There's got to be a loser.  Obviously, you want to be on the winning side, but you just go out and have fun.   
 Q.  Kyrie, what gives you your competitive drive on the court during the regular season?  Do you bring that competitive drive to the All-Star Game?  
KYRIE IRVING: Absolutely.  That's what brought us all here together is having a competitive spirit and also having the ability to separate yourself.  Go out there, and you get to go against the top players in the whole entire world.  It's the best business in the world to be a part of.  Like I say, I love every moment of it.   
 Q.  If you get to choose any city to do an All-Star Game, what would be the city you would want?  
KYRIE IRVING: I mean, I love going to new places and really kind of reaching out and being able to touch different communities, being around different people.  That's what makes this world so special is you get the chance to meet so many great people.  I mean, the likely chances of me being in New Orleans in February are very slim, but the fact we have All-Star here, the NBA is here, all you guys are here, we get to interact, talk to media members that I don't get to see on a daily basis.  They get to get a snapshot of who I am.  So I try to enjoy it.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
KYRIE IRVING: Yeah.  That's the kind of flip side of being part of this game but also real life happening, understanding that a tornado did hit here.  I know the league is doing everything possible to go out and help those families.  You want to be part of an illustrious group like that that's just going to go in and do it without asking anything in return.  For all of us to be inspirations, be influencers, and being able to have an impact on their lives makes the job that much more special.  So we're all humans at the end of the day.  You just want to do the right thing.   
 Q.  Given that championship, (inaudible), what has that done to you, to your career, to you personally going into the season?  
KYRIE IRVING: It's been great, man, being able to be part of some great moments and come out on the successful end of it.  I failed a few times, but I'm perfectly fine with that.  I think the journey of actually getting there and preparing for that moment.  Being in Game 6 in Toronto and being in Game 7 in Golden State and being in close-out series, just adding a lot of experience to who I am, it's just been great.  It's great to live in those moments, man.   
 Q.  How many of those shots did you actually make in your mind growing up probably running around?  
KYRIE IRVING: I probably made a million in my mind.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT