NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 10, 2016
Kyrie Irving
LeBron James
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Golden State 108, Cleveland 97   
 Q.  LeBron, Steph hit the three, and it was like 5:55 left in the fourth quarter, and you guys called a timeout.  You guys came out of timeout.  Can you talk about if that was exactly what you guys wanted?  It seemed like after that the offense kind of sputtered.  
LeBRON JAMES: I don't know.  I'm trying to replay it back.  I'm not quite sure what we ran out of timeout.   
 Q.  They went up nine.  They went up nine at that point.  
LeBRON JAMES: Yeah, I'm not sure what we ran out the timeout when we came back out on the floor.  But our offense did stall a little bit in the fourth quarter.  We played a little bit too much random, trying to dribble drive, get guys looks, and then we started settling a little bit for the three-point shot when we kind of got down.  Which obviously we've got to do a better job of that.   
But we had our chances.  I think the third quarter was a momentum swing for us, and they took advantage of it.   
 Q.  What is your mindset heading into the next game?  
LeBRON JAMES: My mindset is get one.  You know, we've got to go out there and play obviously better than we played tonight.  Better than even we played in Game 3.  But we've got to get one.  It's not about overlooking this.  It's about getting one on their home floor where they've been very successful.  So, you know, we've got to come in with the mindset that our coaching staff is going to give us a great game plan and we've got to execute that.  We're about the results after.   
 Q.  LeBron, you had words with Draymond and Steph.  What kind of got you going and what were you saying to them?  
LeBRON JAMES: Oh, nothing got me going.  You know, Draymond just said something that I don't agree with.  I'm all cool with the competition.  I'm all fine with that, but some of the words that came out of his mouth were a little bit overboard, and being a guy with pride, a guy with three kids and a family, things of that nature, some things just go overboard and that's where he took it, and that was it.   
 Q.  Anything with Steph?  
LeBRON JAMES: No, no.  That conversation was competitive conversation.  I'm okay with that.   
 Q.  I think you had four free throws tonight the entire game.  Just your thoughts on that and some of the calls tonight?  
LeBRON JAMES: Well, it's been like that all year for the most part.  I'm not quite sure what I can do personally to get to the free-throw line, but I've got to continue to be aggressive for our team.  I'm getting hit, but the refs are not seeing it that way, on my drives.  But I've got to continue to be aggressive for our team.  That's who I am, that's what opens up the floor for a lot of our shooters, and just worry about the results afterwards.   
You know, it's tough playing 46 minutes and only going to the line four times, as much as I attack the rim.  So it's just a tough situation for our team.   
 Q.  I do have a question for Kyrie, too, but I wanted to follow up with Draymond.  LeBron, I think you've seen it now, he got you in the groin during that.  Especially given Draymond's situation with the flagrants and whatnot, do you have any opinion on what happened there, what should happen?  
LeBRON JAMES: Well, I don't know what should happen.  It's not my call.  That's the league office.  They'll take a look at it.  We all saw it in the locker room.  You know, like I said, as a competitor, I love going against Draymond, and I'm all about going out there and leaving it out on the floor.  But when it gets a little bit more than what it should be, that's what caused me to have words with him.   
So as far as the play, I think the league will take a look at it.  Obviously our locker room has seen it, and we'll see what they say.   
 Q.  Do you expect that the league -- whether or not you think they should, do you expect that they would?  
LeBRON JAMES: No.   
 Q.  And Kyrie, you're off to such a hot start and it looked like you hurt your hand or something.  What happened to it, and did it affect you at all as you went along?  
KYRIE IRVING: No, just a bruise.  That's all.   
 Q.  LeBron, what do you tell yourself the next two-and-a-half days?  And what do you tell your guys the next two-and-a-half days when you know the enormity now with the chips stacked against you?  
LeBRON JAMES: Obviously, if you want to look to that side, then you put too much pressure on yourself.  I think for me as the leader of this team, we've just got to get one.  Let's get one.  We've already got to take a flight home back anyways, so we might as well come home with a win and play on our home floor again.  Being a confident bunch we feel like the chips have been stacked up against us all year anyway.   
So we've got to learn from our mistakes tonight, which we made some and we go out with the mindset let's get one and then bring it home.   
 Q.  Kyrie, did you find anything personally offensively in games 3 and 4 that maybe you didn't have in games 1 and 2, and can you use that moving forward in the series?  
KYRIE IRVING: Well, I have no choice at this point.  I'm following this guy to my right's lead.  Game 3 and 4 I've been put in positions to be successful and our guys have trusted me to be aggressive, whether that be in transition or in the half court.  Our one-four pick-and-roll with LeBron playing the four has been working for us great.  So we just have to be better in Game 5, and come in with the mindset to be aggressive for however many minutes we, myself and everyone else needs to play.   
But I know the echo and the attitude of effort and things that we can control going into Game 5 will be at an all-time high, and the next two-and-a-half days will be a lot of preparation learning from our mistakes and moving on and preparing for Game 5.   
 Q.  For either of you guys, did you feel the fatigue played a factor at all in this game?  
LeBRON JAMES: No.  Not at all.   
KYRIE IRVING: No excuses.   
 Q.  LeBron, for you, you and Kyrie combined for 33 of the 38 shot attempts in the second half.  Is that a number that you're comfortable with in a game?  
LeBRON JAMES: Well, we've got to be aggressive.  Our coach, Coach Lue told us to be aggressive.  And obviously, we don't like to hear it in that form.  We want to get our guys involved and keep our guys in a good rhythm.  I just think it was just the way the game played out tonight.   
 Q.  For both of you guys, the story of the first three games in large part was how Curry was having trouble affecting the games, he sort of got loose from you guys tonight.  What did you both see that they did so successful compared to the other three games?  
LeBRON JAMES: Well, first of all, he's a great player, and we know that.  And we knew he was going to come out and be aggressive.  Because of how the first three games went, and we knew he was going to be aggressive.   
We made some mistakes and he made us pay for them.  He made us pay every time we made a mistake defensively, and he shot the ball extremely well from the three-point line.  We tried to keep a body on him when he went to the paint, where he struggled a little bit, but when he went to the three-point line, he made us pay.   
 Q.  Beginning of the fourth quarter you guys are up by two points.  They go on a big run and rip off a 12-1 run.  You guys sort of, it was like you were playing in quicksand a little bit there.  What was the experience like as that's sort of starting to happen for you?  What was changing for them that was making it more difficult for you to get stops?  
LeBRON JAMES: They started making shots and then they started getting stops.  They did it on both sides of the floor.  It starts with, I believe, Harrison Barnes'  three at the top of the key.  That was a big shot to kind of get their rhythm going.  Then they got some offensive rebounds, some second-chance points and then defensively they got stops.   
 Q.  Kyrie, it seemed like in Game 3 you guys really were dedicated to keeping J.R. involved, kept going to him even after a couple early misses.  What can you guys do for Game 5 to get him more attempts and keep him going?  
KYRIE IRVING: Just making sure that we're putting him in spots to be successful, especially in transition.  Getting him shots early and often and having him feel good, especially throughout the game.  There were a few tough ones that he had to take into the shot clock, but for us, we're going to continue to go to J.R. no matter what.  I mean, he's a big part of our team and we know the impact that he has to have in order for us to be successful as a team.   
 Q.  LeBron, from Game 1 you talked about turnovers.  You got a couple of high-turnover games, this one included.  But you just talked about the referees.  Do you believe some of those turnovers are being called because you're not getting the calls or is it something else that's going on?  
LeBRON JAMES: I didn't talk about the referees.  I was asked a question and I answered it.  I'm going to save my 25K, okay.  So I have not talked about the referees.  Don't put me in that cloud.  I haven't been solid with the basketball.  A lot of it is making plays not only for myself but for my teammates.   
Some of my aggression turnovers I'm okay with.  I think I had two careless ones.  One came at the end of the game where Steph picked it off.  Another one came early in the third quarter where Bogut trapped the box and I tried to hit Double T.  Draymond stepped in front of it.  But some of them were attack turnovers.  Trying to squeeze the ball into tight places as a quarterback would, and I'm okay with those.  But some of those that are careless, I'm not okay with that.   
 Q.  You guys got Kevin Love back tonight, and he talked about being accepting of his role coming off the bench.  I wonder what impact you felt that had getting him back in the lineup, and how that might help you guys going forward?  
LeBRON JAMES: Well, for two years, any time we've gotten anyone back from injury or sickness or whatever, it's been a boost for our team, and tonight was another one.  I mean, getting them back, seeing him out on the floor and him making the impact, especially in the first half when he hit a couple shots, he was able to get a layup off a offensive rebound.  He started the fourth on a post-up, that was a big play for us.   
So I know he probably felt out of rhythm.  It was a different situation for him that he hasn't experienced in quite a few years.  But anytime we get someone back from injury or anything, it's a boost for our team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT