NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Kyrie Irving
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  KYRIE IRVING:   Those are great players.   Playing for 17 or 18 years.   He's been to 15 All‑Stars.   That's crazy. 

Q.   Michael Jordan's 50th birthday this weekend.   What's one thing that Kyrie Irving thinks he can beat Michael Jordan at?
KYRIE IRVING:   Probably Uno.

Q.   Lent was on Wednesday, which is giving up something for 40 days.   What would be the most difficult thing for you right now to give up for 40 days?
KYRIE IRVING:   Besides basketball? 

Q.   Besides basketball. 
KYRIE IRVING:   Probably candy. 

Q.   Anything in particular?
KYRIE IRVING:   Sour Patch Kids. 
Q.   Talk about what you learned last summer and what it's like being around these guys?
KYRIE IRVING:   Just learning how to compete, truly at the highest level.   We were going against All‑Stars, playing against the USA Team.   I guess we took what we learned from there and applied it to our daily work out.

Q.   What has the experience been like for you? Surreal? 
KYRIE IRVING:   Absolutely.   When we were sitting down at a meeting, and just looking around, being my second year and being a part of this, it's really humbling.   It's really a testament to how hard we worked this season. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
KYRIE IRVING:   He's definitely done a great job taking care of his body and showing up. 

Q.   Do you remember watching Grant Hill playing when you were growing up?
KYRIE IRVING:   Yes.

Q.   What memories do you have?
KYRIE IRVING:   One, he went to Duke.   He won a National Championship.   And I remember watching him.   And I just remember when he broke the news about his ankle, how heart broken he was, and how he's come back.   And the last few years.   And hopefully he can stay healthy.   It's crazy to think about the time he's gone through. 

Q.   Do you think you'll still be playing at 40?
KYRIE IRVING:   Yeah.   It's a while away. 

Q.   What was the experience hearing that you were an All‑Star?   Does that recognition change the way you think about your game?
KYRIE IRVING:   Well, I told my general manager, I told my agent.   I waited until it came on TNT and everyone found out.   And I waited until ‑‑ I was the last person called.   I sat on my couch and waited for my name to be called and I jumped around, all around the house.   It was a real experience to see my name called up there. 

Q.   Does it change the way you look at your status in the league and your responsibilities, that status of being an All‑Star, did that change how you feel about your game?
KYRIE IRVING:   It's a goal that I accomplished.   My job is just beginning now, now that I'm an All‑Star.   Now I feel that it's my responsibility to be an All‑Star, and I'm part of ‑‑ my goal was to be in the NBA, and how I'm looking forward to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT