CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2017
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So I see four birdies out of your last six holes to end the round.  That's got to be a great way to end your round up.  Tell me how you feel right now?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, super-solid finish.  It's nice that things are coming together.  I think I've been playing better than I've been scoring this summer, so nice to see those things connect.  I had a great two weeks off.  Had a good time with my family and some good friends, so that was rejuvenating.  It's good to be back in Canada too.  My grandmother's French-Canadian, so even though I didn't know her and I never met her, there is a piece of me that's at home here.   
We just love coming to Canada.  It's always super pretty, and the fans are always really supportive.  They set the golf course up like an open, so it's been impressive.  The greens are really fast, some tough pin locations and the rough is high.  So they made it a true open.   
 Q.  Where's grandma from?  Do you remember?  
MO MARTIN: When she came, she was from the Detroit area when she migrated over to the U.S.  But I know being French-Canadian, she was from the east side.  I need to get a city and get back to you.   
But, yeah, I'm not sure.  I just know she grew up in Detroit like a lot of French-Canadians, I think.  But, yeah, Marie Brunette.   
 Q.  Okay.  Was the golf course more gettable today than yesterday or was it about the same or harder?  
MO MARTIN: No, I think the golf course, I mean, we had some sharp pins both days, but I just think playing in the morning these greens are really pure, but they're also so pure that they hold spike marks like straight up.  So, yesterday in the afternoon I had quite a few putts just dealing with spike marks.  So this morning on the pure greens, I think it was just, you know, it was nice to have some clean runs at birdie.  And I mean, the greens are running really well.   
There is nothing you can do about it.  When you're playing in the afternoon, you've got the entire field ahead of you and the greens are this good and they're a little bit soft from the rain on Monday, and they're healthy.  They're just going to spike marks are just going to protrude a little bit.   
 Q.  What does Mo Martin do now before getting ready for what should be a relatively late tee time tomorrow?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, well, I'm staying with a couple roommates out here, so I'll have the afternoon with them.  I hear our neighbors upstairs are also golfers, so they're going to be making pizza tonight, so it should be a fun night.  Yeah, just stay active.  Try not to sleep in too much tomorrow morning, and I've got the same game plan and I'll be ready to go.  Just conserve energy for the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT