RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2017
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free 67, how much more scorable was it at Kingsbarns today?  
MO MARTIN: You know, I think overall we lucked out a little bit with the weather so far.  There were clouds all over.  It was grey and patchy and yesterday I was in two of the delays.  I don't remember a day where I've had two delays and I've been on the course that long.   
But overall, I think we've been pretty lucky with the wind and the rain.  A little bit of a different wind today that was coming out of the north.  Still going towards the coastline.  So I think that's how this course was designed, and it plays the most difficult going that way.  But just a little bit tough to gauge on some of the holes whether the wind is coming into or helping.   
So just overall, great golf course.  Love the way it's designed.  Love the stunning views and super happy to be here.   
 Q.  Rich Lerner just mentioned that you of course won this great championship three years ago; how much do you love the Women's British Open?  
MO MARTIN: You know what, I really do.  I've had friends at different times in my life predict that I would win this tournament.  I mean, when I was just a scrappy kid playing on public golf courses they said that.  I don't know.  Something about it.  The history has been writing itself and I'm enjoying the ride and I'm still dreaming.   
 Q.  You always seem to play well in this championship.  How much do you like it here?  
MO MARTIN: You know, what I love the creativity of it to be honest.  Just playing on a true links course.  You've got to control your ball flight.  You've got to know exactly where you're hitting it and you've got to control the spin on your shots.   
 Q.  What is it about this that you like so much?  
MO MARTIN: I really like links golf.  I've had friends throughout different stages of my life tell me that I'm going to win this championship, and just to actually see that come true and to live it; just in playing links, I really love the creativity that it demands.   
I love the challenges of having to keep it low and you know, just the spins and being able to control everything from tee-to-green and then even on the putts, the wind will affect that, as well.   
 Q.  How does winning this championship in the past, you go into the weekend in good position, do you feel like that gives you an advantage over some of the other players?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, of course.  Any advantage you can get starting on links and never knowing what the weather is going to do or the wind is going to do; to have that leg up and to be close to the lead, you know, going into the weekend is always where you want to be.   
 Q.  It seems like you don't worry about the things you can't control, such as the weather.  
MO MARTIN: Correct.  There's only so much you can control here.  I think we've gotten fairly lucky so far.  We had two delays yesterday and I don't remember when we've had two delays, but the storms that came in and the cells, they had lightning in it.   
So we just sat in position when the heaviest rain came down, so we were then able to play the course when it was fairly soft.  That brings in other challenges, as well, because the ball is not rolling out.  But so far we've been pretty lucky with the weather and we'll see what the weekend brings.   
 Q.  Any thoughts about your strategy going into the weekend?  
MO MARTIN: It can change in a heartbeat based on the weather but we just take one shot at a time.   
 Q.  How does your state of mind change when you step into this part of the country, links land?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, I think it comes down to a lot of the creativity that comes out of me naturally when I see this, and truly what's demanded of you on a course like this.  And then this is a really well-designed golf course, so it gently just starts to turn.   
So you have to really pay attention to whether you're downwind or into the wind, and that's obviously going to change clubs you hit and the shots you hit.  So just it keeps you in the present naturally when you play a links golf course well and just being creative and getting the ball in the hole here.   
 Q.  It's an interesting comment about how your friends predicted this would be the event you would win.  Why?  Was it the creativity or something else?  
MO MARTIN: I think just how I can control my ball flight.  I can hit draws and fades and keep it low.  I don't know, I guess kismet.   
 Q.  Do you think you were a Scot in another life?  
MO MARTIN: Probably.  We're all related.  Depends on how far back you go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT