HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2017
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A round with no bogeys at 5-under is brilliant.  Tell us about it?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, it was a great way to start.  It's a brand new course, so brand new for us, too.  Had a good couple practice rounds on it and really took a liking to it from the beginning.  Right now it's playing pretty hard and fast, which I have an affinity for.   
Yeah, I played great.  Woke up this morning and kind of hurt my back just going from hard mattresses to soft mattresses.  So with the help of some medicine and my trainer is here, so that helped, and I was able to swing the way I have been.  I played well in the Pro-Am yesterday.  Made seven birdies, so just to be able to swinging like that, I'm really happy with.   
 Q.  I was looking at your stats from the past few seasons and you're No. 1 in driving accuracy.  How hard do you work at that?  
MO MARTIN: It's always come naturally.  My dad used to joke that I hit it straight but not far.  But worked a lot on my technique growing up.  Some kids work on just hitting it far and we adopted the approach that my swing plane was perfect, my foot angle was perfect.  My dad didn't let me take a full swing until he thought everything was perfect.  I think that's really helped my accuracy, and it's been my biggest asset.   
 Q.  Given the scores out there today, you must be quite happy with the switch from Serapong to this new Tanjong course because it looks really good on you.  
MO MARTIN: Thank you.  It feels good, too.   
 Q.  Talk to us about the course and how happy you are with how it suits your game.  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, well, again, it's playing hard and fast, which is great.  We've got some elevation changes.  I think it's very aesthetically pleasing, too.  It's nice, up on the par 3, No. 4, you have a great view of the city.  You can see the water, so it's gorgeous.   
I have to give a shoutout to the superintendent and the grounds crew here, because to be able to have a course that's a couple months old, to be playing like this, to be somewhat receptive, is phenomenal.  So they did such a good job.  Like I didn't see a seam out there all day, so they have done a really, really good job.   
 Q.  Now some physio on the back maybe?  
MO MARTIN: I think so.  Definitely resting.   
 Q.  So everything is all right with your hand now?  
MO MARTIN: It's perfect.  This is just for sympathy now.   
 Q.  Like a comfort bandage almost?  
MO MARTIN: Well, if I take it off, and I expose this again, I don't know what my threshold is.  It's not worth it.  It was a terrible injury and couple months off.  So the fact that I can play successfully with it, it's like I'm going to use it until I retire.   
 Q.  How long did you think it took you to be fully confident last year after you stopped?  
MO MARTIN: I think the beginning -- by last year, I was good.  So I would say all year last year.  And last year, I think from start to finish was my best year yet.   
 Q.  From when you won that massive tournament?  
MO MARTIN: Other than that.  But yeah, from start to finish, it was a very consistent year.  And so I've got a lot of confidence in my ball-striking now.  I'm really glad I was able to find the right person, find my therapist, who got me back playing.  That was devastating.  When I hurt it, I think it took, oh, geez, I think it took six months until I could open a bottle of water with my left hand.   
 Q.  And it was straight after winning the RICOH, and you had such momentum?  
MO MARTIN: It's the up-and-downs and downs of this game.  That's pretty much a highlight of it.  That happens so often.   
 Q.  Best week, worst week.  
MO MARTIN: Exactly.  You never know.  You've got to take the highs with the lows.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT