RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2016
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Valiant effort, just came up a few short in the end.  What do you put it down to?  
MO MARTIN: That was my heart and my sole out there, and it was Craig's too, my caddie.  I think we made great decisions club-wise, read-wise.  So that's all I had.  I gave it everything I could.   
 Q.  When exactly did you become aware of Ariya's double-bogey at 13?  
MO MARTIN: I wasn't aware she doubled.  I saw the scoreboard when I could on the back and I knew it was getting closer and closer.  I had a couple putts that didn't go in, but like I said, that was my best effort.   
 Q.  You played the par 5s fantastically well this week.  What was your strategy?  
MO MARTIN: My wedges were spot on.  I've been doing a lot of work on them, so I think it just paid off and that's been a little bit of a difference for me.   
I think before in the past -- I'm not a big stats player, so I don't know what exactly my average was on the par 5s, but I know it's improved this week.  So I want to say wedge work and making the putts.  I had a good putting week and I've been waiting for that.   
So it was really fun to be in contention.  I want to thank the fans.  The fans out here are spectacular, and again, my family and friends.   
 Q.  A top three finish in a major championship; this has to be the second best week of your golfing career?  
MO MARTIN: You could probably say that.  I've had a lot of good ones, but thanks, good for the soul.   
 Q.  What is it about the English air that makes you just love the British Open?  
MO MARTIN: I do love it, that's for sure.  I've done a little bit of research into my past lineage, and I've got a lot of English genes that I didn't really know about, so maybe I have got ancestors looking out over me.   
Yeah, I think it's been nice.  The last times we were here, the weather's great.  The fans are great.  I really appreciate that coming over here and playing here.  I think the fans are spectacular.   
 Q.  Tell me how the course played today.  
MO MARTIN: The course played pretty similar.  We had a similar wind the entire week, and we had -- they moved the tee boxes around just a little bit as far as left and right with the par 3s, and that brought a couple trees into play -- or didn't, so that's the one thing that changed.  But very similar I'd say.   
 Q.  So when you won this championship in 2014, you then suffered with your wrist, which I see you've still got strapped up there.  But you've only missed one cut this year, so what do you put your fantastic form down to now?  Is it just getting over that injury?  
MO MARTIN: That's part of it.  An injury is a scarry thing because you can't push it.  If you push it, you start to compensate other places and then your whole game can go downhill.  With an injury, you never know when you're going to get better.   
Fortunately I found the right therapist, another Mo, Mo Herman.  She's fantastic.  She built a splint, I changed my grip and got back in form.  Then I started working with Craig Castrale this year, new caddie, and he's been a great addition to my team, and I do have a great team around me and I think everything is flowing now.  Great ball-striking year and my putting is coming around, so it's really fun to be in contention.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT