RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2016
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  In for the weekend with a pair of 68s.  You obviously love coming back to England, what do you love so much about it golf course?  
MO MARTIN: It's definitely a departure from links.  Parts of it remind me of the Pacific Northwest but there are some linksy styles in there, some of the fescues, some of the bunkering.  I just love it in England.   
 Q.  I know you've been working on your putting a little bit over the last few years, it really stood up for you today, huge birdie putt on 18 and nice fist-pump, how much did it mean to get that one at the last?  
MO MARTIN: That was really nice.  I've been putting really well and I've been working with Jamie mulligan down in Long Beach and I've known him since college.  Got reunited with him, and we've done a lot of good work, a lot of procedure stuff and it's paying off this week.  So it's been very steady, very steady ball-striking, and some good putts rolled in for me today.   
 Q.  In winning at Birkdale two years ago with the incredible eagle at the final hole.  You said earlier this week that your mom texted you that she's polishing off the trophy.  What's it like coming back to this event now that you already have a trophy at home?  
MO MARTIN: A pair of jugs would be great but I'm not getting ahead of myself.  Got the weekend ahead of us and it's been a great start and want to continue what I'm doing and executing what I can.   
 Q.  If you can go through your birdies.  
MO MARTIN: Good birdie to start.  That was a pretty close one.  That was probably only about six feet.  And then hit it close again on 2, but a little bit of a misread, and then 4, I had a great uphill putt there from just behind the hole.   
 Q.  Was there any particular hole that stood out?  
MO MARTIN: I think there was just a little bit of drama in the last couple holes.  It got windy.  Wind picked up.  The par 5 was playing pretty long.  I had a 9-wood, which is essentially my 4-iron in, and made a nice birdie putt.  That was strong into the wind.  We were getting wet.   
And then the drive on 16, it was howling at that point.  Had a little bit of a disturbance from the spectators.  A couple just ran across the fairway.   
 Q.  While you were getting ready to hit?  
MO MARTIN: Well, yeah, so I'm under the umbrella and it's raining sideways, and really blustery.  So I tried to get all set underneath the umbrella and then go.  Took my practise swing with the tee down and ball down and this couple started walking in the fairways, it's like, no, not right now.  I had to clean my driver off and restart, but any ways, didn't hit a good drive there.  I had to punch out and then I hit a 7-iron in and made a 4-footer.  So that was a great save.   
And then bogeyed 17.  That putt was a little bit slower than I thought and just a really great 18 to finish it off.   
 Q.  So your mom was polishing the trophy.  Where is the trophy, anyways?  Where does it hang out?  
MO MARTIN: When I first gave it to her to put in her house, which I thought was appropriate, since she's kept all my trophies in pretty much the same armoire since I was five and got my first trophy.  And she put it on top which is actually the dustiest place in the house.   
So then when I came back a couple weeks later, I said, "Do you know that's the dustiest place in your entire house?"  So then she moved it to inside the cabinet which was much more appropriate.   
But it was really sweet to get her message, and she just said, polishing it, I don't know -- I have to look at my phone.  She just said, great memories, play well.   
 Q.  When did you get that?  
MO MARTIN: I got it, she sent it Wednesday night, so I got it Thursday before I teed off.   
 Q.  Do you get like an exact replica that's smaller?  
MO MARTIN: No, I think it's exactly the same.   
 Q.  What was the first trophy you got when you were five?  
MO MARTIN: I think it was at Industry Hills, which we had an LPGA event there, and I showed up and I was warming up and the pro came out and told my dad that I was too small to be in the tournament.  And he said, "Sir, I just want to make it clear, this is not my idea, it was hers."  Which was true, it was mine.  He said, "Just let her hit one shot off the first tee, and then you decide whether she's ready or not."   
So he said "Sure."  So I didn't know any of this was going on.  I march up there like, playing in a golf tournament, and I stripe it off the tee.  And he came up to my dad and said, "Your daughter is welcome here any time, I'm sorry."   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT