CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 13, 2015
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. So a 5‑under round today, what was kind of the key to your success out there?   
MO MARTIN: It was a very consistent 5‑under. I started off with a birdie. That's always a good way to start the round and just, yeah, I kept making birdies, only made one bogey today. Made a couple of good par putts, but for the most part it was very stress‑free.   
So my coach, Ian Triggs, is here, and so we did a little bit of fine tuning this week. Last week I was in L.A., and saw my club fitter, (Indiscernible). I call him my Mr.Miyagi. He's a genius with my equipment. We tinkered a little bit with my putter, and I put that putter in play, and it was really good. I putted really well today.  
   
 Q. How often are you able to see your fitter and then also how often does your coach get out here?   
MO MARTIN: Ian gets out here, you know, his wife is recovering, so he's not out here as much as he'd like to be. But we probably see him on average four times a year, maybe five. I would say four, probably. And my club fitter, I see more than that. I see him to just check lofts and lies, and like I said, he's a genius with my equipment. So I check in with him and anytime I'm having trouble he's been there for me and been able to make things fix.  
   
 Q. Is there anything specifically that you and Ian have been working on this week getting prepared for this course, and another kind of similar track up in Vancouver?   
MO MARTIN: Yeah, you're right. These next few weeks do have similarities, for sure. No, just, I mean, for me, accuracy is my strong point. So I think just fine tuning what I do well. So, no. Just we're working on the same things we have been basically since I met him. So we're just fine tuning that.  
   
 Q. Solheim Cup announcements in a couple of weeks. What would it mean to you to play your way on to the team with a couple of good weeks here?   
MO MARTIN: That is clearly the goal. That's what I'm going to shoot for every day. I'd love to represent the USA and see what we can do in Germany.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT