MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2014
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A fun time, but I'm guessing a long two weeks by now.   How are you holding up to the emotion coming off the British?  
MO MARTIN:   The last two nights it's really caught up to me.   7:00 and I'm exhausted and ready to go to sleep.   I am looking forward to two weeks after that.  
Yeah, I have been pretty tired but able to focus on this week, so I am proud of that.  
   
 Q.   How are you maintaining the energy to put up ‑ you're still scoring pretty well.   You would think you would break down after some point.   
MO MARTIN:   I think part of it is adrenaline, and another part is I'm in housing this week and being taken care of very well.   Good food, good sleep.   
The energy here with the crowd is really nice, so that keeps us going as well.  
   
 Q.   You want to try to win every time you go out, but is it a little anticlimactic coming off a major to a regular tournament?  
MO MARTIN:   You know what?   This tournament is so fun and the community is so involved.   It's really nice to be back in America, too.   My Aunt Mary came out, so it was nice to give her a hug.  
The community is keeping the energy up, and it's nice to be here.  
   
 Q.   Is that a good validation of your game to finish up the major win with another good finish this week?  
MO MARTIN:   I'm glad I've been able to keep my focus, because clearly I'm playing well right now.   I don't think it's validated anything, but I think I'm proud of the fact that I'm still being able to focus and change what I've needed to change for this week.  
   
 Q.   Come‑from‑behind victory last week.   Another one this week?  
MO MARTIN:   (Laughter.)   You know what?   I had fun doing it last week; I'm sure I would enjoy it this week, too.  
   
 Q.   The closer you get on the leaderboard I am guess and a few more minutes of sleep tomorrow.   
MO MARTIN:   Yeah, definitely.   I am probably going to be exhausted come 7:00, 8:00 again tonight.   I will be in bed.  
Then headed back to California to visit the family on Monday.   
   
 Q.   Seen some low scores out there; 62 first rounds, Laura; 63 from Jaye today.   You think that is coming tomorrow from someone?   Are you sitting out there going, I've got to go low tomorrow it win?  
MO MARTIN:   There is the potential for sure.   I think the lead is going to keep being lower and lower, so this is definitely going to be one to chase.  
   
 Q.   You like the finishing holes here?   Seems like there are a lot of opportunities for birdies coming in.   
MO MARTIN:   There is.   I'm not able to reach either one of them unless we get wind.  
   
 Q.   Only one person has reached 18.   
MO MARTIN:   Oh, okay.   Yeah, but it puts a short wedge into my hands, so that's nice.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT