TOTO JAPAN CLASSIC
November 2, 2018
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Hole-in-one, great way to end your round.  
MO MARTIN: Absolutely.   
 Q.  Tell us about what happened?  
MO MARTIN: It went in quickly.  Craig called it a home run walk-off on 9 because we ended up ending on 9.  Yeah, it was a 5-wood.  It was into the wind and the ball is just not flying here, so just took a little extra club and it landed, gosh, it landed just a couple feet short and it was just perfect.  The greens are really receptive, so it's kind of coming in high into the wind, so it just landed perfectly and then just skipped in there.  The green is just a little bit below where we are, so we had a perfect visual.  So everybody saw it.   
Let's see, on our 10th hole, which was No. 1, we started on the back.  Pernilla holed out for eagle and then on the next hole, I chipped in, and so we had a conversation.  I was like, you made the hole bigger.  You watched it go in and they start going in.  Apparently that was a little predictive as to No. 9, what happened on 9.   
 Q.  How many feet?  
MO MARTIN: Two to three feet it landed before.   
 Q.  Pop-in or roll-in?  
MO MARTIN: Looked like it landed, and landed once more and rolled in.   
I think it was my ninth hole in one.  No. 9 on 9, walk-off home run.   
 Q.  Nine in a tournament?  
MO MARTIN: No, this is No. 3 for LPGA but nine total.  So like practice rounds, I think two or three in practice round and the rest just in.   
 Q.  Is 5-wood your favorite club?  
MO MARTIN: It is now.  I love my woods.  They are all Callaway woods.   
 Q.  When was your last hole-in-one?  
MO MARTIN: My last was the first round that Craig and I worked together in the Bahamas to start off 2016.  So it was our 12th hole together.  Good way to start.  He didn't get fired.   
 Q.  Overall, tell us about your round.  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, it was frigid.  The morning was cold.  We were first tee time.  So again, there was some adjustment in the beginning, just because it's so cold and then like, you know, just any wind into, the ball is just not flying and you want to keep it below the hole on this course.  So a lot of front pins, but then you had to take more club.  So just missed a few greens in the beginning, but made some really good pars.   
So, some good pars in the beginning and then just made some nice birdies coming in, then the ball started to fly a little bit further, but still not normal distance.  And then, yeah, awesome way to finish and it was nice to see Pernilla make one.  I don't know, you just start thinking about it and talking about it and they just start going in.  I feel like hole-in-ones come in flocks.   
 Q.  More this week maybe?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, maybe soon.   
 Q.  Wouldn't say no to that?  
MO MARTIN: No.   
 Q.  The back nine, you started playing better, because it warmed up?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, it warmed up a little bit, and then just getting a feel for trusting that the ball is not flying still, like still, it's a little bit colder.  Then, yeah, just had some shorter clubs in on like one of the par 3s was one of my birdies and then I chipped in on another one, and the chip-in was after Pernilla made her eagle.  So Pernilla holed out.   
 Q.  Two more days to play.  What's your thought about that?  
MO MARTIN: I'm really happy to be here in Japan.  It's been a nice year for me, second place, almost in a playoff at Evian.  I've been playing really solid, and you know, yeah, two more days and look at it as a typical weekend.  The fans are great.  I love playing in front of the Japanese fans.  I feel like they appreciate good golf and they know what good golf is.   
Two days ago -- so I played in the Japan World Cup when I was eight.  When I was eight years old, I came to Japan for the first time, and I won when I was eight.  But I met a Japanese player, named Megumi Asso (ph), and so 28 years later, she came up with her kids and her husband and her mom, so they came to Kyoto and we had the day together on Wednesday, and we went to the Fushimi Palace and her mom bought me a little good luck trinket that I had in my bag, so maybe we have good luck.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT