RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 13, 2014
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just describe the events and the closing stages of that round. 
MO MARTIN:   Well, it was a tough day of golf today.   I mean, it was very windy and this course is very challenging.   So stayed patient and I fortunately played some really good golf today.

Q.   You certainly played some great golf at the 18th.   On the tee you were two shots behind.   What was in your mind? 
MO MARTIN:   Just my drive.   I picked the left side, so I had to hit it up the left side and let it feed up a little bit right.   That was the strategy my caddie, Kyle, and I had all week.   My second shot there is one I'm always going to remember.

Q.   I think we'll all remember.   You under‑clubbed the day before.   What was this? 
MO MARTIN:   This was a full 3‑wood.   It was off a little bit of a left‑to‑right lie, which let it feed.   At this point I'm saying, "Sit."   And then I said "Go," and then I said‑‑ "I don't know what else to say."   I actually heard it hit the flag, and that's when I just said, "Oh, my God." 

Q.   One of the greatest shots of your life, isn't it? 
MO MARTIN:     Yeah, absolutely 100 per cent.

Q.   And standing over the putt, knowing this could be decisive, not only for your career but for this championship. 
MO MARTIN:   Same thing.   I wanted to get the best read on it, put a good stroke on it and I did.   I wasn't quite sure about my lines.   I backed off once and it went in. 

Q.   We could see what it meant to you.   Your best finish in a major has been in the Top‑30, I think a tie for 29th earlier this week.   What's made the difference this week?   Why has it all come good?
MO MARTIN:   From first time I saw Royal Birkdale, I fell in love with it .   I think the layout is absolutely phenomenal.   I think the officials this week, we were talking about if I was ever in this position, or when I was, I would actually thank ‑‑ Kyle instead, my caddie, but that didn't quite work out.
Love the golf course.   Kyle and I put some really good work in.   I want to thank Ian Triggs, any coach are for having faith in me and my sponsors, too, CME Group, Trader Joe's, and RICOH, it's been a fantastic event. 

Q.   That was special.   Talk us through the 18th. 
MO MARTIN:   Yeah , that was phenomenal.   On the tee box I was just thinking about my drive, thinking about putting it in the same position I've been in the last three days and I was able to do that.   That was perfect. 
Actually the lie complemented the shot I was hitting in, a little left‑to‑right breeze, and so hit an absolutely perfect 3‑wood.   When it was in the air, I said, "Sit," and then I said, "Stop," and then when it going towards the hole, I said, "Okay, I don't have anything more to say to that ball." 
I actually heard it hit the pin.   It's definitely one to remember.

Q.   You looked so happy after sinking that final putt.   Talk through the emotions after a pretty incredible week?
MO MARTIN:   You know, what it's all sinking in right now and clearly I don't know what's going to happen.   There's still some golf left to be played behind me but either way I'm ecstatic about my preparation and strategy and the way I was able to execute.   Kyle Morrison (ph), my caddie, helped me a ton out there.   He's a great emotional support, as well.   Keeps me on the level.   It's just wonderful.   I'm really happy.

Q.   How pleased are you with this week and what are you going to take out of the golf that you've played?
MO MARTIN:   This is definitely one to remember.   I mean, I don't know what's going to happen but this has just been a confidence boost and it's been a lot of fun. 
So I just want to thank my family, friends.   I had a lot of fellow players that came out to support me there at the end.   It was so nice to have them there, CME Group and Trader Joe's, my sponsors, for having faith and supporting me, and RICOH has put on an absolutely fantastic event.

Q.   This has exceeded probably your expectations coming into the tournament.   Where did this golf you've been playing come from? 
MO MARTIN:   Yeah, I mean, this is definitely a first, but there's always got to be a first for everything.   So I really just worked really hard, focused my mind and I have a really good support system around me.   I just want to thank everybody that helped make this possible, because you don't do it alone.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT