SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC
April 24, 2014
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Good afternoon everyone.   We would like to welcome in our current leader, Mo Martin, into the interview room.   First off, congratulations.   A great 3‑under par round on a difficult golf course out there.
A little bit of a delay this morning due to the fog.   Just take me through your round.   How were you able to put together such a fabulous round out there today? 
MO MARTIN:   As always, one shot at a time.   I did everything pretty well today:   drove the ball well, hit my approaches well; and it was a very good putting day.
Just dissected the golf course.   I really like this golf course because you've got to‑‑ every shot is demanding.   From the tee to the approach, you've got to work it both ways ‑ or you have to be able to. 
Then you've got to putt well.   It's got some challenging bunkers, too.   Kind of tests you all around.   I am a fan of the old California golf courses, so...
My family have been here for six generations.   I was just saying maybe it's in the blood. 
MODERATOR:   Different players seem to feed off different golf courses.   You seem like a player who's fared well in it seems like tougher golf courses.   Do you like the test you get when you have to really think your way through a golf course? 
MO MARTIN:   I do, definitely.   I think it keeps you in the moment.   My accuracy is my biggest strength.   I don't hit the ball too far, so just keep it in play, and when I get the putter rolling and my approaches, I mean, it's really fun to play well on these courses.
MODERATOR:   You've been playing well in recent weeks.   Has there been something in your game that's really come together recently that's led to a string of finding something, I guess? 
MO MARTIN:   Well, no.   I mean, a couple years ago, the start of the season before this, I started working with Ian Triggs and he's helped me quite a bit.   It's been nice to check in with him.   He's kept me on a good path.
I haven't done anything drastic and didn't change anything in the off season.   Th significant thing was my grandpa passed away about a month ago.   So that was definitely emotional.   Still is.   I've got an L around my neck that I'm wearing.   Actually been wearing that for a couple months.   Reminds me of him. 
I just think in the last month I've been able to reflect and just been‑‑ just really been filled with gratitude, and especially with my family, the way everybody has come together and treated the situation. 
MODERATOR:   For those of the media members in here that didn't know Lincoln, he was a fabulous man, one I feel very blessed to have gotten the opportunity to know. 
Can you just tell everyone about Lincoln and what made him so special.   I love the fact that he ate ice cream every morning and said that was a key to longevity in life.   Made my diet seem a lot better.
MO MARTIN:   It would really be hard to do him justice in a couple sentences.   But greatest person I've ever met.   He was definitely my role model.   Changed my life when I got to know him in the last 10 years.   Most peaceful person I've ever met.
I believe he had six U.S. patents and didn't say a word about them.   Not a single word.   I didn't know about them until recently.   So very humble.   Just always had a smile on his face and so pleasant to be around.   Everybody out here loved him.   He followed women's golf and he was a fan of everyone.
And the ice cream, yeah, he had ice cream on his cereal every single morning. 
MODERATOR:   The key to long life.   And how old exactly was he when he passed? 
MO MARTIN:   102.
MODERATOR:   102.   One of those significant human beings that leaves a lasting impact.   I was reading Bethann Nichol's (ph) article which was really wonderful, on Lincoln, and kind of brought back some memories. 
I liked the fact where she said how you said your aunt I think it was made a T‑shirt that said you were Lincoln Martin's granddaughter.   Lincoln got to be so famous out here.   Everyone knew him and he was always on his scooter and we always felt blessed to have a chance to get to know him whenever he stopped by.   So I know he's still out there watching, just in a different spot.   He's probably got the best view out of anybody.
MO MARTIN:   Yeah, he's up there riding a Segway eating ice cream.   That's for sure.

Q.   I saw in the media guide where it said he traveled to events as late as when he was 100.   How often did he come? 
MO MARTIN:   My rookie year came out to nine events, so definitely traveled.   This is my third year, so he was 100.   Came out to nine events.
And last year, haven't counted them, but I would say it's in the region of four or five.   Five probably.   He traveled out to Rochester last year, so... 

Q.   That is something to be that age and be out there. 
MO MARTIN:   I'm so blessed.   I think I said the other day I think I went like 20 innings with him.   I had so much extra time with him, and I loved every moment of it.   He was lucid and funny and his memory was intact.
They were really fun years.

Q.   You talked about him being such an important influence on you.   Can you share any stories?   Maybe it's away from golf; maybe it's golf.   And maybe a little more on the patents that you just told us about. 
MO MARTIN:   Oh, okay.   Well, jeez, he would tell me a lot‑‑ and actually one of the last things he said to me, he wasn't feeling well and he said, Don't push it, let it fall.   So he would say that to me a lot.
He was an extremely hard worker.   He was well into his 90s ‑‑ probably up to until 101 he would be up at 6:   30, dressed, fully dressed, nicely, and eating breakfast at 6:30, 7:00.   Table would be set.   He was like that really until the day he passed.
I couldn't think of a better influence.   He was just extremely humble and kind.   Another thing, I never heard him say a bad word about anybody or anything.   I never heard the man complain.   That's never.   So that's really impressive to me.   That's a huge lesson.   I couldn't ask for a better grandpa. 

Q.   (Question regarding flavor of ice cream.) 
MO MARTIN:   A couple years ago we found an ice cream, triple vanilla, so he would put that on his Cocoa Rice Krispies.   Instead of milk he would put half and half on it.   He would drink coffee and Coke.   I would offer him water sometimes and he would be funny about it.   He would say, No, I don't touch that stuff.
His theory about diet was if it tastes good, eat it.   And when you're full, stop.   If you pay attention to those two things, you're doing pretty well. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MO MARTIN:   Oh, yeah, it's great.   I eat oatmeal, which is a small variation in the morning.   But I put half and half on it, too.   He taught me well there.

Q.   Back to today's round, this course ‑ you've been around on various courses ‑   how does this course compare as one of the tougher ones that you play?   Because of the weather this seems like a hardy experience.   You got fog and you don't know what's going to happen. 
MO MARTIN:   Yeah, fog is not something you can watch a radar and predict.   I think I warmed up four times today.   We were the second group off, so I was on and off the range.
I mean, that's kind of ‑‑ mentally you got to stay focus and prepared for whenever it does burn.   Because when it started to burn off it burned off quickly, and then actually it came back. 
So kind of second and third holes, we could still see the balls, but the fog definitely came back in.
To answer your question, it's definitely one of the more difficult golf courses.   It's challenging in every department.   I also think it's a fair golf course.   A couple times I barely missed the green and I was in a good cut.   It wasn't like it fell off.   I think it's a very difficult but very fair golf course.

Q.   When you say the fog came back, was that a delay at that point?
MO MARTIN:   It wasn't a delay.   We played through it.   The fog was just kind of rolling in and out all morning.   Just have to be prepared.   Didn't know if there was going to be another delay.   If it had continued to roll in, we would have had another delay.   But we didn't.

Q.   You said you're a big fan of old California golf courses.   What features do you mean when you say that, and what features exist here that put Lake Merced in that category?
MO MARTIN:   I just think of old trees, rough, fairly narrow.   I mean, that's kind of what I got comfortable with growing up.   You know, there are all kinds of courses in California, but I do think that's kind of a hallmark of it.

Q.   (No microphone.)
MO MARTIN:   I grow up in Pasadena, and my family was her before the 49ers.   We've been here fore six generations.

Q.   Was it windy today?
MO MARTIN:   It was windy.   The wind was a little bit inconsistent.   I thought this week we would have a real steady wind off the water, but today it was going a little bit cross. 
It changed a little bit, so we had to keep an eye on that. 

Q.   You said here for six generations.   You mean living in San Francisco or...
MO MARTIN:   Actually the valley or L.A.   So central and southern.   I'm native. 

Q.   Along those lines, does that mean your grandfather traveled from California to Rochester last year?
MO MARTIN:   Oh, yes.

Q.   Was that one of his last ones? 
MO MARTIN:   Yes.   He traveled from‑‑ went from Porterville, which is a small kind of sleepy town, down to Bakersfield.   I think he had two more stops before getting to Rochester.   So traveled quite a ways to come see me. 
MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Mo? 
Thank you very much.   Thank you for sharing so much on Lincoln.   I know he's a special person, and one that you have led his example and carried that on.   Even though he's no longer with, us you are carrying that legacy on. 
Great playing.   We look forward to seeing you more this week. 
MO MARTIN:   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT