THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2018
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66 on day two of the Evian Championship.  Huge birdie there on the last to move into a share of the lead.  Describe the round for me.  What was it like out there?  
MO MARTIN: It was pretty magical, just like this place.  The weather has been pretty close to perfect.  We've had a beautiful week.  I'm kind of firing on all cylinders.   
Going to have to do that to be in contention here.  It's a very difficult golf course.  They tucked a lot of the pins so you had a lot of, you know, (indiscernible) from the corner, so not very far.   
You don't have a lot to work with.  You've got to hit your fairways; you've got to hit quality shots in; you've got to make your putts here.   
Definitely defines a major championship.  I was talking to Foltzy (phonetic) earlier and he said that there are all style of play up on the leaderboard.  I think that's just a testament to the golf course and how it's set up.   
 Q.  You've been playing great lately.  Career low 62 just a few weeks ago.  What do you think you found with your game over the last few weeks?  
MO MARTIN: I found something tiny with my putting, but honestly, I've been playing so darn well.  It's been so frustrating because it's been so close.   
Then just finding this little trick with my putter and it's just kind of -- that 62 happened and played really well in Portland.  Got a little bit sick in Portland, but put it all together.  And then, you know, inspired by Marina's win.  We share the same coach and same sponsor, so it's good momentum going into the end of the year.   
I'm glad I have a great caddie because I forgot my yardage book this morning.  I can be a little bit mindless, which is embarrassing.  We were going to the tee and I was like, Do you have my yardage book?  He was like, No.   
So small panic.  I thank Ayako for trying to help me out, too.  He had an extra yardage book because he knows me very well.  Fortunately that wasn't that big of a deal.  Got to give a lot of credit to Craig Castrale here.   
 Q.  Last question:  How are you feeling being in this position again back in the mix?  
MO MARTIN: I feel great to be in contention early.  I love my majors.  Right now I feel relaxed.  I'm looking forward to one of my best friends and his wife coming out tomorrow.   
Yeah, just going to enjoy the next two days and see what comes.   
 Q.  You said this place was magical.  What else makes this place magical?  
MO MARTIN: Lake Geneva, Lac Leman, all the Medieval castles.  I mean, it's a beautiful place in Europe to be.  I mean, Mont Blanc in the background and just with beautiful weather.  I mean, the flowers around here, it's in great shape.   
It's just everything together.  Being the last major and all that stuff.  It's a good recipe.   
 Q.  Good vibes.  So Craig just knows you that well to keep an extra yardage book on hand?  
MO MARTIN: Yes, he does.  Actually, you should ask him on a scale of one to ten how surprised he was that I forgot.  That would be an amazing question for him.   
 Q.  Does that happen a lot?  
MO MARTIN: I can just be -- I can make like mindless mistakes.  It's embarrassing.  I told him when we first started working together, I said, I'm going to have no idea where my car keys are or my badge.  He was like, Ha, ha.  And then he was like, Oh, my God.  You're serious.   
No.  I have no idea where they are.   
 Q.  What's the craziest thing you've lost or forgotten?  
MO MARTIN: The day I got my driver's license and I had everything that said I was a human being in a file; put it on the top of the car.  (Car noise.)  I mean, like down a major street.  I see like my passport and like my birth certificate, and my shoes were on top of the car, too.   
Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  I just don't see you as that type of person.  
MO MARTIN: I know.  Seriously, it's a funny thing.  Yeah, we're going to the first tee and I'm like, Um, you have my yardage book?  No.  He had one of his old ones, so fortunately it had all my numbers and most of the breaks.  It was really not that big of a deal.  Could have been if he wasn't prepared.   
So with him, he's become such a good friend of mine and he's the best caddie I could have out here.  He makes it easy on me.  I know how he's going to show up in the morning; don't have to worry about him.   
I mean, I enjoy my walks down the fairway with Craig.  He's obviously got my back.   
 Q.  How long have you been together now?  
MO MARTIN: This is the third year.   
 Q.  Last one:  Leading on tour in driving accuracy again this year.  How important do you think that is here?  -- everyone talks about how tough the rough is right now.  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, very.  A lot of holes if you're in the rough like you've got to lay up or you're not going to have the shot you need to get it close and get on the green most likely.   
Yeah, I'm glad that is to my strength.  I've been hitting the ball really well for many years, so it's just nice to have the putting kind of locked in now.  Continue with this.   
 Q.  Anything change in putting?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, I mean, like I said, I found a tiny little trigger.  Just kind of pulled couple things together.   
 Q.  Have you missed any fairways this week?  
MO MARTIN: Never going to remember if I do.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Fair enough.  
MO MARTIN: That's none of my business.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  On a scale of one to ten, how surprised were you that she left her yardage book at the hotel?  
CRAIG CASTRALE: Honestly first time she's left her yardage book.  I was pretty surprised.  I mean, her snacks or golf balls or rain jacket, umbrella, shoe laces.   
MO MARTIN: Keys.   
CRAIG CASTRALE: Yeah, keys, cell phone.  Those are more common.  This is a first in three years with the yardage book, so I was a little surprised.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT