CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2017
Mo Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you play today?  
MO MARTIN: I feel like I played well.  Got off to kind of a hot start.  Made a few birdies at the start there and was 3-under after 6.   
 Q.  5.  
MO MARTIN: 5, yeah.  There you go.  So that's always a nice start.  Started on the back today, so it was a little bit unusual.  It's been a while since I started on the back.   
I played well here last year.  I came in fourth.  So going off that momentum.  There has been a lot potential this year.  I haven't played my best.  I've had some good starts, but fighting a little bit of injury and just, I don't know, momentum-itis.   
Like couldn't quite get it going.   
 Q.  How is the wrist?  
MO MARTIN: Oh, my thumb is good.  It's still splinted, but that's pretty much precautionary.  It was just my back.  Just something kind of flared up.  I had two things going on with my back that I was battling this summer, so I had to take off some tournaments.   
Fear of reinjury always comes in for any athlete.  Trying to manage that.  A lot of PT.  Trying to do things daily to kind of stave it off.   
 Q.  I saw you a couple times really kind of stretching out.  
MO MARTIN: Yeah.  It's one of the methods that the PT has given me.   
 Q.  Even during the round?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah.  I think it's called the McKenzie Method.  It's basically just bending backwards to try to get everything back in alignment.  I just have a little tear in a disc and just trying to manage it.   
I wasn't really in any pain today, so that's good.  That's all I'm asking for this week.   
 Q.  How would describe the season.  
MO MARTIN: Bumpy.  You know, I was really bummed not to make the Solheim Cup team.  That's pretty obvious.  That was a goal this year.  But you never know what the year is going to bring.   
Being injured, you know, I mean, I'm still here.  I still have had some top 10s; I've had some good finishes at some of my favorite places.  The glass is always half full with me, so I am always going to look at the good things that came out of the year instead of the bad.   
 Q.  You had a pretty nice crowd following today.  
MO MARTIN: I did.  I've got to get back to them.   
 Q.  Does that fuel you?  I mean, is that something that maybe pushed you to that quick, solid start?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah.  You know, I love it when my fans and my family are out, especially being a local gal here.  The community has really embraced and welcomed me.  They're supporting me in turn.   
Even the volunteers going by the scoreboards and the people holding ropes, they're like, Go, Mo.   
On 8 I had a chant from the bleachers.  That was a first.  From people I don't know.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Was that weird?  
MO MARTIN: No, it was neat.  I loved it.   
 Q.  You were putting really well today.  Looked like the ones that you missed at the start you were right there.  Do you feel like your game is right there for the taking for this tournament?  
MO MARTIN: I do.  My game is in a great place.  Like I said, there has been so much people.  I'm putting great.  The back half of this summer I've been playing well.  Like I said, it's just been managing this injury.   
I'm feeling great this week.  Like I said, not really any pain.  Just taking an Advil available and doing my PT and hoping for the best.   
 Q.  I asked you last year, and I'll ask you again kind of what's it like being home since you're a Naples resident, Pelican Bay Golf Club.  Just what's it like just being here in your own backyard?  
MO MARTIN: Well, like I said, I have a ton of support.  That always goes a long way being on the road for ten months out of year and just coming back from Asia.  It's not a home game.   
To come back to a home game is really special.   
 Q.  What do you need to do for tomorrow?  
MO MARTIN: I just need to keep making birdies.  The wind was up this morning and then it kind of tapered off like into this afternoon.   
When the wind is up it can make this a tough golf course, so if I just keep making birdies and smart pars, I should be in contention again, and I look forward to that.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts -- this is not my question -- about how the points system is tied into -- for example I.K. could win (indiscernible.)  
MO MARTIN: To be honest, that's a bad question for me.  I'm so not a stats and numbers person, so I haven't looked into that.  I'm going to have to pass on that one.  Sorry.  I'm not the person to ask.   
 Q.  Philosophically, though...  
MO MARTIN: You're saying she's fourth.   
 Q.  Yeah.  If she wins this tournament, it would her fourth victory of the year, but she's not played in enough tournaments.  
MO MARTIN: Oh, she hasn't played in enough tournaments so she's behind that far in the points.   
So it hasn't been restructured in the top nine still.   
 Q.  It's for Player of the Year, not...  
MO MARTIN: Oh, Player of the Year.   
 Q.  Sorry.  There are only like six awards...  
MO MARTIN: Yeah.  I mean, with the season getting longer and longer for us, which is great, the tour is saturated in a way it hasn't been.  It's the busiest since I've come on tour in 2012.  We have Mike Whan to thank for that.  He's done a tremendous job.  Really glad he's at the helm.   
I commend I.K. for taking time off in the beginning of the year.  We didn't see her until beginning part of the summer.  Sometimes you really just have to be at home.  You have to rest.  You have to get your mind and body right.   
So, I mean, from that aspect, like, you know, I've thought about her season and I have a lot of respect for what she did.  She wins four times.  That's a testament in and of itself.  Her clubs will do the talking.   
With the amount we're on the road I think it's really important and can't be understated that we need to take time off.  We just need to manage ourselves emotionally and physically.   
It sucks that the point system is going to favor somebody who plays more.  Obviously whoever wins will have Vegas had a great season, and I'm sure they're going to deserve it, too.   
 Q.  Right.  
MO MARTIN: So that's why, again, I go back to neutral.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Two questions.  CME Group is a huge sponsor of yours.  How much more does this tournament mean for you?  
MO MARTIN: Yeah, CME Group came on board before the British.  I have got a great relationship with Terry Duffy.  To be an ambassador for such an amazing company means a lot to me.  It's a great relationship to have.   
It's nice to see him on 18 and hear them cheering.  I got some extra cheers down from his booth up there after 18.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT