NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2007
Wilson Chandler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Just wondering if you had any idea you would wind up in New York and how the Knicks expressed an interest in you.   
 WILSON CHANDLER:  They talked to my agent a few times and told him they was very interested.  So I was confident in my agent.  I never spoke to anybody but I enlisted my agent.  I had confidence in him and he said they liked me a lot.   
 So whatever he was doing, I was going with what he was doing.   
  
  Q.  What are your thoughts on getting an opportunity to play on this floor here at the Garden?   
 WILSON CHANDLER:  It's a great opportunity.  It's a traditional court, a good basketball squad and a great coach and a great city, so it's going to be a good opportunity to showcase my skills.   
  
  Q.  Are you excited to be playing in a big city like New York?   
 WILSON CHANDLER:  Oh, very excited, it's a once-in-a-lifetime chance.  I'm looking forward to it and it's going to be a good opportunity to play.   
  
  Q.  If you had to talk about yourself, what do you give to the team?  What are your strengths?   
 WILSON CHANDLER:  My strengths, I run the floor very well; athletic; I listen.  My basketball fundamentals are very sound.  Hopefully I'll get better at everything else.   
  
  Q.  Your playing style has been compared to a very popular Knicks player, Allan Houston.  Do you feel any extra pressure because of that?   
 WILSON CHANDLER:  I don't feel any extra pressure, but it's a wonderful thing to be compared to a great player like that.   
 I'm going to come in and work at every aspect of my game and try to give the Knicks whatever they need out of me.  So I'm looking forward to the challenge.   
  
  Q.  Where do you see yourself immediately fitting in with this team as it currently is constituted again; where do you see yourself fitting in with this team?   
 WILSON CHANDLER:  Right now I can't tell you, but whatever the coaches need, the team needs, I'm going to try to do that and just fill that spot.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about the pressure of playing in New York?  Is that something you're looking forward to?   
 WILSON CHANDLER:  That's something I'm looking forward to, because there's always pressure, but New York is the biggest stage right now.   
 It's going to be hard, but I can get through it because I'm a pretty tough guy.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT