NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2006
Del Harris
Moses Malone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   COACH DEL HARRIS:  We were glad to win.  What do you think, Mo? 
 MOSES MALONE:  Great win for the sophomore them.  We played hard and that's the main thing, played hard for the people here in Houston.  Gave them the opportunity next year to come back and see the freshmen, sophomores again, and that's the way the game should be played. 
 You know, put on a show and play hard, and then you win a ballgame, so they did a great job.  Both teams did a great job and both coaching staffs did a great job.  Last year they lost, but they stepped it up.  So great win for the sophomore team. 
 COACH DEL HARRIS:  That's right.  What he means, obviously, is some motivation that Moses gave them this morning and this afternoon, this evening, was that these guys got hammered last year as rookies.  So he put that on them.  I think it helped. 
 Questions?  What do you got? 
 Q.  Moses, especially, tomorrow night is the Dunk Contest, was Andre giving you guys a preview of what you'll be judging tomorrow? 
 MOSES MALONE:  Well, for one thing, I didn't know he had all that.  I ain't never seen him do it in practices.  You know, he's got a lot of talent.  Let's give him the opportunity to see tomorrow what he can really do in the dunk contest. 
 COACH DEL HARRIS:  I'll say one thing, I thought there would be more questions, looks like such an intelligent group.  (Laughter). 
 The one thing that we wanted to do, Moses and I, was to have it be more like a real game.  I know that we got carried away a little bit, some of those high passes for lobs, some of which went in the baskets, some of which went in the stands.  We like the ones that went in the basket better. 
 But all in all, we thought the guys played more like a real basketball game than many of these games have been played.  And I think the score indicates that.  That's just one of the few times that one of the teams has been held below 100. 
 I think it was more like real basketball out there, because we felt like if they wanted to come and see a lot of craziness for tomorrow night when they have the Dunk Contest, and the Skills Game and the Three-Point Game.  I think people wanted to see what these young guys can do, and kind of compare that as they go along because these guys will be in the big game soon, you know, in two years, three years, four years; several of these players will be playing in the Sunday game, and you will have seen them and people on television would have seen them not just fooling around out there, but actually playing when they were younger players. 
 So we were happy for that, and for the overall effort. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT