PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2017
Troy Apke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Troy, I'm curious, what do you remember about the game last year, kind of walking out of Heinz Field?  What kind of stuck with you about that game?  
TROY APKE: I think it left kind of a bitter taste in everyone's mouth, but you know, last year is last year, so we're kind of just focused on what's going to happen this year, and we're just focused on ourselves right now.   
 Q.  What does good defense mean to you in an era where people are scoring points in bunches?  
TROY APKE: I think the biggest thing for our defense is kind of just playing with energy and kind of playing with emotion, and as long as we do that, I think we're going to be fine.   
 Q.  What kind of interaction do you have with your dad in the week leading up to a Pitt game, and what was it like last year after the game for you?  
TROY APKE: You know, it's the same every week with me and my dad.  He supports me with everything I do, and I guess last year, you know, it's fine.  He just supports me, and I'm at Penn State, and he's a Penn State fan.   
 Q.  How was Saturday different for you versus last year when you came in for a couple series and were the backup?  How is the rhythm of the game different as it goes along?  
TROY APKE: I started my first game as a sophomore, so it really wasn't anything new.  I've played a lot of snaps here.  I was just excited to get back out there.   
 Q.  With your family's history with Pitt, when you were growing up, would you watch games frequently, and what was the connection there for you as a kid growing up?  
TROY APKE: I guess really the only connection I had was just my parents went there.  It wasn't really anything different to me.  They supported me whatever I wanted to do.   
 Q.  What do you see when you look at Max Browne, their quarterback?  What stands out to you about him?  
TROY APKE: Yeah, he's a good quarterback.  I studied him last year at USC.  You know, I've got to watch more film on him and everything, but I think he's a good player.   
 Q.  Curious if you can take us back to the beginning of the game last year, the game set a record for attendance in Pittsburgh, pro or college, the excitement level.  Do you feel you guys weren't able to match theirs at the beginning of the game, or did they just catch you with some other things that you weren't expecting?  
TROY APKE: No, I don't think it was that.  I just think we've got to focus on playing with emotion and energy this year, and I think we're going to be fine.   
 Q.  What did you think of Amani's interception last Saturday, and when you guys go over that as a team, what is the reaction in the room when you see a play like that?  
TROY APKE: Yeah, it was great.  He's one of my best friends up here, and I'm excited to see him succeed on the field.   
 Q.  From your experience with him, is he capable of something like that regularly?  What has he brought in camp that you've seen?  
TROY APKE: Yeah, Amani is mature.  He's played a lot of football, and he is capable.  He has a lot of ability to do things like that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT