BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2008
John Ferguson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ERIC WING: We're pleased to be joined by John Ferguson, who is the spokesperson for the racing operation of Darley Stable, and also for H.R.H. Princess Haya of Jordan who is Sheikh Mohamed's wife.   
 And John, congratulations on two outstanding performances back-to-back by the two 2-year-olds, Midshipman and Donativum. Let's start in chronological order of Midshipman. Any idea what the next step will be going forward the rest of '08, beginning '09?   
 JOHN FERGUSON: There's no decision at the moment. Obviously delighted with what's happened today. It's common knowledge, we brought Stonerside Stables two months ago beginning of September, and Midshipman was part of that package. He just had just recently won his maiden. So the fact that we're here and had a day like today is fantastic.   
 He's obviously a horse with a very, very exciting future. Sheikh Mohammed was unable to be here today, because there's an enormous amount going on in the world right now, and he's doing his bit to sort that out.   
 But the long and short of it is, Sheikh Mohammed will decide whether the horse will be in Dubai and come back for the Kentucky Derby, or whether the horse stays here. And that is the decision he makes in the best interest of the horse, Godolphin, and obviously, Godolphin is Dubai.   
 One mustn't forget that his people follow Godolphin in the same way that people from New York follow Yankees or whatever else. It's a flagship. So I think there's every possibility the horse will go to Dubai, but that is a decision that will be made through the winter.   
 I personally believe that one of the problems with coming from Dubai for Godolphin in the last few years has nothing to do with the travel, it's to do with the fact that we haven't had the horses good enough to do it. So this could be a possibility with this horse.   
  
  Q. I'm not sure what time it is in the Middle East, but have you had any opportunity to speak to either Sheikh Mohammed and Princess Haya, or did they watch the race?   
 JOHN FERGUSON: It's 4:30 in the morning there, I know he's been busy. I can't get through on my phone, I think there is so much action going on. But I've sent him text and everything else. He'll probably be in touch in the next few minutes.   
 I know he'll be absolutely thrilled, not only with Midshipman, but the other horses as well.   
  
  Q. Your comment seems to imply that the Kentucky Derby in any case is the likely goal for this horse?   
 JOHN FERGUSON: I would say that from every viewpoint, it should be. There is no reason why he won't stay the trip. Being by that side, there's no reason Churchill Downs won't suit him. And you know, the Kentucky Derby has always been a serious goal for Sheikh Mohammed and for Godolphin. And I think this is a horse -- this horse appears to be a perfect candidate. We'll just have to see, as I said, to what Sheikh Mohammed decides to do.   
 No, I think it's an obvious target, you know. The great thing about it, if you remember years gone by, people used to say if you won the juvenile, there was a jinx on the Kentucky Derby. Luckily Street Sense put that one to bed well and truly.   
 So I think this horse has a great shot, very, very exciting.   
  
  Q. When will you decide whether the horse stays with Bob Baffert or not?   
 JOHN FERGUSON: Well, I think what will probably happen is we'll go to Dubai in the next ten days after the Keeneland November sale, and we'll sit down and discuss it then. And Sheikh Mohammed will tell me what he wants to do then, I would think in the next ten days, two weeks. But I will say, I think Bob has done the most superb job with this horse. If you see the way he's run his races through the year, he's done nothing but improve.   
 The horse was so focused today and put up a really impressive performance. A lot of that goes down to the horse, but you have to say that Bob has done an absolutely superb job, and Garret gave him a beautiful ride today.  
  
  Q. Any thoughts on the short term future for Donativum, and John had mentioned that sometimes opportunities for geldings in Europe aren't what they are here in the United States, and maybe that would be a consideration. Your thoughts on all of the above?   
 JOHN FERGUSON: Absolutely. Donativum is a horse that's improved beyond measure. He won his last start, he won the Million, which is a race confined to horses that are bought at the Newmarket sales. So you've got a limited pool, and the winner wins a million. It's a set where you've got a sales race in England, he was 25-1 in that, and that was only three weeks ago.   
 So he's improved enormously. To come here and do what he did today, obviously, was a good performance. The horse that he beat in the Million won a Group 1 in England today by six lengths. So the horse's form is strong. He's a gelding, which means that every option is open to him.   
 I know Princess Haya and Sheikh Mohammed would feel that he's a horse to have fun with. Because he's a gelding, he's a horse to have fun with. I certainly wouldn't rule out anything.   
 Whether he would get the trip in the Kentucky Derby, would he get the ten furlongs? I don't know. He's more of a miler. But anything's possible.  
  
  Q. Would you guess Donativum would go back to Europe from here, and is he done racing for this year?   
 JOHN FERGUSON: He's done racing for this year. Of the season in Europe comes to a close in the next few days. And, again, he's another one just like Midshipman. What really happens is we go back and sit down with a list of horses and decide what their futures are.   
 As I said, the one thing I appreciate everybody understands here in the States because it's been happening for years. Godolphin is Sheikh Mohammed, and Sheikh Mohammed is Dubai, and it's a very, very important part of what it's all about. .  
 It has nothing to do with the trainers or this or that. It's just the big picture for Sheikh Mohammed is promoting Dubai and using horse racing as a big way of doing it.   
 ERIC WING: Thank you very much for coming in, congratulations on the terrific back-to-back wins by Midshipman and Donativum.  
 JOHN FERGUSON: You're very kind. Thank you very much. Have a great day. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT