RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 13, 2012
Haeji Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That golf course isn't supposed to be that easy.   
HAEJI KANG:   I hit it pretty good out there.   My iron shots were just inside 20 feet all the time, so I could just putt it out.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the little run you had up until the turn?  
HAEJI KANG:   Actually I started with a bogey but I managed myself out there to stay calm.   Especially this kind of major, you have to be very patient.   I think what's I did really good today so I'm really happy with my round today.   
   
 Q.   You've been playing pretty well, what has been the difference for new 2012?   
HAEJI KANG:   Actually I worked on my swing really hard in the winter and also I did a lot of fitness work and also I got more distance which helps a lot, especially in majors, if you are going to hit it far like Yani.   I think that helps a lot.   
   
 Q.   How much experience have you had playing links golf courses like this?   
HAEJI KANG:   This is my fourth year in the British Open.   I think last three years, I had a really good experience.   
   
 Q.   Do you actually feel as if you're now much better prepared to play links golf than before?   Does it take a few years to get used to?   
HAEJI KANG:   Actually I used to play junior golf when I was in Australia and also that kind of helped a lot.   
   
 Q.   What about the cold weather?   That can't be much fun coming from warm tournaments.   
HAEJI KANG:   It took me about a day to get used to the weather but yesterday the weather was like, oohh, horrible.   I think I got used to it pretty quickly, yeah.  
   
 Q.   In terms of the conditions, was it a lot better or just slightly better?   
HAEJI KANG:   Oh, it was much better this morning.   As soon as I made the turn, it started blow.   But I played yesterday the practise round with the rain, also.   I'm ready, yeah.   
   
 Q.   And what is the secret to playing around here?   Is it keeping it out of the rough, the bunkers?   
HAEJI KANG:   Keeping it out of rough and bunkers, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Can we go through the birdies quickly?   You birdied the sixth, I believe?   
HAEJI KANG:   No. 6, the wind was hurting so I hit 5‑iron into the wind and I hit it maybe six feet away.   
7, I hit a perfect tee shot, so I hit pitching wedge in and also was eight feet away.   So I made that putt.   
   
 Q.   Bad hole at the 8th?   
HAEJI KANG:   I was in the rough for the tee shot and went for the green and it went into the bunker, but I couldn't go for the flag because I was in that little thing, so I had to come out with a very long putt and I 3‑putted.   
   
 Q.   Bounced back with a 2 at 9?   
HAEJI KANG:   Yeah, I hit it close on another one.   It was ten feet away.   
   
 Q.   You said you were /HEURTing your irons close, same story at the 11th?   
HAEJI KANG:   Yeah, maybe 11‑footer.   
   
 Q.   And what club did you hit in, what iron?  
HAEJI KANG:   8‑iron.   
15, it was about three‑club helping wind, so I hit a 9‑iron and it pitched to the front of the green and rolled about six feet away.   
17, I got on in two, 5‑wood to the green and made a 2‑putt.   
   
 Q.   And you parred the last?   
HAEJI KANG:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Overall you must be very pleased?   
HAEJI KANG:   Yes, I am.   I'm ready for the next three rounds.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT