KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2012
Haeji Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So 7‑under overall through two rounds.   How have you been playing? 
HAEJI KANG:   I've been playing great.   My shots and my drivers, I haven't missed any.   I missed two total yesterday and today.   So I was hitting it good and putting it better.   That's how it is.

Q.   You made a really nice birdie there at the final hole.   How good did that feel? 
HAEJI KANG:   Yeah, I knew if I made that putt, I knew I was going out with Yani, serves really looking forward to it.   Yeah, I'm pretty happy with that.

Q.   F you were going to tell an American fan about yourself, what would you want them to know about you? 
HAEJI KANG:   Well, I like to smile.   I'm kind of like relaxed on the golf course.   So I would tell them, easy going.

Q.   What about off the golf course, aside from golf? 
HAEJI KANG:   I mean, I enjoy hanging out with my friends, watching movies, go to the theater.   I like to go to theme parks.

Q.   Really?   Like which ones? 
HAEJI KANG:   Like Disney, because I'm not good at riding like thrillers or anything.   So, yeah.

Q.   Can you talk about tomorrow?   Do you feel like you've ever been in a position like this in the lead group at a major championship? 
HAEJI KANG:   No, no.   I've never been in the championship group.   So I'm really looking forward to it.   But I'm a little nervous because I'm going out with Yani. 
But this is a game that you play by yourself.   So I'll just do my best and see what happens.

Q.   A lot of people talk about Yani and how well she's playing.   Do you think it will affect you to see the crowds for her and to know what she's done in the last two weeks? 
HAEJI KANG:   Yes, it will a little bit.   But when I was a rookie, the first tournament as a rookie I played with Michelle Wie in Hawaii, so that was a really good experience for me because everyone just walks away when I try to putt when Michelle finishes. 
But that's what you've got to handle out there.   I mean, what can I do?   So I'll just do my best. 

Q.   What do you think is your best accomplishment as a golfer thus far in your career? 
HAEJI KANG:   At first I'm playing on the LPGA.   This is my fourth year.   I came in here when I was the youngest‑‑ I was the youngest when I first came here, so I think I changed my swing the last three years, so I'm settling in a little bit.   I think that's one of the come accomplishments.

Q.   Talk about your swing right now?   What have you changed? 
HAEJI KANG:   I've changed‑‑

Q.   A lot? 
HAEJI KANG:   I've changed a lot.   I'm working with Kevin Smeltz from the Leadbetter Academy, and he's been helping me with putting because I was struggling.   I was in the Top 10 the first two years on the LPGA, but last year I was like over a hundredth place. 
Yeah, my swing, I've been working on hitting it further and getting loose, because I really get tense on the golf course.   I mean, it sounds easy, but that is the most hardest thing when you play out on the tournament.   So I've been working on that.

Q.   Do you live in Orlando? 
HAEJI KANG:   Yes, I live there.

Q.   How long have you lived in the U.S.? 
HAEJI KANG:   Five years, almost five years.

Q.   Why did you go there? 
HAEJI KANG:   That's where all the golfers go, and you can play golf in the winter time because it's not that cold. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT