SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2018
Haeji Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round, bogey-free.  Five birdies.  Can you just tell me how it was out there today?
HAEJI KANG: I actually hit it really solid.  I hit a lot of shots close to the flag today and around the greens.  I made a couple putts but I also missed quite a bit of mid-footers, like 15-footer.
So yeah, I felt really good out there.  Because I kind of think too much sometimes out there, so I just told my caddie that I would just keep it simple and then just play and then see how I go and then I played really good.
Q. So you had a lot of chances.  You could have gone even lower, you think?
HAEJI KANG: I think so, but I'm really happy with my putter today because I know that's a really good score out here.
Q. Did you just tell yourself going into the week that this week you wouldn't be thinking as much out there.
HAEJI KANG: Yes, because last week I was kind of thinking too much and then I had mistakes from like too much thinking.  So I just told my caddie just keep it simple and play, yeah.
Q. Do you do anything -- do you have any like tricks just to keep your mind off things, not think too much?
HAEJI KANG: When I'm walking towards the ball, I just try to talk to my caddie a lot.  It just relaxes me.  Rather than worry before the shot, I just try to be more aggressive.  That really helps, yeah.
Q. Have you been working on anything else in your game recently?
HAEJI KANG: I honestly think in my game, it's nothing else other than mentality.  So I just try to keep my mind strong, and here I am.
Q. Do you remember the last time you were up high on a leaderboard?
HAEJI KANG: I played well in The Scottish Open.  I came third.  That was the last time.
Q. Did you feel like this week, maybe, would be different?
HAEJI KANG: I don't really like expecting things, like too much before, because that will like make me expect and then play bad.
So I'll try to have fun and see how I go.
Q. Did you set any goals for the rest of the season?
HAEJI KANG: Well, I'm coming back from injury, so like I'm actually, I feel very grateful that I'm in the Asia tournaments, but I would love to finish in the Top-50 this year, and then yeah, start off from the Asia events next year.
Q. What was the injury?
HAEJI KANG: My wrist injury.  It's been there for like three years.
Q. What is it specifically?
HAEJI KANG: I forgot the name of the injury name.  It's like a water feeling in the wrist and it really hurts.
Q. Is it something that you did that caused it?
HAEJI KANG: It just popped up.  Maybe I guess too much practice.
Q. Were you out for a while?
HAEJI KANG: I was out but like I wasn't -- I couldn't really practice much, and then like being out here, you know, like all the girls are practicing hard and then you get to play well.  But I didn't feel like being out here because I was injured, and I knew that I wasn't ready because, yeah, I didn't really get to practice much.
Q. How much time did you take off, and when was that?
HAEJI KANG: I pretty much took like the winter season, like a whole two months or three months.  Then was better, but when I started hitting balls again, it just got worse and then like, yeah, it was on and off.  So I was kind of frustrated about it.
Q. Did you have to miss any tournaments because of it?
HAEJI KANG: A couple tournaments, yes, I did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT