LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 16, 2014
Haeji Kang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Our leader in the clubhouse, Haeji Kang, 5‑under 67.   Very solid round in windy conditions.   Tell us what the conditions were like.   It was very gusty from what it looked like in the morning. 
HAEJI KANG:   When I went to practice this morning, there was no wind, so I was very comfortable.   At the first hole, there was a very strong wind, at you mentioned, and I decided that in these conditions, it is better to play safe than aggressive and try to get the ball on the green. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any highlights of the round?   A couple birdies here and there, but back‑to‑back on the back nine, did that give you a little bit of momentum finishing up the back nine? 
HAEJI KANG:   I think looking back on my game overall today, I did very well.   Especially in the first nine holes, there were a couple of risks of actually bogeying some holes but I was able to stop and save with my putting.   And No. 12, I succeeded in a very long putt and I think psychologically and mentally it gave me a boost. 

Q.   How long was the putt? 
HAEJI KANG:   It was about 40 feet. 

Q.   Coming into the Asian Swing, did you have any goals you wanted to achieve?   I know you played very well two weeks ago at rain wood, maybe not so much as last week but did you have any specific goals coming into this final stretch of the year? 
HAEJI KANG:   With regards to the end of the season, towards the end of the season a lot of the players have to really manage their condition because a lot of players become burnt out. 
So I thought about how I can attack the final stretch of the season, and last year and the year before that during the Asian swing, I realized that if you really over exert yourself and overdo it in this stretch, it can really compromise your game. 
So I really took it easy on Monday.   It was just a day for transportation and going places.   On Tuesday, that's when I started to get to know the course.   I think I was taking it a little bit more easy and that's kind of my strategy for this last stretch of the season. 

Q.   You feel very comfortable at this course and you've had some good finishes the last couple of years.   What do you like most about this setup and this event in general?   I know it's close to home.   But it's home for you, technically. 
HAEJI KANG:   I think this course overall tends to be windy and it not really that long.   So even some par 5 holes, hitting on in two is possible.   So I think it's a course where you can gain an advantage if you use your length wisely. 

Q.   What do you feel is the strength of your game and what variation might you want to work on?
HAEJI KANG:   Since I was a young player, I really liked practicing putting.   So I think putting is probably one of the strengths of my game.   When it comes to my iron shots, my GIR is a bit lower so I work on that.   I think mentally when it comes to the driver, I have improved greatly but I'm still focusing on improving my iron shots. 

Q.   You have a lot of family and friends here.   Who is here with you?   They had a nice banner saying, "Smile, Oreo."   Who is here this week and how much of a difference does it make having your own little personal gallery at the tournament? 
HAEJI KANG:   I think my personal gallery will be different every day but today my parents were here and my cousin and my cousin's friends were here.   Everyone was as you mentioned very supportive of me and I think that helps my game and definitely helps me mentally and helps me relax.

Q.   This championship is the first four‑round championship for this year, and I would like to know will it make any difference to your game? 
HAEJI KANG:   It makes a huge difference.   When there is only three days of games, players can take more days off.   And so having four rounds is physically, mentally more of a challenge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT