CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 21, 2011
Bio Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: We'd like to welcome Bio Kim into the interview room. Fine 7-under 65 today on the Mag course. You come into the final event of year 168 on the Money List. Your best finish of the year was a T11 in Puerto Rico.   
 Just a couple general thoughts about your round and take us through the birdies and bogeys you had and any good saves.  
 BIO KIM: Today, I mean, obviously I putted great. Like inside 20, 30-footer just went in last two holes, too. Hit the ball better than last couple months, so that's always good.  
 The bogey on 12 was just bad first putt on that par-3, so didn't capitalize that one.   
 And the next hole had about like three, four-footer for birdie downhill; missed that one.   
 But, I mean, still had a great round, so hope I can do that for the next few days.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Want to take us through your birdies?   
 BIO KIM: Yeah. On No. 1 hit a great tee shot. Had a little draw on it and had about 110, 113, I think. Hit a pitching wedge about 20-footer uphill; just went in, so made a birdie.  
 No.4, when was that?   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: The par-5.   
 BIO KIM: Yeah. I don't remember the hole. Oh, okay. (Laughter.) Hit a great tee shot, a little draw, and had about 257, I believe, I think, and pushed a little bit. But it was a great layup to about like 20 yards; chipped it to four feet, I think, and made it for birdie.  
 On No. 7, good tee shot in the fairway to about 130. It was on the fringe. About a 30-footer I would say; went in.   
 Yeah, No. 8, great tee shot and poor second shot to the right side of the rough. My third shot was just on the green in the front. Like a 40-footer that went in on No. 8.  
 Bogey on 11. Pushed my tee shot with my 7-iron 164, I think. Went right. I just tried to putt it, but it went past by like about 5-footer. Missed that one.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: You birdied 11.  
 BIO KIM: Oh, birdied 11. Oh, tee shot was a 3-wood in the middle; good second shot to about I would say like 10- to 15-footer; went in, that one.   
 14, pretty good tee shot, a little bit on the right side of the fairway. Poor second shot to the right. Tried to layup that one. I had to hook around on my third shot. Overhooked it; went in the bunker; that one just luckily went in. Yeah, that was a hard bunker shot, though.   
 On 16, great tee shot; great second shot to about like -- had about 150, I think. 8-iron to about 20-footer. That went in. That putt was a little bit sneaking to the right, but I hit my friend's marker at the last second and it went in. Nobody saw that, even my friend. No one saw that. No, no, my actual -- I played with my friend, Sunghoon Kang.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Another competitor.  
 BIO KIM: I hit his marker and it just went in, yeah.   
 And No. 17, pushed it a little bit right and had like about 144. 9-iron. That was about like a 30-footer downhill. That went in. That's about it.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: We'll just open up for questions. Obviously you did putt very well today: 22 putts on the card.   
 BIO KIM: Yeah, I mean, if the putt goes in like inside 20, 30-footer, always going to turn into a great round. Hopefully I can do that the next two rounds.  
  
  Q. What's it been like being the youngest guy on the tour, and did you do anything on your 21st birthday?  
 BIO KIM: I didn't really do anything this year for my 21st birthday. I was in Korea at that point, so I actually had a surgery over my month break. I didn't really have a lot of fun at that time.   
 Hopefully -- I mean, I got better and now I'm here to try to -- I don't know the name of it in English, but I know it in Korean. It was a heart surgery. I've had a heart problem since when I was a little kid, but now it's all good, so...  
  
  Q. The incisions and all those types of things, where did they...   
 BIO KIM: Through my thigh. I don't know the name of it, but I had three problems. I thought I only had one but I had three. They did them all at the same time.   
  
  Q. What was the date of that? What month? FedExCup, during all that?  
 BIO KIM: Yeah, I think so. That month off, little before FedExCup. I went home right before Reno. I had a tournament right before Reno, but I forget the name of it. Reno and I had a week off, and there was another tournament that I could have played in Florida, I think. I don't know the name of it. But at the time I had the surgery.  
  
  Q. You had that in Korea as well?  
 BIO KIM: Uh-huh.   
  
  Q. How long were you in the hospital?  
 BIO KIM: Three days. Yeah.  
  
  Q. Heart surgery, I am sure they were probably telling you that it's not a life-threatening thing, but that's still a scare proposition when it's your heart. You only got one of those. Not like there's a spare.   
 BIO KIM: Yeah, of course, because it's not like an arm or a leg. It's the heart. I was a little bit scared, but this is the second time getting the surgery. I had it when I was 11, so it was all right. I mean, didn't quite get used to it, but a little bit better.  
  
  Q. So you had like a faster heart beat than you should have? How does it affect you? What was the problem?   
 BIO KIM: Yeah, like really faster heart beat. But at the same time, another two problem was it was going really slow. So, yeah...  
  
  Q. Irregular, all over?   
 BIO KIM: Yeah, all over.   
  
  Q. This week, knowing you have to finish first or second to keep your card, does it allow you to play any different because you know it's all or nothing? Would you return to Q-School and try to come back on tour next year if you don't keep your card?  
 BIO KIM: Obviously if I don't get to like first or second this week I have to go back to Q-School. But I'm not really afraid of Q-School, because I'm only 21 and I've got a lot of things to do and a lot of tournaments to do.  
 So if I have to go to Q-School back again, then I'll just play as hard as I can in Q-School and try to come back again.  
 If I'm lucky enough to keep my card this week, it will be great. Hopefully I can play better next week -- no, next year. Not next week. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Just curious, the heart condition affect you at all on the golf course? Will there be times when you're playing and it will be pumping away and other times it'll be barely pumping at all?  
 BIO KIM: Right now there is no problem at all, but at the Greenbrier tournament I almost fell down. Almost fell down. So I had to go to the hospital right after my second round.   
 But after that, the doctor said I should get a surgery, so that's why I had a month off at the FedExCup weeks. So that was good after that.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 BIO KIM: I thought it was okay; the doctors were, You shouldn't really keep playing right now. So, yeah, it was good that I got a surgery this year.   
  
  Q. Once you had the surgery, did you have to not play golf for a little while?   
 BIO KIM: No, no, I practiced before I took the surgery and had about a week I didn't touch a club. After that, it was totally fine. Doctor said I could play golf.  
  
  Q. Your parents take care of you after surgery, spoiled you?  
 BIO KIM: Oh, yeah. Eat some good Korean food. I was over there in the hometown. It was all good.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Continued good luck this week. Thank you.   
 BIO KIM: Appreciate it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT