AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2001
Nicolas Lapentti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. John Parsons from the Daily Telegraph. How much tougher was that than you expected? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, I knew it was going to be tough but I think it was tougher because of the conditions. At the beginning of the match, it was really, really windy and the wind was changing. It was tough for both of us to have a good rhythm, and I think the match was just -- I mean it was an ugly tennis match. I can say I was very lucky at the end of the first set to get the break at 4-all, then to serve it out to win the first set. And then once you go to a fifth set, like today, it's just a matter of a few points. And I had my chances. I was up a break first, then he had a break point at 4-all, then I had a matchpoint, then finally I won the match. But there's got to be something about Australia that makes me play all these five-set matches. In the last three years, I've played I think five now or six; I don't know. So so far I've won all of them, so I got to be happy. But if I want to stay alive in this tournament, I definitely have to play much better tennis in my next round match.  
 
Q. You next play Tim Henman. What are your thoughts about that, your memories of the last time you played? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: That's why I say if I want to get through that match, I have to increase my level of tennis. I definitely have to play more aggressive than I did today. Playing your first match of the year is not easy when you have the conditions like this. And Lee's a very talented player. He played pretty good tennis. I think maybe at the end it was just a little bit of more experience. But against Tim, he's been playing well in the last month. He seemed like he was under control today, his swing, his ferocity. So I know he's gonna come to the net as soon as he can and every opportunity he's got. So I have to be ready. I have to return well. I have to hit very good passing shots and try to get ahead of the points, get control of the points before him. So I think it's going to be a very interesting match.  
 
Q. Does this court perhaps give you a better opportunity than say the grass at Wimbledon? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, for sure. Tim is a very -- he knows how to play on grass. I mean you could tell right away. I felt when I played him in Davis Cup I felt that he had a clear idea of what he had to do on grass. I know that he, in that match, he took a very good advantage at the beginning so he was playing always on top. At the end, I start playing better but it was too late. But tomorrow is going to be different. I mean on Wednesday it's going to be different. This is not that fast. In practice, I've been hitting the ball pretty good so I just have to try to go out there and just hit the ball as -- the way I've been doing it.  
 
Q. Barry Flatman, Daily Express in London. Are you as happy now on something like rebound ace as you would be on clay because you made the semifinals here two years ago? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, it's different. I think in '99 it was definitely much lower and the ball was bouncing higher. Last year was too fast and this year's in between. I'm happy, I think the speed of the court is very fair. If I can -- if I have time and I get behind the ball, I'm hitting the ball very good. It's just a matter of getting ready and if the conditions are good, I think it's going to be -- I think it's going to be a good match. I mean, I played twice with Tim. He won the two times we played but I'm ready. I'm looking forward to this match, and I know I have to, like I said before, I know I have to increase my ability. I know I can do it. Hopefully I can do it.  
 
Q. Back home, the mention of the word Ecuador still sends shivers through the people that watch tennis. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I think this match will be completely different. I would like to bring those memories back and try to win this match. I know the atmosphere is not going to be the same, but you cannot compare a situation like Davis Cup and a Grand Slam. It's just completely different.  
 
Q. What does your brother do now? I mean we haven't heard much about him? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: He hasn't played much. He's going to play the Juniors here.  
 
Q. He's here? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yeah.  
 
Q. What sort of impact did that win have back in Ecuador? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It was huge. I think it was the biggest thing for sports the whole year. It was something nobody expected. Ecuador never ever before had a win in Davis Cup in Europe playing in Europe. I just think it was -- it's tough to explain. It was just huge.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT