TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2000
Nicolas Lapentti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You've been down here practicing for some time off and on this year. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Here at Crandon Park?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I come every now and then because I live here in Miami. My coach lives in Key Biscayne.  
 
Q. Does it help to get to know the courts a little bit better? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I think it's always nice to know the atmosphere, the surroundings. It's never the same to practice and to play a match. It's always nice to play the first round match and get through and get some confidence going.  
 
Q. How about that notable doubles team of Lapentti and Lapentti? How are they going to do? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, we're already ahead of what our thoughts were. We already won our first round match. That's pretty big for us. I think my brother responded great yesterday. I played good also, but he's the one that maybe is going to make the difference because he's young, he doesn't have much experience. But the way he played was really unbelievable. Hopefully we can continue playing like that and win some more matches.  
 
Q. How much time do you get during the course of the year to work with him, help him bring his game along? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yeah, I'll try to help him. But is not as easy as it seems. Sometimes a brother relationship is tough to get involved with a tennis relationship. I try to give him advice. I try to give him some tips. But it's not easy because, like I say, it's a different relationship. It's a brother. I try to let maybe my coach or somebody else tell him the things he has to do.  
 
Q. Are you saying he doesn't listen to his big brother? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: No, no, no, it's not that he doesn't listen to his big brother. Sometimes for me it's tough to say. I don't know maybe the right moment to say things. Maybe he's going to think I'm doing it because I'm his big brother and not because I want him to do better. It's not easy. He's not an easy-going person either. You have to know when to say it.  
 
Q. Malisse, he can be very dangerous because he hits big shots off both sides. What was your game plan? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: He's a dangerous guy to play. You don't know what to expect. I just try to keep the ball in the court as many times as possible and try to play my game. I think I served pretty well. He just lost a bit of concentration at the beginning of the second set, which was a very important for me because I took advantage at 5-1, then I struggle a little bit to close off the match. I was lucky to get my concentration back and win the last game.  
 
Q. There are those that think you can win this tournament. Are you one of them? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yeah, of course I think I can win it. I don't think I played great tennis today, and I know I can improve if I need to. Hopefully next matches I'll be playing better. Always is tough to play these first round match. Now I'm through, so I'm happy.  
 
Q. Have you been on the Stadium Court to practice? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yeah.  
 
Q. Is the speed of that court about the same as the grandstand or different? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I would say it's about the same. I think all the courts are about the same. Usually in every tournament, the Stadium Court is a bit different.  
 
Q. Are the courts such that it works to your advantage? You can still hit your big shot on this court, but does it work to allow you to use your legs to run and grind on this court? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yeah, I think it helps my game a little bit. Like you say, I can run a lot and chase lots of balls. The balls are getting big. It's a good speed for me. I like it. Hopefully I can get some confidence on my next matches and get one match at a time.  
 
Q. Tommy Haas next? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: No. Golmard or Mantilla.  
 
Q. Have you played either of them before? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I play both of them before.  
 
Q. Can you talk about each one of them? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It's tough to say. They're both great players. Mantilla is a very solid player from the baseline. Golmard is a lefty, very talented player. Either one is going to be very tough to play end.  
 
Q. Today you and Malisse seemed to be evenly matched up until the second set. Do you think the fact that he began to appear like he was having cramps and not feeling well made a difference in how quickly you won today? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, I don't know. I didn't notice it. I'm happy I didn't notice it because sometimes if you see your opponent is having problems, you get a bit -- you start to think about it and don't concentrate on your own game. I guess I just played the way I had to play to win. I don't think I played my best tennis, but sometimes it's even better to win these matches and get some confidence.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT