TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 18, 2000
Nicolas Lapentti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I think it's one of those days where your opponent is that much better than you, and that's the difference. I think Alex didn't make any unforced errors. Every time I hit a good shot, he just came up with a better shot. I just tried to fight, did different things, but he was the better player today. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It was a very long rally. I think I hit a forehand to his forehand, which then I came with like a forehand volley. He tried a passing shot, then I just volleyed cross-court. I think it was maybe the best point of the match. It was a nice way to finish it for him. I don't know. I think we had some long rallies, but he just didn't miss at all. I was trying to do sometimes -- I was forcing myself to do more things with the ball because I was feeling I just wasn't doing enough. That's why I came up with a few unforced errors that cost me the match. Like I said, he was just the better player today. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I think the last couple of weeks, I've been playing the level I played last year, so that's why I feel good right now, because I kind -- my game is getting back together and I'm feeling strong again, healthy. I think if I can just keep going like that, just play better tennis in the important moments, I can improve a lot. My game is going up. That's the most important thing for me at the moment. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Not really. I've been doing the same things as last year. My serve has improved a lot. My forehand is my main weapon. Then just try to be fit, a hundred percent fit, be ready to play long matches. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yes, really built a lot of confidence for me, especially winning four matches here. I'm playing good tennis. It's very important to go to Miami with some matches under my belt. Now that I have like six days to take some rest, get ready for Miami, so it's pretty good. I'm feeling happy the way I'm playing. Miami is special for me because there's a lot of family and friends coming to watch. That's going to be very nice. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: There's a lot of people always at this time of year in Miami. There's a good atmosphere for me to play there. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I live in Miami. Kind of a second home for me. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yeah, I think Alex is playing great tennis. He showed today. He showed it the whole week. He's got the game to play either Mark or Thomas. He's a quick player. He can hit the very good passing shots. He's a very good counter-puncher. Against Mark or Thomas, players that hit very hard, he's got a very good shot at it. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT