TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 17, 2000
Nicolas Lapentti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Did you get to feeling that Arazi was getting pissed off? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, I'm sure a little bit in the beginning of the second set. I guess nobody expected the match to go that way. I mean, not that I didn't have confidence in me to win, but maybe not that easy, especially after he beat Agassi earlier this week and then winning two tough matches. But that's how tennis goes. I guess I was the better player today, I was more focused, and took the opportunities.  
 
Q. When you noticed that he was becoming miffed, shall we say, did you welcome that? Did you figure it would make it easier for you? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: To tell you the truth, sometimes it's even tougher because you don't know what to expect from the other guy. If he's like that, he can just relax and go for the shots and then make shots you don't expect. What I tried to do is just get on my feet, try not to make any unforced errors, then just try to serve well and get some free points.  
 
Q. How would you describe your game this week? I saw yesterday you seemed to really struggle, even though you won. Is your game where you want it right now? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Definitely it's getting back together. I think it's getting to the level I was at the end of last year. What's most important is I'm getting my confidence back. I think it showed yesterday when you get those tight matches, you go to a third set tiebreak. That's where it shows if you're really confident or not. The most important thing is I feel I'm fit again, which is very important for me, because I'm a player that has to run a lot. I'm feeling strong on the court. It's working out pretty well.  
 
Q. Were you injured earlier this year? You had to withdraw from the Australian Open. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I wasn't injured. I had a sinusitis. After Australia, I just took ten days off, then I was like 14 days on antibiotics. That took me off for a while. That's why. I'm feeling healthy again, feeling strong.  
 
Q. What are your goals with your tennis career? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, right now I would like to win this tournament. I'm now in the semifinals. I have never won a Masters Series before. That will be my main goal right now. Now that the tournaments are mandatory, it's very important to do well in the Masters Series and the Grand Slams, which is another goal for me. The rankings, it's just to improve my ranking right now. I think every tennis player's goal is to get to No. 1, which is very tough. I think I have a shot at it.  
 
Q. Are you surprised at the success you've had on the tour at your age? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I was a bit surprised last year. At the beginning of the year, I started 90. My goal was to finish in the Top 20, which I knew already was very tough. I finished Top 10. It was a bit of a surprise. Right now, I'm not surprised anymore. I feel like I'm there because I work hard and I deserve it. I just want to stay there and keep improving.  
 
Q. I hear your younger brother is a very good player. Is he going to be with you on the Pro Tour in a couple years? How good is he going to be? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: He's a very good player. He's very talented. He hits the ball very well. It's all up to him. He's got all the abilities; he just needs to work very hard. He's very tall, so he needs to work on his footwork. Hopefully, yeah, we played some doubles together so far. We'll try to play some tournaments together. He needs to start on some satellites and Challengers. Hopefully we'll have him around in a couple of years.  
 
Q. What's the one thing that you like the best about the Palm Springs area? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: You can't ask for better weather than this. Sometimes at noon, one or two o'clock, it gets a bit hot, but it's perfect weather to play tennis. If you're not playing tennis, you have perfect weather to play golf. There's nothing you can complain. The hotel is very close from the site. It's one of my favorite tournaments.  
 
Q. What's the most fun thing you've done during your stay here when you're not playing tennis? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Definitely playing golf. There's not much to do when you're playing, if you are still in the tournament. You need to rest a little bit and practice, but if not, play some golf.  
 
Q. Do you have a preference of who you'd rather play in the next round? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I think it's very tough to say. They are both very strong players from the baseline. Either one is going to be a very tough match. I'll just have to get ready for that. I'm happy the way the match ended today. It was short, so I can recover from yesterday's match. I was a bit sore today. Seems like it didn't bother me. Hopefully I can get ready for tomorrow.  
 
Q. When you were younger, who were your heroes? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Andres Gomez always, and Ivan Lendl.  
 
Q. Do you remember Gomez's great French Open win? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: For sure, I do.  
 
Q. What was the response around your hometown when he won? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, when he came back, all the players in our academy, in our club, went to the airport. We were - how you say - right next to the plane when he came out to give him like a welcome. It was a huge thing, then, with a huge caravan following around the city. It was really nice.  
 
Q. When Rios won the Lipton a couple years ago, there was a huge reception in Chile. Would you like someday to go back and have a big crowd welcome you? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It would be great. It would be nice. I think I'll just have to do a very big thing to deserve a welcome like that, which means winning a Grand Slam or get to No. 1.  
 
Q. Do you think if you do well at the Olympics, that could be a possibility? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It could be. In Ecuador, we have only had one Gold Medal in history, which was in '96. It will be very big for the country to get another medal.  
 
Q. In what event? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I don't know. I think it's fast walking, is that how you call it?  
 
Q. The road walking? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: When you like (indicating). His name is Jefferson Perez. That's the only medal.  
 
Q. How important is it for you to play the Olympics? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It's very important because our delegation is very small. I'm not sure exactly how many athletes, but it's not more than 20, I'm sure. I think there's a lot of expectations for me to do well there. It's also one thing that I like, which is play for my country. I love playing for Ecuador, either Davis Cup or this time the Olympics. I'm looking forward for it.  
 
Q. Did you ever meet Pancho Segura? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yes.  
 
Q. Did he give you encouragement? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yes. I've seen him actually a couple times here in Indian Wells. Also he once came to Chile when we played Davis Cup over there a couple years ago. I haven't had much time to talk to him because he's not living in Ecuador anymore. I've had some words with him before.  
 
Q. Do you remember any one thing that Poncho said to you that you can recall? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Not exactly. He's a big joker. He's always making fun and joking. You never know if he's talking serious or not.  
 
Q. What was his joke? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: You don't want to know (laughter).  
 
Q. What do you think it's going to be like in Sydney? You played at the new stadium this year. But to come back in September and play again in the Olympics, what are your thoughts, dreams, hopes? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: My dreams is to win the Gold Medal, for sure. It's a very nice site. First time for me in Sydney, I really loved the city, it's beautiful. I'm definitely looking forward for this. It's not easy to go in the summer, the end of the summer, and go to Australia, it's a bit far. The Olympics is very special, so I guess we'll just have to make the effort and get ready for it.  
 
Q. Here in America we're very spoiled, we know about Sampras and Andre. You've had some great results, but you're still really not that well-known. If you had to put in a sentence or two a few phrases who you are, what makes you tick as a person, what makes you special, what would you say? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It's tough for me to talk about myself. I don't know. Ask maybe somebody else. I'm very calm, very easy-going person. I think my best skill is I'm a great fighter. I love to play tennis, I love the game. Whenever I go on court, I just want to give a hundred percent. If I'm not playing well, I'll just run for every shot and do anything I can to win, even if I'm playing ugly tennis and I win. It's very special. Sometimes it's not only to play great tennis or beautiful tennis to win; it's just when you're not playing well, just put everything, your heart and everything in it.  
 
Q. Is that fighting spirit something you've always had or was there --? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: No, I think it's something I always had. I think my mental part is also pretty good. I can get out of tough matches. I like, sometimes, to fight back and make good comebacks. That's why I need to be very fit to play the game.  
 
Q. The fact that Ecuador's Olympic team would be very small, is there a chance you could carry the flag into the main stadium? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It could be a chance. I think it's going to be either me or Jefferson Perez, which is the only Gold Medal we had so far. It's tough to say. I think I guess he deserves it. The Olympic committee will make the decision.  
 
Q. How do you spell Jefferson's last name? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: P-e-r-e-z.  
 
Q. Were you able to participate in the opening ceremony here the other night? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: No. I was playing at home. You, mean here? I thought you were talking about the Olympics.  
 
Q. No. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I was playing a doubles qualifier.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT