U.S. OPEN
August 26, 1996
Nicolas Lapentti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. It seemed like things changed in your favor in that second and almost through the
third set. What happened after that?

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I think starting the second set I got a little momentum. I started
playing very aggressive, had a lot of confidence in my serve, my ground strokes. I won the
second set pretty easy. I got an early break in the third. I think it was a lack of
concentration at that moment. Instead of keeping the same aggressiveness, I relaxed a
little bit, didn't concentrate too much on my serve. I hit a couple of double-faults,
didn't put in as much first serves as I was putting; started to put pressure on my second
serve. I think that was the key of the match.

Q. Could you feel that he had maybe a little more confidence since he's had a few good
weeks recently?

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Definitely. I knew he was coming into the match with a lot of
matches. I just had to go out there and play good tennis. I just didn't play too much in
the last couple of weeks. I think there was a little difference on the key points. He just
played better those important points. Like I said, I was hitting hard, putting my returns
in. I started chipping a little bit. Got me some out of my confidence.

Q. What about his game makes him good? Is there something special about his game?

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, I think he's got a pretty good return. Sometimes when you hit a
big serve, the ball comes back. He was mixing up a lot his serve. He was kicking it a
little bit, hitting it hard sometimes, serving and volleying. Like I said, he has a lot of
confidence in him, he's been playing great tennis in the last couple of weeks. He's a
tough guy to beat here. I felt like I played pretty good, but I needed some more
confidence, to play more aggressive on the key points.

Q. Nicolas, you said you lost concentration. Can you give us a reason for that? Why
would you lose concentration in that circumstance?

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I don't know. It's just like I said, I was playing -- I was really
into the match. I had another break in the third set. At that moment I just kind of
relaxed a little bit, didn't keep pushing like I was doing it. Like on my first serves, I
started missing a lot of first serves. He was putting pressure on my second serve. He
started coming more to the net, putting some pressure on my serve. I hit a couple of
double-faults on important points. Just some mental errors that you make sometimes.

Q. Would you say that sixth game when he broke you back, that's when things kind of
turned around?

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yeah. It was a very important game. I think I had that break. I could
have kept it. He just got back his confidence at that time.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT