TMS - MADRID
October 16, 2002
Nicolas Lapentti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. They changed your opponent, but the win was so clear. What did you think when you learned about this change? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It was a bit strange. I didn't learn about it until 20 minutes before the match. I really wanted to play with Costa. He had beaten me twice in a Masters, and I wanted revenge. Well, Costa was definitely going to do a better game than Acasuso. After being on the center court, having to play on Court 1 was a little bit of a strange sensation. I played comfortably, without nerves.  
 
Q. How do you see your next match against Federer? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Roger is always very dangerous. We've only played once this year in Hamburg. He beat me. It's another opportunity for revenge. I feel I'm playing well. I'm finding my game.  
 
Q. What about your physical condition? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: My physical condition is good. This match only lasted one hour and a quarter, so I didn't get that tired.  
 
Q. In two weeks the season is over. I suppose you will have a rest and you will do the pre-season. What will you do when you go back home? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: At the end of November, I will start the pre-season in Ecuador. First week of December will be Nogales in a rural house.  
 
Q. What is the idea of the Federation? We know you're going to be asked this question. Do you think you will play this game in Quito, Salinas or Guayaquil? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: My options are to play clay in Guayaquil, cement in Salinas, or Quito. I had a phone call the day after the draw. He wanted to know my views. They said they wanted to take a decision, but those were the three options. I don't know what is the term for the decision to be taken, but I'm sure the chairman of the Federation will let you know.  
 
Q. Do you prefer to play in Quito or Guayaquil? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: There are several players who specialize in different things. Some play on clay, some on hard court. You have to analyze well.  
 
Q. What surface would you like to play on in Davis Cup? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It's not what I would like, but what would be more convenient for me, the most important. I really don't know. If I knew, I wouldn't tell you maybe.  
 
Q. How do you feel for the Davis Cup? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Very well. The Davis Cup is very special for me. I see that my other team members, one in particular, has recovered and playing well. We can play a good draw.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT