TMS - MADRID
October 15, 2002
Nicolas Lapentti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yes, very good, especially for me, taking into account my last few months. I've been training hard these last weeks because I want to finish well this year. In the last weeks, even if I was hitting the ball well, I wasn't winning, but today I won. That's the most important thing. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: If it is Albert, if he overcomes his problems, I would like it. This year we played two times, Roma and Cincinnati, he beat me those two times. Now I would like revenge and play against him. I would like to play against him. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: A new tournament is difficult to organize, but so far everything seems to work. It's the first time I've been to Madrid. It's a very lovely city. I think things need to improve, but generally it's good. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I arrived Sunday night, so I can't tell you really. Maybe the locker rooms, the showers, they seem a bit makeshift. We have certain facilities. We have a treadmill and bicycles. It's okay. Maybe the showers should be better. I've been most of the time in the locker rooms, so that's all I can tell you about. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yes, even if it was the first round, I had people from my country. Probably in the next match, if I play the Spaniard, the public will be more with him than with me. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It's been a bit irregular for me. I've had five or six tournaments where I've lost quite easily. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, I think I'm well-positioned to get there. I've been in the No. 9 position in the past. I would like to get back to that position now. My clay season wasn't very good. I reached the quarterfinals in Wimbledon. It's been very up and down. Since Wimbledon, I haven't gone farther than the second round. I'm working hard. I feel that I'm getting back to my level. I have a few tournaments ahead of me, so I'll try to improve. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: We know each other quite well. We have played twice. In both matches, either of us could have won. He had the last say. It depends on who will have more confidence, who will play better. We are both baseline players. His last results haven't been so good either - like me. I think it could be an interesting match. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT