WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2002
Nicolas Lapentti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, I would have said that it was very, very difficult to do. It was not something I had in mind or that I have confidence to do it. But, well, that's the good things about tennis, and that's a good thing that I made it here to the quarters, and I proved myself that I can also play on grass. From now on, definitely the grass court tournaments are going to be in my schedule. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It's definitely a very good thing for South American tennis. South American tennis has been growing up, has been growing a lot in the last three or four years. You see a lot of Argentinian players coming up, and now you seen the Brazilians. All of a sudden you see a couple from Ecuador, Paraguay, a couple other countries. It's really nice to see a tournament like Wimbledon where we're definitely not expected to do good, to have one player in the semis and two in the quarters. But it could be a reason, as you said, it's a bit stunning that we made it to the quarters. But I think it's also stunning that a quarterfinal match is played on Court 2. I don't want to make it as an excuse, not at all, but I'm disappointed because I made it so far in a tournament like Wimbledon, and once you made it so far, you want to play in the stadium, in the big courts. I'm going to say someday, "Well, I made it in the quarters, but I never got to play on Centre Court." I think that was not nice from the officials of the tournament. I'm just a bit disappointed at that. Well, I'm disappointed that I lost. And I want to say it again, it's not an excuse, because I played well in that court, Court No. 2, through the tournament, but I would have loved to play that match on Centre Court or Court 1. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: I'm sure it was ^ . For example, the day we won, do you think it's fair that you're going to play your first match on Centre Court in the semifinals? That's going to be a huge difference. If you see the draw, although the players have played before on Centre Court, for example, Krajicek played a few matches, I think, and Malisse played, of course. I'm not saying that you have to put Tim or Hewitt on the outside courts. I'm just saying you could do something better in the schedule. I think it's going to be tough for David to step up on Centre Court. Hopefully he manages to be strong mentally and it doesn't bother him at all. But it's not easy if you play your whole tournament on outside courts, and all of a sudden in the semis you walk into Centre Court. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, I'm sure in other Grand Slams you play the Round of 16 and the quarterfinals in the big courts. And I understand the rain is a big threat here in Wimbledon. I'm just saying, it's not nice. Just because we're being South Americans, nobody expected us to play quarterfinals here. Well, maybe they still upset we beat them in Davis Cup a couple years ago. Who knows. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: That's another thing, we're walking into the quarterfinals of Wimbledon, we walk on court and there's no one there. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It was less people than a first-round match. It's kind of a strange feeling. You don't feel like you're playing a Grand Slam; you don't feel like you're in the quarterfinals. As the match was -- as the match went on, then I think there was a full court, full house afterwards. But when we walked in, actually I was talking to David, I said, "Look, there's no one here." Are we practicing or are we playing?" I think it was a bit lack of respect. We should have been scheduled on another court. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Of course, he has. He has a very good chance. He's playing very good tennis. Well, he's going to play another player that is going to be a baseliner, so he's playing Malisse. Well, it's a good chance for both of them. I wish David good luck. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, of course, if he wins the semis, if he faces Henman, he has more chances than if he faces Lleyton. He's got a very good return of serve. I think it's going to be -- his game is better against a serve and volleyer than somebody staying in the back. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Why too much? I think it would be great. Brazil already won it, but that's a different thing. And here, anything can happen now. I think both semis are very interesting. Of course, Lleyton's and Tim's match is going to be very excited to watch. And the other semifinals between Malisse and Nalbandian is going to be a very good opportunity for both of them. They're in the semis; anyone can win it. 

NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Has nothing to do with politics. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT