NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2002
Nicolas Lapentti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Second quarterfinal here in three years, I believe. Can you just talk about what it is about these courts and conditions that suit your game. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Yeah, well, I think it definitely suits my game. I've been playing probably better tennis in hardcourts in the last few years than on clay. Especially in Miami, it's very important for me. As I say before, it's the only tournament I can play with family and friends watching. It makes me feel like at home. So, I always have that extra energy, and I love playing here. I live in Miami part of the year, and I enjoy -- I'm always looking forward for this tournament. It's my second quarterfinals, and hopefully I can break the barrier and get through to the semis.  
 
Q. Obviously, it's great to have that support from family and friends here. Can it become a distraction, with people calling you for tickets? You know, all sorts of things like that. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It definitely can. But I've learned through the years, for the past years, and sometimes you're trying always to be too nice. It definitely takes some concentration out of yourself because you want to be nice to all your friends and family. But I kind of know now how to handle it, and I pass all that trouble to my coach. So he takes care of it (smiling).  
 
Q. How about your match today, what was the difference in the deciding set, do you think? 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: It was a matter of a few points only. I think we both were a bit tired, and we were holding serves. At that 3-2 game, I just play a few good points. That breakpoint, I just had to run all over the court. Finally, I got the break. But when I was serving for the match at 5-3, I definitely got tight. I can't remember when I've been maybe more nervous at that time. I got tight, but at the same time I'm happy because being that nervous, I got through it. And that's very important. So I'm happy to be in the quarters again. Hopefully, I can keep improving and get better in the next rounds.  
 
Q. You had a really tough stretch of matches during the South American clay season, a lot of three-set tiebreakers and stuff. Talk about how long it took you to recover from that physically, and then maybe mentally how it might have helped you in the long run. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, on one side it helps my game because playing long matches, it definitely gets you stronger. Not only physically, but mentally. And I don't think it took me -- I had to recover because I played one long tournament, then I had a second-round loss, a first-round loss and another first-round loss in Indian Wells. It was just a matter of getting my game back together, because I got to the finals in Vina, but I wasn't playing my best tennis. But now it seems like I'm hitting the ball well again and my confidence is getting back together. I'm happy to be playing -- I'm feeling well on the court again - not only running and fighting, but feeling the ball and hitting it.  
 
Q. Last time you were in the quarters here you got Sampras. Looks like you might get Agassi here this year. Talk about that matchup. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Well, Andre, I play a few times with Andre. I have never won. Hopefully I can do it here in Miami. Maybe I can get a little bit of a home-court advantage here and try to do it for the first time.  
 
Q. Can you talk about if you play Johansson. 
 
 NICOLAS LAPENTTI: Thomas is definitely a dangerous player. He won the first Grand Slam of the year. But he's a bit more irregular than Andre. He can be in a good day and be better, and he can be on a bad day and not play too good. But both of them, I think I have a good game to beat them. I'm just trying to improve every match, and hopefully I can keep improving and get better as the tournament goes on.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT