MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 21, 2001
Becky Iverson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BECKY IVERSON:   No. 1, I hit in the rough and tried to hit a 5-iron out.  Came out about 25 yards short.  Hit my chip about 30 feet away and missed the putt.  No. 6, I hit it in the rough on the right and had 120 to the hole.  I hit a wedge about 25 feet away to make the putt.  On No.  9, I hit driver off the tee, a 3-wood about ten steps short of the green.  Hit my chip about ten feet away and made that.  On 11 I hit my drive to the right.  I hit a tree and it came back about 150 yards off the tee.  Hit a 3-wood and then I hit a 5-iron to about 12 feet.  13, I hit a 4-iron about eight feet.   On 14, I had 128 yards.  I hit a 9-iron about 12 feet.   On 15, I had 128 and hit a 9-iron about ten feet. 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   The course is in the best shape I've ever seen it.  The fairways are perfect.  The greens are rolling really good.  
 

Q.  Sounds like you must have given yourself a little talking too, straying off the tee.  What kept you back on track? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   Actually, last week, I started working with somebody new, and I didn't really expect a lot today.  So sometimes that can help.  
 

Q.  Who are you working with? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   Craig Shankler.  
 

Q.  What's been your history on this course? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   Not very good.  
 

Q.  A couple years ago, weren't you in here in the early rounds?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I think my first year I came here, like seven years ago, I think I had a good first round and I finished almost last.  
 

Q.  How did the course differ this year, today, than it did last year? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I don't remember because I only played two rounds last year, but I remember it playing a lot longer.  The fairways are in such good shape.  The ball is kind of rolling out a little bit.  I seem to be hitting a lot shorter irons this year than I did last year.  As long as you stay out of the rough, the course is probably playing a little easier. 
 

Q.  How are you better prepared now?  How will you play the later round after having success early? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   It's only one round, you know.  There's still so much golf to play.  You know, you don't want to look ahead too much.  I'm happy.  If you would have asked me two days ago, I would have not thought I would break 80, I've been hitting the ball so bad.  It's funny how things can turn round. 
 

Q.  What was the problem you were having? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I've just been hitting the ball terrible all year.  Last week on Wednesday, I decided I was going to try something else.  Worked on it Wednesday and Thursday, changed my swing.  Just tried to focus on doing that move, rather than maybe scoring or worrying about the golf course or anything like that. 
 

Q.  How did you change it?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I always played a draw and I changed it to hit a fade. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about what happened on 11?  Did you say you hit a tree off the tee and it bounced back?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   Yeah, it came back to maybe 125, 150 yards off the tee.  Just barely cleared the rough. 
 

Q.  So to be able to birdie that hole, did that kind of get you going after coming through after getting into trouble off the tee?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I don't know.  You know, the only time I missed a drive all day  -- I hit three drives to the right, which I'm trying to play a cut, so that's where my misses should be.  I'm used to playing it right of the fairway and then having to hit it left.  I'm having a hard time aiming to the left side of the fairway and allow it to fade back.  Other than that, I hit my irons great all day.  I just needed to make a few more putts.  I had a lot of opportunities today that did not go in. 
 

Q.  How dangerous is it to change your ball flight at this point in the season?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   Well, the way I've been playing, it doesn't matter.  I've been struggling just to make the cut. 
 

Q.  What's the difference?  Solheim Cup, you had a lot of confidence and just seemed like everything was working for and you coming into this year, you haven't had quite the same results?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I just didn't want to be here this year.  I haven't wanted  -- maybe until a couple weeks ago when I decided would I try to change my swing or do something, I just haven't wanted to be out here all year.  And when you don't want to be out here you just go through the motions and I just got into really bad habits in my swing by not practicing and focusing on what I want to do. 
 

Q.  Is that burnout? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   No.  I just wanted to be with my family.  My dad has got cancer right now and I really want to be with him.  So this is the first time I think he hasn't been here, at this particular one, and the Dinah.  
 

Q.  How much has that taken away from trying to be out here playing when your focus maybe isn't always here?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I think it's hard.  I feel like I'm a lot more focused.  He's doing really well.  I mean, I know that he wants me to be out here.  I feel good about that.  But just took me a lot of months to get myself back where I really wanted to be here.  And I had good news because my brother, they had their first child on Tuesday.  
 

Q.  Is that the first time you are an aunt? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   No.  First time for a nephew, but I have three nieces.  
 

Q.  Did you play with Akiko today? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I did.  
 

Q.  She said that the whole group was playing well and they sort of fed off each other?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I think so.  Especially this course, it's so tough  -- if you are not hitting fairways and greens.  If you see other people making birdies, you're like, well, it's not impossible.  They are out there.  So I think it can help. 
 

Q.  Not a lot of conversations going on though?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   Cristie and I talked a lot.  We were partners in the Cisco last year.  
 

Q.  Did your father kind of see how you were not enjoying golf this year?  Did he kind of talk to you at all?  Did he kind of say:  "You know, don't worry about me, just go out and have fun"?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   I think he wants me to be out here.  He's on the Internet all the time now.  I don't know if that realtime scoring is all that great because he'll come up to me and say:  "What did you do on 14?  How could you bogey that?  That's the easiest one on the golf course."  And he knows too many of the golf courses, so I can't get away with anything.  
 

Q.  What's his name?
 
BECKY IVERSON:   Ken.  
 

Q.  The news has been better lately then? 
 
BECKY IVERSON:   He's doing really good.  I spent a month with him out in Texas, and that was probably the longest I had gone.  I really didn't practice at all this winter.  Really wasn't quite prepared at the beginning of the year and just didn't  -- it's been a long year.  So it was nice to finally, I don't know, play a little better.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT