ALLSTATE BCS NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: LSU v ALABAMA
January 6, 2012
Jordan Jefferson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Alabama players are saying that you were the difference in the game, you were the reason things changed.   What does that say about this game and your position?   Make any difference?
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   That shows a lot.   It speaks for itself as well.   Whenever I was in that game, I added a lot of speed towards the game as far as the backfield and the quarterback position. 
But it shows that they have a lot of respect for me.   And I'm going to continue to keep it that way.

Q.   What makes the option so difficult to stop, Jordan?
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   When the quarterback is a running threat, then you've got your offensive line securing the edge so the running back can get on the outside.   And we've just got a lot of threats. 
As far as great running backs, good blocking by the O line and the quarterback as a running threat.

Q.   Have you thought much about‑‑ I'm sure you envision yourself hoisting up that trophy after the game.   Have you thought about that moment, put it in perspective with everything that's happened with getting to that point this year?
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   I thought about it a lot.   It would mean a lot to me to hold up that trophy, and LSU would do whatever it takes to hold up the trophy at the end of the day.

Q.   There's been some talk from some other guys about whether Alabama deserves to get another shot at this.   How do you feel about that?
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   I think it's just the team that we'll prefer to play.   It's another big game for us.   And that's the reason why we come to LSU, is to play big games.
And playing Alabama once again will‑‑ and just playing it once again, the championship game, will make this game a lot sweeter when we're victorious. 
So I think they deserve it.   They're the second best team in the nation.   So they deserve to play us.

Q.   What do you think about sharing a title with them or with someone else?   There's some talk that the AP might vote either you or Oklahoma State (indiscernible)?
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   It shouldn't be shared.   We're number one right now.   But I don't think it should be shared, though.

Q.   So much hype about the fact that this is really a home game.   If it is, for so many obvious reasons, how much more comfortable are you here than if you had to play this game someplace else?
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   I'm very comfortable here.   Played here my senior year in high school for the high school championship game.   So quite familiar with the surroundings and about the stadium.   So I'm very comfortable about it. 
And going to try to have the same type of performance in my senior year in high school my senior year in college.   Try to make that all merge together and try to repeat the same thing.

Q.   This whole year it's been a range of emotions for you guys.   Can you talk about the start of the season and where you guys have ended up and just the journey you guys have been on?   Quite an exciting thing. 
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   We've been on a great journey.   Been a great season for this team.   We improved a lot since the first game, now to this game.   And I think the team has a quiet understanding of what it means to be a champion.

Q.   Do you feel the stuff you had to go through off the field you're more prepared for a situation like this?
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   I feel like I'm more prepared because what I went through before the season was a tremendous amount of adversity, more than can be compared to what will happen to me on the field as far as throwing a pick or fumbling the ball.   It's quite easy for me to overcome a situation like that being through a situation like I've been through at the beginning of the season.

Q.   The last time you played in this building obviously for the state championship you had one of your better games as an athlete.   When you play in this building, do you kind of feel like your game elevates a little bit?
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   I feel like it does.   Basically a home crowd for me.   I grew up about 15, 20 minutes away from here.   So I've been in the Superdome quite often. 
I mean, it's something that I would call a sanctuary for me.   So I'm preparing myself to have a great game on Monday and just rekindle that flame that I had in high school once I left here.

Q.   How much will it affect you knowing that you've got your friends and family here?   Obviously a lot of players do, but especially for you knowing you've played in that game, now you're playing in this game?
JORDAN JEFFERSON:   I mean, it will have a major effect on me.   It's something that I will want to do for them no more than anybody else.   I want to do it for the people that are here for me and that really are true fans for us and that will be standing in these stands cheering us on.   So I'd like to do it for them. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT