MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 22, 2016
John Thompson III
L.J. Peak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Wisconsin - 73, Georgetown - 57
THE MODERATOR: Coach Thompson is joined by L.J. Peak.  We'll take questions for L.J. Peak.
Q. You guys are not a small team by any means.  How do you explain the rebounding difference tonight?
L.J. PEAK: They are a great team, so we just have to come out and rebound better and box out.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach.
Q. John, same question to you.  How do you explain the massive rebounding edge for Wisconsin?
COACH THOMPSON: You know it's -- they do a great job of that.  We have to do a better job of that.
We have to get some guys that understand that it's not just about points and minutes and care about all aspects of the game.
Q. What changed in the second half that allowed them to run away at the end?
COACH THOMPSON: I mean, the rebounds -- it's man/zone, possession ends when you get the ball, not when a shot is taken.  And the second shots that they kept getting were key.  And we had a few defensive mix-ups where we were supposed to be switching and we didn't, and the shooters were left open.  But when they did miss they got the ball every time.
Q. You saw this team a year ago, beat them by 10 in New York.  I know you guys have some different pieces now.  But how far has this Wisconsin team come since they were struggling earlier in the season last year to now?
COACH THOMPSON: They're probably light years different.  They have the same pieces.  They've been together for a long time.  And as I said yesterday, I'm not sure if it was you that asked the question, we played them three years in a row.  And some of those guys have been out there for three years in a row.
They have a sense of where we are, just trying to get a sense of where we are, they have that understanding.  Each person knows and has accepted their role.  Each person knows what they have to do to help and has accepted what they have to do to help their team win.
And you see that on the court.  And then the traditional Wisconsin is that they don't make mistakes.  They don't beat themselves.  You have to go out and find a way to beat them.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT