BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2020
Lindsay Whalen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ohio State - 77, Minnesota - 56   
 Q.  What did you see in the fourth quarter?  
LINDSAY WHALEN: I think there was a couple plays where -- there was one where Taiye almost had that steal, a bounce here or there goes their way, and then they got on a run in the fourth. But I felt like maybe one more stop and we could have tied it up or at least gotten closer, but they made some tough shots down that stretch, as well.   
 Q.  Did they switch up their defense?  
LINDSAY WHALEN: No, I feel like during that stretch, it took us a while in that third to get some scores, and I feel like there were some turnovers down the stretch that we ended up having that got some run-outs and some easy ones for them.   
 Q.  What do you tell the guys now? Obviously you're hoping you get a call on Sunday from the NIT, right?  
LINDSAY WHALEN: Yeah, we'll go back and wait and see what we hear for the rest of our postseason.   
 Q.  It was such a strange game; in the middle quarters you shot pretty much 50 percent, but in the first and the fourth you just couldn't buy a basket.  
LINDSAY WHALEN: Yeah, yeah. It was -- yeah, I felt really good going into half, and then we struggled in the third to score, but our defense was great, and then the end of the third we started to feel really good on offense, and we go in having tied that third, only down six again in the fourth, and it just -- yeah, then unfortunately the fourth, the floodgates opened a little bit.   
 Q.  You switched to a zone. Was that a big part of what slowed them down a little bit?  
LINDSAY WHALEN: Yeah, I think so. You know, at the start we came out and just player-to-player defense and we struggled at that point to keep in front, and we felt zone was the best option, and we ended up making a run. So yeah, it ended up being a good adjustment for us.   
 Q.  Seemed like Sconiers had a lot more playing time tonight.  
LINDSAY WHALEN: Yeah, yeah, because even when we went to zone, they were still able to get offensive rebounds, so they were able to still get that. So yeah, I think that it was a night that we needed two bigs in the game.   
Honestly, I thought Klarke was really, really good. Did a lot of great things out there for us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT