WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 17, 2005
Lindsay Whalen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How are you feeling now?  It was an emotional victory with Brooke's shot and then the overtime.  

LINDSAY WHALEN:  I think it was a big win for the morale, you know.  Coming out here, tied up, 7-0 in overtime.  We made the huge plays.  We got everybody going again and if we were coming in here 0-2, losing two games where, let's say both would have been a last second shot, you know, because I had that same shot the other night and Brooke hit the shot.  So it would have been two shots that we had the chance and one we made it and one we missed.  So we played them so close, but all year it was just whoever can come out here and win.  We have won the past two years we came out here, so since I've been here -- I didn't play the first year, but we did win last year.  We know that it's 1-1 and that we have a chance to either win here or send it back home.  


Q.  How are you feeling? 

LINDSAY WHALEN:  Good.  Good.  I feel better today.  Better than yesterday.  And my knee's fine.  It's more the ankle now.  It's all just down in my foot now.  


Q.  Who stepped on your foot? 

LINDSAY WHALEN:  Yolanda did.  I think.  I'm not sure though.  I didn't really sit that close to her, either here or my walk, one of them.  And it was like right here at the point that I do 16 times in a game.  So I can get my reverse or I can get the kick-out.  I've done it my whole career.  And I just came here and stepped wrong and that was it.  


Q.  It's not like you went down, it's kind of like you side stepped a little bit and you could tell you hurt yourself, but we just thought your ankle was twisted.  

LINDSAY WHALEN:  Yeah.  Yeah.  I just was like, it was like tingling the rest of the game.  And I was like, I iced it after the game for, like, five, ten minutes and I said, yeah, that was a good one.  But I thought it will be okay tomorrow.  And I woke up and I couldn't put my foot to the ground.  I was walking like this (Indicating) around my house.  And then I did some treatment and I was afraid it might be broken at first.  But they said it wasn't.  


Q.  What did you guys do the last half of the game?  

LINDSAY WHALEN:  I think we just had the energy and a lot of it starts with defense on us.  Getting a nice kick-out and getting a push.  And our guards did a great job of getting the ball up the floor.  And then when we got up the floor our wings and the post players did a great job of understanding where their shots were going to be and where the kicks were going to be.  And I think the post understood where they were on the floor and where the kicks were.  So I think that -- but like you said, the energy was with us in overtime and I think the execution was big down the stretch.  You saw obviously the 3 that was there.  And we watched film of it and we wanted to make the wrong person guard you and then you'll have an open shot.  But it basically comes down to, just make the right kick and find the right person open.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT