ROGERS MASTERS
August 6, 2007
Paul-Henri Mathieu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Paul-Henri.   
  
  Q.  You won four of the first 14 games and 13 of the last 14.  How do you explain such a significant turnaround against a quality player?   
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU:  I don't know.  Sometimes it happen like this.  Not very often.   
 No, I mean, I was 6-4, 4-Love down.  I just said to myself, I mean, try to play lose, just to be happy on the court because I was a little bit frustrated.  And then I start to play better.  I did less mistake.  Then I played really good.   
  
  Q.  Did you try any strategy change, the way you approached it?   
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU:  Yeah, I tried to play more his backhand because I think I play too much his forehand at the beginning.  In the end, he was playing very good with his forehand.  I just try to play his backhand, be more patient, and when I had the short ball, I just went for it.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you pressed him to the point where he started making some unforced errors?  Did you think at some point in the second set that you could actually swing it?  Was there a point in the second set that you thought, Yeah, I can win this match, even when you were down?   
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU:  At 4-3 I said, if I can break him back, to be back at 4-All, I said, Yeah, I have a chance.  When I broke him back, when it was 4-All, I said, Yeah, I have the chance again.   
  
  Q.  The meeting you had in Miami with the person the ATP brought in, a member of an organized crime syndicate, tell me about the context of the meeting, what he shared with you.   
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU:  What the guy -- I mean, he just was explaining to us that he was gambling before, then he went through drugs and everything, crime.  He went to the jail for, I don't know, 20 years.  Was a little bit too much for us.   
 But he was explaining the danger that we can have to start gambling.   
  
  Q.  Especially in light of Davydenko, do you feel you're more aware and sensitive of this stuff?   
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU:  Honestly, I have no idea.  Even we talk about Davydenko.  Anybody knows what happened with Davydenko?  Yeah, he retired in one match.  Doesn't mean that he did anything before.  I don't know.   
 I mean, I honestly I don't know.  Honestly, I don't know.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT