BNP PARIBAS MASTERS PARIS
October 31, 2016
Paul-Henri Mathieu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. BAGHDATIS/P. Mathieu
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. We felt you were quite emotional at the end of that match.  Are we wrong, or did you feel some emotions?
PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Well, I was very disappointed that I lost that match.  I really thought I had an opportunity in the second set to do a bit better.  When I came into this tournament, I was not confident.  I didn't feel good physically during the past three months.
But in the last two weeks, I started feeling a bit better.  I had no pain, at least.  So I was expecting a better match.
Q. When did the pain start?
PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: In August.
Q. What was it?
PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: My knee and my hip are hurting.  It started when I started playing outdoors on hard courts.  I was only playing 40%, which had an impact, of course, on my results.
I couldn't practice, so it was tough.  And it's only during the past 10 days that I have been feeling a bit better.  It's really difficult to get going again, because I took some bad habits.
Q. What are you going to do during the break?  What do you think about next year?
PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Well, the end of year will be quite calm.  I'm going to stop playing, and then I will practice again.  Nothing special.
But I'm going to try to work differently during December.  I'm going to do things that I haven't done during the rest of my career.  Trying to find solutions so that at least I can start the year with less pain.
Q. If it's difficult for you to play on hard courts, are you going to play clay courts or are you going to Australia?
PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Yes, I'm going to Australia, of course.  I'm in the draw.  I'm not sure how many times I will be able to go there, but it's more difficult for me to play outdoors on hard courts.  Indoors it's a bit better even if it was not the case in the end of this year.
And on clay every year the season becomes shorter.  Before we could play a long time on clay.  Now it's a few weeks only.  So it's almost impossible to play only on clay courts.
Q. When you say you're going to prepare differently at the end of the year here, what are you going to do specifically?
PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Things (smiling).  Different things.  Things I'm not used to doing especially physically.
But I don't want to go into the details there.  I'm going to keep that for myself.  Nothing extraordinary.  But I have some ideas that might be good for me physically.  I hope it's going to help me play without pain, or the least possible, and that will allow me to play a bit better, I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT