ROGERS MASTERS
August 13, 2005
Paul-Henri Mathieu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You gave him his hardest match of the tournament so far. You must feel pretty happy with the way you played. 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Yes, I will be more if I was winning. But, no, I think -- no, I mean, is great. He played a tough match. I didn't play so well at the beginning of the match. I was a little bit nervous. That's why I missed some easy balls. And then I tried to come back. Is not easy against a player like this.  
 
Q. What is the best way to play him? He's so difficult to play. 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: I don't think it's his tennis, but I think physically he's very strong. I don't know, I mean, he's running a lot. I mean, you have to wait five, six, seven balls to win one point. I think that's why he's so good.  
 
Q. Did you try to take more chances and go for your shots a bit more? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Yes. But I think sometimes I force myself little bit too much. That's why I miss. I wanted to go for too much. Because he is running so well, that's why. That's why I think he make me miss some easy balls.  
 
Q. Do you think he's the No. 2 player in the world now? Do you think he'll become one of the all-time great? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: If he's No. 2 today, I think. I think he deserve it. I think Federer is very good, too. I don't know, today he's No. 2. Maybe he's going to become No. 1. But I think there are some great players right now in the circuit. For sure today he's one of the best.  
 
Q. When you broke him in the second set, did you think you had a chance to get back into it? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Yes. I mean, when I was losing one set and one break, it was tough to come back. When I broke him at 5-4, I knew I had a chance. I play a bad game with two double-faults. I still had my chance at 6-5, I think. But that's the way.  
 
Q. What does this tournament do for your confidence from here on out, for upcoming tournaments? How do you think this will affect you from now on? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Yeah, for sure this will give me a lot of confidence for the future. And I hope for next week I can play again a great tournament. Yeah, I mean, I will try to do better maybe next week. It will be tough, but we never know. And then after, my main goal, it's the US Open.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT