ROGERS MASTERS
August 11, 2005
Paul-Henri Mathieu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Can you assess the match for us? We didn't have a chance to see it. Seems you must have won very easily. 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: The score is very tough, I think. I play a very good match, I mean, I think the best of the week. No, I mean, I play great first set. I won 6-1. The second set, at 3-1 I had a chance to break him for the second time. I didn't took it. He start to play better. But I was serving good, so it was okay. Even if the score is easy, it wasn't that easy.  
 
Q. Can you tell us about the state of tennis in France. It seems that so many players from France are doing very well in this particular tournament. It looks like the game is on the rise in France. Is there a particular reason why so many good players have emerged at the same time? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: I don't know. I mean, we are a lot around 100, 110, 120 in the world. Now they're coming up. We try to come in the top 50. Gasquet play well before the French Open. So we start to playing good. I don't know why.  
 
Q. What would a victory in this tournament mean to you, where you're at in your career? You were on the verge of becoming a very good player a couple years ago. Would a win here vault you to a different level as it has for Gasquet? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: In every tournament, you want to win some matches. I'm happy to win three matches in a row. I hope I can win again tomorrow. Every tournaments are different. You always want to win.  
 
Q. Do you have a preference for your next opponent? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Beck is very solid, I think. But Davydenko is very tough. He played very good, it seem, this year. He is in the top 10, so he is very tough.  
 
Q. You were mentioning earlier you thought this was your best match of the week. Considering the victory you had in your opening round against Roddick, it sounds a bit surprising to hear that. What maybe was better for you today that hasn't been there? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: I mean, I play a great match, too, against Roddick. I think today, no, I mean, today was another great match. I was feeling better on the court. Before I play Roddick, I didn't win so many matches. Today I won two already. So I had little bit more confidence.  
 
Q. At the beginning of the match, I'm not sure how many people in this city knew your name. Now people do. How does that feel as a young athlete? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: I don't know. I will tell you tonight when I go out for dinner (smiling). I don't know. I mean, you get used to it. It's kind of nice.  
 
Q. Do you like the speed of these courts? They do appear to suit your game. 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Yes. I mean, sometime we say I'm a clay court player. But, no, I like to play on these courts. I like to play when it's fast. I won two tournaments indoors. No, I like it. It's true, is fast.  
 
Q. Maybe you should come back and explain in French why you said in your opinion you played a better match today than when you played Roddick. Did you feel better today? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: I played a super match against Roddick. I didn't say I played that much better today. But I think on the important points, I was strong. I played a wonderful first set. I think he played well also. They were close points, but every time I was the one who won the point. I played with a lot of confidence.  
 
Q. How do you explain your success since the beginning of this tournament? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: I don't know why because if I knew why, I'd win all the time. But it had to happen one day because of all the work I put into it.  
 
Q. What makes you happier with your game these days? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: I think since the beginning of this week, I've been serving very well. I knew that when I make a high percentage of first serves, confidence grows a lot with that, and I win most of the points after a good first serve. How many points did I win?  
 
Q. 80. After those three matches that you won, do you feel as confident and as ready for your next match? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: One thing for sure is I must not feel happy because I am now in the quarterfinals. I've been playing late two nights in a row. When I walk out of here, it's time to go to bed. When I wake up, it's time to get back into match situations. This time around, I can recuperate a little more. But I must find a way to keep focused.  
 
Q. How much sleep did you get? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Not much. At 2:30 room service knocked on the door for no reason, and I had a hard time falling back asleep. It made me nervous. I woke up at 8, so I didn't have a very long night's sleep.  
 
Q. How are your training sessions with Tulasne? They must not be training sessions like the ones you have when there is no match played. Are those training sessions specific and do they enable you to be more ready for your matches? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: We mostly do warm-ups. We have trained before this tournament in Paris. Those training sessions were very demanding. But nothing replaces a victory in the tournament.  
 
Q. If you could choose your next opponent, would you prefer Davydenko or Beck? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: It's difficult. All matches are difficult matches. Beck is a very good player. He beat Nalbandian yesterday. He plays very well at this time. Davydenko is in the top 10, and he'll be difficult also.  
 
Q. You played Davydenko recently. 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Yes. I lost, so I want my revenge. Winning here is a great motivation to continue working as hard. Against Davydenko or Beck, they will be difficult matches.  
 
Q. If you play at the same level of play that you have had until now, what do you think your chances are? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: I have my chances. Playing as well as I do, I think I have a chance to win for sure.  
 
Q. The surface here is very fast. Does this suit your game? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: I like hard surfaces. Most people say I'm a clay court player, but the last two tournaments I won were indoor tournaments which were on hard. I love this surface. I learned to play on this type of surface. I adapt very well. I've always liked fast surfaces.  
 
Q. When was the last time you felt you played as well as this? 
 
 PAUL-HENRI MATHIEU: Roland Garros, I started to play very well there. I lost against Cañas. I had two match points. I was getting to play better and better. It's too bad I lost.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT