BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 31, 2012
Paul-Henri Mathieu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/P. Mathieu
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   After Basel and Federer, Murray gave you a chance to shine, so to speak. 
PAUL‑HENRI MATHIEU:   Well, he has a totally different game.   It's the first time I have been playing two top guys in the same way. 
So the match was all right, but I didn't serve well enough to worry him.   I need to improve my game to be able to give problems to that kind of player.
But anyway, I'm going to take a lot of positive from that match.

Q.   What was most difficult?
PAUL‑HENRI MATHIEU:   I believe physically I don't have enough fitness.   That made a difference.   The way I move, the way I defend is not good enough against that kind of player. 
Compared with them I have to ‑‑I'm not good enough, and I have to improve.   Now I know where I am compared with those good players.

Q.   Were you impressed by him?
PAUL‑HENRI MATHIEU:   No, but you can feel immediately if your opponent is confident or not.   As soon as we were warming up, I realized he was trying to hit hard to impress me.   But I was not impressed.   I'm not a beginner.   But anyway, it's typical.
When you're confident, you hit hard.   I could feel he was confident.   And also, I know he's very good in defense.   It's difficult to make a winner against him.   We always need to overdo it because he always starts running in the right direction.   He anticipates very well, also. 

Q.   I think it was the fourth or fifth time you were playing together.   What changed in him?
PAUL‑HENRI MATHIEU:   He's more confident, of course.   But he plays faster and he serves a lot better.   I believe the serve made the difference today, especially in the end of the first set and on important points.   Every time he was able to play a good first serve, and with his forehand he's able to play faster than before.
He always was a very complete player, but I believe that to beat the best players he had to improve his game at the net.   Now he's moving forward a lot.

Q.   You deserve your holidays now. 
PAUL‑HENRI MATHIEU:   Yes, I do.   This was the most tiring year of my career.   It was very tough.   There were many new things that happened to me, and I really do deserve those holidays.
I must say that today I was a bit tired.   I played many matches in a row lately, went to the semifinal, so I was tired.

Q.   How did you feel the Novak Djokovic effect?
PAUL‑HENRI MATHIEU:   I don't know.   I was in my hotel room.

Q.   Were you surprised by this result?   Is it always just something that happens often in tennis?
PAUL‑HENRI MATHIEU:   No.   He lost.   I'm only half‑surprised. 
He's sure he's going to finish the year top No. 1 and he's going to play London next week.
I don't believe he's very much affected by this loss.   Am I wrong? 
He's playing the next week, so... 

Q.   Did you hear about his personal problems?
PAUL‑HENRI MATHIEU:   No.   We are not very close friends.   Do you have another question? 

Q.   Can you tell us about your adventure with the club called TC Strasbourg? 
PAUL‑HENRI MATHIEU:   Nobody's interested in that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT