US OPEN
August 29, 2019
Frances Tiafoe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/F. Tiafoe
6-3, 3-6, 6-2, 2-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I'm curious, were you a KD fan, Nets fan, what's the genesis of that?
FRANCES TIAFOE: Yeah, I've always been a KD fan. He's unbelievable. He changed to No. 7 and I wanted one. That's the NBA story yesterday. I was, like, I want this. That's it.
Q. I remember when you played him at Wimbledon two years ago second round. How would you compare the player you were then with the player you have become now?
FRANCES TIAFOE: It's night and day. Different player, different person. I mean, yeah, I mean, obviously I've had a ton of success since then. Yeah, I mean, it's night and day. Obviously the outcome showed it.
Yeah, I mean, I had a ton of chances today.
Q. You and he are about eight months apart. What do you feel like you need to do most to break into that next level of being a top 10, top 20 standpoint?
FRANCES TIAFOE: Bring the level like I did today on a more regular basis, right? Obviously, I mean, you guys knew it was going to be a big match. Obviously wasn't really shocked to see the scoreline. This is the kind of (indiscernible) each and every day, every week, having deep runs each and every week, stop the ups and downs. Because I wouldn't even be playing second round if that was the case.
But, again, you know, it's tough to go out like that.
Q. On another note, how great was it to see Denis Kudla do well here?
FRANCES TIAFOE: Yeah, I'm happy for Denis any match he wins. Yeah, he beat two Serbians back to back obviously. I'm happy for him. I'll text him later. I didn't know he won. Thanks for letting me know. I'm always happy for him.
If it wasn't for Denis, I probably wouldn't be here, seeing a guy doing that well in the club. You know, I've got a lot of props for Denis.
Q. How would you summarize your Grand Slam year this year, what it meant to you, what it's been?
FRANCES TIAFOE: (Indiscernible.) Paris, unfortunately got sick there. Then I lose to Fabio in five. I lose to Zverev in five. You tell me how that feels (smiling). It's tough.
Q. On a little bit other subject, I don't know if you had a chance to go out to the unveiling of the Althea Gibson statue earlier in the week, but we had a chance to interact in D.C. and I know your feeling about the legacy of the game. Any thoughts about the erection of the statute?
FRANCES TIAFOE: I think it's unbelievable. I think it's unbelievable. Unfortunately I haven't gone out there yet. Seen a ton of pictures. Some of my friends went out, showed me pictures. Yeah, I'm going to take a picture next to it, post it.
It's legendary. She's a complete legend. I love everything she represents. Happy they did it. Obviously for a great cause. Obviously see how much people like it. I'm happy they incorporated it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT