NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 6, 2019
Frances Tiafoe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. TIAFOE/U. Humbert   
4-2, 4-3, 3-4, 4-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  This is your second time here in NextGen Finals. What do you think of the tournament? Did you enjoy the experience?  
FRANCES TIAFOE: Yeah, I really like coming to Milan. I like the city a lot. I have a lot of fun here.   
Yeah, I mean, this is one of my favorite stops. In the next couple of years I will probably just come and just hang out. I love the city that much.   
I always love coming back. The fans are great here. I feel very loved here, practicing and stuff. You know, little kids seem to have a liking to me quite a lot here. That means a lot to me.   
 Q.  This is actually your third year for this tournament. You were an alternate, if I remember correctly?  
 A. Yeah, exactly. I decided not to come.   
 Q.  You were supposed to come?  
FRANCES TIAFOE: I was supposed to, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you regret not coming?  
FRANCES TIAFOE: Yeah, I mean, if I knew it was this nice, I probably would have came for the alternate. Yeah, I was also happy to be home a bit.   
 Q.  About this arena, last year was in another place. This year is a new arena, a new stadium.  
FRANCES TIAFOE: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, I like both. Some things I like about here; some things I like about the other place.   
I like this court a lot. This court looks nicer, especially on TV.   
Yeah, I really like it. I'm just happy to be back here. I love being back here. I played two good matches. Happy to be coming back again tomorrow.   
 Q.  After this win, you are in a nice position to get to the semifinal, I think. Tomorrow you will have the chance of course to close it out and reach the semifinals. What do you want to improve tomorrow in your game?  
FRANCES TIAFOE: Just kind of play the way I have been playing. I mean, I have been playing well. I even played well yesterday. Sinner was playing great. I played well today.   
Keep serving well. I mean, you serve well in this format, you most likely will win.   
So serve well and keep putting pressure on the other guy. All you need is one break and the other guy is in trouble. I'm ready to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT