VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2017
Terrell Edmunds
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Virginia Tech - 23, Boston College - 10
Q. What did you think of the defensive performance?
TERRELL EDMUNDS: Well, I believe the defense played well tonight.  We played a pretty solid game.  Towards the end we started giving up a few plays, but they have good guys just like we have good guys.  They started making plays, and we had to make adjustments, so we just decided to come together and finish out the game.
Q. You guys talk a lot about putting that Clemson loss behind you, you kind of said you've already done it at the beginning of the week and you wanted to sort of get back on track heading into the off week.  You're 5-1 at this point; how do you feel halfway through?
TERRELL EDMUNDS: Well, personally we're on to UNC now.  We have a bye week coming up, but we're going 1-0 against UNC.  We're putting this win behind us.  We can't be too high off this win, and we let the loss against Clemson go by last weekend.  We just came out this game and played our hardest, and we came up with the victory, and hopefully against UNC we can come out with a victory.
Q. Did you feel like there was a danger if you didn't start fast tonight of letting that loss amount to two losses if you didn't turn it around right away?
TERRELL EDMUNDS: Losing never really goes in my head.  Like even against Clemson, I never really thought about losing.  So coming into this game we're all together.  I was going to fight for my brothers and they were going to fight for me.  Throughout the end we felt like we were going to get the victory regardless, and we came out and we got the victory, so that was good.
Q. I noticed after touchbacks everybody raising their hands to the fans and stuff.  Was there a discussion about sort of bring your own energy mentality tonight?  I know Coach Fuente said he was pleased at the energy level.
TERRELL EDMUNDS: Well, the first play of the game, regardless of -- we call our kickoff team swat, or kickoff return, we try to just set the tone right there.  If it's kickoff, they're trying to run as far as they can, and swat, we're trying to get down there and just have a party of our own and just trying to get everybody amped up, getting ready for the defense to come out.  As you can see, like home games, we really get the crowd into it, and the defense came out hyped, and we just like doing that.
Q. When you guys are dominating in the second half defensively, did you feel you were frustrating them?  Could you sense it?
TERRELL EDMUNDS: Somewhat yes, but at the same time, we didn't want to let off the gas because we didn't want to feel as if there were frustrated and we had to -- we just felt like the game was over because at no point we wanted to feel like the game was over until there was no time left in the fourth quarter.  So we just kept on playing our calls and doing what Coach Foster told us to do, and we came out with the victory.
Q. What's that feel like when you're a defensive player and you're getting them off the field constantly?
TERRELL EDMUNDS: It's great, going three-and-out, just knowing that everyone is doing their job, everyone is executing their job.  It's amazing just going out there, just playing with your brothers.  That's when you're really having fun, when they're not executing on offense and then you're executing on defense.  That's just great football.
Q. Are there some things you feel like you guys collectively can do better and sort of focus on doing better in this off week?
TERRELL EDMUNDS: Definitely, because we didn't have a perfect game on offense, defense or special teams, so we just need to fix those mistakes and then just come out next week and just prepare for UNC the best way that we can and just try to limit those mistakes in the next game and then come out and just play Hokie football.
Q. Anything in particular stand out to you or is it just overall iron things out, making sure you're sharp?
TERRELL EDMUNDS: That's a question for Coach Fuente.
Q. Coach Fuente said that Jackson has not only impressed the offensive players but also the guys on your side of the ball.  Would you agree with that?  How do you feel about the way Jackson is playing the first half of the season?
TERRELL EDMUNDS: He's playing great.  I'm not going to really speak about the game time because I'm going to just speak on practice because just going against ones versus ones in practice and he's really competing with us and making big plays on us, and we're just out there trying to make him better and he's making us better at the same time, so just seeing how that transitions from practice to in the game, that's amazing just seeing what he's doing, and hopefully he can keep everything going on a good route.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT