OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2015
Maha Haddioui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great start to the tournament.  Are you pleased with 3 under today?  
MAHA HADDIOUI: Yes, I'm happy with the score.  I played really solid.  Had a bit of trouble on 16.  Had a double there.  But it's the kind of thing that can happen quite fast if you don't hit it on the fairway.  Yeah, I'm just happy with the score and I'm trying to stay focused on what I need to do this week to keep my card.   
 Q.  Mentally, like you recovered very quickly with a birdie on 17.  Did you use any of those tactics you talked about?  
MAHA HADDIOUI: Yes, I have.  I basically used that mental conditioning and tried to refocus on the here and now.  Basically that's what I've been working on is getting back to now.   
 Q.  Were you thinking, like you said, a happy thought, a happy smell?  
MAHA HADDIOUI: Yeah, I think of my dog.  I imagine I'm caressing my dog.   
 Q.  What's the name of your dog?  
MAHA HADDIOUI: Daisy.   
 Q.  What kind of dog is it?  
MAHA HADDIOUI: It's a Dutch spaniel.   
 Q.  Talk about the 16th hole    sorry so ask about that.  What happened on the 16th?  
MAHA HADDIOUI: Hit my driver to the right and didn't have a shot to the green.  Laid up and then had a bad chip there.  I wasn't quite focused.  I was trying to wait until other players played on another hole and I should have just waited until they went.   
I think it's a mistake that it happens a lot, like you think you'll be okay and the noise still gets to you.  So it's something I need to get working on and I need to be more careful to take my time and not rush.   
 Q.  And so what happened on the 17th?  What did you hit?  
MAHA HADDIOUI: I hit a good drive to the middle.  Second shot, about four meters, and the greens are so good here.  If you just start the putt online and you have the line, it's pretty much in.  Yeah, 17 is a birdie hole, so it was a good two shots there.   
 Q.  And is this your best round?  
MAHA HADDIOUI: Yes, this is definitely my best round here.   
 Q.  So what really worked for you today?  
MAHA HADDIOUI: I was quite happy with everything.  My chipping was good.  Everything was quite good.  I think it's all about the mental, basically, how you're feeling in your head.  Everybody, all the players, can hit a golf ball perfectly.  It's just about setting the right target and committing to every shot and that's what I focused on today.   
 Q.  And how are you going to keep yourself focused tomorrow, as well, because as you said, this is a very important week for you.  
MAHA HADDIOUI: Just keep it the same.  Keep a quiet mind.  Keep focused and as soon as I'm set up on the ball, nothing else matters.  I've made my decision and I kind of put like, how do you call it, like a bubble around me and just hit, that's it, don't think about anything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT