OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 8, 2014
Maha Haddioui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Like to welcome Maha Haddioui from Morocco playing OMEGA Dubai Ladies Masters for the third time this year.   How special is it to be playing in this tournament here in the UAE?   
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Well, it's very special for me.   It's almost as special as playing at home in Morocco, because obviously it's an Arab country and I'm the only Arab player on Tour.   So it's really important to me and it's also a place that I really like.   I really like Dubai, so it's really a special place to be competing.   
THE MODERATOR:   Do you have a focus or have you set yourself a goal for this tournament?   
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Yes, this is my last tournament this year before Q‑School.   So I would like to have a Top‑10 this week so I don't have to go back to Q‑School.   That's the main goal.   
I'm trying to just focus the process on the golf course and not think too much about out comes and results.   I've been working on my swing.   I've been working on my strategy on the course, and it's a course that I know quite well now.   I had the chance to come here before the Indian Open.   So did some bit of work on the course and I think Top‑10 is a good goal for this week.   
   
 Q.   As the first Arab golfer on Tour, how important is it for you to sort of inspire others in the Arab world to take up golf, and Arab women?  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   I would like to think of it as an example maybe hopefully.   It's not something that's always easy.   It's always easy to do the sport as an Arab woman.   But then to compete and travel on your own; and I've had the chance to really have understanding and open‑minded parents who let me travel pretty much the world on my own and do tournaments.   I hope it's going to inspire more people to do the same and allow more parents to allow their children, especially girls, to do the same.  
When I was growing up, there was no women golfer‑‑ Arab golfer on the LET or LPGA.   I always thought of it was something‑‑ I barely thought about it at first because it's something I had never seen.   So maybe young players will be like, oh, Maha has done it, I can do it, too.   
   
 Q.   Who was your idol growing up?   
MAHA HADDIOUI:   I've always liked watching Laura Davies.   I'm playing with her tonight at the exhibition in a foursome, so it's really exciting for me.   This is I think the third time I've played with her, so I've always looked up to her.   And I think she's an amazing player.   
I didn't used to watch a lot of women's golf when I was little, because, I mean, on TV, we only had men's golf usually.   But it's something that's growing and there's so many really, really good players out there, especially this week.   So I look up to a lot of them.   They have had amazing success, and I'd like maybe to do the same in the future.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised by the lack of Arab female golfers?   
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Not really surprised.   I mean, I know there's going to be more in the future, because federations are doing their jobs now and promoting women's golf.   
But it's a different culture sometimes and it's maybe hard to give up on school or do something else like think outside the box.   You didn't used to hear that very often before.   You would never hear a young girl say I want to be a professional tennis player or a professional golfer.   Now you hear that.   I think it's just a matter of time before the Arab world has more athletes and more golfers.  
   
 Q.   A lot of these countries are obviously building tourism; do you foresee the grass roots development will put players out or do you think it will happen?   
MAHA HADDIOUI:   I think it will happen but it would be much better if work is done from the beginning, promoting the sport and doing amateur tournaments.   I think that's the most important thing.   
When I started playing, we had so many tournaments at my home club, and I used to play with the men because there was no other girl, but still, it made me motivated to work harder and make myself a better player.   But then if you don't have tournaments to play in, then there's nothing you look forward to, and I think that's the main work that's got to be done.   
I mean, tourism helps a lot, because we have the chance like to have amazing golf courses to practise at, but then it needs something‑‑ it needs more to actually get really good golfers.   
   
 Q.   The men's MENA Tour, do you think there needs to be a women's MENA Tour?  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   The MENA Tour, a lot of Moroccan players play on the MENA Tour and it's a great thing that's been done, and it's definitely helping Arab professionals get better and perform.   We are very proud as Moroccans that Ahmed Marjane won the last tournament.   
Basically if there was a MENA Tour for women‑‑ I mean, for now, there's only maybe two professional Arab golfers, or just myself.   So I don't know if it would make a lot of sense for now.   I think it would be better having amateur tournaments, so these mania tours get a better level and get to the professional world.   
   
 Q.   MENA Tour is open to have a chance‑‑  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Given that, you can have a ladies division‑‑  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Yeah, I didn't think of that.   
   
 Q.   When the MENA Tour started‑‑ similar way.   
MAHA HADDIOUI:   That would be a good idea.   It's always ‑‑ it could be in the winter, and it's a great place to be and practise.   Yeah, it would be a good idea.   
   
 Q.   You said there's only two.   Can you talk about the other amateur?  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Professional?   
   
 Q.   Or ones coming up, do you know any?  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   There's a few Moroccans that are amateur that have a good level.   But it takes a lot of work to become professional.   And the other professional I know stopped playing.   She's from Morocco.   She used to play the Dubai Masters, as well.   Her name is Munya (ph).   
I don't know many, but I know there's Arab championships and the Moroccans play them, the Tunisian girls of quite good.   It's evolving.   I know when I used to play the Arab championships six years ago, we were tree competitors.   Well, now there are 20 of them.   So it's definitely getting better, but it needs a few more years to mature.  
   
 Q.   When you play in the Arab world, do you feel that there's more pressure on you?   Is there a sense that you feel you have to perform‑‑  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Yes, there's always more pressure.   It's the same when I play in Morocco.   There's definitely more pressure on me.   But I try to turn it around; okay, I'm the only Arab over here and let's make the best of it and let's just enjoy the week.   
I tried to turn it around and use it as a positive stress, but yeah, definitely there's more pressure.   
   
 Q.   If you were to win here, to inspire the next generation, how much does thatplay in your mind?  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Yeah, I think about it every day.   I'm practising on the putting green and I'm making putts and I'm like, okay, this is to win in Dubai.   It's a little girl's dream, even if you're 26, you still have a dream to win here or win in Morocco.   It's something that's really strong in my heart.   
I could win any tournament, and it would not be the same as winning on Arab soil.   That's something I really look forward.   
   
 Q.   Do you really think with golf being in the Olympics, that could really drive Asian women's golf, Arab women's golf?   Is that something on your mind, as well?   
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Yeah, I mean, that's one of my goals.   Yeah, playing the first Olympics would be amazing.   The criteria of selection shows that it's quite doable.   Then I think it's another amazing thing, the fact that it's in the Olympics, because Federations are putting‑‑ governments and Federations are putting more money into golf and more attention into golf.   
So it's definitely going to drive the game up, especially in some countries where it wasn't a priority.   Like people would focus the Olympic Committees of the country would focus on the sports that were in the Olympics, and golf was kind of on the side, not as important.   
But now, you can get medals at the Olympics in golf, so it's definitely another level.   
   
 Q.   How has been the support for golf in Morocco?  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   They have been doing a lot for golf, especially His Highness, Prince Moulay Rachid, he's been supporting the Hassan II Trophy Association, and Lalla Sumia (ph) who has been the head of the ATH, she's really doing an amazing job.   And they have created this team, which I'm a part of, and they are supporting us, sending us to tournaments, helping us out.   So they are really driving the game forward.   They are big lovers of golf, so I mean, it's something‑‑ I don't think there would be such a development in golf in Morocco if it wasn't for them.   
   
 Q.   Are there opportunities, job opportunities, as an ambassador‑‑  
MAHA HADDIOUI:   Well, first, the ATH, I mean, obviously they are my biggest sponsor and they are helping me out a lot.   And then I've got a another sponsor who is Alliance.   They build golf courses, so they are supporting me a lot.   But then sponsoring in Morocco is still not very common, especially in golf.   Companies will sponsor more when it comes to soccer.   But it's something that's evolving.   They are getting to know the sport better.   It's bringing‑‑ it's still a luxury sport.   So it's a good marketing for them, and they are getting more interested in it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT