SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2007
Michael San Filippo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You shot the best round of the day.   
 MIKE SAN FILIPPO:  I can't believe it.   
  
  Q.  How did you do it?   
 MIKE SAN FILIPPO:  I don't know.  I just tried to play one hole at a time today and not get thinking too much.   
 I thought the course was doable.  For me, I believe the key was, I feel like the course plays a lot easier going off 1 than going off of 10.  Because you mix up that into the wind stretch.   
 When you tee off at 10 you play 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 1, 2, 3, 4, into the wind.  And it just wears you down.   
 But going off of 1 there's a break.  You go into the wind, you come down the wind, you come back into the wind.   
 I felt like we all struggle a little more into the wind, so there is a little respite from it.   
  
  Q.  Did you go off of 10 yesterday?   
 MIKE SAN FILIPPO:  Yeah, I did.  That's where I got into trouble yesterday.  Just fighting the wind and changing your swing and trying to keep it down and making funky swings.   
 Today I felt like I could just, if I got through the first four, then I had some birdie holes.  And that's pretty much what I did.   
  
  Q.  We got a lot of people saying even par they would have taken it starting out.   
 MIKE SAN FILIPPO:  Oh, yeah, I would have been thrilled with even par.  I mean, I got going pretty good there for a while and then it could have even been a better round.  But all in all I'm very pleased.   
  
  Q.  How are you going to approach tomorrow.  Are you going to attack or play it conservative?   
 MIKE SAN FILIPPO:  I don't think there's a whole lot of attacking going on, on the golf course.  I played fairly conservative the last two days.  I aimed for the middle of the greens the last two days.  In fact, my caddie was kicking me, because when I had wedges in my hand I was still bailing a little bit to the fat side.   
 But it's not the kind of course you can really attack too much.  Unless you have just a perfect yardage and you really have a lot of command of your golf swing.   
  
  Q.  As a golfer, do you feel when you're out there you're able to change your ball flight at all.  Do you go out there and hit a lot of different type shots?   
 MIKE SAN FILIPPO:  I do.  Some don't.  Some don't.  I think you have to.  Anybody who can flight their ball is going to do well this week.  And that's the key.  You have to be able to control your trajectory.  It doesn't matter what you hit, what matters is how high it takes off off the club face.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT