ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2012
Hugh Brasher
Tom Grilk
Tad Hayano
Glenn Latimer
Carey Pinkowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GLENN LATIMER:   Welcome, everyone, to a special announcement from World Marathon Majors.   I'm Glenn Latimer, Secretary General of World Marathon Majors.   First let me introduce the race directors from the world's greatest marathons.   Please welcome back George Hirsch who is chairman of the board of directors of the New York Road Runners.   Next is Carey Pinkowski, the race director of the Bank of America Chicago Marathon; then the CEO of the BMW Berlin Marathon Jurgen Lock; Hugh Brasher, the race director of the Virgin London Marathon; Tom Grilk, race director of the BAA Boston Marathon.  
    I'll ask Tom to come to the dais and say a few words.   
    TOM GRILK:   Good morning, everyone, and welcome.   Today is a special day for us at World Marathon Majors.   Today we at World Marathon Majors are privileged to welcome the Tokyo Marathon to our World Marathon Majors group, which also involved welcoming our friend Tad Hayano, who is the race director there.   
    We are delighted to have Tokyo join us in this group.   Why Tokyo?   This is the first expansion we have had of the World Marathon Majors series since the founding back in 2006, and Tokyo is a world‑class marathon in a major international market with a stellar elite field and a no less stellar mass participatory field, like real stellar, like 300,000 people tried to enter the Tokyo Marathon this last year.   That's a lot of participation.   
    And all of these characteristics are in line with those that were established back when World Marathon Majors was itself established.   And on top of that, of course, this expands World Marathon Majors into the Asian market with all that that brings and yet a bit more focus.   It also connects us to the very rich history of marathoning in Japan, where there is an immense fan base and a whole lot of people who get out to run these marathons, no better exemplified than the 300,000 people who tried to get into the Tokyo Marathon this last time around.  
    The addition of a sixth event for us also broadens the competition, broadens the opportunity for elite athletes to compete for the World Marathon Majors series title, and for the participatory runners who are part of our events, it gives them a chance to experience another of the world's great marathons.   
    So with the addition of the Tokyo Marathon, we at World Marathon Majors continue our mission to advance the sport of marathoning, to raise the awareness of our athletes, the elite athletes who compete at such a high level in our events and others, and to increase interest in elite racing generally among the running communities, many enthusiasts.   We're going to have a whole lot more now that we have Japan.   Tad, Tokyo Marathon, we're glad to have you.   Welcome.   
    Glenn?   
    GLENN LATIMER:   At this time let's view a special video that shows the welcoming of Tokyo.   It'll be on the screens at the front here.   
    (Video shown.)  
    I'd now like to ask our friend Tad Hayano to say a few words.   
    TAD HAYANO:   Thank you very much for everyone.   First of all, on behalf of Tokyo staff, I'd like to express our sympathy to everybody in New York and New Jersey and the rest of the United States people who have suffered from the effects of Hurricane Sandy.   As you know, we had a terrible experience in Japan.   We had a tsunami, terrible tsunami and earthquake, so we deeply understand the situation here.   So sincerely I express my sympathy again.   
    Today I would like to say how proud and honored we are to become the newest World Marathon Majors member.   Despite its short history, we also appreciate the tremendous support and contribution from my friends, race directors of the World Marathon Majors.   Thank you so much.   
    As the first World Marathon Majors member in Asia, we will make an effort to expand the World Marathon Majors brand to Asia, not only for Asia but for the world.   Thank you very much.   
    GLENN LATIMER:   We're going to take brief questions.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone)  
    GLENN LATIMER:   The question was about the integrity of the races.   
    CAREY PINKOWSKI:   Obviously as illustrated in the video, the World Marathon Majors has and continues to have some of the greatest athletes and some of the greatest competitions.   Speaking specifically to Berlin, it's been a race that has set world records and has had phenomenal performances, and I think that tradition will continue.   I don't think that's a concern of the series of our event.   We had great racing in Chicago.   There will be great racing on Sunday, and it will continue through the series.   
   
 Q.   Why did you choose Tokyo, and when did the talks start?   Where did the idea come from?   
    TOM GRILK:   Well, first of all, we have thought for a long time about having other races.   The question was what's the best way to do it.   And we didn't have a race in Asia.   So all of that had been discussed for a long time.   
    In terms of conversations with Tokyo, Tad has been good friends with many people here and with Dave Bedford over in London for a long time, and there were a great many conversations in a very informal way with Tokyo and with others.   It's only in the last couple of months or so that they became more formal.   But Tokyo fit all of our criteria, and it was time to have an Asian partner and to know that we could work with somebody who is our friend.   
   
 Q.   Are you considering partnering with a marathon in Africa, specifically maybe Nairobi?   
    HUGH BRASHER:   At this stage we're not looking to partner with anyone else, but conversations will always carry on, but at this moment we're very pleased to be welcoming Tad and all that his race brings to World Marathon Majors.   
   
 Q.   Part of the reason for World Marathon Majors has been for increased fan participation.   What efforts are going to be made with fan interaction with the World Marathon Majors?   
    HUGH BRASHER:   We meet regularly as race directors, and one of the discussions we've got later today is on exactly that.   At the moment this announcement is really about welcoming Tad and Tokyo to the event.   Other announcements will be forth coming.   
    I looked at that video, and it brought goosebumps to me, and we're going over to Tokyo in February and just think it's a fantastic event to be joining us.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT