THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  That was a weird round, you were consistent at the start,
consistent at the end, but in the middle, birdies and bogeys all
over the place?
ERNIE ELS:  I think that's pretty solid for me
(laughter).
I think I made three bogeys and four birdies.  I made
some silly bogeys, basically three-putted on 6, after making
birdie on 5.  And then I kind of misclubbed myself on 7, got it
into a bunker and not a great shot out of there, and missed about
a 10-footer for par.
You're right, and then I parred 8, birdied 9 and I
thought I hit it perfectly on 10, but the bloody wind wouldn't
drift the ball.  It went dead into a fairway bunker and made bogey
there.  I'm trying to make a move but I"m shooting myself in the
foot, as well.
But I'm not totally out of it, I believe.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah.  If I can -- hopefully nobody really
goes away this afternoon.  But if I'm within 6, 7, you never know.
It happened last year.  I'm not saying it's going to happen every
day, but anything can happen in The Open.  Somebody can get hot,
from where I am, and if the leaders don't get hot, you're in the
ballgame.  That's what I'm hoping for.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
ERNIE ELS:  I thought so today, but it's pushing it.
When you start pushing on this course it pushes back.  I'd like to
believe there is.  Today I think they've put a lot more water on
it, the greens are a little bit slower.  So today I think you can
shoot something in the 60s.  To do it tomorrow on a Sunday, Open
Championship Sunday, that's another story.  But I'm hoping.
Q.  I noticed from the start of your round today (inaudible).
You noticed it was drying out?
ERNIE ELS:  Yes, that's the way it is, you've got that
northeast breeze, and that breeze will dry anything up.  You can
pour as much water as you want to, at the end of the day it's
going to get drier.  But probably not as bad as yesterday.
Q.  Did you enjoy today?
ERNIE ELS:  I'm trying to.  It's tough when you've won
and you had a lot of things going your way, and then the next year
you don't get the bounces.  But that's links golf.
But I would say I was quite frustrated yesterday, because
I felt I played quite well and didn't get much out of it.  But for
the most part today was kind of the same story, but didn't make as
many mistakes.  I'm trying to enjoy it.
The people are great.  Such a great championship but
obviously I'm trying to play better than where I am.
Q.  You said that if you're within 6, 7 tomorrow you still
have a shot.  Is that what you'd expect that you can do that or is
that sort of the hope that kills everybody in sport?
ERNIE ELS:  Well, I think it's both sides.  I think you
answered it, as well.  You're hoping not to be too far off and
then you're hoping for that quick start, that birdie at the start
and then to try and get the guys to see your name, and then
hopefully that makes a difference.
But I'm a competitor.  You're not going to lie down until
the 72nd hole.  That's just the nature of what's going on out
there.  So that's what we're trying to do.  And you're hoping for
the best, basically.










END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT