BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2013
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your thoughts on the day? 
ERNIE ELS:   All in all I've got to be happy.   I was a little out of sorts on the greens on the front nine.   I didn't quite get the pace of the greens.   They are a little bit faster for some reason and I kept hitting it past and then didn't make the returns.   But I made a little slight adjustment and played some proper stuff coming in. 

Q.   Another battling day on what has been a different course compared to the two previous days really?
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, today was a little softer.   It was obviously a scoring day I thought today.   They even had the tees up on 16 and the par‑5 18, so they really gave the guys some opportunity to score.   I.
Think the weather really got the guys in the morning.   We had perfect conditions in the afternoon, but as I say, if it wasn't for those three 3‑putts I had, I would have had a really good score.

Q.   Kind of mixed feelings in a sense, because you know the scores out there and you're still in this fine position?
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, in a way, you know, I was playing so nicely that I felt I'm trying to pull away from the field, and then the opposite happened, and I made some mistakes.
So I'm in a good position still, just hanging onto the lead or co‑leader now, and tomorrow is all to play for. 

Q.   I don't know how willing you are to talk about wearing Lederhosen, but you seem to be enjoying this week, which is what it's all about. 
ERNIE ELS:   Exactly, I mean, Marco has done such a great job organising stuff for us, and last night was so much fun.   You know, having some beer and some good food and dressing up funny, so it's been a nice week. 

Q.   Well, it's silly, I know, but it's got to be about more than just the work, hasn't it, because it makes the whole environment that much better?
ERNIE ELS:   Well, exactly.   We travel so much.   We go to so many different cultures and we don't really get to mix with the locals, and what Marco has done is really bring the tournament to the local people, and do what kind of the locals do in the food and the city and so on.   So this has really become one of our favourite events in the world. 

Q.   I appreciate I didn't tell you're a young man, but do you know how young you looked wearing that outfit?
ERNIE ELS:   Well, thank you very much (laughing).   They sent me a picture, one of the guys took a picture of myself, so I'm going to show that to my daughter.   She might put that on YouTube or whatever they put it on nowadays, but it was fun (laughing). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT