BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2013
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PAUL SYMES:   You're back here again, you shot a pretty good round today, just talk us through it.  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, thank you, I had a really nice start to my round.   I started on the 10th hole and I birdied 11 and 12 and 13 to make three birdies.   
Then I birdied three more holes before the turn, and then wonderful long putt that I made on the second hole, my 11th hole, from about 40 feet for birdie on a long par 3 there.   
Then you know, got fortunate again on 6.   I drove it in the rough and I had an unbelievable lie on the par5.   Hit a 5‑wood to about six feet and made that for eagle.   
So I had a very nice round.   You know, I had some good breaks and No.9, my 18th hole, I hit a perfect drive, 3‑iron on the green and 2‑putted for birdie.   
Really nice, and just a pleasure to play; not to go through a torture chamber like we did at the U.S. Open.   So, nice start.   
   
 Q.   You could see an advantage to start early?   
ERNIE ELS:   Well, yes, I think on a day of scoring‑‑ it seems like it's really a day of scoring today.   If you shoot a really low one, it's nice.   It takes the pressure off the rest of the tournament a little bit.   Although you're leading, it doesn't really mean much until Sunday, but if you get into the race, so to speak, early on in the tournament, it's nice, be right in the hunt.   
Guys will be shooting low this afternoon and tomorrow morning; so I probably won't be in the lead by the time I tee off.   But it's nice to have got a good round under my belt and can start kind of going for Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel a round like that has been in your bag for some time?  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I feel that.   I've really been working hard at my game.   Especially obviously going into the U.S. Open and really around the PGA at Wentworth, I could feel things were coming around a bit.   I had a bit of an iffy year up to now, but I really feel that my swing feels good and my body feels good, touch wood.   
So I can swing the club, properly.   
   
 Q.   So with Muirfield coming up‑‑  
ERNIE ELS:   Well, that's a ways away, but I'm going to have a nice holiday after this week, whatever happens.   I'd love to play well for the next three days, keep getting the confidence up, and I'll do a lot of visits up to Muirfield.   My good friend, Mr.Rupert, we are going up on Tuesday already and check it out.   So I'll go up every week for the next three weeks and get going, but I'd love to obviously play well the next couple of days and take it from there.   
   
 Q.   How exhausting is it for you after a week at the U.S. Open to come over here and take a break after a big major?   Why did you come here, because you gave Marco your word?   How much does it mean to you giving your word to someone?   
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I think so.   Even let's say if I won last week, my commitment was here to come here.   Me and Marco agreed that I was going to come last September already.   I like it here.   I think Munich is a great town.   I've played here many times.   I really enjoy the course.   So it's really not tough for me to come here.   
The jet‑lag is a little difficult, but I'm glad that I came, because you know, as you said, my game‑‑ feels like my game is coming around, and just haven't had results.   So it's nice to actually see where my game is before taking a long holiday.   
   
 Q.   Does it surprise you that perhaps some of the more leading Europeans that competed in the States last week are not here this week?  
ERNIE ELS:   I think they have got a good field.   A lot of the guys play on the U.S. Tour now.   So I think Marco has done a very good job getting guys here, some very top players.   You know, I think it's one of the strongest fields in Europe, you know.   So I think they have got a very good field here and probably compares well to anywhere else in the world.   
So I think the guys have done good.   I don't know who they asked to come.   I know Rory is playing next week is Ireland.   So the guys, to get your schedules after a major before a next major is kind of difficult.   
   
 Q.   You just mentioned holiday; how does the holiday look like?   
ERNIE ELS:   Not much.   Not much.   I'll practise, but just be in England, maybe we'll go somewhere.   You know, we've gone to Portugal the last couple of years.   Maybe go there for a week.   We have nothing planned really.   But it just nice to know that I've got nothing on for three weeks.   We've got a hectic schedule so it's nice just to have nothing happening.   So could be much; it could be really little.   
PAUL SYMES:   Thanks, Ernie.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT