MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice birdie on 18.  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, thanks.   I just said to the guys, I think that our final four holes kind of saved my tournament a little bit.  
I eagled 15, chipping in from the top, and then birdieing 18.   So, you know, 1‑over, I don't think it's going to be too awful at the end of the day.   I think conditions are getting tougher.  
  
 Q.   Do you think it's going to give you some momentum going into the weekend the way you finished up today?  
ERNIE ELS:   I hope so.   I haven't quite hit my stride, but I'm here for the weekend, which is good.  
I haven't had a great year, so it's nice to try and find it at Augusta.   It's a tough place to do that.   It's coming around.  
I felt conditions kept changing this morning, so I really think that that is going to make it more difficult.  
  
 Q.   Playing with Steve Stricker, do you kind of feel like the elder statesmen out here?  
ERNIE ELS:   We are now, I guess.   Yeah.   We have both had many, many years out here and it's kind of a blessing just to be able to play for the next four years.  
So I'll keep enjoying it and who knows, you know, I might have a hot weekend and see what happens.   But, yeah, we are getting on to the other side of the road now.  
  
 Q.   Does 15 play a lot differently today than it did yesterday, because there were 10 eagles on it yesterday.  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, it's going to ‑‑ you'll see some fun and games there today.   They have the flag on a more difficult spot, the wind's into us, and then guys are going to, the aggressive guys are still going to try and go for it.   But I think that you're going to see some numbers there today, because the wind's gusting into us.   So it's a difficult second shot.  
  
 Q.   You said yesterday that you gave away quite a few soft bogeys.  
ERNIE ELS:   Well, the conditions didn't help me.   So it was difficult just to play a normal round of golf.   You had to manufacture shots, you had to adapt to conditions, so it was a difficult day, so we'll still have to address that.  
  
 Q.   You'll be six or seven off the pace going into the third round.   How do you feel about that?  
ERNIE ELS:   No, anybody, over the weekend, you still have a chance.   There's a good score out there.   Conditions should get better for the weekend, the course will get tougher, but there's good rounds out there, so I'm not out of it.  
  
 Q.   Were you surprised at some of the people at the top of the leaderboard?  
ERNIE ELS:   I haven't really seen who is leading.  
  
 Q.   Some of the old guys, Couples.  
ERNIE ELS:   No, he's a regular.  
(Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT