PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2012
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   At what point or with what shot did you realize you were up against it today?  
ERNIE ELS:   We were on 7, and we got put on the damned clock.   A bit of that rain came in, and man, I was just trying to put anything in play, and I took 3‑wood, and I hit it right.   I made an unbelievable 5 on the par‑5.   But that's when I knew, hey, it's blowing a little bit.  
   
 Q.   How could they put you on the clock in these conditions?  
ERNIE ELS:   It's just what it is.   
   
 Q.   Adam Scott said 75 is a good score today.   How much do you expect it to back up for the guys going this afternoon?  
ERNIE ELS:   Well, if you can putt the ball, the greens are soft, you can shoot par.   If you have a good start, if you start on the front nine, there's some birdie holes.   You get off to two or three birdies in the first holes you can shoot under par.   It's just a very tough test this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   Do you like it here?  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I'd like it more if I was making frigging putts.   But I like it.   I'm hitting the ball really well.   I mean, I'm hitting it as good as I did at Lytham.   Great layout.   I think Pete Dye is a genius.   Some really difficult holes on the back nine.   The front nine is the scoring nine.   
   
 Q.   I don't remember you making the putts you wanted to in the first two days at Lytham, either.   
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, well, this is a little worse.   Really today I should have shot at least under 70.   I missed almost everything.   I'm striking it okay, but for some reason I'm not reading it nicely.   It could be the grass, so I've got to try and figure out what I've got to do.  
   
 Q.   What's the wind's influence on putting, anything?  
ERNIE ELS:   Not as much as in Europe.   It's a pretty stiff breeze, but it's not as intense as in the British Isles.   But it is a factor, not as bad as over there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT