U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2012
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
 Q.   Did you have any idea what was going on?   
ERNIE ELS:   I just pulled that shot on 16.   I wasn't meaning to go at that flag.   I pulled it.   And it was a tough up‑and‑down from there.   And I missed the fairway on 17 and I guess I misread the putt.   
I thought I ‑‑ I saw Blake's ball really turn and I thought mine was going to do the same.   But it went straight.   So that was that.  
   
 Q.   How much harder does that make 16 with that shaved area back there versus if it was just rough?  
ERNIE ELS:   I missed the shot.   I guess I deserved what I got what I deserved.   You can't miss it left there.   We all know that.   So I played that hole 4‑over and I played the fourth hole 4‑over.   So those are, those two holes cost me the tournament.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel you did today?  
ERNIE ELS:   Well, I'm disappointed right now.   I felt I had a chance all day, I eagled 7 and I had a mystery on this 8th hole.   I came up well short and bogeyed that and 3‑putted 9 to give my two shots back.   
So then I played a really good back nine.   I felt I had a lot of chances, did what I needed to do, it's just I miscued there on 16 and that cost me.   And I wanted to get, try and get in the playoff, but again I didn't hit the shots coming in, basically.  
   
 Q.   With the way they had the course setup being so firm and fast with so many undulations in the fairways and greens, did you feel that this golf course was a bit of a British Open style golf course almost, something like you would see in the rota?  
ERNIE ELS:   No, it played firm.   I loved the way the setup, that they got the setup.   I think they got the setup just right.   I felt that if you played really good golf, I think that somebody could have shot under par.   
As I say, two holes I dropped eight shots.   And for the rest I guess I was 4‑under for the rest.   So I played pretty good.   You could have shot under par, I could have.   I just made some soft errors.   
   
 Q.   Was it the pressure to go out and shoot an under par round when you're looking up at the leaderboard?  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, but I've done it before, so I just felt I needed to be patient, which I was.   And the putt on 15 just skirted the hole.   That could have made a bit of a difference, but I'll go to bed tonight thinking of the 16th, the third shot.   That basically cost me the tournament.   
   
 Q.   You've been in the hunt a lot this year.   What do you take out of this week that you can learn from?  
ERNIE ELS:   I thought I was a lot calmer.   I felt in control.   So that's a good sign.   So we got two Majors left and I'm going to take a nice break now and try and regroup and come back.   I feel that where I was last year and where I am now, it's a huge change.   I'm contending now, I feel I have a chance, and if I ‑‑ if you eliminate those mistakes, I could win one of these things again.   So I got I got the belief back.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit into 16?  
ERNIE ELS:   Third shot, I hit a 9‑iron.   I hit, I had 45 front, 53 hole, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How is it different going to be in contention now on Sunday as opposed to say 20 years ago?   Do you appreciate it more to have the opportunity?  
ERNIE ELS:   Well, yeah, I'm just happy to be here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT