BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2012
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT CROCKETT:   Ernie, nice to start the way you did, a very good opening round at the BMW PGA.   Just give us your thoughts on that one, Ernie.  
ERNIE ELS:   Thank you.   It was almost perfect.   You know, up to the 14th tee, it was beautiful.   I was 6‑under through 13 and really in control.   14 and 15, I came up a bit short and those were weak chip shots I played.   Two bogeys there.   
I couldn't find a birdie and was actually very fortunate to make par on 18.   But you know, that's what I wanted to do, was trying to get something under 70, I knew it was going to be perfect conditions.   But it's still tricky.   Still have to play shots and you know, if you're marginally off, the course penalizes you.   I was happy with the way I played.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Thoughts on the course?   How did it set up for you?   How did it look?   
ERNIE ELS:   I think it looks beautiful   (laughter).   
As I say, it's not a walk‑over anymore.   Although it's easier this year because the 12th hole is a par 5, and even No. 4 they played off the front tee, so that plays like a par 4.   So there's a lot of scoring opportunities, more so than especially last year.   
So I think guys can go in with the mind‑set that if they have the right conditions, they can score a good score.   But as I say, you have to be mindful of a miss.   You're going to get penalised for a miss where in the last‑‑ on the old course, you could get away with that.  
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Are you able to divorce yourself from going around apart from thinking, oh, I could tweak that bit there.  
ERNIE ELS:   I actually want the guys to play well and miss all the bunkers and make many birdies to be honest.   I think the course is playing well.   I think that you have to just watch the firmness.   If it gets too firm, it can get a little out of hand, so they have to watch the moisture they put on the course.   I would like to just see that‑‑ I would like to see the ball stop on the greens, because I think it's going to get windy.   
Other than that, I think the course is very fair now.   It's a good, tough test.   
   
 Q.   The last two holes, obviously it slowed down terribly, did that affect momentum?  
ERNIE ELS:   Maybe.   I think on 17, yeah, maybe.   All three of us were right in the middle of the fairway and there was a holdup there for at least seemed like ten minutes.     
Then I just tried to make sure I miss it left if I was going to miss it, because you can get it up‑and‑down from the left side.   But still, I didn't make birdie there.   
Then I hit an awful tee shot on 18.   I saw Rory pull his 3‑wood.   And if you just pull it, it's going to go around in that bunker, and I was trying to get it over the tree it never drew back.   
   
 Q.   You just said you're pleased with the score but is there a part of you that's kicking yourself just giving up a couple of shots and struggling down 18?   
ERNIE ELS:   It's going to be difficult this week to play a perfect round of golf around this tough test.   As I say, I think those bogeys on 14 and 15 were soft and obviously got a way with par on 18.   
So it could have been better.   Could have been maybe two or three shots better.   But that's fine.   I played 13 holes perfectly, so maybe tomorrow I can play a couple more holes perfectly.   
   
 Q.   After the criticisms the course faced last year, how nice is it on a personal note to lead the way with a low score?   
ERNIE ELS:     I'm just pleased that I had a good first round for a change.   The last couple of years I haven't played that well here.   I'm pleased to get off to a start which I've done now.   I knew the course was going to be fine, especially after the latest little tweaks we made.   I think that makes you feel a little better that you know that the guys are going to like it.   That didn't have an effect on me; I was just motivated to play well this week.  
   
 Q.   You must be delighted with the up‑and‑down at the last, because it was not a very nice position to be in.   
ERNIE ELS:   No, I don't think there's been a human being where I hit it (laughing) on my tee shot.   I think there's a cesspool out there or something.   I was hoping, first of all, I was hoping that we didn't find it, and when I found it, I was trying to figure out how to get back into play.   Somehow hit it through the bushes back into play, and then a 3‑iron for my third shot, which is not a lot of fun.   So pleased to make five.   
   
 Q.   And on another note, how harsh the Rules of Golf can be, as Graeme found out there, he's ten foot away and he's not sure if the ball has moved.   
ERNIE ELS:   I didn't see that.   You can tell me more about it but I didn't see it.   Did his ball move on the green?   
   
 Q.   No.   When he was‑‑ he was in the woods and as he walked towards the ball, the ball moved, so he wasn't even at the ball.   Wasn't even addressing it, but then played it, and then got penalised.   
ERNIE ELS:   Listen, when it comes to the rules, I just ask a rules man, because these rules are so finicky and confusing at times.   I mean, last week I had one on the 14th hole in Dallas, I hit it right, in the hazard, hit it‑‑ just bushes, and hit it out, found out I've played the wrong ball; I'm thinking you can't play a wrong ball in a hazard.   The guy tells me, no, that rule changed two years ago.   (Laughter) You actually have to identify your ball in the hazard.   
Now, how do you do that at times?   You know, if you're in a hazard, it's plugged in the hazard, maybe it could be in mud or whatever, you play the ball.   So, I don't know.   
   
 Q.   And it's worse with the slo‑mo, High Definition TV.   
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, with Graeme just walking in and the ball moves, he's not addressing it or anything like that.   As I say, these rules are funny.   
   
 Q.   On the same matter, he actually said that a lot of players are scared of the rules these days because of the exposure to cameras and whatever.   Is it always in the back of your mind when the ball goes off‑line that you've got to be over‑careful?   
ERNIE ELS:   Absolutely.   I've been a professional since 1989 and I should know the rules better than any of these youngsters and I still ask for a ruling for the simplest things.   
As I say, there was a rule that I thought I knew, and it changed two years ago.   I guess you have to update yourself and so forth but that's why the rules guys are there.   
   
 Q.   And you took a provisional; obviously Graeme came to the green, but that's one of the places you can't hit it.   Any others on that course would stand out where you really have‑‑  
ERNIE ELS:   Conditions are getting a little firmer.   Now on certain lines, the lines are getting really tight.   You know, like on 18, if you just pull it, it's going to go in that bunker, and obviously you want to get it down there where you go for a second shot to the green.   The firmer it gets and the ball wants to go left, you're going to have to take it further and further on tighter lines like I did on 18.   And if you miss it there, then you're making big numbers.   
   
 Q.   Graeme McDowell was saying that he calls for a rules official at least once every two rounds.   Now to what degree would play speed up if they just sorted things out afterwards?   
ERNIE ELS:   Luckily this week we have many rules professionals and we have a big field.   This week is not a problem.   
Other weeks, yeah, you sometimes wait for an official for a while.   But if you're asking for a rules official once every two rounds, you should be hitting it a little better than that.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   What's the harshest penalty you can remember receiving yourself?   
ERNIE ELS:   Can't really think of too many right now.   I mean, last week, I was finishing 40th, but when I hit the wrong ball, the guy said to me, I've got to add to two to my score.   I was like, I've just played the wrong ball out of a hazard and you're going to penalise me an extra two.   
No, I can't think of too many right now.   I've had some good breaks.   Obviously U.S. Open, when they moved that television tower for me, that was quite a break.   
   
 Q.   You're looking a lot more relaxed on the course these days.   Is that to putting?   
ERNIE ELS:   I think so.   Bobby Locke always had a great saying; you always see a good putter with a very good sense of humor.   As you guys can attest, I haven't had a great sense of humor for the last, let's say 18 months, because I had some serious problems on the greens.   Now I feel a lot better, and obviously working in the right direction.   So, yeah, that's probably why.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Thank you, Ernie.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT