ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2012
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your ball striking being, has it ever been any better than it is right now?   You're just striping it.
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I'm enjoying the course.   The course fits my eye.   Some of the tee shots I don't have to hit driver so I can hit 3-wood in the fairway so set yourself up for a second shot.   I'm striking it nicely.

Q.   How hard was it the first two competitive rounds you've played on?   It.   Pretty easy to pick up?
ERNIE ELS:   It's one of those things, exactly.   I'm just lucky that my eye picked it up nicely.   I could feel my way around, putt easily from the first time I played.   Figuring out the greens. 

Q.   You kind of like these Dye courses.
ERNIE ELS:   I do like them.   Pete has been a favorite of mine.   He tests you, you know, off the tees.   This course is quite generous off the tees but the second shot is with the angles.

Q.   How was the last putt?
ERNIE ELS:   The putt is really big.   I feel guys will shoot low this afternoon because the conditions are quite nice.   To be 10-under is nice.   I might be a couple behind but that's fine.

Q.   Ernie, another good round here although you went out in the afternoon in what were the more difficult conditions yesterday with a 66. 
Do you feel like it was good out here this morning or how do you feel about the round overall given the conditions?
ERNIE ELS:   The conditions are a lot easier, especially the front-9.   Probably wasn't as sharp as I could have been the front-9 but started getting it back on the back-9. 
You know, it's not easy to keep going low.   I was trying to do that.   I'm pretty pleased with where I am, 10-under after two rounds.

Q.   Going into the weekend you are in a good position here.   What is the feeling now about how your game is, particularly tee to green, putting, to be able to make another run for another victory on the PGA TOUR?
ERNIE ELS:   I feel comfortable.   Really worked on my swing, got my position better.   I was a little out of whack on Tuesday, my ball position was a bit off, my alignment was off.   I got in a figured out. 
Starting to hit it better, hit it really solid and the putter feels quite nice and I'm hitting the greens.   Nice and firm.   I feel good about it.   It all depends on how conditions are but so far so good.

Q.   Ernie, talk about your round.
ERNIE ELS:   Well, yeah.   I thought conditions were a little easier this morning, obviously, early on.   I didn't quite capitalize on that on the front, my front-9 but didn't make too many mistakes, either, so I played quite a solid back-9.   Might have left one or two out there.   All in all, you got to be satisfied with the first two days work.

Q.   You're playing well, right?
ERNIE ELS:   I feel like I'm playing nicely.   Coming in on Tuesday I played my first practice round and I really didn't hit the ball very well and started working on it on Wednesday in the Pro-Am and then by Thursday, you know, started feeling a lot more comfortable and started to hit some good golf shots now.   Have a nice feel for the course.   Yeah, 10-under.

Q.   You seem like your putting is good, do you think that's --
ERNIE ELS: I think so.   Really been working hard at that and starting to feel more natural, feeling like the old me, you know, and try to get yourself in that position more and more.   I've been in that position this year at least a couple times and I like to get in that position more.

Q.   How much of a confidence booster is something like that with a big save on 9?
ERNIE ELS:   I mis-clubbed on 9.   I missed the angle.   Whenever you do that, you end up with an up and down that's hard.   I hit quite a good chip shot.   That putt was big because on 8, my 17th hole, it was big to finish on that and be 10-under.

Q.   Is it important out here for you to take advantage of the par-5s?
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, but you don't want to put too much pressure on yourself feeling like you have to birdie them but, you know, it's nice when they come.   A birdie putt, it's nice.   I had a couple of down ones.   You go with the conditions, really but, obviously, yeah, they are score-able.

Q.   Ernie, how did you do today with yesterday?
ERNIE ELS:   Obviously today was a different mindset, wind conditions.   As I said, I didn't quite capitalize on that early on but, you know, I would have taken 68, I would have taken 10-under before I started the event after two rounds.   I'm in a pretty good position and looking forward to a good weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT