ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 25, 2012
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the round?  
ERNIE ELS:   I still hit the ball well.   I didn't have my putting touch today, that was the difference.   I was a little tentative again and the wind didn't help too much on the greens either.   I'm pleased with my ball‑striking but again on the greens, I was awful.   
   
 Q.   Has to do wonders for the confidence; a lot of things you can look back on that you did well during the course of the week.   
ERNIE ELS:   Obviously, you go into a week, a 4th place, you'd probably take it.   But it was a bit of bittersweet there again.   I had a lot of chances today, and you know, kind of blew it a little bit.   All credit to Tiger, very difficult to shoot under par, and looks like he's going to do that.   That's great playing, so hat off to him.   
Arnold is wonderful and he's been great for the game and to play in his event is always a thrill.   The golf course is in great shape and it's really tough, especially today.   So, yeah, really good tournament.   
   
 Q.   Were you watching the board to get a sense of where you were throughout the day?  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, obviously, I was trying to stay in the top 5 or whatever.   I wasn't good on the greens, and that's the disappointing thing.   I really hit the ball well and probably could have shot 5‑under par if I putted anything like I did the first couple of days, and that was the disappointing thing.  
   
 Q.   Did you go at the flag for birdie on ‑‑  
ERNIE ELS:   I wanted to try and make birdie obviously, but I didn't know where or what was happening, just trying to make birdie.   
   
 Q.   Was it on your mind much today?  
ERNIE ELS:   I was just trying to play a good round of golf and get some confidence going.   
You know, as I say, on the greens I wasn't that sharp today and that's something I've still got to be working on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT