VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2012
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   All I can say is what a nice finish for you. 
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I was a bit uncomfortable today.   I've been working with these girls, the putting gurus on Tour and I was a bit uncomfortable.   Maybe it was a bit of the layoff.   But at least, yeah, I started making some birdies on the back nine.   I was really mad about the putt I missed on 13.   It was a two‑foot putt and other than, that I'm glad with the under par score. 

Q.   You said yourself yesterday that you have to get into a competitive round to shake off that last rust; you can play and practice but you need the competition.
ERNIE ELS:   Exactly and I think that showed.   I played here I think about eight to ten times through the December holiday, making six, seven, eight birdies with my mates, but it's different when you are playing competitive golf. 
I'm glad I got it under par and I'm not out of the tournament, so I can shoot low. 

Q.   And there is a forecast for some wind to come up and you know this course as well as anybody when the wind is up, and that could make a difference?
ERNIE ELS:   Huge difference.   I mean, when the wind comes up, this course is totally different animal.   Today it was as easy as you're going to find it, they have the tees up on a lot of holes and obviously guys played really good, but this course has got a lot of teeth and it has not shown it yet.   So, we'll see. 

Q.   And just on a personal note, your dad's got a Volvo dealership and it's quite poetic that the tournament would be here. 
ERNIE ELS:   I think my dad's got a lot to do with me being here, my dad and my wife.   My dad with the dealership, obviously he's got good friends at Volvo and then my wife, also, we always go to Hawai'i, but even she says, you know, take another week holiday and then play here this tournament.   And the kids are not here and she's not here, but at least I'm with my friends and still at home. 

Q.   And still a crowd favorite?
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, really nice.   I would love to have given them better golf but I've got a couple of days to do that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT