THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 18, 2011
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously the course was a lot different today. 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I didn't play well for some reason. Probably the weather, I don't know. Just wasn't as good as I was yesterday. But the boys, they did well. Did what they needed to do.

 Q. How about today? 
 ERNIE ELS: He was okay. We were both just okay. We weren't good. So, you know, we needed to be good against two guys on form. They have got momentum going their way, so we just weren't good. 

 Q. Talking about momentum, and it seems like when you play a team that's had success and then come out again, that's difficult?
 ERNIE ELS: I think it was a good draw for them. They had beat us yesterday so they had a bit of confidence playing us. 
 We needed to be special today, and just weren't. You know, it's a tough day. I know it's tough for everybody, but just couldn't quite get the ball close to the hole. We didn't make enough birdies. 

 Q. What were your immediate thoughts having the same match-up first off, same opponent?
 ERNIE ELS: I was fine with it. Whoever you play doesn't really matter. Obviously as I said, they caught us yesterday, so they probably were in a better frame than we were. But, you know, you play anybody today, the way we played, we were not really going to threaten anybody. 

 Q. The conditions were harder; are you being a little hard on yourself? 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I don't know how the other guys are scoring, but I feel I could have played a little better. 
 You know, just disappointing. Kind of came back into it a little bit, but I think their birdie on 15 was a big one. 

 Q. Some of the greens were pretty phenomenal, you've played in lots of different conditions, what did you think? 
 ERNIE ELS: Well, I think it's great for match play. It's a match-play event. If it was stroke play, it would have been really difficult. I mean, on 4, Bubba hit a good putt I thought and trickled off the green. That tells you the speed of these things, the wind and the conditions out there.
 I've played the course many, many times and this is probably the fastest. 
 I just wasn't as good as I wanted to be. We played a quality team today and they played quality golf. But yeah, the conditions were very, very difficult, really difficult to judge the wind. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT