BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2011
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good finish.  
 ERNIE ELS: Drove it in the bunker on the last and had to blast out to the side, and I hit a good iron shot and made a good putt. So great way to finish, and I'm here for the weekend.  
  
  Q. How tough have conditions been over the past few days?   
 ERNIE ELS: Today was very benign compared to yesterday afternoon. Yesterday afternoon was as tough as I've seen it out here: Very blustery, windy, thunderstorms, everything was happening. Playing this morning with quite a bit of breeze but still felt a lot better than yesterday.  
  
  Q. Not what you would expect from Wentworth this time of year, is it.   
 ERNIE ELS: Well, listen, I've lived here for many years, you can expect anything. This time of the year, you would like to see weather closer to summer. Yesterday definitely wasn't. It was like a little storm coming through, almost like an October, November month.   
  
  Q. What do you make of The European Tour at the moment, in the way that they are dominating world golf.   
 ERNIE ELS: Absolutely. You just look on the first tee there, all four Majors. They just have to hang Charl's green extract, they have all four Majors plus The Ryder Cup. If that's not domination, I don't know what is.  
  
  Q. Fantastic, isn't it, you play here and also in the States quite a fair bit, as well.   
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, it goes in cycles. I remember in the early 90s, The European Tour was in the same situation, Nick Faldo and Ian Woosnam, Bernhard Langer, Sandy Lyle, Seve, I mean, talk about legends there, you really had a very strong group there and it seems like they have a strong group now again.  
  
  Q. How much has South African golf been boosted over the past year or so by obviously Charl and Louis winning St. Andrews?   
 ERNIE ELS: I think if you take The European Tour, I think the South African Tour is right behind it. You look at Charl and Louis, and some of the other guys winning, Thomas Aiken winning this year, a lot of young players coming through. We own two of the Majors.  
  
  Q. You're a big football fan, small matter of a Champions League this weekend. Manchester United, you fancy them?  
 ERNIE ELS: I have to. You know, I think it's going to be a great game. Obviously Barcelona is the best side in the world, but you know, Man-United, they could have some form. They are going to need some form playing that team.  
 Yeah, I think it's going to be like a home game for them.  
  
  Q. Speaking to you a few years at St. Andrews, the morning after Carnoustie at The Open but who walks in but Messi. Do you remember that?  
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, at St. Andrews, yeah, that was after the Open. I was nursing a bit of a hangover that morning and the guys, the Barcelona team came in, and yeah, I thought they got lost.   
  
  Q. You said to me, "What are they doing here?"  
 ERNIE ELS: That's what I thought, I thought they got lost. Obviously they fans he'd their golf or something, I'm not sure what they were doing up there.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT