WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2010
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Second Round 65 (-7) 137  
  
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Ernie, thank you, as always, for coming in and joining us and congratulations on a very good day today. 65 is a fantastic score anywhere, especially around here. Just give us your thoughts on that day.   
 ERNIE ELS: Absolutely, as you say, I needed to have a -- personally I felt I needed to have a good round, and to get me back in the tournament, and that's it exactly what I did. So I'm very pleased.  
 SCOTT CROCKETT: What was particularly good today? Was there anything that particularly pleased you about the round?   
 ERNIE ELS: I changed putters. Yesterday I was very uncomfortable on the greens. Changed to a bit longer-shafted putter and felt more comfortable on the greens.   
  
  Q. This is a two-parter. The new putter you used, had you got that with you or something you sorted out here last night?  
 ERNIE ELS: No, I brought a couple of putters (smiling).  
  
  Q. So it is an old friend?  
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Can you remember when you last used it?   
 ERNIE ELS: I actually used it last week the first two rounds (laughing) and I changed, and I've been going through a couple of kind of different styles of putting. I feel standing up works better right now.   
  
  Q. The second question, if you don't mind, is how much satisfaction do you get shooting that low on a day when conditions were much harder than the opening day?  
 ERNIE ELS: Well, I feel really pleased. Obviously I played really well yesterday, but I thought it was -- it's just maybe me; I thought the greens were a little firmer yesterday. Today I felt they were a little bit softer. And I've been hitting the ball well, so I've been aggressive.   
  
  Q. The 4-iron on the last coming off kind of a downhill lie, somewhat similar to last year I would think; experience help you there?  
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, it did. Just after I hit that shot last year, I said to Dan, I should have gone with a 4-iron instead of trying to cut a 5-wood. That was probably the shot I should have played last year; I would have shot 61 and I would have won the tournament. (Laughing).  
 Yeah, I did think about it.   
  
  Q. Do you think twice about taking two putters or more away with you? Does it sort of make you sort of feel a bit betwixt and between or have you always done that?   
 ERNIE ELS: No, just very recently really. I haven't been very comfortable on the greens, especially the second part of the year. I think I got a bit of a confidence blow at the U.S. Open, that last nine, you know, when I really needed to make putts, I missed all of those putts, and if I made them, things could have been different.  
 So since then, I've been playing different things. It was nice playing with Tiger, because he looks so comfortable over the ball when he putts, and I was watching him a little bit and it helped my game.   
  
  Q. Talking about Tiger and watching his putting, were there any other aspects of his game that surprised you? Do you feel it's coming back to the normal form that you would expect to see from him?  
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I've played with Tiger quite a few times this year. I played with him at the U.S. Open. Obviously that was quite a few months ago. And even there, I thought he was hitting it quite nice.   
 Played with him in Boston in the third round, and he's playing good. He's playing good golf. You know, today he played good. He missed all the putts he could look at almost. So he's definitely not far away from playing really good golf.   
 He's still not quite driving it the way he wants to, but he's not far off. He's very close.   
  
  Q. Congratulations on your good job today. I noticed that on hole 5, you did a chip-in, and from my point of view, that meant a lot to you because after that, birdies just come one after another. Which particular club were you using and were you expecting it to go in when you chipped it?  
 ERNIE ELS: You never expect a chipping to go in, but you expect to chip it close. You're absolutely right, that was a big turning point, kind of freed me up a little bit. As I said previously, I didn't make anything; so for that to happen was a nice boost.   
 Yeah, I definitely enjoyed my round after that. The club was a 58 lob-wedge.   
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Ernie, well done. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT