DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2010
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice finish.   
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, thanks. I just struggled today. I played really good yesterday, and today I didn't quite have it. I had a nice start, and then when I double bogeyed No. 5 I kind of lost my rhythm a little bit.  
  
  Q. I thought the putting stroke held up.   
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, that was a great test for me. As I said, I didn't play well, but I kind of just tried to hang in there. It was nice playing with Tiger today. He wasn't quite on his game, either, but not as bad as me. It's nice to get it in under par, though.   
  
  Q. Is it nice to have some good weather after the first couple days here?  
 ERNIE ELS: You like this?   
  
  Q. I can handle it.   
 ERNIE ELS: I like it a little warmer.  
  
  Q. Oh, you do? .   
 ERNIE ELS: But this is not bad. It's nice to have a little breeze. It makes it a little bit more interesting. You've got to hit shots now to make birdies, and the first day it was just like -- it was like playing indoors.  
  
  Q. Did you enjoy the pairing today?  
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, it was really nice playing with Tiger. I played with him at the U.S. Open, but today was nice. You know, we've been friends for a very long time, and it's nice to see him back on the road where he should be. I think his personal life is on the right road now, so not too long before we'll see good things again.  
  
  Q. When you were coming down 18 it seemed like you guys were kind of engaged in a friendly chat there. Was he talking to you about his game?  
 ERNIE ELS: No, we were just basically laughing about my game. I was so bad, and I don't know how I got it under par, so we were just kind of giggling about that, and I was giving him a hard time about his third shot. That was impossible to get it where he did. He's a great player. We kind of needled each other a little bit today.  
  
  Q. You talked a little bit about his mindset out here. Do you think it's back to where it needs to be for him to be playing where he would like to be?  
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, it seems like he's not far away. I think the things he's working on are right. He's got the speed back in his swing, and I think it's just a matter of time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT