OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 26, 2019
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A third round 70 here in Dubai.  How do you assess your performance today?  
ERNIE ELS: Well, obviously I didn't get it going like yesterday.  I didn't make a bogey on my card but only two birdies.   
I felt, like I said yesterday, I kind of predicted that the course might play a little firmer and I found it difficult to get the ball close to the hole.   
So I didn't have great birdie chances.  I hit a lot of greens maybe as close as I wanted to, but still fought out a 70, so I've got to be satisfied.   
 Q.  Your forecast was bang-on for today.  Can you tell us what tomorrow will be like?  
ERNIE ELS: That should be the weatherman.  I think it's going to be sunny.   
 Q.  We saw a lot of the guys struggling at times.  How did you find it?  Great to not have a dropped shot on the card.  
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I made some good par saving putts, especially on the front.  The greens got quicker, and to get my pace was quite tough and I was far away from the hole.  It was really a grind for me today.  I feel quite tired.   
 Q.  How do you feel this week, there's some very aggressive players here, obviously DeChambeau, this Australian Lucas Herbert, who gives it all-or-nothing.  How do you find competing against these guys?  
ERNIE ELS: Well, I played with probably the longest player in the world today, Alvaro Quiros, and I really feel for him.  He played so well.  He should really be leading.  He 3-putted on 13 for par and then he makes 7 on 18, so I feel for him.  He played really good golf, and he's a long player.  He makes me feel very short off the tee.   
It's great to see.  The game has really improved with the young talent we have.   
 Q.  Got a lovely dramatic last hole, and I'm sure you're going to get a lot of support tomorrow.  How are you going to approach it?  
ERNIE ELS: They have moved the fairway around a bit.  In the old days, my tee shot today would have been perfect, but I caught the rough, and they are bringing the water in play.   
So it's a little bit more of a difficult tee shot than the old days, but still, if you get it in the fairway, you can make eagle.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT