BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2010
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Came in with 69 but could have been a couple better?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, it could have been a lot better. The two holes that I'm really disappointed about is No. 4, the par 5 where I made par, and No. 10 where I hit 9-iron into the green. Those two were really momentum shifters for me. If I make birdies there, it could have been maybe a low score and I missed a lot of putts out there but I played pretty solidly.

 Q. Are they hard to read, these greens? 
 ERNIE ELS: You're absolutely right. I was just saying that to Ricci after that miss on 17. I think they took a little speed off because of the weather conditions and obviously they are not going to turn as much. I think I've kind of fallen in that trap so maybe I should bar a little less, because I'm stroking it nicely.

 Q. Do you tough conditions, or do you want it nice and calm and you can have a shootout?
 ERNIE ELS: No, I would like to see it tough tomorrow, because even today if I make a putt, I could have shot somewhere in the middle 60s. So I like the conditions the way they are. I'm playing quite solidly, so I would like to see it quite tough, otherwise there's too many guys in it. 

 Q. You didn't play any golf at all yesterday; is that the first time that's ever happened to you in the middle of a golf tournament?
 ERNIE ELS: I must say, those guys, they really got the bad end of the draw that had to play yesterday. We are in with one round today and it wasn't that bad today, either. I watched a little yesterday so I felt for them. 
 You never know. You're around so long, you're going to have bad draws and good draws. So yeah, I was glad to only play 18 today, so yesterday I took it really easy, so we had a nice day yesterday. 

 Q. How was today? 
 ERNIE ELS: Sunny, beautiful. I left a lot of shots out there today. I didn't particularly putt that well. I had one 3-putt and a lot of birdie misses. I'm playing nicely, so got half a chance tomorrow. 

 Q. What is your plan for the final round? 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, tomorrow obviously got to get off to a good start hopefully. Really play the par 5s well, hopefully make some birdies, maybe eagles. I need a low one tomorrow, so hopefully I play well. 

 Q. Same boring question: What's the birdies of today's round? 
 ERNIE ELS: I left a lot of shots out there, unfortunately, on the greens. I've been putting really well. I feel like I'm stroking it nicely but I'm just not quite reading them correctly. So I'm missing quite a few putts but I played them nicely. Par 5s was disappointing today. I only played them level par.

 Q. I take it the speed of those greens in particular, you left them a bit longer than usual; a bit slower than what you're used to in the States?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, exactly. I think it was a good thing to do, because you never know what you're going to get here in Jeju, you know, you get 50-mile-per-hour winds, the ball is going to move around so they had to slow them down. 
 They are nice. It's a great surface. I've just not quite got the feel for them.

 Q. And you have had the wind here today, it's not a case of those disgruntled players back at the hotel saying you have it easy; it's tough. 
 ERNIE ELS: It's blowing out there, it's gusting a little bit. But they still got the bad end of the draw. They played 36 holes yesterday, that's really tough. But it's not that easy out there today.

 Q. Heard you say that on that strange day off that you did actually watch a bit of the coverage?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I did watch a little bit. Not much else to do. Believe it or not I went to the gym and had a bit of a light workout and got myself stretched, had break last, lunch, dinner, watched a bit of golf. Wasn't much to do.

 Q. Must be hard to get momentum in the tournament, really. Just got to switch off?
 ERNIE ELS: Exactly. But still if you have a day off in the middle of the event, you take it. 

 Q. Your thoughts on this being a 54-hole tournament? 
 ERNIE ELS: It's a little strange but we are in Korea and we are a long, long way he away from our next event and if they did push it and we did get bad weather it would have been a real mess-up. As we know, the ash didn't help; the flight bookings, either. 
 They did the right thing. I mean, this island, you don't know what you're going to get. It could rain in the next five minutes, who knows. JP had to make a decision and I think he made the right decision.

 Q. In a fine position for the final round?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, if it stays the way it is, I'm two behind at the moment, looking at the scoreboard, if I'm two or three behind, I have a reasonable chance, so got to shoot a good one tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT