SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2010
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well, what do you make of your round? Very, very tough conditions. You still finished 2-under.
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. I played good golf up to No. 12. I wasn't going to go for the green and changed my mind. Hit it in the water and made bogey there. Then I didn't quite play really good coming in. I hit two good shots at 17 and got the ball in the hole for birdie. Other than that, I was a little scrappy coming in. Yeah, I got it in at 17.

 Q. When did you learn how to putt so well?
 ERNIE ELS: These greens are perfect. I had a lot of help from different guys. I just feel a bit more comfortable. After five years of seeing it, it's nice to see it go in.

 Q. Makes everything else a little easier.
 ERNIE ELS: Yes, takes the pressure off the rest of my game. Get the long game going.

 Q. Ernie, that was kind of a battle out there. You got to it 3-under a couple of times. Number of par save putts.
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. You know, I played a bit scrappy coming in the last, six, seven holes. Got myself in the wrong position, as you saw, you were walking with us. It was nice making really clutch putts to keep me kind of in it. I think hopefully tomorrow morning, I can play a little bit better.

 Q. Yesterday you debated maybe not coming here, you've got so much free time at home. This experience today, good for you?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I think so. You know, I think, you know, I've got to be honest, I felt a little tired on the back-9 and maybe might have shown a little bit. I'll get a good night's rest tonight and some good food, and I'll have a lot of energy tomorrow. I got to feel a good spot to be. The greens are perfect, and it's great preparation for next week.

 Q. Great save on the last.
 ERNIE ELS: All right. Thank you.

 Q. You jumped a hundred spots in number of total birdies. Same thing? Can you explain?
 ERNIE ELS: Maybe I'm giving myself more chances. The whole game, you work on your mental game and your physical game, you know, and -- putting is important. I played really good golf and made a lot of putts and missed a lot of putts.

 Q. What does it mean to close out the way you did, Ernie?
 ERNIE ELS: I got myself in an awkward spot and didn't hit great shots, and the third shot wasn't that great, either. Somehow got it into the hole. That means a lot. You're saving shots, you're not giving shots back. Today was a tough day in the wind. Hopefully, I can play better tomorrow.

 Q. Did you get the most out of your round, you think?
 ERNIE ELS: I think so. Good front-9. Back-9, I was a little bit scrappy. Made some good par-saving putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT