WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2010
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your round and your round before 18?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, pleased with it. Obviously a tough day. I would have taken even par, with the wind blowing. Working on quite a few things since last week. I didn't have a good week last week so I spent a lot of time on the range, just working on my technique, my mechanics, and it really felt good. 
 I was worried about going out today because I haven't really tested it in competition, but really struck the ball well, and actually putted the ball nicely. So all in all a good day. Just 18 wasn't that good.

 Q. Did you change your swing? 
 ERNIE ELS: You know, I got out of whack. My ball position, my posture and my stance, just the basics. When that's not right, you know, I normally don't hit the ball very well. So I went back to the drawing board, basically, and just worked on all of that. And that's a feel thing. That just makes -- you've got to just hit a million golf balls to get used to a new feel, and so that's what I did. 

 Q. On 18, what happened? 
 ERNIE ELS: I played it safe. Off the tee I was a bit too safe. I hit it quite far right. I'm sure you saw that. 
 Actually, I was a little unlucky, because it was on that first -- on the back of the first bunker. It was a downhill lie. I didn't have a great lie, so I tried to play a big hook shot there, so it was just a big miss. It's a very difficult hole. I can't quite carry the left side with this wind into us over the water, so you've got to play it right. Played it a bit too safe. 

 Q. How bad was last week? You said it wasn't a good week?
 ERNIE ELS: I mean, I've had a pretty decent season up to that point. You know, we haven't really played in big winds, and last week the wind blew, and as I say, I just got my ball position way too far up in my chance, started chasing the ball, was hitting these big, high hooks and big cuts. It wasn't pretty. So I really had to work on it. 
 Sometimes that's a good thing, because then you really go back to the board and start over, basically. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT