FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2010
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've got a really good record here. What is it about this course?   
 ERNIE ELS: Well, I think you've got to drive it well. It's a good golf course for longer hitters. You can get onto some of the par-5s. But it's a good ball-striking golf course. You've got to hit the ball well all over. You can't really fake it around here.  
  
  Q. How much is it like the U.S. Open?  
 ERNIE ELS: I mean, the greens are obviously a lot different, but it's plenty as long. I was at the U.S. Open, it played long then, and the rough isn't as bad, but the greens are softer, so it makes a bit of a difference. You can go at it more aggressive.   
  
  Q. Playing here this week, has your schedule changed a little bit?  
 ERNIE ELS: No, I just changed -- I've gone to the Middle East for 15, 16 years, and just felt like staying at home this time. Moving to Florida, family is back there; Samantha, I promised I wouldn't travel too far out of the country.   
  
  Q. What's your take on the Ping i2 issue?  
 ERNIE ELS: It's ridiculous, isn't it? You know, basically all the governing bodies stood back and basically let the players handle the whole issue again. It's almost a little too late now because all the damage has been done already. Some players have spoken out against other players, which we don't want to see out here on TOUR, and it's unfortunate. There always seem to be good lessons, but we kind of play catch-up. So I'm a little disappointed about that.  
 But I think now there's something been written now. There's a couple of words I don't understand. My English is not that good. But basically I think what it means is that the Ping irons are legal, but you shouldn't be looking at those basically.   
  
  Q. Have you?  
 ERNIE ELS: I did in the '80s. I haven't since then. So no, I'm playing the groove that I guess you're supposed to play, and I feel comfortable with that. I feel like I'm not trying to take advantage anywhere. I think that's the spirit of the rule. Just trying to abide by that.  
  
  Q. Did you use that club when you played Phil here back in Junior World?  
 ERNIE ELS: I think so. It isn't going to help me now. (Laughter).  
  
  Q. Since it's on the approved list, do you think it's okay for guys to use?  
 ERNIE ELS: I think it's up to themselves, I guess. If they seem like they really need to play the groove and use that loophole, then play it. But as far as I'm concerned, the rule that they want us to abide by is basically the USGA rule, which is staying away from square grooves and playing the V-grooves. I don't know how long it'll take. It might take other players longer to get into this new groove. At least now we've started to get a little bit more clarity, which everybody is looking for.   
  
  Q. Do you notice a big difference?   
 ERNIE ELS: I don't know yet. I really don't want to play square grooves around here, it's so soft. You're really going to see the difference when we get to Florida playing Bermuda. When you play The Masters, if The Masters is firm, you're going to see a difference there, too. And I think that's what the ruling bodies wanted to achieve.   
  
  Q. What do you remember about playing Phil here when you were a kid?  
 ERNIE ELS: He was the favorite then and he's the favorite now. I guess because he lives here, I don't know. But obviously he's played some great golf, and he's meant so much to the community. He does a lot for the community. He's a wonderful guy and a great player obviously.  
  
  Q. How much did you play anywhere in the States when you were a kid?  
 ERNIE ELS: No, I just played here. I came here in '84 and played my last tournament in '87. I went to Europe in the summers and played some tournaments there.  
  
  Q. That famous picture of you guys that we've seen on your website back in the day, do you remember which year that was?  
 ERNIE ELS: I think that was in '86 -- no, that's '84.   
  
  Q. Was it exciting to come to the U.S. for the first time at that age?  
 ERNIE ELS: Oh, yeah. Coming from South Africa in those days, it was like U.S. is the land of milk and honey, wonderful place and wonderful place to play golf. To have that experience at 14 was a hell of an experience.  
  
  Q. Did you stay with any local families here?  
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. The first time we came here, we stayed with a family called the Sucklings. They were really sweet.  
  
  Q. Do you get any more excited this year because of the rotation of the majors and where they are?  
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, absolutely. You know, Pebble I'm going to have to go check out again. I haven't been back for ten years. And obviously Whistling Straits, I finished one shot out of a playoff there, so I'm looking forward to that. If I can have some game, I think I can have some good majors this year.  
  
  Q. What is it special about St. Andrews --  
 ERNIE ELS: You know what, between Pebble and the Old Course, it seems like golf goes home to Pebble. It's such a great place. And when golf goes home on the other side, it's St. Andrews. It's where the national Opens should be played, on those key courses. That's what it's all about.  
  
  Q. Being a competitor, do you miss Tiger?  
 ERNIE ELS: No. (Laughter.)  
 Actually I do. He's great for the TOUR, great for the game. He comes out and he beats you, but he needs to be out here, and we miss him.   
  
  Q. There's been talk of the players playing every event over a four-year period. What's your opinion of that? Good idea, bad idea?   
 ERNIE ELS: The guys that are playing here and there, the guys that mean a lot to the TOUR, you don't want to start trapping them. That's not going to work. That's going to backfire, and you're probably going to lose players. It will run its course. When you're good enough, people want you to play in their tournaments because it helps the tournament promote itself, and you make a bit of extra cash, and that's basically what it's all about. You're not going to do it all the time. I don't see any problem with the players doing that.  
  
  Q. What is it about you and La Costa?  
 ERNIE ELS: It was just too wet. I don't know, nothing against it, but I just never played any good golf there.  
  
  Q. The style of golf that's played at the Old Course, is that your favorite style of play?  
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Could you talk a little bit about that?  
 ERNIE ELS: I think you've got to hit different shots. The wind can blow from different directions each day. You've got to hit different shots all the time. It tests your driving ability, your golf course management. You've really got to strike the ball well. To play those low shots into the wind, you've got to be able to strike the ball well. You have to play good, solid golf and have a bit of a short game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT