PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2009
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Give us your thoughts; not the finish you wanted, but give us your thoughts. 
 ERNIE ELS: I think you just said it there. I'll take questions. (Laughter) I played good today. I just said to the guys I was a bit safe on 16. I had a bit of iffy line on the rough and played it left. 
 I didn't hit a good chip shot. Made bogey and then missed a very short putt on 17. Misread my second putt. So bogeyed there and a bad tee shot on 18. All kind of fell apart on me at the end there. But I gotta take a lot out of it today. 
 I played good. I got to within one shot of the lead and it's not over yet.

 Q. Despite the finish, does it feel good to get your name up there?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, it felt great. I've been playing good. Felt like I've been playing good all week. 
 The putter was okay today. I chipped in today. So a lot of good things happened. The finish just wasn't great. But I'm not totally out of it. Probably need something like that tomorrow and obviously gotta finish it off tomorrow.

 Q. After you made birdie on 12, 13, 14, 15, did you sense a momentum shift as far as the crowd of how much they were cheering for you?
 ERNIE ELS: The crowd was unbelievable. Felt like a home game to me. 
 They were standing up in the stands when I was coming up to some of the greens. So really wonderful reception we got today from the crowd. And I could really feel they were pulling for me. So that's why it's even more disappointing finishing it off today.

 Q. You said yesterday you felt like you could go low if you just got things going. Do you feel that again tomorrow, do you feel you played good stuff today that will carry over to tomorrow?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I made a couple of bad swings. I'd like to rectify that tomorrow. I think my short game's coming around. Although I missed a short one on 17, but I feel like a lot of good positive things have been starting to happen. And I'm starting to see shots a lot more clearer and I just gotta keep that going for tomorrow.

 Q. A question on Padraig. What makes him such a tough golfer?
 ERNIE ELS: I think he's got such a great short game. I think he's got one of the best short games out there. And when he gets his long game around, he can compete with the best of them.

 Q. How much of the crowd's enthusiasm do you think is wanting you or Padraig or someone to take Tiger down the stretch tomorrow?
 ERNIE ELS: I could definitely feel that. You could feel that, really feel that there's a real championship going on around you. It's not a run-away deal. Looked like a run-away thing at the end of yesterday. But it looks like the guys are really set to give Tiger a go and the crowd could sense that. 

 Q. The last three holes, not because of what happened today, but just in general, the last three holes, 16, 17, 18, as a finish. 
 ERNIE ELS: It was a great finish. You've got a great little par 4. Risk and reward. Very good par 3 with a very tough green. And 18, classic par 4. Hit the fairway. Just a very good championship course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT