DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2008
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ERNIE ELS: I had a pretty good front nine, and the greens got so firm this afternoon on the back nine. I couldn't quite get my ball in play. I tried hard, but the putter went cold a little bit. I just left it a little short on the last for eagle, but pretty pleased with my week.

 Q. You've had a little bit of a funny year. You had the win early on, then you had a few sort of dodgy tournaments, you've been relocating your family to the States and you're now showing good form again. Are you happy with the way things are progressing game-wise?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I think all in all it's been quite a big year. As you say, we've moved the house and the family to Florida. That's quite a big move in itself. My game left me a little bit for a couple months, but I've been working hard with Butch and so forth, and I feel like -- I said it middle of the week, that I felt my game was coming around. Still, I've got to be patient. I missed a lot of putts today, but at least I'm starting to play better.

 Q. If you don't mind a quick Ryder Cup question because I know you have pals that play on both teams. Were you surprised that Darren Clarke wasn't a Faldo pick?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, big surprise, actually. I mean, Darren has just hit form now. He's a great driver of the golf ball. He's a great partner for Lee Westwood, as you know. He's just a stalwart. He could have been a captain of the side if he was chosen. Big surprise he's not playing, but actually they'll prove me wrong. I think they've got an excellent side and so does the U.S. side.

 Q. So who would you pick?
 ERNIE ELS: You're going to put me in trouble now. I can't say that. 

 Q. Moving up the leaderboard, and then on the back nine you make a few bogeys. What happened?
 ERNIE ELS: Well, I think the back nine, you can look at the whole field, you're not going to see too many birdies on the back -- maybe Vijay was the only exception. But I'm not sure how he made his birdies, maybe long putts, maybe chip-ins, because it was difficult getting it close to the hole. The greens were U.S. Open-type stuff on the back nine, so very difficult getting it close to the hole.

 Q. You've played a lot of golf with Vijay. What do you think about what Vijay has done these last couple weeks?
 ERNIE ELS: Well, he's back to form. He's such a great player when he gets on form. He works hard, and he likes these golf courses. He's won here before, and he obviously had a really good feel today. He's playing really good golf, and he's got some confidence going, so you know, he's going to be a dangerous guy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT