DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2008
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Three birdies, three bogeys, until you got to the 18th hole, that second shot, 5-iron in your hand. Why don't you tell us about it. 
 ERNIE ELS: I had 204 front, a little downhill lie, 212 to the hole, and a little downwind there. It was one of the better swings of the day, right at the flag. I actually had to hit it really good just to get it over there. Yeah, almost pitched in the hole. I don't know what would have happened if it hit the flag. It probably would have gone back in the hazard or something.

 Q. How important is this to you considering the way the year has gone? You do have that one win, but how important would it be for you to play well here?
 ERNIE ELS: I'm glad NBC is here because it seems like I play well when you guys cover it. I've had a pretty tough year, and I'm really starting to play better. I'm hitting it a lot better. 

 Q. The eagle on 18 kind of saved the day, didn't it?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I played so many little hitters on the front nine. I had a wait shot on the 6th hole that I made bogey from, and then 7, the par-5, I made another bogey. So I wasn't in a good mood then, as you can imagine. 
 I hit some really good shots on the back nine, but I missed a couple here and there. 

 Q. You're the one that told me that the year hasn't been that great obviously since the win at the Honda. Being in position, in the hunt tomorrow, how do you think you're going to handle it?
 ERNIE ELS: Well, I'm four behind and the guys are making a lot of birdies. I would hope there's wind like we had today. It made you think a little bit. It's not just a birdie-fest out there. You know, I want to play well tomorrow. I want to have four good rounds for a change. I haven't done that for a while, so I'd like to do that and head into next week with a bit of form. But who knows, maybe I can go late tomorrow. I haven't had a great run as yet. Maybe it happens tomorrow. 

 Q. What did you hit into 18?
 ERNIE ELS: 5-iron. 5-iron 212.

 Q. Does that send you home with a little more spring in your step?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I missed a couple coming in. I missed a short one on 14 and I missed a short one on 17. But it is what it is, 13-under. I've got a lot of catching up to do, but I'm playing good. If I can get on a run tomorrow, who knows? 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I missed a shot there and got it up-and-down. Yeah, I played well in the middle of the back nine. I hit some really quality shots and made a couple of birdies.

 Q. You'd want the wind again tomorrow, wouldn't you?
 ERNIE ELS: What do you think? I'd love this tomorrow. I've had a tough year. I had a win, but other than that, it's been pretty mediocre.

 Q. I said "wind," not "win." Would you want the wind to blow?
 ERNIE ELS: Absolutely. If we can have conditions the same tomorrow as today, I think we can have guys like myself trying to chase. I mean, Villegas on a very tough day today got himself right back in the tournament with a low round. You've got to play quality golf. 
 But you know, it'll help if the wind gets up. It'll make the leaders protect the score a little bit more. 

 Q. A comment on the European Ryder Cup picks, please? 
 ERNIE ELS: What can I say? You know, whatever pick he's going to make, you're going to question it, aren't you? The question mark is why not Darren Clarke; he has experience, great driver of the ball. But hey, that's the criticism you can give him, and if they win it, he's made great choices. So wait until it happens.

 Q. When did you hear about it?
 ERNIE ELS: I heard about it on the range.

 Q. Before?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. Chubby looks after Darren, so we got a text, we didn't get a call. We got the call that he didn't make it. 

 Q. The wrong kind of call?
 ERNIE ELS: For him, yeah. 

 Q. Nice way to finish. 
 ERNIE ELS: Thanks. It was nice to finish with a 3. I made so many silly little mistakes all day and really got frustrated with myself at times. But I at least made a 3 on 18 and it gives me hope for tomorrow.

 Q. You mentioned earlier in the week you were disappointed maybe you hadn't come here earlier to the TPC Boston. Still feeling the same way?
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I should have come here way back. I like the golf course. First time I played it I liked it. I love the way the greens roll. It's not that poa annua stuff, so the ball rolls nice and true, and it's great for guys that hit the ball a bit longer. You get a bit of advantage here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT