BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2008
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Always nice to birdie the last; what are you feeling about where you are in relation to the others? 
   ERNIE ELS: Well, I'm a couple behind. I'll probably be five or six behind by the end of the day. I didn't have a great rhythm to my swing at the start of the round. I was kind of watching the rugby a little bit too late. And didn't get my normal warm up.
   Anyway, I kind of got my rhythm on the back but I didn't quite put the way I putted yesterday and that was the difference. 
   You know, my game's not in bad shape so I'm looking forward to tomorrow.

   Q. Do you find it easy to switch off when you've been watching another sport?
   ERNIE ELS: Absolutely. I was kind of living myself into it, because we had never beat the All Blacks in Dunedin. Yeah, it was good to see the Boks win down there.

   Q. Do you feel you're back in contention down there?
   ERNIE ELS: I would have loved to have been 8-under. I was trying to get to 8-under on the back nine. The one hole that I'm really kind of angry about is 14 when I drove it just short of the green and it took me three shots to get it to the hole from 40 feet, so I was quite angry about that. I've got to shoot something like a 62 tomorrow to have any chance. 

   Q. We've all got one eye on next week obviously. You must, as well. 
   ERNIE ELS: Well, absolutely. That's why, you know, it was important for me to play well yesterday, because I was missing the cut after the first day. Played good yesterday and now I can work on my game. Hopefully there's no rugby or any other sport to watch. I know we're getting hammered in the cricket, so we won't talk about that. 

   Q. And Birkdale, do you enjoy that course?
   ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I was there last Thursday, checked it out. I really like what I see, a lot of rough, so that means if you're not on your game, you shouldn't even pitch up there. It's going to be playing a little bit softer than normal links conditions, but I really enjoy it. 
   I think it's going to be a very interesting finish, because it helps longer hitters and shorter hitters. 

   Q. Tougher wind today than yesterday. 
   ERNIE ELS: Yeah, it really was quite cold the first nine holes, and started heating up a little bit now. Yeah, a fresh breeze, and as I say, the front nine, I didn't have great rhythm. I was kind of searching for it, and I played much better on the back nine. 

   Q. The drive on the 6? 
   ERNIE ELS: Yeah, that was terrible. As I said, not good rhythm.  
  End of FastScripts 
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT