THE 146TH OPEN
July 22, 2017
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ERNIE ELS: For some reason I hit quite a few mis-selections, club selections, and didn't have many birdie opportunities, which is crazy.  So a little disappointing, but, hey, it is what it is.  I'll try and play better tomorrow.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I saw that, 62.  New record, is it?  That's it, man.  When he's on, he's obviously a quality player.  He likes to go low, he's done it before.  He shot 60 at the Dunhill Links a couple of years ago.  So he's an excellent player.  So he's knocking on the door and it's cool.  To have the record at Birkdale, which is an unbelievable layout, so it should stay for a while.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to play in The Open?  
ERNIE ELS: Good question, actually.  I've been doing it so long it just gets more special as we get older.  The crowds give you a really good -- it's a warm crowd, especially when you're an ex-champion.  It gets more special as you get older.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, obviously the majors are special, all of them, but The Open, maybe I'm just biased, I've done well here, and I've won here, so this is a special one for me.   
 Q.  For Branden Grace to get that record, how cool is that for you?  
ERNIE ELS: It's amazing.  The guys came close last year, and in the past there's been quite a few 63s.  It's almost like shooting a 59.  People have the hardest time to break 60.  And in a major it's the hardest thing to break 63.  Today it was on but you still have to hit the shots and make the putts.  Really proud of him.   
 Q.  What is it about Birkdale, it has such a strong winner's list, what is it about Birkdale that brings out the best?  
ERNIE ELS: It's a quality course.  You can't hide.  And if you're a little off, it's going to get you.  Today is as easy as you're going to find it, but you saw what happened yesterday.  It's almost like Muirfield.  It's almost like Lytham little bit.  Holes don't quite go the same route ever.  So you have to be on your toes where the wind is.  And you have to play all kinds of shots.  And it's fair.  So the guys like it.  The bunkers are on the sides and you can run a lot of shots in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT