THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2007
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about your day today. 
 ERNIE ELS:  Shot even par. 

 Q.  What were the keys; a little frustrating even though it's 71? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Exactly. 

 Q.  What was the downfall in your round today? 
 ERNIE ELS:  The last hole. 

 Q.  How different is the course playing today compared to yesterday? 
 ERNIE ELS:  It's very similar.  I thought the flags were a lot tougher today.  I mean, I had four 3-putts.  I played my last hole really poorly but the rest of it, I played almost the same as yesterday.  I kind of misread a couple of putts and it was tough to get to some of these flags.  They were really difficult. 
 
 Q.  You sound a little frustrated; is that fair to say? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Exactly. 

 Q.  Just disappointed that maybe the second round didn't get you in position a little bit more? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Exactly. 
 
 Q.  What happened on your third shot on your last, No. 9, just a little clump of grass? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, I was trying to get my second shot up to the green and was taking a bit of a chance and I hit it left and I didn't have a good lie.  You know, the flag is just over the hill and a very difficult shot. 

 Q.  Despite feeling frustrated, two pretty good rounds? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, four shots behind two, rounds to go, obviously let it slip a little bit today.  But I'm still playing well and, you know, just need two solid rounds over the weekend. 

 Q.  What was it that gave you a little trouble today? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Well, as I said, the flags are difficult, and you know, I had four 3-putts.  So take those four 3-putts away and I'm right there.  It's not that much different. 
 As I said yesterday, you've got to get your second shots in the right place on the greens, and if you don't, you're going to have trouble and that's what I've done today. 

 Q.  Is there anything about your game that you will change for tomorrow? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Not really.  As I say, I hit it quite solid.  I played the last hole very poorly but other than that, I played almost the same as yesterday.  I've just got to keep doing that, hit fairways, get it on the greens and get it in the right spots and then try and go low, basically. 
 
 Q.  You said yesterday your comfort level was around a 7 on a scale of 10.  How about today? 
 ERNIE ELS:  It was the same.  As I say, just a couple of putts, you know, four 3-putts, that will kick you in your butt.  You know, I'm playing well. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT