PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2007
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Talk about the 68 today. 
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, good score today.  2-under today, even for the tournament.  You know, still felt I wanted to get some more out of it. 
 But I've got to take it.  Hot day today.  At least got myself back into the tournament.  Got a lot more work to do, obviously six behind Tiger and four behind Scott Verplank. 
 A lot of work left, but I've got a good chance and left myself at even par. 

 Q.  Tied for eighth is a wonderful spot to be in for the championship, but you're spotting Tiger six points -- 
 ERNIE ELS:  Points? 

 Q.  Six strokes. 
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, he's on great form at the moment and shot a great round of golf today. 
 You know, you can't think or believe that it's over.  You know, I want to believe that it's not; I've got two rounds left.  We've all got to play the golf course.  We all know he's No. 1 and he's on form, that's kind of dangerous. 
 But I'm playing well myself, and I'd like to get some more birdies out there over the weekend and try and shoot 10-under over the weekend, maybe hopefully that's good enough. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the course conditions this afternoon versus what they were yesterday morning when you played? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Well, obviously this afternoon, the greens got firmer.  The whole golf course got a lot firmer, even the fairways, so it was difficult to keep the ball in play.  But yesterday morning we had a lot of breeze the front nine, so that made it difficult.  So a little less breeze today but a lot warmer. 
 So all in all, it was -- hey, if you're on your game, the golf course gives you birdies, birdie opportunities.  The greens are quite soft. 

 Q.  You said on the radio that you think you have a good round in you.  What makes you think that?  What makes you feel like you have something coming? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Well, if you watch me play today, you'd have half an idea of what I'm saying. 
 So I'm hitting the ball kind of good, giving myself a lot of opportunities.  I'm a little frustrated with the way I putted on the back nine.  So if I make putts tomorrow, I'll make a good score basically. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT