THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2007
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ERNIE ELS:  I just made a terrible swing and just played a bad hole. 

 Q.  So what do you say to yourself, how do you keep your head on when something like that happens? 
 ERNIE ELS:  I don't know how I did it.  I played a good hole on 7; I lipped out for birdie. 
 On 8 when it started really raining, I just hit a really good 5-iron.  I started relaxing with the putter for some reason and I made a good putt on 8. 
 I strung some good shots together on the back nine and made some putts.  All in all I'm really happy with the round after that. 

 Q.  You had a look at the leaderboard, I'm sure.  What do you think you're going to probably need to do tomorrow? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Well, first of all, I think everybody chasing is hoping for wind.  There will be some tough conditions tomorrow.  Otherwise Sergio is so solid it seems like right now, he's not making any mistakes and he's leading by three or four now.  It's kind of in his hands now.  But there's a lot of guys chasing.  It's a major, so there's a lot that can still happen.  But Sergio is in a great position. 

 Q.  This course can get up and bite you.  You found that out today.  There must be hope for everyone. 
 ERNIE ELS:  Well, exactly.  I basically made two bad swings and two, three bad shots, one on 18 with the second shot when I ducked the 7-iron.  And I pulled it out-of-bounds on 6.  Other than that I played good. 
 You can play really well and you can have a bad swing here and there and make a big number.  That's what the whole field is happening to.  But Sergio is, as I said, playing solid. 

 Q.  How did it go today? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Well, I played really well on the back nine, obviously.  Actually I played well all day except for two swings.  I'm sure you saw the one on 8 tee.  That was probably a worse shot than the one on 6 where I pulled it out-of-bounds.  Other than that I played really well.  If I could just have that one swing over on 6, I'll take 6 right now, but 8, it's hard to come back from there. 
 But I played really nice.  It was nice with Paul Broadhurst, my playing partner.  When I started getting it going he got it going so we both really pulled each other along on the back nine.  It was a lot of fun on the back nine. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT