THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2007
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How did you play today?   
 ERNIE ELS:  It held me back a lot because I felt the course was out there to really make a good score.  But I've got to work on my iron shots.  I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.  It is what it is.  It wasn't a great finish.   
  
  Q.  How do you think the course is playing today?   
 ERNIE ELS:  It was playing awesome.  Not a lot of breeze.  A little cooler but not a lot of breeze.  I was a little disappointed with my score.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, I didn't shoot myself out of it but I need to pick up the pace now, obviously.  I have an early time tomorrow.  It's half decent, not like this morning.   
 I need to start getting myself in the tournament tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  What did you hit into 17 and 18?   
 ERNIE ELS:  I hit 7-iron on 17.  I really tried to hit it hard.   
 18 I actually hit a 5-wood and I just hit it lower right.  It kind of faded to the right side.   
  
  Q.  Will you be more attacking than normal tomorrow?   
 ERNIE ELS:  I have to hit my iron shots more on target.  We'll take it from there tomorrow.  I feel good.  Hopefully everything is okay and I can go out there and have a good one.  I'm really striking my putts well.  I haven't made too many, but I'm putting okay.   
  
  Q.  What was your reaction to what Gary Player said yesterday?   
 ERNIE ELS:  First of all, if he's got his facts straight, he's got to, obviously, tell us who these players are and get them to get tested.  I believe the game of golf is clean.  I don't believe that taking any kind of a drug is going to help you perform out there.   
 I know it goes against regulations of sports.  I'm all for that.  I guess the only way you're going to keep it clean now, especially after allegations like those, you have to have tests on both sides of the Atlantic.   
 So I guess that's what they're going to have to start doing now.  They've been talking about it for a while.  It's unfortunate it comes to this point because I haven't heard of anybody taking anything.  They can test me right now and I don't care.   
 But for Gary Player to say it, then obviously he knows something.  You should ask him, basically, not me.  As far as I'm concerned, I think the game of golf is clean, and random tests, I'm not against it either, whatever you have to do to keep it clean, I guess.   
  
  Q.  Do you think Gary has a tendency to embellish sometimes?   
 ERNIE ELS:  I'm not going to go there.  You can ask him.  I'm not going to say anything bad about Gary.   
  
  Q.  Should he name names?   
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, he should, yeah.  If he's got his facts straight he should get it done.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT