WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2007
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Difficult to shoot a really low number now? 
 ERNIE ELS:  It was probably the most difficult day today.  We played the same breeze but it was dry, there's no -- inaudible -- it was a tough day to go low. 

 Q.  When it's a tough day -- 
 ERNIE ELS:  Well, you know, it's kind of a day if you're back in the field, if you shoot a good one, you can move up on the field.  6-under looks like it might finish second, so that's what I was trying to do. 
 You know, you weren't going to shoot 65 today.  The flags were too difficult and the wind was up, you mow, I think if you shoot anything under 70 today, you played well. 

 Q.  What will you do to prepare for Augusta for the next eight to ten days? 
 ERNIE ELS:  This has been my preparation.  What are you talking about?  (Laughing). 
 No, no, I've been up there already.  I've been up there for two, three days.  I'll just be home next week.  You know, we've got the Tavistock Cup the next two days and then I'll take a couple of days off and practice over the weekend. 
 I've got to work on my short game.  My long game's been good.  My putting's been awful all week for some reason, so I'll work on that. 

 Q.  Can you tell us what Augusta looks like? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Same as every year.  It's perfect.  They have had good weather this year.  The fairways are great.  So, I mean, it will be tough. 
 Depends on the weather again.  If we have rain showers before the tournament, that changes everything again.  But if it's firm and fast, it will be very tough. 

 Q.  When you get your putting straightened out, does that give you more confidence? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, for some reason, I just never had it with the putter this week.  I've got to work on that. 
 As I say, I'm driving it really nice.  My irons are good.  You know, I feel excited about my game.  I'm just frustrated that I'm not scoring.  You know, I'm not scoring well. 
 So I'll work on that the next couple of -- well, next week. 

 Q.  Just how much harder is it when he's at the top of the leaderboard, as opposed to somebody else? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Well, you know, he's always tough.  But give him a four-shot lead, then it's really tough.  So yeah, he's been in that position so many times, so, you know, he knows what to do when he's four ahead. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT