JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 3, 2007
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Was this what you're looking for?   
 ERNIE ELS:  I played really good today. I could have made a lot more birdies today, missed quite a few putts. But I played well, hit the ball nicely and I'm happy with the way I played.   
  
  Q.  Anything different from the last two days?   
 ERNIE ELS:  The first day, I went out in 39 and from then on, it was a battle just to play the weekend and try to get myself back in the tournament. I had my back against the wall but today I felt better. Basically played my game and as I said it could have been better if I had made a couple more putts. Drove it well, hit a lot of greens.   
  
  Q.  Some similarities to what happened to you when you were in Doha a few weeks ago?   
 ERNIE ELS:  If I could have squeezed out a couple more, I could have been closer. I checked the scoring computer there and it looks like I'm going to be within six or seven. On this course, it's a lot to make up.   
  
  Q.  It's been done before?   
 ERNIE ELS:  It's been done. I just have to try and play as good as I can. Shoot a 65 or better tomorrow and see where I finish.   
  
  Q.  How are you getting on with the new big stick?   
 ERNIE ELS:  I love it, great stuff. The golf ball is really turning out nicely and the driver is going beautiful. I'm really hitting the ball nicely. I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q.  Reason behind the switch?   
 ERNIE ELS:  We all switch time and again. It was time for me to switch and that's what we did.   
  
  Q.  It certainly wasn't because of money?   
 ERNIE ELS:  Not at all.   
  
  Q.  Is it a 14-club deal?   
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, by the end of the year, I will change to the irons. I'm into driver already. I might switch before the end of the year for the irons. We're working hard at that.   
  
  Q.  Thoughts on Anton Haig. Do you see a big future for him?   
 ERNIE ELS:  Absolutely. He's one of the longest hitters out there. If he gets control of his game, he's going to be very tough to beat. He's very young, 20, and a big guy, bigger than me. Hits it longer than I do. It's a matter of getting experience and just playing. A matter of going through the emotions and the stuff that you have to. He's handled himself well.   
  
  Q.  You'll be there to give him tips?   
 ERNIE ELS:  Absolutely.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT