DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 4, 2007
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ERNIE ELS:  I played well.  I knew after the start, I just wanted to give myself a chance coming down the stretch.  I really got out of sorts on the greens and a couple of bad swings. 
 But I think I got myself under control after the start and then it was a real battle, you know, who could make putts and who could hit the right shot in there. 
 Unfortunately on the 18th here, I thought I was perfect.  It came up just a little short.  The grain was into me and the ball was down.  I didn't have much of a second.  I could only blow to the back of the green. 
 Henrik was great.  It was great playing with him for four days.  One shot separated us for four days.  I had a good time. 

 Q.  Pretty exciting coming down the stretch, you're all knocking in birdies, the top 5 all the way through. 
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, the change I think was 13 and 17 obviously.  13, I mean, I hit the bunker shot and the bunker shot came out left-to-right past the hole and I thought it just stayed out there. 
 And then 17 was basically the same putt.  I thought it was right-to-left and it just kind of stayed out there to the right again.  So those two putts, and I had five 3-putts through the week.  So on perfect greens, you know, you shouldn't do that. 

 Q.  Is that stroke or pace? 
 ERNIE ELS:  I just got a bit off the pace.  The pace was a little bit off.  Still kind of experimenting a bit with my stroke.  You know, some of the strokes I made out there wasn't quite me.  I blew some ten feet by the hole from only 30 feet. 
 Just a bit that, and obviously not a great start today. 

 Q.  Was it concentration or the wind? 
 ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, it was the wind a little bit.  I just put myself a little bit under pressure with some tee shots.  The second hole, I was in the sand there and I fluffed it, 3-putted.  The fourth hole, the wind was off the right, water right, didn't make a good swing, left side and then chipped down the hill.  Just wasn't quite sharp enough out of the block, so I can definitely work on that.  The first hour, I wasn't quite myself. 
 As I said, I got myself back.  I did okay.  I'm not too disappointed.  I'm not too far off.  I'm striking the putts nicely.  I just have to find the one stroke that I'm happy with.  Sometimes go with a long, slow one and sometimes a little compact one.  Just got to get those going. 
 It was nice to make a little one on the last, a foot.  Hopefully I can make it for a tie.  Yeah, I saw there were quite a few guys on 17, so it was important to finish second on my own, a spot better than last week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT