THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2006
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Talk about your day, mostly the conditions at the end of the year.  Seems like kind of maybe middle of the summer type.  When is the last toughest day you've had like this?
ERNIE ELS:  Seems like the last couple of weeks have been a little tough.  I've played over in Europe a little bit, and obviously it hasn't been great over there, and even last week the wind blew.  But today the temperature goes down.

It was a tough way to play.  It's a tough course, and with these kind of conditions, it really tests you.  Ball striking, short game, putting, everything.  I've got to be happy with my score.  I would have loved to have got it to even par, but 1 over, I'm not out of the tournament, and a lot of time to get a good round under my belt.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
ERNIE ELS:  Well, basically I missed    how many fairways?  I missed quite a few fairways, but I wasn't crazy wild off the tees.  I missed a couple of greens in there today; missed a couple of putts in there.  It was kind of a bit of an up and down round a little bit.

I think I made four birdies and five bogeys.  But as I said, you know, 1 over is not too bad, and I'll probably be three or four behind, so that's fine.
Q.  Did the tree do something funny, or was it a bad shot?
ERNIE ELS:  The second, no, I either had to go left of the big tree or right, and I chose to go right; I just misjudged.
Q.  Did you do anything funny to it in terms of
ERNIE ELS:  Just kind of missed it, yeah.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
ERNIE ELS:  We need a damn gardener out there.  It's going to be a problem all week because the leaves are coming off now with this wind.  If you hit it 30 feet, you've got a lot of leaves.  I kind of got us on the clock again.  Yeah, it was a tough one.
Q.  Did you have any occasions where you got rid of them, and when you stood over the putt they blew back into place?
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah.  Even if you stood over your second shots in the fairway, and you could just see the leaves coming.  Either you wait for it or you don't.  It kind of bothers you a little bit.
Q.  You had a couple of funny looks in the bunkers today.  Is the sand funny to you?
ERNIE ELS:  I think after last night's rain they must have compacted a little bit and they're soft underneath.  I had two plugged lies, on No. 2 and No. 12    No. 13 up the hill.

If you have a plugged lie here, you've done.  The greens are up an the bunkers are quite deep.  So I had two of those.

The sand itself is great, but if you have a plugged lie, obviously you're dead.
Q.  Been a while since you've been okay with 72?
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah.  I mean, it's one of those events, you're never really out of it.  Even three, four behind    you're never out of this thing.  If you have a bit of a mediocre round like I've had today, it's important not to lose it and keep fighting for your pars and stuff.
Q.  Sick of K.J. by now?
ERNIE ELS:  I like playing with him.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT