BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 10, 2005
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ERNIE ELS:  I played good today.  I had a lot of chances.  It could have been a little bit better the last couple of holes, but I have to be satisfied with that.  Two rounds in the 60s around here is not too bad.
Q.  Just like 1997?
ERNIE ELS:  I can't remember that far back (laughter).  I'm playing good, you know.  Hitting it close the last couple of weeks.  It's a matter of putting everything together.  Almost there today.  I'm heading in the right direction.
Q.  Surprised at the low scores on such a tough course?
ERNIE ELS:  It's soft.  Any golf course, no matter how tough it is, if it's soft, guys can go at the flag, get the ball up and down.  That's why the scores have been good.

As I say, I left a couple out there the last couple of holes, but I'm happy I didn't let the leaders go too far away.  I still have two days.
Q.  Did you change strategy with all the low scores out there?
ERNIE ELS:  There's one good score, and that was our leader.  That was a great score around here.  Other than that, nobody really broke through.  It's a tough course.

You see a lot of scores around, 1 under par, but to score really well, you have to make a lot of putts and hit a lot of good shots.
Q.  Is there a stretch that you can get some momentum?
ERNIE ELS:  The Front 9, there are a couple of holes.  The Front 9 is shorter than the back.  If you can get off to a good start there, you have a couple of par 5s, a couple of short par 4s.  The Back 9, you have more difficult holes, especially the finish.
Q.  A lot of difference between playing here this year and 1997?
ERNIE ELS:  Yes and no.  Maybe a club here and there.  I think the 9th hole is playing a little shorter because of where you can hit your driver.  You would never go for it back in 1997, but it's playing maybe a club shorter.
Q.  What did you hit on No. 9 that landed short of the green?
ERNIE ELS:  3 wood from 225 yards.
Q.  What are you working on this week in preparation for the US Open?
ERNIE ELS:  We work on our games week in and week out.  It's the last chance before the US Open next week to really get our games in shape.  But I'm really here to try and win the golf tournament.  I think if I have a great week, I'm going to have a lot of confidence going into next week.  Away from the golf course, I'll work on shots I'll need to use next week around the greens.
Q.  Nice to play a US Open course the week before a major?
ERNIE ELS:  It's a much better run up to the US Open than Avenel is.  You've got to drive the ball in play, you've got good second shots and you've got to be sharp around the greens.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT