THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 2, 2005
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Good afternoon, Ernie.
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, I mean, I left a lot of shots out there today.  I'm hitting it okay, I'm just making some silly mistakes.  Hopefully we can do better tomorrow.
Q.  What was it like playing with Jack today?
ERNIE ELS:  It was great.  It's always great playing with him, especially here.  We had a couple of good chats, and I thought he played well.
Q.  Were mistakes compounded just because of the course difficulty today?
ERNIE ELS:  No, just I missed a couple of shots here and there.  I mis clubbed on 3, hit it over the green, and you can't hit it over there.  I made bogey then.

Then I missed a couple of putts here and there, just one of those days, just didn't quite    wasn't sharp enough.
Q.  How was Jack?  He seemed to be up and down, made a couple birdies early?
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, I mean, he held it together.  He saved a lot of shots, got it up and down quite a few times.  Just these last couple of holes, 16 and 17 and 18, he made a good par on 16, but 17 and 18, he didn't hit great tee shots so he made two bogeys.  But he's shooting    75 is a hell of a score here.
Q.  Did the wind kick up a little bit out there?
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, it's getting up a little bit, getting a little tougher.
Q.  Do you get more disturbed when something feels a little bit off or the sharpness is a little bit off?  Which bothers you more?
ERNIE ELS:  Concentration.  I'm struggling a little bit concentrating for some reasons the last couple of weeks.  I think it's more frustrating just trying to swing because I feel like swings are not too bad, I'm just not scoring.  So I'm just going through a bit of a lull.
Q.  When you come back as the defending champ, do you feel like there's a bullseye, that you're the man to beat?
ERNIE ELS:  No.  I mean, whatever happened last year, that's last year.  You come out, it's a new week, new tournament.  It's a great golf course to play so I always feel comfortable here.

No, there's no extra pressure being defending champion.  If it happens again, great; if it doesn't, so be it.
Q.  Your drive on 6, have you ever hit from that spot for your second shot?
ERNIE ELS:  Geez, I don't know where that came from.  That was miles.  I had 105 to the flag.  It was big.
Q.  Did Jack say anything to you about that one?
ERNIE ELS:  He was talking on the tee there.  I was like, "You know what, 30 years ago you were longer than that.  Don't complain."

All right guys, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT