THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2005
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ERNIE ELS:  It's been the same for everybody, hasn't it?  It's been a bit of a bummer.

But I played good today.  I just made one mistake on 6; other than that I didn't get the putts rolling in.  But at least I played better today.
Q.  What are your thoughts on them throwing out the scores yesterday and going to the lift, clean and place today?
ERNIE ELS:  Well, I liked it.  I really enjoyed it.  But, you know, I think obviously it's wet.  It's going to get even worse.  So they could have done this from the first day, really.

Last week was the same deal, you know.  With mud on the ball, that's almost unplayable for us.  But I think they made the right decision.
Q.  You said in your opening press conference before the tournament started you were going to have a discussion about that, about mud balls?
ERNIE ELS:  Didn't do it.  Didn't get a chance to do it.  At the question and answer the other night, I didn't stay for that.  I guess I could have brought it up there, and I didn't get to speak to a Tour official.  And I'm not sure what the stance is on that, because we're going to have a lot of summer rain through the year, and we're going to be playing in a lot of mud for the rest of the season.  So maybe it should be    maybe a rule on it, because it's going to affect play a lot.
Q.  How much different is the golf course from the way they would like it to be?
ERNIE ELS:  Well, as soft as it is, this is the easiest it's ever going to play.  The greens are perfect.  The greens are really rolling well.  They're stopping well, too.  So you're going to see a lot of birdies.  The rough is really high.  The rough is a penalty shot, so you have to stay out of there.

But they've set the golf course up the same way for    I've been coming here for 12 years, been exactly the same for 12 years.  So that's that.  I don't know if it's right, I don't know if it's wrong, but that's the way it is.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT