THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2005
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Just talk about first of all, how did you feel the course played today?
ERNIE ELS:  The course was wet obviously.  It was a little different with not having cut fairways.  That made it a little bit tricky, but I thought the greens were great, the course was actually not in bad shape after all the rain.
Q.  What was, I guess, the high point of your day?
ERNIE ELS:  You know, I had a good front nine, but on the back nine I missed a couple of shots on the wrong sides and I made bogeys on them, and I didn't play the par 5s well, so that's basically that.
Q.  How was your putting, your short game?
ERNIE ELS:  Everything was fine.  You know, as I say, I missed a couple of shots on the wrong sides, and on this course you can't do that.  I made two bogeys when I did that, but for the rest of it, it was pretty solid.
Q.  Do you feel like you put yourself in good -- I mean, is this a good opening day, you put yourself in good position?
ERNIE ELS:  I would have liked to have more.  Today was not the most difficult weather day, so I'm a little bit disappointed in making 71.  I thought I played a little better.

But it's under par and it could have been worse.
Q.  Some of the players said that today really set up for a good score, so do you feel like it was an opportunity, maybe an opportunity missed for you today?
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, I just said that.  Hopefully I can play the next three days without silly mistakes.  I made some silly mistakes and that's why I'm 1-under and not 3- or 4-under.
Q.  You talked on Tuesday that you were worried about mud on the ball, things like that.  Did you get a lot of mud shots out there?  Was it as bad as you anticipated it would be?
ERNIE ELS:  It wasn't that terrible, but we still had mud on the ball.

As I said, that's one of those difficult things with us, you know, you can't control that.  When they cut these fairways I think we're really going to get some mud on the ball then because it's really going to compress as it hits the fairways.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT