MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 9, 2005
Stewart Cink
Ernie Els
Vijay Singh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tough finish?

STEWART CINK:  Yeah, 16 it was a bad time to make bogey.  There's no really good time to make bogey out here.  I would have liked to have my second shot done over for sure and then probably would have played my second shot on 18 a little bit differently, too.  I'm pleased with the way I came out because starting the year off, I'm in pretty good form.  I think the next time I get in this situation, I'll do better.

To have some moments like this, you come off of a chance to win and you don't win you feel like a loser, but I feel like shooting 18-under par the first tournament of the year doesn't make me a loser.  I'll sort of relive today step by step and some shots that were key and try to learn from that and hopefully next time I'll.
Q.  The big three with Ernie, Tiger and Vijay, it was another trio who took over between you Stuart and Jonathan Kaye?

STEWART CINK:  At the turn and saw that I was within one shot I think, and so I knew the fight was on because today was a pretty tough day to score.  So I'm not surprised that somebody other than the big three, I guess, came up and made a statement because everybody can play so well out here.


ERNIE ELS:  I wanted to hit it up the right side, get as much as I can out of the ball, the fairways are so soft.  Just hit it a little too far right and it was a tough putt.
Q.  As soon as you hit it, did you know?

ERNIE ELS:  After I hit it right there, the wind carried it maybe a little short but not much.  Got a bad break.  I hit it solid.  I wanted to hit it up the right side.
Q.  Did they tell you down there that it hit the cart path?

ERNIE ELS:  Actually a television guy said I hit it the path.

Q.  What was the difference out there today?

VIJAY SINGH:  You know, I made a bogey on No. 4.
Q.  Different course out there today?

VIJAY SINGH:  Yeah, it's tough, I think I made a bogey on No. 4, but I didn't play that bad, except for the drive on 13.  I thought the wind would have stayed down, but it was blew quite a bit, and, you know, I that was it.  I lost the tournament right there.  Took a lot out of me there.  But I tried to make birdies coming, but it's hard making birdies on a golf course with a totally different wind direction.  You're trying to force things and whenever you try to force things, they are never going to happen.
Q.  You've came through so often in this situation before.

VIJAY SINGH:  I wasn't making too many mistakes.  One drive that really got me, and then the one after that was -- you know, you can't win them all, so next week is another week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT