WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2004
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Well, Ernie, you've had a chance to play ten holes so far.  What are you thinking so far about the course?
ERNIE ELS:  The course is in good shape.  The greens are great again, almost as good as 2001.  You know, they've obviously had more rain this time around, but the course is in good shape.  We can't complain.  It's right there in front of you.  If you're going to be striking it well, you should score well.
Q.  Are you striking it well, Ernie?
ERNIE ELS:  I've had a little bit of rest in the game, two weeks off, but I'm hitting it nicely.  I put some work in the last three or four days into the game.  It all depends on the day, you know, how you feel and how you swing, but I feel okay.  I feel like I can compete this week.
Q.  You were a little bit down when we spoke to you at Switzerland the week before when you talked about your season.  This is obviously a big event.
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, I needed this break.  I feel totally different in my mindset.  Whatever I said there, that's down and dusted, and I'm ready to play golf again, you know.
Q.  This is obviously one of the big ones for the year, isn't it, the best players in the world here?  It would be a good one to win.
ERNIE ELS:  Absolutely.  I haven't won a tournament since May, so I'm really looking forward to trying to get back into it.  It'll be great.  I don't think I've ever won a tournament in Ireland, either.  I'd like to give myself a chance Sunday and see how it goes.
Q.  How close have you come to winning a tournament in Ireland?  You've played a few here over the years.
ERNIE ELS:  I used to play the Irish Open quite a lot.  I don't think I've ever really threatened, to be honest with you.  I think I've enjoyed myself too much.
Q.  You wouldn't be talking about a pint of Guinness, would you?
ERNIE ELS:  Exactly, Murphy's.  And we went to Druids Glenn, and I've had some great times in Ireland.  I'm holding out for the best this week.  The crowds are going to be great, a good course, so a good atmosphere.
Q.  When you see the way Vijay is playing and you've played so well yourself this year, do you feel like it could happen to you?
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, Vijay has had a great year.  In the majors I was really close to also having a great year and it didn't quite work out, but it's good to see Vijay doing what he's doing.  It gives other players a little bit of hope and shows that other players can also do it.  He's obviously worked really hard and is deserving every moment of it.  I'd like to get up there myself, too, now.  It's time.
Q.  Is there any sense that you deserve it and haven't been rewarded?
ERNIE ELS:  I don't know if you deserve anything in this game, but you put a lot of effort in it and get that close, you know, obviously I'm disappointed.  It's done, it's dusted, and I'm looking forward to the future.  Let's forget about the past.  I've got to move on.  I'm looking forward to that.
Q.  Vijay isn't playing this week.  In a strange kind of way, does that make it easier for you?
ERNIE ELS:  No, I actually wish he was here because then you can really see where you are with your game.  He's the No. 1 player now and he's definitely proved that the last four or five weeks.  It's a pity he's not here.  Obviously he's got to look after things, his personal stuff.

Yeah, I would have loved to have seen him here, but he's not here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT