VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2004
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ERNIE ELS:   I actually thought I played a much better front nine today, and the bogey on 9 killed me.  I was coming out of the right rough and missed it in the wrong spot.  I missed it short of the green to the right and I didn't get it up and down.  That really killed me.

I had some birdie putts on 6, 7 and 8 that I missed, but I obviously needed everything to get to 16 under and I don't think 16 under is going to be enough.  I was just too far behind.

You know, at least I played a little bit better.  I think I know what I've got to work on the next couple of weeks and I'm looking forward to that.  But I had a good time.  Obviously, the best round I ever had was that first round.  After that, it's been disappointing, but such is life.  To go 5 under for three rounds is just not good enough.
Q.  Would you have thought that Scott Drummond
ERNIE ELS:   No.  And it's nothing against him, no disrespect.  I think it will be one hell of a story, wouldn't it.
Q.  He's higher in the rankings than Ben Curtis, 475th?
ERNIE ELS:   Where was Ben?
Q.  396th.
ERNIE ELS:   There you go.  Well, he's playing good.  I tell you, 17 under, it hasn't been all that easy today, with the weather we've had.  You know, that's great playing.  I don't know if he's going to hang on to it, but it would actually be a hell of a story, obviously.
Q.  Can you assess the event?  This is the last with the Volvo sponsor, the crowds have been record this week.
ERNIE ELS:   For the last two, today with Nick behind us, it's always great support here, great crowd, great tournament.

In the past, I've played better.  I got beat in the past, by Monty the one year, when he hit the putt on 18 from 18 feet, I thought I had a chance there.  This week, I wasn't     the last three rounds, it wasn't quite there.
Q.  Schedule?
ERNIE ELS:   Going to Memorial tomorrow.  I'm thinking about the Buick.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT