THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 22, 2003
Tim Clark
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  These matches, I don't know what you told these guys at your party last night, but it seemed to be working.

ERNIE ELS:   Good food, man, and all of the sea air.  A little bit of fresh air and everybody seems to really come around today.  We made a good run.


Q.  What was the attitude of this team today?

TIM CLARK:  We really had to go out and play well.  There was nothing to lose at this stage, a few down, and we had to come out and put up a lot of points.  The teams moved around a little today and looks like it's working.


Q.  You seem to have a flair for the dramatic this week. 

ERNIE ELS:  It's nice.  We had a couple of chances on the back nine, but we kind of screwed it up a little bit.  I was happy to make that putt, you know.  We missed a couple of putts  it's funny how it's working out this week so far.  But it's kind of nerve-wracking, too. 


Q.  It seems like no matter what happens the rest of the day, you're going to be in good shape going into Sunday.

ERNIE ELS:  Seems like it.  You look at the scoreboard, guys have really come back strong today.  Even if it doesn't go our way totally today, we did some good team work today, so we have a good chance for tomorrow. 


Q.  You played well yesterday and obviously today against two good players. 

ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, I love watching my partner hit it in the fairway.  Anything from last time we played was going to be the other way around for Tim.  He just couldn't play any better, I don't think.  He played solid today.  We teamed up well on the front nine, just a couple putts and we could have been even further ahead.  What do you think? 

TIM CLARK:  It seems like when one of us has been out of the hole, the other one has been there, able to hole out.  Just the last couple of holes we didn't do that around the greens, but it's worked out the rest of the time.  We have come in when the other one has been out of the hole.


Q.  Can you talk about winning the match with a huge crowd and a great gallery? 

ERNIE ELS:  It's great.  Today it's kind of my turn a little bit to finish it off.  So it's nice to do it in front of a crowd.  You don't get that chance too often.  So we like to show off every now and again.  I just said to Tim, you know they were coming back at us, just get this match for me, let's not fall to lose the match. 

TIM CLARK:  Those last two holes anything can happen, especially 17, it's a really tough hole.  Good to get it over with.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT