MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2016
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. After yesterday, what a response today.   
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, thank you. It was a little better. Still hitting the ball okay. It was a tough day today. The wind's up and so forth. A bit of a tough start again. I made a double on the first, missing a very short putt again. But kind of settled down and played okay and just a pity of yesterday, otherwise, I kind of would have been around for the weekend.  
   
 Q. You look at your performance aside from the first hole today and yesterday and I think that you really were in a good position.   
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I mean, exactly. Yesterday was just absolutely nightmarish. So even after the first hole I had a lot of opportunities to get myself back to near 2‑, 3‑, 4‑over. But I didn't do that. So, I was very disappointed.   
And today, even on the back nine, I was kind of thinking, you know, if you can get it to like 6‑ or 7‑over, you never know. You might get into the cut line. But it wasn't to be. But I would like to say I had a good time, I think that the Masters people and the Augusta National people have been excellent once again and it's just a pity I didn't play my best.  
   
 Q. What do you take out of this week moving forward now?  
ERNIE ELS: What do I take out of the week? Well, just an unbelievable test. I don't think I've ever been tested like that ever before. Kind of try to just play the golf course, try and get back into my routine, just do my routine, my normal routine, and kind of started playing okay. So, it was a real great test to me.   
   
 Q. How did you feel on the first tee today teeing off?  
ERNIE ELS: I was very down. Actually, I was not too bad last night and then I slept okay, actually. And then this morning I was feeling down, really down. I felt kind of embarrassed. I didn't feel like myself. And it kind of showed again on the first hole, I missed another very short putt and I've got to address whatever the issue is and see if I can make it better.  
   
 Q. What would you say is the issue?  
ERNIE ELS: Well, I mean, it's just ‑‑ it could be anxiety, it could be a lot of stuff, so definitely not my normal self, especially the last two days. It could be because I'm running out of time at this beautiful place and maybe putting a bit too much pressure on myself to putt like that. So, we'll figure it out.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT