THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
November 9, 2003
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ERNIE ELS:  I need to think about it.  It's between Tiger and Vijay, obviously.  I got to take a couple of things into my reckoning.  I know Tiger played less events, won more events.  Vijay played more, one win less.  I want to look at the Majors, other players in that.  What happens today really doesn't mean too much.  Vijay looks like he's going to have another Top 5.  So that's a good finish.  But it's a tough decision. 


Q.   It's close?

ERNIE ELS:  It is close.  If you just look at guys winning, you got to go with Tiger.  He won a World Championship event.


Q.   Two.

ERNIE ELS:  Two of them.  Yeah.  So I've got to sit down and think about it, look at it.  But it's definitely between those two, isn't it.  So I can't really tell you now.  I'm probably leaning towards Vijay. 


Q.   He finished strong. 

ERNIE ELS:  Because if you look at players on this TOUR, you got to play consistently to win the Order of Merit, the money title.  And he's done that.  He's played very consistently.  He had six weeks off there with an injury and still managed to play about 26 or 27 events.  So you've got to look at that strongly.  Then you look at Tiger.  He has five wins.  Five wins out of 15 events.  That's pretty strong.


Q.   Good batting average. 

ERNIE ELS:  So at the moment I'm on the fence. 


Q.   Do you think since it is a popular vote, that personalities and friendships and things like that enter into it?  Fred Couples was saying if it was a dead heat he might vote for Davis, because it's his friend. 

ERNIE ELS:  No, it really doesn't.  It shouldn't. 


Q.   It shouldn't. 

ERNIE ELS:  No, it should really not.  I mean let's face it, there's a lot of stuff that happened this year with Annika Sorenstam, thinking about that, with Vijay saying a couple of things there.  But we've got to vote as a player.  He won tournaments and he supported the TOUR and he played well.  He got a little crucified by you guys saying what he did about Annika.  But that was his opinion.  At least we know where he comes from. 


Q.   On the money, Ernie, when players look at Vijay winning the Money List, having played 8 or 9 more times, do you think most players are inclined to look at, Tiger won this much in so few events or vote for Vijay for, as you said, supporting the TOUR?

ERNIE ELS:  Well exactly.  Some players are going to look at it one way, Tiger wins more tournaments in less events.  That makes you a better player.  On the other hand, the other guy played 26, 27 events, finishes in the top-10, I don't know, 15 times. 


Q.   18 times. 

ERNIE ELS:  That's a hell of a season too.  That's consistent play.  Because as a winner, I think that there's no doubt that Tiger's the guy.  But I feel that Vijay  -- at the moment I feel that he played more events, he played more consistently. 


Q.   Do you think that a player would rather have five wins, four wins and the money title or two wins and a green jacket?

ERNIE ELS:  I'll take the green jacket.  That's me.  I'll just take the green jacket.  You can have the others.  But that's me. 


Q.   Worldwide you had a good season?

ERNIE ELS:  I had a good season.  I haven't played good enough for my expectations over here.  I can look at my schedule  -- and I've done that, looked at the schedule for next year.  So I'll check that out.  I got to play more here and I've got to be more fresh when I play here. 


Q.   You've been worldwide since January 1 or whatever?

ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, this is the 27th tournament, this is 27.  But Bob Tway says my 27 is like 35.  I've had a nice season.  I had a good season. 


Q.   It's a landmark season in a way, wasn't it, kind of taking a step up to No. 2 in the world?

ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, I was there for awhile.  It was a good time.  I'm still there.  I've just got to take my rest and come back strong. 


Q.   What do you think about next year total here?  How many, do you know?

ERNIE ELS:  I got to try and get 20.  Let's just go with the 20.  And then we'll only go upward from there.


Q.   Are you ready for the Presidents Cup?

ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, in about another week.  I don't want to think about it now.  I'll be down there on Thursday and think about it then.  It should be good. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT