MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2016
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (No Microphone, regarding putting.)  
ERNIE ELS: I was just telling those guys, it's hard to explain. I can't explain it. It's something that I'm sure up there somewhere that you just can't do what you normally do. It's unexplainable. A lot of people have stopped playing the game, you know, it's unexplainable. I couldn't get the putter back. I was standing there, I've got a 3‑footer, I've made thousands of 3‑footers and I just couldn't take it back.  
And then I just kind of lost count after ‑‑ I mean, the whole day was a grind. I tried to fight. I'm hitting the ball half decent and I can't make it from two feet.  
I missed from two feet on 18 and a 4‑footer on 17. 6‑footer ‑‑ when you count them up, it's too many shots just out there, just on the green. So it's very difficult. I'm not sure where I'm going from here. So, I don't know. We'll see.   
   
 Q. What do you say to yourself in that situation? Because it's obviously a tough situation.   
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I mean, I can't explain it. I'm not sure what I did. I don't know how I stayed out there. But you love the game and you got to have respect for the Tournament and so forth, but it's unexplainable. It's very tough to tell you what goes through your mind. It's the last thing that you want to do is do that on a golf course at this level. So, it's very difficult.  
   
 Q. What are you going to do with the putter?  
ERNIE ELS: Well, I couldn't putt with a stick. You make some stuff up in your brain, you know, it's difficult. It's something that, what holds you back from doing your normal thing? I don't know what it is. I can go to that putting green now and make 20 straight 3‑footers. And then you get on the course and you feel a little different and you can't do what you normally do. So it's pretty difficult.   
   
 Q. Is it possible to regroup for tomorrow?  
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I'm going to try. I'll look at what the scoring is and see what kind of score I have to shoot to make the cut and then go from there.   
From tee to green I'm not bad. But, I don't know, I mean, on 17, 18, 16, 15, 14, you name it, with the putter it was difficult on every hole. So we'll see where we go from here. Hopefully I can pull it back and play some decent golf.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT