MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 8, 2003
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK: We welcome Ernie Els to the Mercedes Championship press room.  Ernie comes off of fifth place on the Money List last year, two wins for the first time since '97, six wins worldwide, two on the European, two unofficial, two PGA TOUR.  Can we expect similar results in 2003? 
ERNIE ELS:  Well, we'll wait and see.  I'd love to have a good season again, like anybody.  New equipment, new clothing, new shoes, new everything just about this year, so that's actually kind of exciting again.  I'm looking forward to that.  I'm working with a new company. 
Yeah, I mean, why not?  You know, I've got quite a hectic schedule the next two months, then I'll go back and do the Florida swing like I usually do. 
I'm hitting the ball very nicely at the moment.  I worked a little bit on it on the off-season.  I love coming here.  I mean, this is a great start to the year.  I think these two weeks in Hawaii is great.  I didn't come last year only because of the fact I didn't win the year before. 
Yeah, I mean, obviously I'm really looking forward to the majors again.  I think there's some really good golf courses we're playing the majors on.  I think Royal St. George is a great course for the British Open.  I haven't played the US Open course.  The one in Rochester is great, I hear.  I'm looking forward to those major golf courses. 
TODD BUDNICK:  We'll go ahead and take some questions. 
Q.  What is your schedule like before the Florida swing?
ERNIE ELS:  Play these two weeks, I'm going to Singapore, for the Singapore Masters, then I'm going down to Australia for the Heineken Classic.  I have a week off, then I play the Johnnie Walker Classic in Perth, another week off before the Matchplay.  I play the Matchplay.  I should be going to Dubai then, after that (smiling).

Q.  Is that a hard decision to make?  Defending champions same week. 
ERNIE ELS:  It was.  It was.  Going to Dubai is really nice (smiling).  You know, the Doral is great.  Last year, winning the tournament the way we did, with Tiger coming at me.  But Tiger is also going to Dubai, so am I.  That decision was made last year already.  It will be great to go there and hopefully have a shoot-out over there (laughter). 

Q.  Love to continue this conversation. 
ERNIE ELS:  Anyway (smiling).

Q.  Do you feel like your game last year took a step up from the last couple years before that?  If so, what was the difference?
ERNIE ELS:  Well, yeah, I think I eventually mentally got stable again, my own little battle.  I just basically, you know, played my game again.  Instead of trying to improve things, you know, doing things out of the ordinary, trying to chase Tiger down, I just thought, "Play my game, see where it goes." 
You know, I got talent myself.  Obviously, you know, Tiger plays, when he's on, on a different level.  But, you know, I feel comfortable with myself again and my game.  You know, I still feel, if I'm playing my game to my ability, you know, I can compete.  That's going to be my test this year.  I really want to compete well again doing my thing, see where we go. 
So, yeah, I think in some ways I got away from that little rut I was in mentally last year.

Q.  Whose game were you trying to play? 
ERNIE ELS:  Well, I think I was just trying to push myself on wrong shots, on the wrong time.  When you don't really have to go at the flag, I was just pushing the issue all the time for quite a while there.  I think just falling back to my  -- you know, to where I'm used to playing instead of trying to play another game. 
I think playing safe where I feel I need to play safe, just playing the percentages a little bit more I think is more my game. 

Q.  So you're playing Mickelson's game? 
ERNIE ELS:  Totally the opposite (laughter).  Just trying to do my thing again.  That's what I want to do again this year.

Q.  It sounds like you felt by playing this other game that you were having to play to a supernatural level to catch Tiger when the fact is you just play your best and that should be enough.
ERNIE ELS:  I think basically the year 2000 was the year.  I mean, Tiger went on a streak there which I don't know if we'll ever see again.  You know, the way he played, the way he hit the ball, the way he putted, just everything he did was obviously unbelievable. 
Unfortunately for me, you know, I was just caught up in that kind of whirlwind of his.  I kept on finishing second.  Then the next year, I was trying to, "Okay, now I'm going to do this now."  That wasn't quite me.  I think that was the problem I was in.

Q.  Interestingly enough, though, that whole year started here where he played at a high level, you played at a high level, the difference was a fluke putt on that hole.  Did you not get caught up on that than a 15-stroke difference? 
ERNIE ELS:  I think the Pebble Beach thing was the one that got me a little bit (smiling).  I mean, winning a major by 15 shots, that tells you something.  If it doesn't, you're in a different world.  I think that one got me a little bit, and The Open, the British Open, St.  Andrews.  He just totally blew us out of the water. 
I think after that, I was trying different things.  Hopefully we won't do that again.  I won't do that again.

Q.  Are you saying if you hadn't finished second all those times in those majors in 2000, do you think what you did in 2001 would not have occurred? 
ERNIE ELS:  I think I had a good year in 2000.  I think I was a little hard on myself at the end of that year.  I had my own goals and my own things that I wanted to achieve.  I did win on the TOUR and I did win overseas, all of that stuff.  But I had my own goals. 
To finish second three times in a major, that's a good year.  I mean, I still think it's a good year.  But at that point, at that time, in December 2000, I was a little hard on myself.  I think that carried me over into the next year where I really got frustrated with myself and my game. 
I mean, some players take things differently.  I just took it a little bit hard on myself.

Q.  How much did Doral help you last year? 
ERNIE ELS:  I think, first of all, the Heineken Classic really helped me a lot because I won that tournament from the first round right through the last.  I was in the lead all the time.  I had all the pressure on myself.  Although the field wasn't as strong as you get over here, you still have to maintain that lead, maintain a good level of play.  I think that was a good one to win. 
Then obviously Doral, you know, with a nine-shot lead.  After nine holes we had a big wait on the 9th green.  Tiger was playing really well.  I mean, it was very windy.  That was a tough day.  To play the way I did that Back  9, you know, that was big.  I think it was very big.

Q.  When did it click that you could play your game rather than invent a game to try to beat Tiger?
ERNIE ELS:  With my new equipment, I mean, I'm really hitting the ball really solid at the moment.  If I can maintain that throughout the year, keep working on my short game, you got to make putts.  I think that's another thing that Tiger does really well under pressure, he putts really well. 
I think he's by far the best in our era, putting under pressure.  I'd like to get better there a little bit, really get my short game really good.  I think the rest of it will fall in place.  Then just stay the course.  You know, just keep doing what I can do.  Hopefully it will swing my way.

Q.  When did you decide to go that way rather than what you were doing before?
ERNIE ELS:  I think, you know, I kind of answered that earlier.  I think last year, that was the change in maybe my game last year, was just to fall back onto my talent, the things I do well, just trust that.  You know, it certainly helped me at Muirfield, especially in the weather that Saturday.  I kept grinding away, kept grinding away, and at the end of the day the weather did get better for me the last four holes, but I ground it out, had 72 that day, which really helped me keep the lead and win the next day. 

Q.  Was there a low point in 2001?
ERNIE ELS:  2001? 

Q.  Yes.  Especially I remember Southern Hills, you were really down on yourself. 
ERNIE ELS:  I can't remember that long ago, man (laughter).  2001? 
The first six months, I was just nowhere.  I was just flat.  I was just going through the motions.  I wasn't quite happy.  Then I would say after meeting Josh at the British Open.

Q.  That was kind of a turnaround?
ERNIE ELS:  Kind of started turning it around a little bit, you know, got me thinking differently.  I started playing a lot better at the end of 2001, almost won a couple times.

Q.  Did you not win late in the year?
ERNIE ELS:  Yes.

Q.  South Africa?
ERNIE ELS:  We won the World Cup with Retief.  The last tournament I played in South Africa, I won.

Q.  Kind of hard to understand when you say you were really at a low point, starting going up at the British Open, but you had three seconds in three majors.  If people are standing on the outside looking in, "How can he be at a low point?  He was playing at a high level, just about better than anybody else." 
ERNIE ELS:  I guess to answer that question, I guess I'm not happy with second then (smiling).  You know, deep down in there, I want to win.  I guess I wasn't happy finishing second six times.

Q.  If you could share some of your thoughts on the ruling for slow play, possible fines.
ERNIE ELS:  I'm not very familiar with that rule to be honest with you.  I think second time you get fined or get a shot penalty.  I don't regard myself as a slow player. 
You know, I'm just thinking of myself now.  I've got to check out the rule.  I'm not sure about the rule. 

Q.  You've talked about wanting to win a career slam.  I was curious if the changes at Augusta over the last few years, do you feel that has helped or hurt your chances to win there?
ERNIE ELS:  No, I think it definitely helped.  You know, with the new equipment I'm using now, new golf ball I'm using actually, it definitely helps my game.  I think it will help guys like Phil, obviously Tiger, Davis, the guys that can move it right to left with a driver, put their irons up in the air.  You've got to have the short game around the greens.  But definitely you need length.  It's very early in the year, as you know.  We might get some bad weather.  When we get bad weather around the course, the way it is now, it's going to be very, very difficult to shoot par. 
It's definitely not like a fun course anymore, like we used to hit 9-irons, wedges, into the par 4s, 6-irons into the par 5s.  It's a totally different animal now. 
I feel good around there now. 

Q.  Are there a number of players that can win there?
ERNIE ELS:  I think so.  Still you need your experience, especially on the greens, around the greens, you need experience.  The more often you can play the golf course the way it is now, it's going to help your chances. 
You know, it takes you really a year or two, maybe three, just to get comfortable with the whole surrounding of the place, especially the speed of the greens and the slope of the greens.  I think guys that have been there quite a few years still have an advantage.

Q.  Your schedule is rather diversified, Asia, Australia, US, Europe.  How do you actually determine where you play?  What goes into your decision-making process when you choose a particular tournament?
ERNIE ELS:  Well, appearance money for one (laughter). 
I've always started my year with January and February always this way.  I tried the West Coast one year; didn't really like it much.  You know, when I'm in this tournament, I like coming here.  I like to play two tournaments here because it's such a long way to come.  Then from here, I normally go to Australia, which I'm going to do again.  The courses down there are great, really.  I mean, their golf courses are in great condition.  You know, European Tour events now, I'm a member of both tours, so I like to get those European events stacked up early on in the year, not to interfere with my American schedule later in the year. 
You know, that's kind of the way we do it.  They pay you when we play outside of the United States, too.  It's nice.

Q.  Nick said there's only about five or six guys that can win the Money List this year.  Do you agree with that?
ERNIE ELS:  I don't think so.  If you look at this week, we have 18 first-time winners.  If those guys get hot, they could win the Money List.  Tiger doesn't play that much anymore on TOUR.  He place, what, 16, 17 events.  He will be hot.  A guy like Phil, he normally plays 26, 27 events.  That's a huge difference, especially for the money we're playing now.  If you are a guy that gets hot, plays a lot of events, could win the Money List .

Q.  I asked Nick the same question.  Outside the United States, how big or not big is the Augusta issue, the women's issue? 
ERNIE ELS:  I don't think it's an issue at all where we're from, you know, in South Africa.  I played THE TOUR Championship in October, November last year.  I was out of the country for maybe two months.  When I came back, I started reading some of the press over here, written press.  You know, that was kind of a new issue for me.  I had to kind of learn from what guys said.  I didn't know what to say when I got the question. 
I did get the question in Atlanta.  I still didn't know if I gave them a good answer.  I just feel it's not an issue where we come from.  I just feel there are more important issues in the world right now than getting, you know, particular members as members of certain clubs.  I think it's a non-issue. 

Q.  Can you take us through the changes you've made, changes have you in equipment, sponsors?
ERNIE ELS:  I'm with SAP up here.  That's a software company, I think (smiling).  I'm joking, I'm joking.  Don't write that. 
I'm with Titleist, Foot-Joy, then Fidra clothing.  Everything new.

Q.  How about your sock deal?
ERNIE ELS:  I was actually trying to hide that.  See you noticed that.

Q.  Did you expect a breakthrough from Sergio after he won here last year?
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, I still think he had a very good year.  Didn't win as many times as he wanted to.  I think he played great in the majors.  I think he played well wherever he played last year.  I think he was consistently in the Top 10, Top 20.  He's 23, I don't think he's 23 yet.  He's got plenty of time. 
He's a great player already.  He could win a major whenever he's hot.  It might happen this year.  But he had a good year last year. 

Q.  Kind of like your 2001?
ERNIE ELS:  Well, at least he won.  He won a couple of times.  Whenever you win, you've had a good year, even if you win once.  Competition is pretty strong.

Q.  We know about how much good The Presidents Cup is going to mean to South Africa.  There's also been an issue for a couple years, we talked about how many guys are going to go.  Do you find yourself in any kind of ambassador role this year to lobby guys or encourage him, like a Mickelson or some guys who might be on the fence, how important it is for them to go?
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah, the TOUR has asked me to do that.  I'll do whatever I can.  But I still think they're going to go.  I think Tiger will go.  I think Phil will also good.  It's a tournament that our TOUR started.  You've got to support the tour.  I think Tim Finchem and the TOUR has done great for us to play for the money we're playing for, World Championship events they created, with a lot of our help, our star players have helped getting sponsors. 
Now you know, it's a tournament that the TOUR started.  I think to support the TOUR and golf in general, especially South African golf, would be a big help.

Q.  You would think they might owe it to golf, and I don't mean to be picking on Phil here, but he's not even here this week.  You saw at Valderrama a couple years ago, a couple of Americans didn't want to travel for $5 million.  Why is that?  Is that an American thing? 
ERNIE ELS:  I also think it's a timing thing really.  At Valderrama, that was after THE TOUR Championship.  On our TOUR, we feel that the TOUR Championship is the end of our season tournament, then I put the Valderrama tournament after that.  A lot of guys focus on THE TOUR Championship, then they want to switch off, then the same guys this week, guys are still having holiday.  It's just a scheduling thing, I think. 
Myself, I flew all the way from South Africa to be here.  I think it's a great place to be, a great way to start your year.  I can't speak for other guys.  I think it's just a scheduling problem.

Q.  Of the times you played well here, which one eats at you more, the battle you had with Tiger or the year after?  Do you remember that year?
ERNIE ELS:  I enjoyed that battle with Tiger here.  Obviously, he enjoyed it, he won.  We both had fun, especially when we made eagles on the 18th.  We had a little talk with each other there.  We both were enjoying ourselves.  We played together almost the whole week.  We played together from Friday.  So I had fun that time. 
I think the rest of that season was a bit frustrating because Tiger kept playing that way.  2001, that first couple of months, was frustrating.

Q.  But here at this tournament is what I was talking about.  You played well at this tournament.
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah.  That second time I should have really won it.  Saturday kind of screwed it up.

Q.  Have you watched video of Muirfield? 
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah.

Q.  Do you get nervous watching it even though you know the outcome?
ERNIE ELS:  Yeah (laughter).  I was back over there in South Africa.  I got all the stick I need from all my friends, people that watched it.  I get to 16 and I want to fast forward. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT