WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 24, 2002
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Maybe the course played harder.  How did you handle your game and go as low as you did?
ERNIE ELS:  I think you're right, some of the flags were really difficult to get at and it felt like the golf course was playing firmer today.  And when that's the case you've got to really hit better shots in there.  You've got to really put them in the air and really hope for the best.  And sometimes you can't go at these flags.  And I think that's why the scoring, and especially the leaders haven't really scored that well today.  It was just a difficult day to get close to the flags.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ERNIE ELS:  I tend to get a little strong with my left hand, and I had to get it back to a neutral position.  And last week it felt very awkward, and especially in the wind last week.  I wasn't quite comfortable.  But it's getting better day-by-day.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
ERNIE ELS:  Well, yeah, you know, I'd have loved to have gotten to 10.  But it was really quite difficult to get there today.  The conditions were a little bit tougher.  I mean playing -- weatherwise it's perfect, but actually on the golf course it's getting a little bit tougher.  But looking at the leaderboard now, I guess 8 is not bad, where I am right now.  It all depends on what Allenby and Steve Lowery and the guys do.  I've got a lot of work left tomorrow, but at least I'm closer than I was this morning.

Q.  You've had quite a few rounds in the last couple of starts with Tiger, and he mentioned to the PGA how nice it was to have you.
(Inaudible.)  Maybe it will materialize tomorrow.  What would that be like for you.
ERNIE ELS:  That would be great.  It's not a major championship, but it's as close to one this week, and it's a very good week.  I like playing with Tiger.  I see a lot of things that he does so well that I can feed off and learn from.  I'm not sure if he learns a lot from me, but I know he enjoys playing with me.  He seems to bring out his best when he plays with me a lot of times.  But I enjoy it.  I'll enjoy the moment tomorrow.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  Hopefully, we can play together again.  And just see what he does to make a run.  He's made so many great runs at leaders, and I feel I'll be sucked into his wake there some. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT