GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2002
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN V.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Ernie, for joining us.  Good day out there.  Bogey-free round.  Topped it off with three birdies at the end.  Talk about your round.
ERNIE ELS: I had a good start.  I started on the back nine.  10 hole is not the best hole to start on on this golf course.  Especially at 7:40 in the morning.  Pretty chilly this morning, and breeze into us, and really just wanted to get the ball on dry land.  But I made par there, actually had a birdie chance and birdied No. 12, and you know, I just felt that was a pretty decent start. 
I have been working quite hard on my game, and the last couple of weeks I felt I was hitting the ball really well.  And the wind nearly picked up.  I thought this course would be maybe a little bit lower (sic).  The golf course is in great shape, I had a pretty nice day. 

Q.   Is Retief staying at your house this week while they are building his or whatever they are doing?
ERNIE ELS: No, he's staying in Jill Faldo's or Jill's, Nick's ex-wife's house in Lake Nona.  I am actually moving there, I've got a new place down the road too.

Q.   Here?
ERNIE ELS: Down there in Orlando.  Retief, he said he was going to play this week, but I think you know after his -- he started the year, he travelled a lot and he just wanted to take some time off.

Q.   You played well here, Ernie.  It  generally sets up well for you?
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I think so.  I think we have got some room off the tees, you know, I like wide fairways.  I think if you are aggressive on the par 5s, if you get off the tees well, on the par 5s, you can make some birdies there  -- make a good score there, and this golf course is really built around the breeze.  If there's a breeze, golf course plays quite tough.  But like today, just pretty calm.

Q.   Give us details on those last three.
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, No. 7 I hit a good drive and a 9-iron to about twelve feet.  Made that one.
Then No. 8 was a little down breeze 3-wood off the tee and hit a 4-iron, you know, just through the green, but pretty close to the hole and actually out of that fluffy stuff, I was happy to get it up-and-down. 
I chipped it out to about 60, 70 feet past the hole, made a good one there.
9 the par 3 was down breeze, 175 I hit a 9-iron and hit it about 8 feet, just past the hole I made that putt. 

Q.   Downbreeze or downwind?
ERNIE ELS: Downbreeze (laughs).  I hit a good ball. 

Q.   What did you hit into 15?
ERNIE ELS: I hit 8-iron there about 15 feet left of the hole. 
And 16 I hit a 2-iron and a pitching wedge also about five, six feet.  The other one was 12, I hit a driver  -- 3-iron lay-up and pitching wedge about 20 feet. 

Q.   Have you played, what is it, six times this year?
ERNIE ELS: No, it  -- yes, my 6th one this week.  I started in South Africa.  Played two there.  Then I went to Australia for two.  Then Match Play last week, played two rounds and then  --

Q.   Give that an incomplete.  It's a funny tournament anyway.
ERNIE ELS: So then this is my fifth tournament.

Q.   You have played okay in all of them, it seems like.
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I started a little slow in South Africa, really had a good off-season break, I was on the beach most of the time and didn't practice too much.  I didn't qualify for Mercedes, so I figured I will play in South Africa and support the Tour down there, play the South African Open; didn't play too well there.  13th -- finished 9th the next week in Johannesburg.  I went to Australia and I won the Heineken Classic on a great course at Royal Melbourne.

Q.   What did you do after Sun City last year, nothing?
ERNIE ELS: I actually played a tournament.  I played a tournament after Sun City, I played the Vodacom.  It is THE PLAYERS Championship down there.  Won that one. 

Q.   Was it a pretty sized, I believe, break though until you resumed in South Africa?
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I mean, that time of the year is so good in South Africa,  it's high summer and everybody is on holiday, and our whole family, we go to one spot down there on the ocean and we spent a whole month together.  So it was good.

Q.   Last year was the first year in several years you hadn't won on the PGA TOUR.  Is getting a win early this year something you are thinking about?
ERNIE ELS: No, not really.  I'd like to -- whenever I play I'd like to win, obviously.  I feel like I am playing well at the moment, so I think when I tee it up nowadays I feel I can win, so we'll just have to wait and see, you know, I can't push things.  I did that last year a little bit, so I am surely not going to do it this year, if it happens, good, I am playing good enough.

Q.   Do you feel like  a little more settled in versus this time last year when you were kind of rolling through caddies seemingly at a pretty quick pace and all that, a little more stable maybe heading into the important stuff?
ERNIE ELS: I think I was pretty stable last year too.  Those kind of things happen sometimes, you just feel like you need a change.  But yeah, in a way, yes, I think you got a point there.  I went to that Match Play last year, I think it was, you know, the third of January the tournament started, so I got there a little bit late and I played that event and I went to Hawaii after that, so yeah, it was a quite a hectic start to last year.  I think this year was a little bit easier.  (Laughs).

Q.   You say you pushed things a little bit last year.  What do you mean by pushing things as far as trying to get a win?
ERNIE ELS: It's hard to explain, but when you are out there and you do a lot of work and you feel that you are putting all the work in and you should win, but -- and then maybe trying a little too hard and you are playing shots that you shouldn't play.  I think that's what I did last year. 

Q.   Augusta says the changes are done to put more of a premium on the tee shot, accuracy is everything.  Some people say it is just length.  What are your impressions having given it a crack?
ERNIE ELS: No, I think they did a wonderful job. I think you are right, I think the premium now is on driving.  It always  -- it has been in the past, but now you have get to drive it long and straight.  Second cut, it is still there.  A lot of more length, a lot more length has been put onto the golf course.  I played it and I played it in a little bit of a breeze and I thought I played really well and I shot even par.  Holes like 18, 1, No. 7 those are all great changes.  No. 10 is a great change.  11 also you got to cut your tee shot there now.  13 I think is wonderful, you know, the fairway is there for your tee shot anyway.

Q.   What did you hit on 13?
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, you really, you know, the wind was into us off to the left, so it was really hard to draw the ball.  I hit it pretty much straight up there and I had 213 to the front, into the breeze, I had to hit 2-iron.  You can still go for the green but you have got to hit a bit of a better tee shot now.

Q.   Do you find yourself thinking more on the tee than you ever did?  Before, was it a matter of power?
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, no, definitely.  I think I definitely  -- you really have to drive the ball well now.  You have to  -- in the past I can just hit it, go out there and it was a driving paradise.  You hit it anywhere and you can have a shot at the green.  Now you have really got to get yourself in position and take it from there.

Q.   They always say, you can speak to this, that the U.S. Open is the toughest test in golf.  Does Augusta now rival this, do you think?
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, definitely.  I think they had to do it, you know, with all the changes in the equipment and technology and to put it  -- it's always been up there, don't get me wrong, but the golf course and off the tees, I mean, the whole test always used to be on the greens and around the greens.  Now it is everywhere.  You have to be accurate off the tee.  You have got to place it.  You have got to really play well now to probably break 70 now.  If we have a little bit of weather come through that week, it could be really interesting.  You could see maybe even par winning if it's really tough. 

Q.   Do you feel that plays more into your hands given the whole view?
ERNIE ELS: I'd like to think so, yeah, I think it's definitely a tougher test now.  It's definitely, you know, I think it throws a lot of other players out of the equation maybe now.  Just because of the premium on driving and you know, really tests your all-around game now not just bomb it and then go putt it.  You have really got to play golf now. 

Q.   You think maybe it's always been a course like you said where it's all been around the greens.  Is driver maybe the second most important club in the bag now to the putter?
ERNIE ELS: Well those two are still the most important, like always, but probably more putting still, you know, those greens are so difficult to read.  Just getting on the green is one thing, but then you have got to read it right and putt the right pace on it.  But I think those two clubs are the most important still.

Q.   When did you go and what were the circumstances?
ERNIE ELS: I went there  -- I had two weeks off after I came back from Australia before the Match Play so the Sunday before the Match Play I went up there with a couple of friends and a member was there to play with us and you know, just played 18 holes and got out of there.  I wanted to go see it.  I heard Tiger talking about it him and Mark talked about it in the locker room.  So I just wanted to go see it for myself if it was true, so.

Q.   And it was?
ERNIE ELS: It definitely is. 

Q.   What did you hit in on 18?
ERNIE ELS: I hit 5-iron  -- actually hit 4-iron over the green on 18, pin was back right so, should have been a 5-iron.  1 I hit a driver and 5-iron to the middle of the green.

Q.   5-iron on one too?
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, bit of a breeze into us.

Q.   Will you play a great deal between new and Augusta?
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I am travelling quite a bit, you know, I am going to Dubai next week and then come back play Bay Hill and TPC and then I will have two weeks off.

Q.   This is 10th year as a pro or 11th year thereabouts?
ERNIE ELS: I see they have got it wrong on this board again.  I turned pro in October of 1989 back in South Africa.  They have got me as 1994.

Q.   That's PGA TOUR.
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, but still  --

Q.   For the 50 years that you have been a pro --
ERNIE ELS: It's like Nick Faldo turned pro in England in  '76 or whatever.  He came over here in '88 or something, didn't he.

Q.   Was he Rookie-of-the-Year that year with you?
ERNIE ELS: (Laughs).

Q.   Were you more excited about this coming year than you were last year or less excited or about the same considering that you have been a pro now for thirteen years?
ERNIE ELS: I would say I am always excited coming into a year, but I think last year was kind of a difficult start for me after 2000.  If I have to look back now.  I played some decent golf in 2000 and didn't get much out of it.  I think Tiger just blew us away there.  And then last year, I didn't you know, I didn't play all that well, but you know, I really played good the last six months last year.  So I guess to come back to your question, yeah, I guess I was not quite ready to get into last year's schedule as compared to this year.  I have a really good off-season and been quite quiet you know, for about a month or so, so I guess I feel I am ready to play. 






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT