ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2015
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts, satisfaction with your position into the final day?  
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I'm okay.  I think I'm going to be quite a few behind.  It's a beautiful day but hopefully not more than four or five.  I think then I have probably a good chance.  I left a couple out there, 13, 14, 15, probably left two or three out there on those holes but I can't complain with a 66.  Conditions are just unbelievable.   
 Q.  Presumably you're feeling opportunities and you'll enjoy the fact that we're back here in similar, sunny, Scottish conditions?  
ERNIE ELS: This is unbelievable.  We were here in July and couldn't get it done in four days, and here we come in October, and you can go to the beach and have a swim.  Don't know what's going on, you know.  But I'm not complaining, it's beautiful.   
 Q.  What's the story with the putter?  
ERNIE ELS: It was an ugly experience on Thursday obviously.  Didn't have a lot of control with that putter.  I came with two putters, the one with the counter weight design where the weight is in the grip and the head, and didn't quite feel obviously very comfortable with it on the short ones.  As it was, I could totally yip the putt on 17.  You hear about these things, and I think I showed the public exactly what it is (laughs).   
I changed it weren't to my 35-inch putter with the weight in the head that I've used most of my life and feels better.  I'm a little bit hunched over the ball but feel much more comfortable in that position.   
 Q.  Are you feeling comfortable in this competition?  It's unique but it's good fun?  
ERNIE ELS: I had a great couple of days, played with Bill Terlato and Luke, and with Marvin Shanken, great friends of mine.  We all live on the same street in Florida now.  Marvin, he's done so much for our charity.  We do a tournament in the States for the last six years and we've raised a lot of money through his connections, so he's a wonderful, wonderful friend of ours.   
 Q.  How confident are you going into the final day?  
ERNIE ELS: Well, as I say, I'm pretty confident.  Seems like all three days, I made some mistakes.  Obviously the Thursday was really a lot of mistakes.  But if I can play the same way, I feel really confident.  I love the golf course.  Keep making those putts.  I'm going to have to shoot something like a 63,64, to have a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT