WGC EMC WORLD CUP
November 17, 2001
Ernie Els
Retief Goosen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RETIEF GOOSEN:  Today we started a lot better than we did in the first round so we got off to a much better start and then got stuck a little bit.  Then Ernie started making a few good putts for a change.  Ernie played really well today and it was nice to have a good finish, finishing with three 3s coming in. 

ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I think Retief is right.  We got off to a good start and got stuck.  You know, I think we were very, very close and were maybe shooting better than 60 today.  As Retief said, we were 5-under through the first nine.  We made birdie on 11, but we had birdie putts on 13 and 12, 14, 15. Retief made one on 16 and we made three on 18, but there were only four or five holes where we could have squeezed out another two or three shots.  But I think we both hit the ball quite solid today.  And as Retief says, I've been struggling with my putting but today, I made some putts and I felt better, for myself.  I think New Zealand is playing well.  We'll try and catch them tomorrow. 

Q.  Who got the 3 at the last?  Can you talk us through it? 

ERNIE ELS:   I hit a drive.  I had 173 to the front, one 177 to the hole, a little downbreeze, 8-iron and it was a perfect club, perfect yardage.  Hit a pretty good shot in to about three feet. 

Q.  How do you think you can make up ground on New Zealand; they are five shots ahead?

RETIEF GOOSEN:  Well, foursomes is quite a difficult part of the game.  If you can get on a roll, the two of you together, you can shoot a good score, like the other guys did the other day.  You know, the leaders could really not combine very well and then really struggle.  So we've at a chance tomorrow. Even if you're five shots behind, you can shoot a 70 in foursomes and you'll have a pretty good chance of catching them. 

ERNIE ELS:   I made birdie on the first.  A drive and a sand iron to about three feet and made that for birdie. 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  On the third, I drove it in the rough, laid up and I hit a lob-wedge to about four feet, five feet and made birdie there.  The par  5, Ernie just drove it into the rough.  I hit a 3-wood to probably 25 feet, 2-putted, birdie. 

ERNIE ELS:   Made on 7, the par  3, I hit a 7-iron to about 12 feet.  Made that for birdie.  On 8, I hit a driver and a wedge about 23 feet and made that for birdie. 

RETIEF GOOSEN:  On 11, I hit driver, 3-wood into the right bunker and blasted out to about a foot and made a 4 there.  16, I hit a drive and a soft 7-iron to probably 12, 15 feet and made the putt. 

ERNIE ELS:   17, we made pars and then 18, I made that eagle, with a driver and 8-iron to three feet. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT