THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 3, 2001
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I hit a five iron on number five  just right of the green, and I chipped it up and tapped it in for birdie.  On six I hit a three wood and a 9-iron a little short, about 30 feet.  I made that one for birdie. Nine I hit a drive and a six iron, 3-putted from about 30 feet for another birdie.  And then 13, Par-5, I hit a drive in the right rough, four iron, 3-putted from about 50 feet.  16 I hit a seven iron to about 12 feet.  I made a great up-and-down on the next one.  I plugged it in the right bunkers, got it out about 45 feet and made that for a par.  And 18 I hit a 3 wood and 8-iron through the green about 15 feet and made that for birdie.  
 
Q.  Pretty much anyone's game right now?
 
ERNIE ELS: I'm not sure what Scott's doing.  I think he's 14. 
 
Q.  14. 
 
ERNIE ELS: Seems like he's playing well.  He's been playing well all year.  So he's playing with a little bit of confidence.  It's going to be tough to catch him.  But other really good players have also come into the group now.  David played great today, I see, he's 12-under.  Bob Estes is playing great also this year.  I'm three behind and I feel I'll be three behind by the end of play today and I'll have a chance.  
 
Q.  You talked so much about wanting to get that win and getting to Kapalua.  But if you don't win, would the year kind of be a failure to you?  Would you be that upset or do you think you salvaged some things out of it?
 
ERNIE ELS: Well, you know, even if I win tomorrow, obviously, it will make my year a lot better.  And if I don't, if I don't, then I wouldn't say it's a failure of a year, but I made it to the top 30 this year so it's not too bad.  But the way I played last year and the way I played this year, it's been a little bit different.  Last year I was in contention quite a few times, and I would say this year I wasn't in contention too many times.  And I haven't played too much golf this year.  I had a couple injuries again.  I think that the latter part of the year I've played a lot better than, let's say, around the U.S.  Open.  I really didn't play well, and that's normally my favorite time of the year to play.  So it hasn't been a great year, but it hasn't been terrible either.  
 
Q.  Would you mind discussing a little bit your injuries and whether or not you have any problem with them now?
 
ERNIE ELS: No, I shouldn't even mention the injury.  It was just a little back snag that happened in June.  I've had a bit of a history of a bad back, problem with my back.  But right now I'm perfectly healthy and I'm in pretty good shape right now.  Who knows, if Tiger Woods can have a back problem, I mean  -- 
 
Q.  Anybody can?
 
ERNIE ELS: Anybody probably can.  So I've had my share of it.  But I'm over it now. 
 
Q.  How hard is it to stay patient when the wind is down like it is and you know scores are going to be low, to do that, are you inclined to just want to start throwing everything at every flag?
 
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, that's what  -- I kind of felt that way yesterday.  I felt like it's almost better yesterday than today; I really didn't make my share yesterday.  And you know you got to shoot something better than 68; otherwise, you're going backwards.  I shot 65 today, and I think that I've probably moved up maybe two spots.  So when the course is this perfect and we have perfect conditions like we have had the first three days, you're going to see the best players in the world shoot at the flag, and on these putting surfaces the guys are putting well.  So me, personally, I feel it's the urge of, you can't make enough birdies out there, kind of a thing.  So I think yesterday I got in my own way and today I made some putts, thankfully. 
 
Q.  Would you like to see the conditions get a little tougher tomorrow?
 
ERNIE ELS: I think if we can have a bit more breeze, maybe like we had the first day, it will really make it a little bit tougher for the guys.  And shooting 68 becomes really a good score then, like it should be around this tough course.  At the moment there's no breeze at all, so as I say, we're just shooting at the flags.  They're probably going to tuck the flags tomorrow and with a bit of breeze, it will make it a little bit tougher.  
 
Q.  In the past year or so a player of your caliber who's won majors and all, when you don't do some of the things that you are used to doing, has it been difficult not to get too down on yourself?
 
ERNIE ELS: Yeah, it's been difficult this year.  To be honest with you, I've been in a little bit of a down this year.  And it's the nature of the game sometimes.  You don't always play the way you can play and the way you want to play, and that's kind of been my year this year.  A lot of times I've got in my on way and been trying too hard sometimes to win.  When you see guys  -- there's a lot guys out here this year who's won twice, and I'm still trying to win one.  So it's a little frustrating.  It's always been the case with my game where I felt that when I'm on my game, it just feels kind of easy.  And this year it hasn't been that easy. 
 
Q.  Do you think that the top players this year, the top pack have closed the gap on Tiger a little bit?
 
ERNIE ELS: He played unbelievably for 18 months.  The whole year last year he was unbelievable.  And at the start of this year again he was unbelievable again, until after the Master's.  And he's won the World Series since then, not playing very well.  But coming back to your question, it's difficult to say.  When he's on his game, he's still going to be tough to beat.  He hasn't been on his game and he hasn't played maybe as much as he wanted to, I guess, with all this stuff happening in the world.  So I think everything in perspective, I think he's had a brilliant year.  And guys like David, I must say, has come on strong.  He's been a great player for five years now, but a guy like Phil Mickelson, unfortunately for him, he hasn't won a major,  but he's definitely up there with Tiger at the moment probably.  
 
Q.  Maui in January is pretty much has been a given for you for seven or eight years now, or however long.  What kind of source of pride is that, that streak you have going over there?
 
ERNIE ELS: Well it's been on my mind since I have come over here, and last week I missed the cut, so that wasn't much of a help.  And I feel like I'm swinging the club well, and today I made some putts.  But it's been a good run since '94, and if it comes to an end, that's one of those things.  But I've had my chances to win this year, and I didn't take advantage of my chances, definitely.  So if it doesn't happen, it's one of those things.  It was a good run.  But I'll just start all over next year.  
 
Q.  After this week what do you have planned for the remainder of the year?
 
ERNIE ELS: I've got the World  Cup  in Japan with Retief Goosen.  Then I am playing the Australian Open and The Million Dollar in South Africa, and I might play one tournament before Christmas in South Africa off the tour. 
 
Q.  Are you going to do anything to relax?
 
ERNIE ELS: I just kind of had my four weeks off in September.  I went back home and I was kind of  -- it was actually five weeks, including the American Express tournament.  So I've had my off-season, and I'll have about three weeks off in December and drink some beer.  
 
Q.  When Tiger had his down streak in '97 when he only won twice he kept saying, "I'm a better player now than I was" -- I'm sorry '98, he said, "I'm a better player now than I was in 1997." 
 
 
Q.  Are you a better player now than when you won your two Opens?  I've been told that you're hitting the ball better now than you did in that stretch.
 
ERNIE ELS: I feel like I'm swinging the club, I know what I'm doing with the golf club now a lot better than I did in '97 or before that.  So I think I understand my game a little better.  Maybe that comes with aging a little bit.  The way I'm playing  -- I'm not scoring the way I'm playing.  Let's put it that way.  I think I've hit the ball a lot worse and scored a lot better and walked off the 18th with smiles on my face and nowadays I feel like I'm playing, I'm hitting it that good, and then I walk off the 18th green feeling frustrated.  So that's a bit tough to take.  But maybe I'm a little bit hard on myself.  But it's also okay, I guess.  But I feel like definitely I'm a better player than I've ever been.  And it's just a matter of putting everything together at the moment.  I'm not too far off. 
 
Q.  That smile that you had when Lawrie holed that putt from the valley of sin.  What was that smile saying?
 
ERNIE ELS: Well, at first I thought it was a good putt and then realized that I lost the tournament.  (Laughter.) And I just kind of -- that's just kind of the way it's been going, I guess.  It's just -- you can't do much more to win a tournament and then he holes it from the valley of sin.  So it's one of those things.  
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
ERNIE ELS:  Next year. 
 
ERNIE ELS: All right, guys.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT