U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2000
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. When we started out, it was pretty calm out there. And it seems like
when we got to the 7th hole, the wind started blowing. By the time we got to No. 10, I was
hitting a 2-iron for my second shot after a good drive. I played well. I made some good
saves, but -- I knocked in on that second shot for No. 4 for the eagle, and I birdied No.
6, the par-5. I was 3-under through 6. Then I kind of got my head down and played my way
back into the clubhouse. I made, I think, three birdies and a bogey from there. So 68, I
have to take. It's probably one of the best rounds I've played in major golf, considering
the weather conditions. And I've got half a chance. 
 
Q. Ernie, Tiger Woods is 8 strokes ahead of the rest of the field. Is it a good thing
for Tiger to be this dominant?
 
 ERNIE ELS: Is it a good thing for Tiger?  
 
Q. Is it good for golf for Tiger to be this dominant?
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I would say so, yeah. It seems like -- let's think now, in the '60s
you had Palmer, in the 70's, Nicklaus, and the '80's, Watson. Seems like we've really got
a dominant figure in golf, in any sports, with Tiger Woods. He's probably the most
recognizable sportsman on the planet right now. And it's always good for us; it's good for
me. It brings in sponsors; it brings in a lot of media, a lot of people. Seems like golf
has really taken off with him coming through. David Duval has helped it a lot. Sergio and
some other players. But it would be even better for golf if someone could step up and play
with him. It's very difficult to do. He's a great player. But to come back to the
question, this is good for golf. 
 
Q. You just talked about somebody stepping up. Do you feel like you stepped up today
and made a little bit of a statement?
 
 ERNIE ELS: I played a good round of golf. It wasn't like I was playing with him or we
were on the same score. I was trying to get myself back in the tournament more than
anything. I've had my run-ins with Tiger in the past, but I haven't had enough of those
run-ins with him. I'd like to get more of those battles with Tiger. I think it's
definitely good for my game. And hopefully tomorrow I have half a chance, if he doesn't
run away this afternoon. 
 
Q. What will he have to come back to, to feel like you're within range?
 
 ERNIE ELS: Who knows around this place? I played with one of the world's best players
today, Colin Montgomerie. He played very well. He had two or three bad holes and shoots
79. Anything can happen out there. He made 11 shots today, but it didn't seem like that.
It seemed like he was playing good golf. You get off to a bad start, or if you have a
couple of bad holes on a stretch, anything can happen out there. But he's got to come
back, or somebody has to play really well this afternoon. I don't even want to say.
Probably five, six shots -- I don't know. Anything right now. I have to play as good
tomorrow.  
 
Q. Considering the conditions you just described, with the weather, the course the USGA
set up, how impressive are the scores, the fact that he's 8-under at this point?
 
 ERNIE ELS: I'd like to see how he's going to play No. 12. The wind is blowing
left-to-right. The flag is just over the bunker -- probably five yards over the bunker,
not even. I hit this beautiful 4-iron, I thought, and it flew right by the hole, pitched
maybe a foot from the hole, and I had to fish it over the green and play it from there.
Some of these holes coming in, it's very, very difficult. The golf course is probably
fair, but the way the golf course is designed and the way the greens are set up this year,
it makes it awfully tough to get the ball close to some of these holes. If you don't score
on your scoring holes, you're in trouble. 
 
Q. Ernie, go through the first couple of days, what worked and what didn't work, that
you ended up plus-five?
 
 ERNIE ELS: Well, the first day I wanted to keep playing. We were on the 11th fairway,
and the Maggert group was behind us. They were on the 10th tee still. We were just about
to play our second shots up to the green, and the USGA official with us held us back and
said we were in suspension. And we were like -- not overly surprised, but I was a little
surprised, because we played our 10th hole, we could barely see the flag. But we knew in
our group, Lee Janzen and Bob Estes, as many hours as we played on that, we played,
because it was perfect. When it was called, at that time, I just felt it was a bad
situation, because that next -- I just felt that I don't even have to see the flag. I just
wanted to play, because it was calm. And I felt I had a bad break there. And the next
morning, I came back, I was ready to play. And we got out to the golf course, I think it
was 7:30, and I didn't even come back to hit balls. I just stayed back at the putting
green for another hour and then went straight out there. I could have made a mistake. And
I shot 40 on the back nine. That was the only bad stretch I had in the tournament was that
round we had to finish on the first day. And I felt like I really shot myself in the foot
there. And I played pretty well yesterday and shot 2-over. 
 
Q. In retrospect, you wish you would have gone back to the range, or why didn't you?
 
 ERNIE ELS: Well, I felt we were on and off like five times. And I thought -- I didn't
think we were going to go out there and play. I thought we were going to be out there
until 11:00. I was speaking to some of the locals around the putting green, and they said:
"This is going to be here until noon." And I took their word for it.  
 
Q. Given this is the Open, not The Masters, and Pebble Beach, not Augusta, is this more
impressive in a way than what Tiger did at Augusta?
 
 ERNIE ELS: Well, you have to look at this way: I feel that Tiger has the best end of
the draw. His end of the draw had it a lot easier than me. I don't want to sound like a
cry baby here, but that's the way I see it. Yesterday, playing 10, I was hitting a 3-iron
there. When I watched on television yesterday, he was going with an 8-iron. I know he's
long. But I was seeing Thomas Bjorn was hitting a 3-iron off of 9. But he's played
awesome. Even that first day to shoot, I think -- was it 5-under the first day? And then
yesterday, playing so awesome. He's the best player in the world. But let's see now. 
 
Q. Ernie, can you talk about the 8, 9, 10 stretch with the wind?
 
 ERNIE ELS: Well, 8 is downwind, but it's the smallest target out there. I couldn't keep
an 8-iron on the green today. It went through the green. You've got to try to almost get
it short of the green and putt uphill, make 4 and run. But then 9, I hit a 4-iron in
there, hit front left, so you can't get close to the flag. And 10, so-so driver. I hit a
2-iron for my second shot. And it's such a small target. I left it short of the green. And
then 11 -- even 11, back down the breeze. The green is so firm, if you hit it past the
flag, you have a really tough putt. And I mentioned 12. I think that's the tough stretch
today. 
 
Q. Ernie, Tiger, he's hit one into the water at 18. He has a triple bogey, and he's
still up by 8. How frustrating is that for, I guess pursuers? Does that get into your
minds, like what's it going to take?
 
 ERNIE ELS: He's always making a lot of birdies. To have the mistakes he's made, you
have to make birdies. And that means he's hitting it very well. I don't know of any player
this week who ever made a double bogey, at least. That's just the U.S. Open; that's
normal. We all know how easy it is to make a bogey. But as I said, to still have an 8-shot
lead after making those mistakes, he's making a lot of birdies. And as I said, that's
hitting it well and putting very well.  
 
Q. Do you feel like you're back in this thing, in the tournament?
 
 ERNIE ELS: Well, I have to believe that, yeah. As I've said before, anything can happen
out there. But it seems like Tiger is so solid at the moment. I don't know what it's going
to take.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT