BUICK CLASSIC
June 10, 2000
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ERNIE ELS: Getting tougher. You know you can see the breeze really picked up this
afternoon a little bit, and the golf course is starting to look like -- almost like a U.S.
Open type of place. It's starting to play fast. There's a lot of rough still from the rain
they have had here in the past, and if you don't keep it in play, you know, you're not
going to score very well. The greens are very undulating and when they play this firm and
fast and you haven't got too many birdie putts, even when you hit it really close you've
still got to bury a lot on the putts. I kind of said to my caddy, "Maybe it's good
that the wind blows, because if it was very calm the leaders could have pulled away from
us a little bit." Conditions suited us today.  
 
Q. Can you talk about 18? Were you frustrated by not making a birdie? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: I was really frustrated. I guess I showed it a little bit. I thought I hit a
good second shot in there. I wanted to keep it under the wind. I just, you know I guess
the green was firmer than I thought and it just went through. And I had a really tough
lie, but, you know, having played U.S. Opens and having played this course, you know, I
should have probably played a better shot than that. I just felt that I got a bad break
and I probably didn't concentrate as hard as I should have. Those are the kind of things
that happen to you out there now. If you're not precise now you might be looking at a
bogey quickly. 
 
Q. Are you happy considering the Open is next week that the course is like this? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. I think if you look at the conditions today, this will be a really
good day at Pebble Beach. We all know how the wind can blow there and how hard it can get
there. You know, I don't try and think about the U.S. Open, but when you see conditions
like this, it kind of crosses your mind a little bit and when you play well, yeah, you're
going to take confidence in there, anyway. I'm still trying to think about this golf
tournament. 
 
Q. Do you think fans enjoy it more when recognizable names like you and Phil are at the
top of the leaderboard going into the final round? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: It was fun playing with Phil today. It's always nice playing with one of the
world's top players. You know, we've kind of -- we've been playing golf ever since we were
teenagers. It was fun playing with him, and I could see the galleries getting a little bit
larger on the back nine as we were kind of making a run at the leaders. Yeah, it makes it
fun when it's like that. 
 
Q. Are today's conditions more like the Westchester Country Club that you're used to
over the years? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, this is more like it. You know, today you had to play well to shoot
under par. You know it seems like when this place is soft like it was the first couple of
days, you know it seems like just stick it at the flags. The guys are pretty good out
there when it's soft you just go at the flags all the time. Now with these small
undulating greens, if you're not on your game now, it's going to show. 
 
Q. Was the wind tougher today or yesterday? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: It was blowing a bit more today. But it seems like on quite a few holes, it
actually helps you. On a couple of the par 5s it maybe helps you to get the ball on the
green in two. It's not a very difficult wind, let's put it that way.  
 
Q. Is it like a two-club, three-club? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: No. Maybe a club wind. 
 
Q. Were you in between clubs on 18? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. I was thinking 5-iron at first, and then as soon as the wind -- seemed
like the wind really picked up and I was about to play and I watched Phil's shot come up
short there and I could see his caddy signalling to the guy, he said, "Hit
4-iron." Phil is about half a club stronger with his clubs than I am and I thought
4-iron was perfect and I just hit it too good.  
 
Q. When you look at the leaderboard, are there names that you pay more attention to
than others? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Well, you know I tend to look at leaderboards quite a lot now. I like to
know where I stand and I look at other players, what they do. You know, you can't look at
guys not as well known as others any less than the well-known guys. You've got to look at
who is playing well and try and fend them off. 
 
Q. When you look up there, will you pay more attention -- if you were playing with Phil
today, would you check out where Duval is? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Definitely. That's why the leaderboards are out there. You look at who is
playing well and see what you have to do.  
 
Q. Playing your way into contention here going into the last round, now do you feel
pretty good about your plan and playing your way into the Open? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. Today I felt like I really played well. I mean, I really -- I left
some shots out there. I felt like I could have shot two, maybe three shots better. Then
again, I could have been the other way. So I am playing better. That is the best I've had
all week, ball-striking-wise and playing. I had a really good week two weeks ago at
Memorial and it seemed like last week was kind of in -- in neutral the whole week. So it's
nice, yeah. It feels like my game is coming around and I'm looking forward to next week.
But, you know it's a lot of work next week. I've got to take it easy going into next week. 
 
Q. Do you need a win at all for your confidence or is it just enough to know that
you're playing well tomorrow? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: A good question. I feel like I'm playing well enough to win. And especially
on this golf course, I know how to win here. A win would be great for me right now. I
haven't won since last year February, and I've been close a couple of times, but a win is
always an unbelievable confidence booster. If you look at the way Phil played today, makes
double-bogey on 16 and then he knocks it in on 17, that's what confidence does, you know.
You just kind of -- you can always bounce back and you know that in the back of your mind.
So, yeah, tomorrow is -- this one is important for me. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.) -- that you know how to score on this golf course?
 
 ERNIE ELS: I started off quite slow. I didn't make a birdie until 5 and I 3-putted on
5. Then I was still seven shots behind Dennis, and I knew -- I kind of kept on saying to
my caddy, "I want to get to 8-under," and I almost got it to 8-under; I would
have been leading right now. This kind of course, you've just got to keep playing, keep
plugging away. 
 
Q. Going into tomorrow as you tee off, what does having won here twice do for you
mentally? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Well, it's got to give you confidence. I think more than anything, I think
the golf course is starting to play to it's full potential now. I think you'll see guys
that are really playing well coming through tomorrow, if it stays the same. I've just got
to go out there and play my game, try and do my thing, and hopefully get off to a decent
start and kind of play myself into this tournament tomorrow -- tomorrow afternoon, and,
you know, see what happens. Might get hot early. Who knows. I've got to just try and play. 
 
Q. How much did the family take away from your golf focus? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: No, more than anything, I come to the golf course in a very good mood
nowadays. Mentally, I'm as ready as ever to play, and family life is really good. I think
last year was a big change in a lot of golfers' lives out there, like Phil and myself.
Right now, we're in the groove and we know what we have to do, and it's great having a
family. 
 
Q. Did you feel that it took away your focus a little bit from golf? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: It's just like I said, last year was a change in the life, yeah, so maybe it
did.  
 
Q. Did the good final round at Memorial take some sting about what happened in the
third round there or does that still stick with you at all?
 
 ERNIE ELS: Third round at Memorial? What happened there? (Laughs). That was great
watching that. That was a good display of ball-striking. I felt pretty good about my score
that day after my start. You know, as I say, it was nice watching it.  
 
Q. Do you feel that people here pull for you to win because they know you because
you're a two-time winner? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. Yeah, there's quite a few people out there that I can feel pulling for
me quite a lot. It's nice, you know being a foreigner and playing in America and kind of
having a home crowd. You know, it's nice, I think Phil still gets the bigger cheers, but
it's nice having some people follow you.  
 
Q. Can you go over the birdies real quick? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Birdies -- started with a bogey. I 3-putted on 4 from about 35 feet for
bogey. 5th hole par 5 I hit a driver, 2-iron, front fringe and 2-putted about 40 feet for
birdie. 7 was a 2-iron off the tee, sand iron to about 12 feet. Holed that for birdie. 10
was a driver off the tee just short of the green. I pitched it up to a couple of inches.
13 was a driver, sand iron, to about 10 feet for birdie. 16, I hit 3-iron short of the
green. Pitched it up 10 feet short. Missed that; made bogey there. 17 was a 2-iron, wedge,
10 feet.  
 
Q. 14, how long was the putt and did you miss-hit it or misread it or what happened? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: I kind of did both. I misread it a bit and I pulled it a bit. I was hitting
it to go inside left, and I kind of pulled it to the left edge and the ball actually went
the other way. So the ball had no chance of going in. 
 
Q. Was that like six feet?
 
 ERNIE ELS: It must have been eight feet, yeah.  
 
Q. What was the yardage in on 18? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: 18, I had 185 front, 205 hole.  
 
Q. Do you usually play before the majors and how have you done in Pebble Beach in the
past? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: I normally play going into -- well it depends on when this tournament is.
But I normally play going into the U.S. Open and I normally play going into the British
Open. The others, I kind of look at the schedule. It's hard to answer that. It's just the
way I feel. Sometimes I feel like I need to play, like this time and other times I just go
to the place and have a couple of days off. 
 
Q. How about at Pebble, how much have you played there?
 
 ERNIE ELS: I haven't played there at all. I played it once. I played it once in the
Pebble Beach Pro-Am, and it was so soft and so calm, it was -- I mean, it's nothing like
what I'm going to find when I get there. 
 
Q. When was that? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: That was in '96.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT