BUICK CLASSIC
June 9, 2000
Ernie Els
Vijay Singh
Duffy Waldorf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Obviously, you've played well every time you come back here, fond memories, but
maybe today was not the way you wanted it to go?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, Westchester has a way of dealing out some pain, and today it was
dealing out some pain. Especially for me, on the 8th hole I had a little problem and I
missed a few short putts. But all in all, I stayed in the tournament. I had a good day
yesterday. With these kind of conditions, par is a pretty good score. 
 
Q. I know it wasn't the exact same situation last year, but obviously with Dennis
leading and you're still in contention, do you think about that at all? 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, I feel like -- I'm just happy to be in contention. After having
such a good year last year, you don't always expect that you're going to have to come back
and play as well. Exciting to have that good round yesterday. I'm just happy to be around
the lead. If you can just stay a few shots from the lead, anything can happen. 
 
Q. What did you think of the course today? 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Well, I think the wind became a pretty big factor. The greens got drier.
They were a little harder to putt in the afternoon, and the wind obviously was a big
factor. I think it switched a good quarter-turn from where it was when we teed off on No.
1 to No. 18. It was quite variable. 
 
Q. Will this be good preparation for next week for the U.S. Open?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: It's good preparation. You get to hit some shots. You get a lot of
gut-checks out there. Hit the ball in the fairway, hitting some really tough greens, tough
pins, and really there's no better way to prepare for the U.S. Open than right here. 
 
Q. Do you look forward to coming here?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: Yeah, when I get off the plane, I get a little smile on my face. I love
the people. I love the town. It's like being on vacation. 
 
Q. Can you figure out why? 
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: No, I don't try to figure it out. I'll just take what I can get. I've
always liked New York. I think other guys who are on the TOUR don't love New York as much
as I do, so that's probably why.  
 
Q. How are the greens today?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: They were tough. A little inconsistent. Some were -- they were firming
up. Some were getting real hard. Others were just not so hard, and I thought they were a
little hard to putt. They were a little bumpy. Overall tough conditions, I think. I didn't
see a lot of putts go in today.  
 
Q. Were the conditions a little different from yesterday?
 
 DUFFY WALDORF: I think the golf course, because the wind is drying things out, got some
heat. And the greens were kind of in between they were kind of soft yesterday, and now
they are kind of sort of soft but getting firmer and so they get a little bumpy because
there's a lot of grass there still. So definitely is a much tougher day to putt today. 
 
Q. Your comments on the conditions this afternoon?
 
 VIJAY SINGH: The greens are a little faster than it looks. A little faster on the
putting greens we've been putting on, and the wind it makes a lot of holes very tricky. I
mean, club selection is very difficult.  
 
Q. Your comments on the conditions this afternoon?
 
 ERNIE ELS: The wind was blowing all day at a pretty good pace. And playing this golf
course, when the wind is blowing is not all that easy, you know. I made some silly errors
on easy holes; otherwise, I played well. So I felt like I really played very well to shoot
69.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT