MCI CLASSIC
April 15, 2000
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 ERNIE ELS: I started with a birdie. I birdied the 2nd hole and gave it straight back on
the next hole. I missed a little 3-footer on the next hole, and then I birdied 4 and 5. I
had hit a really good putt on 4 to really get me going, and I birdied 8 and 9. So I played
a very, very good front nine, and played very solid the back nine. I got it up-and-down
some holes, but I was missing birdie putts. So all in all, it was a pretty good round. I
got myself in position for tomorrow, and kind of felt I had to shoot the score I did today
to have a chance. A little surprised I've got a two-shot lead, but hey, I'll take it.  
 
Q. Once you had a big lead, were you playing a little more conservatively on the back
side?
 
 ERNIE ELS: No, not at all. You know, I don't think I had a big lead. I think it was
only three the whole afternoon on the back nine. You know, you're not really thinking
about taking a lead in the third round. There's a lot of golf to be played. Today, again,
you know, golf showed how crazy it can be. You know, I birdied 8, Davis bogeyed 8, and I
got a two-shot lead. And I birdied 9 and he bogeyed 9 again. So it was four shots in two
holes. You know, this golf course can do it to you. You've just got to keep on plugging
away and hit fairways and hit greens and try and make birdies. It's like there is no real
lead out there, you know, until the back nine.  
 
Q. Is this as well as you've played this spring, meaning this week and last week? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I think so. I've always felt that I've been quite close, even at The
PLAYERS Championship. Although I shot a 75 in the final round there to finish 20th, I felt
like things were coming around. And I worked with David Leadbetter the week before at
Augusta on a couple of things, and obviously, the last round at Augusta, I thought
everything really fell into place there, except for my putting. And I kind of brought it
here this week. So I'm trying to enjoy it, I'm trying to play hard, and I'm trying to stay
focused. So everything goes according to plan, good; but it's still early in the year.
There's still a lot of golf to be played. 
 
Q. What kind of things did you work on with Leadbetter? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Just a couple of things. Not really big swing changes or anything like that.
It was just alignment, got out of sync a little bit, my ball position. And if those basic
fundamentals get out of whack, you know, you can do some bad things in your swing, and
that's kind of what happened. Just got to keep everything more in line, get more
comfortable over the ball. 
 
Q. How come you went back to Leadbetter? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: You know, it's not -- I don't want to say -- I see him quite often anyway,
and I practice there at the golf course quite a lot. You know, we started talking a little
bit, and, you know, started working with him. I asked him a couple of things, and he
helped me out. You know, I'm keeping my options open. 
 
Q. Do you mind telling us what happened with the photographer on 3?
 
 ERNIE ELS: It wasn't one of the local guys on Tour -- that is, it wasn't one of the
regular guys on the Tour. He obviously hasn't been on the golf course too often in his
life. You know, he just snapped way too quick. I was over the putt, and he was taking
pictures, and I should have backed away. But, I mean, as professional players, we are not
used to that because the guys, there are regulars on Tour. They know what they are doing.
That never happens with them. So I kind of knew it wasn't the regular guys. It had to be a
guy that doesn't really follow golf very often. But he got me, and I just totally --. 
 
Q. Did he click before you even started your stroke?
 
 ERNIE ELS: I was -- it was kind of when I was over the ball, he was clicking, and even
as I was hitting the putt, he was still going. The guy was -- I don't know where he comes
from. On Tour, I don't know why we -- there are guys like that on Tour, because that just
-- I can't really be angry at the guy, either, because he just doesn't know. I mean, it's
a good thing it happened on 3, because he would have done it all the way around probably
if I didn't catch him there.  
 
Q. Did you ask him if he was at Augusta last week? (Laughs). 
 
 ERNIE ELS: No, no, no.  
 
Q. What did you say to him? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: I just kind of coached him through it a little bit, you know (Laughter.). I
said to him, you know, you have to take a picture after I've played the shot, you know. So
I kind of just -- I was just honest with him, and he was honest with me. He said, you
know, "I'm sorry. I mis-timed it." I said: "I know you did."
(Laughter.) And he just didn't know.  
 
Q. Which putt was that? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: It was on 3.  
 
Q. The little one? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, it was a little three-foot.  
 
Q. Did he go the rest of the day with you? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I saw him around a little later on again. He was better then.  
 
Q. What does it do when you see the scores that were going out this morning when you're
getting ready to hit the course? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Well, it tells you that the golf course is there to be taken. I knew the
course was going to be a lot softer and without hitting greens, the guys are pretty good
out there. They are going to shoot low. I knew the conditions would be good. But it puts a
little added pressure on you. You know you've got to go out there and perform. And the
third day in a tournament is normally the moving day. And especially on a beautiful day
like today. Scoring average must have come down to about 69 today. It puts a little added
pressure on you, but at least you know conditions are perfect for scoring. 
 
Q. Any thoughts as to why Davis wasn't able to keep up? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: No. He just hit a bad chip shot on 8; and, you know, he pulled his tee shot
on 9 a little bit. And that's, you know, a tough hole when you're not in position. Just
tried to get maybe too much out of the second shot and made bogey there. I mean, this golf
course can do that to you. You just lose a little bit of focus and, you know, you can make
some bogeys. That's the only three holes he's played bad in the whole tournament so far.
I've played with him three days, and I came back strong in the end.  
 
Q. Is it tougher to stay patient when you're putting well and everything is going? Do
you find yourself, is it hard to wait for the next birdie? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. I felt like that on the back nine. I felt like you've got to -- just
keep on hitting fairways and greens, and just let the birdies come on their own. If you
keep trying to push yourself -- I tried to push it a little bit, felt really comfortable
out there. So I tried to make some putts, and I just -- you know, I got it close on a
couple of times, but not close enough. 18, especially, with a 7-iron, and I missed the
green. Good putt on 16 and 15. But, you know, when you're ahead, they have got to come out
and get you. So I was trying to play solid golf, and I was starting to push it a little
bit.  
 
Q. Can you quickly run through your clubs on 4, 5, 8, 9, and the putts? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: 4, I hit a 5-iron to about 25 feet behind the hole. 5, driver and 3-wood
just through the green. Pitched it to about eight feet; made that. On 8, I hit driver and
4-iron. That was a long putt, about 35, 40 feet down the hill. 9 was 3-iron, and a 9-iron
to about 15 feet. 
 
Q. When you lost in the playoff to Tiger, you said that you were going to really
rededicate yourself to trying to return to that level. Have you been able to do that so
far? Have you been able to do that so far, and would a win sort of validate what you said?

 
 ERNIE ELS: You know, the way Tiger played was -- or the way he's playing, he's been
playing like this for a long time. And it just seems like when he plays, he wins. It kind
of makes people think it's easy to win out here on Tour. I guess when you're on such a
high with so much talent like Tiger has, that winning becomes a habit. When you haven't
won like me, for almost a year now on this Tour, it feels like you've got to work a little
harder to get back there. You know, I've felt like that for quite some time. And as I've
said before, you know, I've felt that my game is a lot closer than it seems. Previous
weeks, I've kind of gone my own way -- like at TPC I was right there, but in that final
round, even at Doral and so on. But that's just the way it is, when your confidence is low
at times, you try a little harder and things don't quite happen all that easily. So I knew
that -- I knew I could get myself out of it with just a lot of hard work. And I've put the
work in, so I guess it's time for it to pay off.  
 
Q. If you were in this situation on the European Tour, would you approach it
differently than what you're going to do tomorrow? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: No. I don't see any reason why. You know, you've got to do your own thing.
You've got to try and hit the shots, play the shots, and play your own game.  
 
Q. Did you get the feeling Davis made a little statement that he's not going to go away
very easily there on 18 -- 17 and 18? 
 
 ERNIE ELS: Yeah. He made that great par on 11. I think it made him feel a lot better.
He got an awful break there, but he made a great par on 11. And then he played solid
coming in. So he almost holed the last two shots, 17 and 18, so he's probably going to
shoot the a low one tomorrow. So I would watch him. 
 
End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT