THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 1996
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 WES SEELEY: 71, 70, 65, for 206, 10-under par.  At the moment
one of several 10-under stars, Ernie Els.  Well, what was different
today?

 ERNIE ELS: Well, I needed a change.  I haven't played very well.
 This is my fourth start in the states this year and, you know,
really I missed the cut at Doral, didn't play very well there,
but, you know, at Bay Hill and even New Orleans, I didn't hit
the ball all that badly.  I just found I couldn't make a score
and got really down on myself a little bit, and started trying
too hard, and I really didn't enjoy it. But even this week again,
the first two rounds nothing really happened for me.  Kind of
had a tough day yesterday; just almost didn't make the cut.  I
was even par with about nine holes to play, and I played quite
nice.  But today, everything just swung around - just amazing
how this game of golf works sometimes.  You think you can't get
it going, all of a sudden everything happens for you.  The guys
won't believe me now that I was saying I wasn't making any putts,
and I  made everything today.  Everything kind of changed around
for me today.  And I think this round will really kick start me
for the rest of the season, I guess, for the next week, at least.

 WES SEELEY: Why don't you tell us about all these birdies.

 ERNIE ELS: Well, I started on 1.  I missed a putt from about
twelve feet for birdie.  Second hole, I missed the green just
left, pitched it on, made about a 12-footer there for birdie.
 Number 4, I hit a wedge to about twelve feet, again, made that
for birdie.  Number 6, I hit 3-wood off the tee and 9-iron to
about 15 feet, and made that for a birdie.  And number 7 was a
drive and a 5-iron from about seven feet, for birdie there.  8
was the longest putt of the day.  I hit a 2-iron, short over there,
pin-high 40 feet left of the flag and knocked that baby in.  And
my next one was on 11, hit a drive and 3-wood just left of the
green and pitched it up to about five feet; holed that for birdie.
 And then 16, I hit a drive and a 3-iron and just into the left
-- I just missed the green left and I had a tough shot from there,
and I decided to putt it  and hit it to about three feet, and
holed it there for birdie.

 WES SEELEY: How long was the putt from off the green?

 ERNIE ELS: About 40 feet.

 WES SEELEY: Questions.


 Q.   Did you fiddle with anything the last, I guess, couple
of days, or change any clubs or do anything differently?

 ERNIE ELS: Well, I changed my putter for the third time in three
weeks.  Finally I got the right one, I think.  And I changed the
driver to a different make, and it's the same make as when I won
the U.S. Open with.  So, hopefully get something going there.
 Otherwise, I have really been working hard at my game, though,
last couple weeks.  I have been really hitting a lot of golf balls
and worked a lot at my short game and, you know, as they say,
it takes time for all that to start working for you, you know,
and hopefully, it is starting to work out.  The big one is in
two week's time; hopefully, I can really start getting my game
together and get better as time goes by.

 Q.   What is the putter you are using?

 ERNIE ELS: I have got a Ping still, but it is  a Ping Anser 2.
 I was putting with a Ping Anser.  And I changed last week, last
round.

 Q.   The driver?

 ERNIE ELS: The driver, I have changed brands (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)
Say no more.

 Q.   Do you think 10-under -- can you talk about this round
kick starting you for the rest of the season, but how about tomorrow,
do you think 10-under is going to be too far back today or --

 ERNIE ELS: Well, the golf course is out there -- as I said before,
is out there, you know, for low scoring, I guess, low scoring.
 It is soft and you can get at -- to all the flags if you are
hitting the ball well off the fairway.  Hopefully, I think I will
be within four or five of the lead, I am sure.  It is going to
take another good one tomorrow.  But I am really happy to be back
in the tournament again, to feel like I am playing in the tournament
again instead of hacking it away for last place.  So I am quite
excited and, you know, there will be a good taste for me tomorrow.
 I haven't been in contention in the U.S. all year.  This is my
fourth tournament, but I haven't been up there at all.  So it
is going to be good, you know, biggest purse of the  year, so
everybody is going to be playing hard.

 Q.   What did you think of the purse increase? Were you surprised
by the --

 ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I was quite surprised.  That is a lot of money
to play for.  I think we are catching up to those tennis players
now. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)

 Q.   Did you have a figure in mind for the weekend, Ernie?

 ERNIE ELS: Yesterday?

 Q.   Yeah.

 ERNIE ELS: I was thinking I just wanted to get it under 70 to
start off with.  As I said, I haven't played anything good for
four weeks, but I think I need another low one tomorrow - depending
on the weather, obviously, and I think the flags are going to
be a lot harder tomorrow.  I have seen some spots out there for
tomorrow, and it is not as easy as today.  So, you know, last
round of a golf tournament, of this magnitude, I mean, you know,
everybody is going to be kind of tense out there and just -- just
got to try and keep your cool and hit your shots and be aggressive
as you can out there.  There is a lot of youngsters, so to speak,
out there, so it is even a bigger test for them. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)
I have been around quite a few years. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)

 Q.   Do you think those youngster guys will choke?

 ERNIE ELS: I am not saying that. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.) You are
saying that.

 Q.   Do you feel like a seasoned veteran?

 ERNIE ELS: No, I don't feel like a veteran, but compared to Justin
Leonard, yeah, the guy is like only 22 or something.  He is a
great player, but obviously got a very good head on his shoulders,
and you know, he is going to be a great player, and you know,
he can become a great player here already, if he wins here.  So
he has got it in the back of his mind like Tommy Tolles; like
everybody, I guess.  Everybody is talking about first-time winners,
so it is a bit of extra pressure on the guys, I think.

 Q.   Ernie, aside from all the birdies today, were the par
savers, those three in a row in the middle of the back nine, this
was really the key to your round, and is that different from showing
patience for you than, say, two, three years ago?

 ERNIE ELS: Definitely.  I think the putt I  made on 9, the save
I made on 9, I hit my third shot just over the green; went for
the flag there and made a really good save there; made about 8-footer
for par on 9.  I think that was just about my renowned savior
for the day because I was just getting on a good streak there.
 And then, obviously, on the back 9, as you say, I saved pars
on 13 -- excuse me, on 14, 15 and 12.  So made some good putts
on the back 9.  And yeah, I was really careful in the back 9.
 I wasn't as aggressive as I was on the front 9 because of, you
know, my form in the past three weeks.  I didn't want to mess
up my round, and I knew I was getting there and I didn't want
to make any bogeys.  So, I think tomorrow will be a little different.
 I might be a little bit more -- well, hopefully more relaxed,
but more sure of myself, you know.

 Q.   What has been the problem, putting or --

 ERNIE ELS: Just haven't been able to get a score on the board,
yeah.  Bay Hill, I really hit the ball well, you know, I hit a
lot of good shots, but didn't make a lot of putts and when that
happens, you try too hard and you know, confidence goes pretty
quick in this game; especially when you are not making putts on
the greens.  And it doesn't matter how good you are  hitting the
ball if you are not getting the ball in the hole, it doesn't really
matter.  So I was really struggling to keep my composure; to keep
my concentration out there, and you know, you don't want to get
into a slump or you don't want to talk about slumps, but you know,
after a couple of bad weeks, you lose confidence and that is what
happened to me a little bit.

 Q.   When you were 1 over, I think at one time, yesterday,
weren't you?

 ERNIE ELS: Yes.

 Q.   And then the obvious, jeopardy of missing the cut, what
was going on in here (pointing to head)?

 ERNIE ELS: It is hard to say now.  At that moment in time, I
can assure you, I wasn't very happy. But you know, what can you
do?  You can only try.  I was really trying hard; trying hard
to just keep on hitting good shots and trying to make putts. 
I was playing with Jim Gallagher and Steve Lowery and we were
all sort of on the same score, so one guy made a put; t it kind
of brought the other guys with and all three of us made the cut.
 We made -- played well on the back 9 yesterday and Steve -- I
see Steve had a good round today too, so, yeah it is hard, you
know, it is such a fine line between playing to make a cut and
playing to  lead the golf tournament.  It is a couple of strokes
early in your round and you are off and if it doesn't happen,
the cuts are so low nowadays, you know, you got to just stick
around and if you are here the weekend, you never know what can
happen, but you know, it is -- there is a fine line between leading
a tournament and just playing for the cut.

 WES SEELEY: Anything else?  Okay.


 End of FastScripts.....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT