COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 21, 2015
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   67 today, back to the future, Ernie Els is back.   Tell me about that putting stroke before we start, 5‑under 67, that's the way you used to putt when you first came out on Tour.   Have you ever been watching old videos?   
ERNIE ELS:   I don't have to answer anything (laughter) absolutely.   You know, last year was a year to get back into the short putter.   I was on the long putter, and last year I had to really convert back.   I started with a 37‑inch putter and I'm now down to a 35‑inch putter where I was back in my 20s, as you say.  
Yeah, I'm quite tall, and I like to put with my big muscles, the shoulders and the elbows and so on.   And the way I was standing with those long putter, the hands were taking over and that's when you start‑‑ it doesn't work that way.   So in any case, looked at some old video and it just feels really good.  
   
 Q.   It looks really good.   A golf course that suits you but is it fair to say when you start to roll a few putts in, the rest of the game, it's still there.   You're never going to lose it.   But once that ball is not afraid of the dark, you get it on the fairways and you get it on the greens; is that how you feel?  
ERNIE ELS:   That's it.   For such a long time, I've been quite a grumpy guy.   I'm actually not a grumpy guy.   I'm quite a happy guy.   But when you're not making putts, you can't help yourself.   You can't play the game if you're not making any putts.   
So today I didn't hit it that good with the irons but got the ball up‑and‑down.   I'm not feeling so tense and afraid of those short putts.   You know, we can play golf again.  
   
 Q.   5‑under par, first day late, you've got tomorrow morning so you can get off to a about start.   What are you expecting tomorrow from your game?  
ERNIE ELS:   Well, we've got to get going.   We're going to have beautiful greens obviously.   The ball is not going to go as far.   We can reach some of the par 5s today.   But yeah, it's all going to happen on the greens, get the ball on the greens and make some putts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT