HONG KONG OPEN
October 19, 2014
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the week?  
ERNIE ELS:   I obviously didn't play very well this weekend.   I think my finish yesterday, the bogey on 15 and 18, really cost me.   And physically, I've got to take care of this right hip.   I really don't hit it very well, so I've got to get that taken care of.  
Other than that, I had a wonderful time.   Great people, wonderful golf course, great shape, well run.   So all in all, I'm happy with the week.   
   
 Q.   WILL the hip keep you out of tournaments coming up?   
ERNIE ELS:   No, it won't but I've got to get it taken care of.   It's been bothering me for a while and it really got worse on the flight over here.   But I've got guys working on me.   
But no, I'll keep playing.   I can't come all the way out here and not play.   So I'll just bite the bullet and hopefully it gets better.  
   
 Q.   Coming up to the end of the season, where do you feel your game is now?   How has the year been?  
ERNIE ELS:   It hasn't been great, but with the new equipment, with Adams, it's really come around.   I love the putter.   I know I missed a couple here and there, especially yesterday, but I love the way I'm putting.   I like the way my game is coming around.   
I just have to get this physical‑‑ this hip going, and hopefully I'll be fine.   Hopefully it's even good next week.   If that's the case, I think my game is good enough to maybe scrape a win out before the end of the year.   
   
 Q.   Hong Kong Open has been confirmed for next year.   Your thoughts on that?   
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, brilliant.   I loved it this week.   I'd love to come back.   We have to check the date and so on.   I love the people here.   I love the golf course.   It's old‑school course.   I love it, I really do.   I'd love to come back, so we're going to have to check the schedule and make it work.   
   
 Q.   It's been pushed back a week, so it's going to be the final tournament before The Final Series.   Do you think that, Hong Kong and the two in China will help attract more?  
ERNIE ELS:   That's got to make sense, much better sense.   The schedule has been a nightmare for the guys.   They went Portugal and they come here and then they have to go to Australia.   It's crazy.   
So absolutely it makes sense to have this as the last event in the region and from here you move onto Shanghai or wherever we have to go.   So that will be brilliant.  
   
 Q.   Is the hip causing you problems in driving?   
ERNIE ELS:   Irons even.   The lower I go down, the more it catches.   So there's a nerve that's catching somewhere.   You know, I'm trying to loosen it up, but it's really sore.   So I'm going to get somebody to get an elbow in, kick me, do something.   
It really hindered me coming in.   You don't know if it's going to stay behind or come through.   It's been a bit of a problem.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT