HONG KONG OPEN
October 18, 2014
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Bit of an up‑and‑down day?
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I guess the ninth hole was quite a hectic hole.   I was contemplating to go down the left all week and eventually decided to do that today.   And obviously hit it a little high off the tee and hit the tree and I was actually lucky to make six there.   That really derailed things. 
Then I kind of put things together a little bit.   Obviously made eagle on 13.   Birdie on 14.   Then the last four holes, I missed putts on each hole.   So a little disappointing but I'm still in there with a chance.   I have to shoot a good one tomorrow.

Q.   Is the switch to the short putter; that just this season? 
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I started this season in January. 

Q.   Are you feeling the effect of that?
ERNIE ELS:   No, it feels good.   It really feels good.   Obviously I've missed a couple but to be honest I feel good.   The stroke feels good, the read, the stroke feels good.   I've just got to keep going. 

Q.   Was it just a case you couldn't get that run going today? 
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I hit a bad shot on 5, the par3.   It was only a 7‑iron and I left it to the right.   I left quite a few shots to the right.   I'm struggling with a bit of a right hip and it's tough to keep going forward.   There's a bit of pain there.   So missed a couple shots to the right, which cost me and then obviously a couple of putts.
So other than that, I'm fine.   Tomorrow I could be right in there tomorrow. 

Q.   Still well in touch and you'll be confident of challenging tomorrow?
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, obviously I'm disappointed now but tomorrow I'll be good to go and looking forward to 63. 

Q.   You missed a couple makeable birdies, how do you feel about it?   Will you do some practice? 
ERNIE ELS: Less you know, you can only hit it where you see it.   And today, 15, as I say, I missed it.   16 was a difficult one down the hill.   17 was a bad putt.   I pushed that one and 18 I hit it where I wanted to. 
So all in all, I think 80 per cent of them are really good strokes.   Just not going in so I've just got to be patient. 
Seems like I'm trying things this week that I don't normally try and it's cost me a little bit.   Coming in, I hit really good putt.   I just didn't make anything coming in unfortunately.   So a little disappointing but I've got an outside chance. 

Q.   Is there a reason why you might try things that you shouldn't normally be trying?
ERNIE ELS:   You know, it's there.   Like 4, it's hard for me.   I'm quite an attacking player.   When there's 255 yards to go on a par 4, I mean, come on, I'm going to try and have a go. 
And then on 9, down the left side, you've taken so much off the hole if you go down there but obviously I hit a tree right off the tee and things went haywire.   If junior golfers watched me play, play the percentages, you'll be okay.

Q.   You've said all along that you like the course and you liked what you saw.   But I suppose it tells you the respect the course needs. 
ERNIE ELS:   Absolutely.   I think obviously you've got to give it respect, play the course with the percentages and go from there.   I tried a couple of crazy things and didn't come off.   But I'm three shots behind Marcus, some really quality players ahead of me but I don't see there's any reason not to still go for it. 
Q.   What do you feel is necessary come the final day? 
ERNIE ELS:   Something low obviously.   I'm not sure what it's going to be.   See what the weather's like, but I'd like to go really low just for my own best wishes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT