HONG KONG OPEN
October 17, 2014
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I take it that's a nice way to celebrate your birthday with a round of 65?  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, thanks.   I played quite nicely and obviously 65 is exactly what I needed to do.   
The course is there for the taking, so we'll see if I'm leading by the end of the day.   But I'm looking forward to the rest of the week obviously in a good position.  
   
 Q.   Genuinely there for a taking; you have to think there's chance upon chance?   
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, when I'm on, I'm playing nicely.   I lost my concentration a little bit after the fourth hole, so I didn't play quite as good as I did at the beginning of the round.   So I'd like to improve on that.   But I feel really good about my ball‑striking.   I'm putting it nice.  
   
 Q.   Is that down to concentration?   
ERNIE ELS:   I think the shot was on but it wasn't really‑‑ I didn't really have to go for it.   So it was probably a bit of a mental mistake on my part.   But I was trying to squeeze something out of it and it didn't quite pay off.   I think put it down to a mistake, and move on from there.   
   
 Q.   You certainly had a sweet patch of four birdies in five holes?  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, exactly, that's why I say I really had a good run going.   The fourth hole was a bit of a bummer but, you know, I feel like my game's right there.   I love the golf course and I love the old style conditional golf that we play here, and the greens are great.   So if I'm on tomorrow, you know, we'll try and shoot something low.   
   
 Q.   I appreciate you say people can shoot low this afternoon, but you find yourself in a lovely position right at the moment.   Presumably that's what was required of today.   
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, especially after yesterday's good start, I needed to continue in that fashion.   Obviously I had it really going.   It could have been really low but I am where I am and I'm really happy with the way I've started this tournament.   I've got a good chance of having a good chance on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Will you allow yourself to celebrate a birthday?  
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, without any alcohol, you know, I'll have a bit of cake and go back to the hotel, have a shower, relax and see what we do for dinner tonight.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT