THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2014
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ERNIE ELS: There's a bunker on the left.  And actually on the practice rounds I was looking to maybe missing it left.  That is obviously what I did.  It's obviously a dangerous shot, and obviously that's what happened, I hit the guy right in the face.  And there was blood everywhere.  I felt pretty bad about it, because I was trying to hit it, you know, left, which I did.  And obviously I probably should have started to move the people left on the left side, but I didn't do that.  So I really felt bad hitting it there into the people.  And hurting the guy the way I did.  Hopefully he's better now.  But it wasn't very nice.Q. (Inaudible.)ERNIE ELS: Yeah, there's just no way.  I was thinking about him.  There's blood all over.  And I was quite rattled.  It wasn't nice.Q. That got in your head the rest of the round?ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I was kind of finished.  And then started missing short putts. It was a nightmare.  So I'd like to put it behind me.  I just hope the gentleman feels better, because he looked really bad when I left him there.Q. (Inaudible.)ERNIE ELS: Yeah, yeah.  I actually thought it was almost going left of the people, but I guess obviously not.  It was right in the face.  Anyway, you think the worst.  It was like a bullet coming at him.  So he must have been in total shock.  He didn't look very good.  So I did speak to him, and he wasn't feeling too good getting hit.Q. (Inaudible.)ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I'm sure.  Yeah, yeah, he was probably in his 60s.Q. (Inaudible.)ERNIE ELS: No.  Obviously I've hit before spectators but maybe in the leg or the back.  I've never hit a guy - you know, the ball is moving hard right to left - right in the face. I remember my buddy Frank Nobilo getting hit in the head, and basically ended his golf career.  (Indiscernible)  I don't know how many stitches.  It hit him right on the chin.Q. (Inaudible.)ERNIE ELS: I'm sure he did.  I'm sure he had to.  He was pretty badly injured.Q. (Inaudible.)ERNIE ELS: Yeah, I think I put the jinx on it.  Obviously I played the front nine in 7-over par, a perfect day, you know, and that's just unheard of.  I think I pulled him down a bit and we can play better tomorrow.Q. (Inaudible.)ERNIE ELS: Hopefully we'll get it tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT