MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Ernie Els
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ERNIE ELS:   We have had a lot of help from a lot of people. 

Q.   You said it feels like a long time, but five years from inception to now, probably in that world is pretty good.   So just tell me a little bit about your son and maybe how excited you are to see him go in a place like that and what it means. 
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I think that it's one of the reasons why we came here, it's a way you can raise money in this country.   Where they're at with research and everything with autistic kids is way ahead of everything else. 
But still we felt we could build a world‑class facility for kids and we found West Palm and a perfect spot.   So it will be a great facility and obviously it will be a satellite center for the rest of the world, so we can do research and teach these kids the way they should be taught. 

Q.   Tough day today. 
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, it's been tough.   Just made some silly errors here and there.   I'm actually driving it well, doing a lot of things well, but, yeah, just getting in my own way here and there. 
I missed some putts, missed some iron shots here and there.   But it's not playing that easy today.   I think you're going to see some high scoring.   Coming in you got nice flags, so the guys can maybe make some birdies coming in. 

Q.   Leishman said he had gotten to 5‑under, finished at 5‑over.   He just said that the winds were such that you might have it into you and then all of a sudden you would swing the club and then it's behind you. 
ERNIE ELS:   Exactly.   I mean, it's not like we haven't said it before, but it's actually happened.   I was on 16, we were almost in the same spot, me and Phil, on the fairway.   I hit 5‑wood and he went with a 5‑iron.   It just switched that quickly 180 degrees. 
So it can happen down there.   Down there on the bottom the flags are, a lot of flags are at the top, so it's not very easy.   So Bubba has played really well.

Q.   Does that surprise you, to go around here five birdies, basically seemed to have his way with it. 
ERNIE ELS:   Yeah, I mean, he's obviously doing the right things.   He's getting the ball up‑and‑down when he needs to and he's obviously making the putts and is just a little step ahead of the field at the moment. 
He's comfortable here and obviously the course really suits him.   Being a lefty, it's a great way to play this course.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT