AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2020
Lindsey Weaver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Another great day out there, just you, yourself and I.  Can you talk a little about your day?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   It was pretty good.  Didn't start off that great.  I made bogey on 2 but quickly made birdie to recover on 4.  So it was just playing pretty steady.  It always bites to bogey the last, but other than that, it was a pretty good day I thought and just hope that I can continue it into tomorrow.
 THE MODERATOR:   So lots of people have been commenting on you pulling your trolley.  Can you talk about how in some ways it's easier and some ways it's harder, what are the pros and cons of it.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yeah, so people have asked whether it's a lot of work to just kind of like do all my own numbers and rake all my bunkers and push and everything.  But it's fine for me.  It's kind of just like playing junior golf, college golf again.  It's just kind of like back to the basics, so it's kind of very different to be by myself, but normally, I usually take local caddies, so it's usually I kind of have almost a stranger there with me normally, so it's just me by myself.  It's fine.  I kind of like it.  It's definitely different, and I know a lot of people have different opinions about it, but it's working for me right now.
 Q. Normally under circumstances in a major championship, the par you made on 6 would have had rousing applause from galleries everywhere.  You didn't have that everywhere.  What is it like being out there, hitting a shot that you hole like that and then not having anybody around to cheer?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   It's different.  But I mean, there were a lot of people around trying to find my ball, so they clapped, so that suffices.  It would be nice to obviously have spectators here this week, but we're just lucky to be over here and be playing, so I think that's awesome in itself.
 Q. Has it helped you this week to kind of remain a little more even-keel not having the ups and downs of having a gallery around?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   I'm not sure.  It just feels kind of like back to junior golf and college golf where no one was really around and watching.  I haven't really made really a name for myself on the LPGA thus far, so I'm not really used to having crowds around, anyway.  So that's kind of how I see it.
 Q. Do you think you get fatigued a little bit more with your push cart at all?  Do you think as we get into the final round that it's more tiring, or no?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   I wouldn't say so.  I haven't really noticed a difference.  I mean, obviously once I am done at the golf course, I just go and rest for the rest of the day.  No real strenuous activity.  Normally when I'm on the road, I go and like work out, as well, so obviously I haven't been able to do that.
 So I wouldn't say so, no.
 Q. Your fiancé is competing this week, as well.  What's that been like?  I know he's playing right now, not really able to watch.  That must be killing him?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yes.  He is in Ohio right now.  My parents live there, so he's actually been able to stay with them, so he's been around our two dogs, as well, so I'm so jealous.
 Yesterday on his commute to the golf course, which is about 45 minutes, he would watch on YouTube TV and see me -- he said he saw me play.  So he watches while he's on his drive there, which is nice.  But it's just a constant -- a constant balance, especially with the time change now, and I know like last week, he was in Boise and so we were seven hours apart and now we are five hours apart.  It's a little more manageable, and it's always like he's finishing and I'm going to sleep and he's waking up and I'm on the golf course.  So it's kind of a weird dynamic.  It's just nice to have someone there to support you and be able to talk about who can relate so well.
 Q. If you had not gone to the final stage to Q-School last year, what would you be doing right now?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   So in college, I majored in finance.  So I wanted to do something within the finance industry, whether that be investment banking or just as a financial analyst.  And that's a big reason I moved to the Dallas area because the job market is so great.
 But yeah, I'm not doing that.  I'm here, so that's nice.
 Q. Good decision.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   So far, yes.
 THE MODERATOR:   Zach's already finished today and he's 2-under par today, so you can both talk about your rounds?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yes, he's still playing.  I just looked a little while ago.  He's 2-under through 13, so that's good, especially on that course.
 THE MODERATOR:   What does he think about you playing without a caddie?  Would he ever do the same.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   He doesn't really have a standing caddie, either, and I know he's picked up a lot of locals.  He has a caddie this week that he really likes.  But I'm not sure if he would be  --  I'm not sure, honestly, but it's a little different out on the men's tour with the way they interact and everything.
 THE MODERATOR:   During the lockdown, when you couldn't compete, did you play together.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Every day.
 THE MODERATOR:   And do you think that might have helped your game coming into this week?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yeah, it's always nice to practice together.  I hate practising by myself.  Growing up, I always had my sister.  When she went to college, that was a tough transition for me practising by myself.  I like to be around people and I get bored easily and in college it was nice having everybody there, too.  So Zach and I have been together for like 2 1/2 years since we started dating again.  So we'd practice together all the time and we were around the same club in Dallas, All-American, so it's just nice to have somebody -- and to watch him, and he watches me, it's a great thing we have going.
 Q. You inspired me to ask one more.  When you guys were practising together, you and Zach, are you competing?  Is there a game?  Or is it friendly?  What is it?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Well, I am more of the competitive one.  So we used to play against each other in high school all the time and I would always beat him, but since we got back together, he always beats me.  But I say that it's like never really fair because we always play par 5s from about the same length, and he hits it like 320 and so I never really feel like it's we will matched.  He's like, you're on the LPGA, you should be able to compete against me.  So we go back and forth a lot.  We are always playing games, like putting games and chipping games and short game stuff, and I always keep score around the course obviously, but he does not.
 Q. Did you beat him from the same tees in high school?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   No.  But we did -- no.  But we played in -- we would play in like inter-club tournaments against each other and we had the state championship in Arizona, and I did beat him, and that still irritates him to this day.
 THE MODERATOR:   Good one to end on.  Thanks, everyone.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT