MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 8, 2020
Lindsey Weaver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. So you really took advantage of moving day here at Highland Meadows.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   I did, yes.  I didn't make any bogeys, so that was good.  I had a couple good par saves.
 Yeah, it as pretty steady most of the day.  Felt like it was very gettable out there today, especially with 9 moved up and everything.
 So it was playing much firmer, especially today, especially in the afternoon.  Some greens were very, very firm.  So that was something that I had to keep in mind all day.
 Yeah, it was good.
 Q. I was going to say, what was maybe different between this round and the other two that you've played here?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yeah, so yesterday I played -- tee'd off at like 8:50, so I played in the morning, but it was definitely softer.  Drives were farther and iron shots were rolling out more on the greens and everything.
 I noticed even like warming up that the greens were a little faster as well.  I think that all kind of manifested itself on the golf course today, too.
 Q. Another day, another day with the push cart.  How has that been holding up for?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   I feel like everyone kind of makes fun of me for it, which is fine.  I don't really care.  But I don't have a standing caddie, so I just figured, you know, they said push carts are allowed.
 My mom was going to caddie for me but she has a wedding today so she couldn't, so I went with the push cart.
 Q. What's the plan for Scotland?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Push cart as well.  Push cart for the foreseeable future.
 Q. Well, it's working, so why not?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yes.  So I'll go two weeks to Scotland with the push cart, and then bring it to Arkansas as well.  I'm lucky we're not getting weighed on the way to Scotland though, because I picked this up from my parents' place because they live in Columbus.  My mom would've had to drive up and bring it back if I would've had to fly with it.
 So I'm lucky I get to keep her for a while.
 Q. The push cart was at your parents' house?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yeah.
 Q. That's hilarious.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Wouldn't fit, because we flew from Dallas.
 Q. Where?  Just in the garage?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yeah.  Oh, yeah.  My dad has like a whole -- like for me -- between me and my sister this whole like shrine basically is our garage.  It's like all these bags and bags and bags of golf clubs.  Still has all of our AJGA champion bags.  It really dates back quite a while.  These are all part of the archives.
 Q. It's good when parents pack rat for us.  You never know when you're going to need something.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   It's true.
 Q. So, beautiful ring.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Oh, thank you.
 Q. Tell us about your off-season.  You moved, didn't you?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   I did.  I moved to Dallas area.  Yeah, so it was a little crazy moving in the middle of a pandemic.  We had kind of a horror story.  We had picked up -- left everything in Phoenix.  We moved out of our apartment and were supposed to close on our house on the April 7th because it was the only week that we both had off.
 And so we were going to move to Dallas that week.  Our moms were going to come and help us out.  So we ended up just having to do it on our own because, you know, coronavirus, our moms couldn't travel.  And so we were -- it was all fine.  We were all set.
 So we got a new puppy as well, so he was in tow with us in my car and Jack was driving a big Penske.  He shipped his car and I was driving mine.  We caravanned the whole way, 15 hours to Dallas.
 We got Texas and the date -- less than 24 hours before we were supposed to close on our house, they were like, Yeah, you guys can't close on your house because you guys both are unemployed.  Because he plays golf, too.  You guys don't have a job.
 Because it's all income driven.  It doesn't matter how much savings you have.
 Q. Right.  And they don't know when you're coming back to work.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yeah, right.  Even though we have like projected dates and whatever, they were like...
 I mean, but it's like, well I might never go back to work if you think about it that way.
 Q. Yeah.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   But so we drove through the night to my parents' house, 16 hours, and additional 16 hours to Ohio.  We had the puppy so I was just like, well, just drive through.  I don't want stop again.
 So drove there and then took another -- we stayed at my parents house for about like a week and a half.  My dad had a co-sign on the house for us to be able to get it or else like, I mean, who would've known.  We would've had to start the search all over again.  We had to fly to Dallas in March just to like look at houses, so we would've had to start from scratch again and that was not something we were willing to do, so we just had him do that.
 So we moved.  Closed on April 20th and moved in then.  Yeah, it was kind of...
 Q. Why Dallas?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   So I wasn't sure about my future after last year.  I wasn't sure about my future with golf.  I didn't know how long I was going to stay out there, so I got a degree in finance.  So I wanted to -- job market is great in Dallas, especially for finance and banks and everything.  It's more of a central location.  Golf is really good.  You can be a become a really good wind player if you live in Dallas.
 Zach always said like when we were in Phoenix, because he was born and raised in Phoenix and I didn't know how keen he would be on leaving, but he was very receptive to the idea.  When we went and played the LPGA event at Old American, I was like, This place is so nice, Like this area is so nice, like we should move here.  Couple months later now we live there.
 Q. Wow.  So you actually practice out of that club?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Uh-huh, Old American.
 Q. Wow.  Look at that.  So how close are you to Old American?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   About 30 minutes.  It's a really easy drive, so, yeah.
 Q. So what made you decide to come back?  Like how close were you to not playing this year?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Well, I wasn't sure if I was going to go to Q-School last year and my mom was like, Please just go.  Give it one more shot.  I was just like mentally and like emotionally just not there.
 So I went and I got fifth, and so just decided to give it another year and just see how it would go.  I feel like it kind of helped me to just kind of be like, Whatever.  It's all going to like work out.  I didn't have to like put so much stress on myself and everything.
 So I've kind of taken that mindset into this year, and I feel like I've been more even keel than I used to be in the past.  So, yeah.
 Q. So with your lifestyles of both playing professional golf, it's an unusual thing you got to spend so much time together.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yeah.
 Q. That was a bonus, right?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yeah.
 Q. So what's your schedules like now for him playing and you?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   They started what, nine weeks ago.  He's been on the road for nine weeks straight and he came home to Dallas for like a day when they played in San Antonio.
 I went to caddie for him in San Antonio as well.  So we have seen each other for a couple of days total.  He's been on the road for nine weeks and they play seventeen straight.
 Q. How many is he going to play in a row?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   I don't know.  He really has to play well this week to get into next week, so he's on track for that right now.  Just depends on the weekend obviously.  It's so hard out there.  If you don't shoot like nothing you're getting left behind.
 Q. You still talk to him like every day once you're coming off the course, once he comes off?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Oh, yeah.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Yeah, he already knows how I finished.  Yesterday he texted me and was like, Finally.  18 took forever.  I was like, Yeah, there is a little bit of a wait.
 But, yeah, we talk literally 24/7.  That's the only way -- we are both independent personalities so we're used to being apart.  It's just part of the job.  It is what it is.  And I feel like it's easier that way to have someone who understand what you're going through and kind of sees into your mindset and everything.
 I think that's easier.
 Q. When will you see each other again?
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   I think he has the week that we're in Portland, which is also the week of my birthday, he is off, so I think --
 Q. That's a long time from now.
 LINDSEY WEAVER:   Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah, he asked me, he was like, Do you think I should go to Scotland?  Nope.  Nope.  I don't think you should go at all.  Not at all.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT