NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 22, 2011
Jeff Skinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 JEFF SKINNER: You win it and you somehow come up empty, it's unbelievable, I can't thank the people that helped get me here enough, really.

 Q. You weren't on the stage that long and you were apologizing for taking so long? 
 JEFF SKINNER: Yeah, forever, and when the crowd sort of started laughing and I didn't think I made a joke so I got a little nervous. I guess I wrapped it up a little quick. 
 I mean, I don't know, it's not something I'm used to doing, so maybe I should have practiced more. 

 Q. You thanked your team mates, did any of those guys give you advice before you headed out here about what to say? 
 JEFF SKINNER: No, I just got a text from bunch of them saying "good luck" and, I mean, those guys have helped me so much, the adjustment I think they made it so much smoother for me and they've supported me the whole way and it's been a lot of fun having them. 

 Q. They're going to say -- (No microphone.)
 JEFF SKINNER: Yeah, I guess they're going to have to tell me to step up to their level I guess, yeah. 

 Q. It's a bit of a crowning achievement on the season that you had, so many good things happening, the all-star game, you're going to be pinching yourself all summer now aren't you? 
 JEFF SKINNER: Yeah, it's a pretty crazy year for me, like you said, a lot of special memories, special moments. 
 I've been fortunate to have the year that I had, and I have a lot of people to thank for it. I'm really fortunate. 

 Q. What are you going to work on in the summer? You have a season like that a lot of people think you're stagnant, that's obviously not the case. What are you going to work on to be better? 
 JEFF SKINNER: I think there is a ton to improve, obviously from a team standpoint we don't want to be in the position that we were at the end of last year. From an individual standpoint you want to get stronger and faster like every other summer and get the proper amount of sleep and proper nutrition. 
 It's said over and over but I think it's said because it's so important and I think that's the biggest thing this summer. 

 Q. On the other side are you going to come up for air and take a little time thinking about what you gained the past year? 
 JEFF SKINNER: Yeah, just getting back home for the four or five weeks have been nice to get back into a regular routine, see regular faces and regular stuff around town and stuff like that. 
 It's nice to get home and back into a routine and start the summer off. 

 Q. What does this mean overall that you're here, for your family? 
 JEFF SKINNER: It's huge, like you said, we're really close, I'm glad they all got the chance to come. I remember just last year when I was at the draft, it was disappointing because two of them couldn't make it. 
 To have them here for this is really special. I think just because they played such a huge role and they don't really, I think, get the recognition that they deserve, and I can't thank them enough for everything. 

 Q. If we would have told you when you signed your contract at the RBC Center, would you have believed that? 
 JEFF SKINNER: No, I don't think so. It's been a long road when you look at everything that's happened, a lot of special memories.

 Q. You're the first rookie of the year in this organization's history all the way back to the start, anybody bring that up to you? 
 JEFF SKINNER: No, I guess now that you mention it I remember reading it. I was reading something along those lines but I hadn't thought of that. 
 That's -- again, an honor. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT