NHL DRAFT
June 25, 2010
Jeff Skinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Would you have thought a few years ago that you and Seguin would go this high playing together?   
 JEFF SKINNER: I knew when we played together he was a special player. When we were that young, I think it was more of a dream. We were just coming to the rink to have fun and play together.   
 So I mean, definitely congratulations to him. He's earned everything he's got. Yeah, I guess it's weird seeing it all come full circle like this, I guess.  
  
  Q. Can we talk about the rivalry between Tyler and Taylor? You think that with you in Carolina and Tyler in Boston, the rival's going to be between you two now?   
 JEFF SKINNER: I don't know. I guess. I hope so. I know he's a great player, and I have a lot of respect for him as a person and what he can do on the ice. Yeah, he's a great player, and I'm looking forward to playing against him in the near future.  
  
  Q. What about next year? Do you plan on being in Carolina?   
 JEFF SKINNER: I don't know. I guess that's up to the coaching staff and management staff in Carolina to tell me if I'm ready.   
 I think my goal right now is to have as good a summer as I can, working out, getting stronger and getting better.  
  
  Q. What about that team in Kitchener? You have to be considered front runners to get to the Memorial Cup?  
 JEFF SKINNER: Yeah, definitely, I think next year Kitchener's going to have a very strong team and they should go far in the playoffs. I mean, if I'm there, I'll be happy to be there and looking forward to making a deep run in the playoffs there.   
  
  Q. What did your dad coach you?   
 JEFF SKINNER: Formally, I guess, I don't know when I was really young, like five or something to eight years old. He's always been at the games, coaching me after the games and stuff like that.  
  
  Q. Having another pure goal scorer on the Rangers in Jeremy Morin, did that help you at all? The fact that the two of you can sort of keep teams on edge?   
 JEFF SKINNER: Yeah, I guess so. Any time you can have a player like Jeremy Morin on your team with the sort of skill that he has and the ability he has to finish the puck. I mean, it's always going to make your team better. I think he and I worked well off each other. In the playoffs we were on the same line. He's an easy guy to play with, because he thinks the game so well, and he's so deadly around the net.   
  
  Q. Why would you say you have so much success scoring goals?   
 JEFF SKINNER: Yeah, I like to think I have a pretty good shot. I like to think that I have pretty good hockey sense and instincts to be around the net and pick up any loose pucks that sort of, I guess, I can find a way to put it in the net.   
  
  Q. What do you want to work on the rest of the summer and into next year?   
 JEFF SKINNER: I think right now it's probably just my strength and speed this summer. I think I've got to get stronger and faster if I want to step into the next level.  
  
  Q. What kind of conversations did you have with Carolina before they picked you?   
 JEFF SKINNER: Just I met with them once. It's a pretty standard interview. We got to know each other pretty well, and I guess I'll be having more meetings and getting to know them a bit better.   
  
  Q. What weight are you?   
 JEFF SKINNER: I'm 190.   
  
  Q. How tall are you?   
 JEFF SKINNER: Just over 5' 10".  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your figure skating and how that's helped your hockey?   
 JEFF SKINNER: Yeah, I started playing hockey when I was three. I picked up figure skating when I was five or six years old. I did it up until I was 13. When I was 12, I was third in Canada.   
 But, yes, I think it's definitely helped my hockey and helped my skating and my balance and my edge work.   
  
  Q. Do a lot of OHLers know about that? Do they give you the gears about that on the ice?   
 JEFF SKINNER: I don't know if all of them know. I guess they do now, exactly. I know my teammates all know. They enjoy giving me the occasional chirp about it. But a lot of them are pretty good and pretty respectful I guess right now. They used to chirp me more my first year, but it's just sort of part of me now, I guess.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT