MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2012
Kenny McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GRAEME McDOWELL:   I guess it probably reminds me that I need to be more patient with myself.   I came off the golf course here on Thursday and I probably could have done with ten minutes just to try and let the steam, the fog clear because I just bogeyed the last couple holes.   I had played so negatively, and that frustrates me.   That frustrates me when I play that negative because I don't give myself a chance to play.   I had no chance with the attitude that I had that day.   
You know, I guess I get disappointed with myself more when my attitude is wrong, so I reset that attitude and came out on Friday, Saturday and Sunday and was a little bit better.   Nice to play better on the days when I'm on, and nice to finish with a career low 68 here at Augusta.   
   
 Q.   Standing over that putt and then Bo Van Pelt had his hole‑in‑one, I know you missed that putt, but it seemed to energize you.   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   It was fun.   You know, in a funny way, the roars and the cheers going up around here, they do energize you.   There's something fun about laughing and joking with the crowd as another bomb goes off, another hole‑in‑one goes in, and it's just fun.   I went back after my round, after I practiced a little bit and I sat on the couch and I watched the coverage.   It's just exciting.   It's a fun tournament to watch because of the risk‑reward of the back nine here, because of the opportunities it does give you, and it's a fun tournament.   
Like I said, I've said it a few times this week, this golf course isn't the perfect setup for me, but as the golf course got faster and firmer this week, all of a sudden I started to see my way around it.   As I chipped the ball a little bit better, my bunker play was a bit better, I scrambled better, and I could start to see a little bit of a way around.   But I'll be back, as Arnold said.   
I'm looking forward to many more Augustas, many more Masters championships, and like I said, I'd love to put that green jacket on my back.   But that was another couple of rounds towards achieving that goal sometime.  
   
 Q.   Good for Rory maybe to see a guy just fighting hard on the final day when things have been tough for the first couple days?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   You know, for sure.   Rory is not used to kind of being out of contention.   It's been six months when the guy is never out of the top 5, and I'm sure he had the wind knocked out of his sails yesterday.   I'm sure he had high hopes this weekend.   It's a hard game when the adrenaline leaves the body, when the desire to perform leaves the body, it's interesting how the score can just escalate.   I saw that a little bit in Houston last week when all of a sudden I had one eye on Augusta and the wind had some out of my sails and everything starts to go wrong, and Rory looked like a man who couldn't really wait to get out of here this year.   But he'll be back, and he's tailor‑made for this golf course.   
   
 Q.   Can you wait to get back?   
GRAEME McDOWELL:   You know, I'd love this tournament to be starting tomorrow.   I'd love this tournament to be starting tomorrow because I fancy my chances.   The golf course as wet as it was on Thursday and Friday was not the golf course for me.   I am just not driving it long enough, not shaping it from right to left well enough, and I was able to handle a little bit more these firmer fairways.   
   
 Q.   When do you play next?  
GRAEME McDOWELL:   Two weeks' time, New Orleans.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT