ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2010
Kenny McDowell
Graeme McDowell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was it like at the start?  
 KENNY McDOWELL: Came on on the back nine, one or two decent holes.  
  
  Q. Have you played a lot of golf recently?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: We haven't played a huge amount. Obviously I've been a little busy. We get the odd nine holes in when I get back, but he definitely was as nervous out there today as I was on Monday and that's saying something shall we say. But he played well on the back nine and we're excited to be here. First time we've played together in the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship and it's special to be there.   
  
  Q. What was Kingsbarns like? Did you enjoy the course?   
 KENNY McDOWELL: Beautiful. Never seen it before except for once I think, but it's a beautiful golf course and such a lovely day, as well.   
  
  Q. Tell us about the year that you've been through because we all know good Graeme's year.   
 KENNY McDOWELL: Monday was the most nervous as I've ever been, I think, the U.S. Open was great but that Monday was totally different.   
  
  Q. And what about the next few days, how much do you love this competition?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I love it, and obviously playing with my dad as well makes it extra special. To go to the Home of Golf and to come up here to Scotland, especially when the sun shines, let's be honest, we have three magnificent golf courses this weekend and it's always a really great atmosphere around the Old Course hotel and especially the Jigger Inn.   
 It's just one of the greatest weekends to come and play. My expectation levels were really low this weekend but 2-under par, that might give me something to go out and play for tomorrow and who knows, maybe be in the mix on the weekends.  
  
  Q. Now we'll rejoice on Monday, it was such a fabulous day, have you dreamt about it since?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: There's no doubt. I haven't slept very well since, I've been waking up in the middle of the night just kind of excited about things. And to have lived to my most wildest golfing dreams in the space of four months, that's what they are, to hole the winning putt to win The Ryder Cup and the U.S. Open, and so I'm certainly pinching myself this week. The response I've received from people, everybody involved on The European Tour, players, officials, and the people of Scotland here, it's been an amazing response, maybe even more overwhelming than the U.S. Open was.   
  
  Q. And now it's really difficult, when lots of people are around and you're on the spot but how proud are you as a dad watching Graeme throughout the year?   
 KENNY McDOWELL: Oh, I can't really put it into words.  
  
  Q. Does feel quite surreal sometimes?   
 KENNY McDOWELL: This last couple of years, he's been playing so well. He was always going to do something special but I didn't really know it was going to be that.  
  
  Q. And your feel around the greens, there was a little problem on the 13th, why was that?   
 GRAEME McDOWELL: I think Howard gave you a little tip on 3 tee. My dad was struggling with his nerves a little bit and Howard gave him a little talking to and he promptly hit the shot of the day, a 6-iron into the par 3, ten feet. It was kind of nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT