DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2019
Jennifer Brady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. BRADY/J. Ostapenko
6-4, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A slow finish, medical timeout.  What were you thinking during the time and how did you keep your focus at the end?
JENNIFER BRADY: I was thinking that when he told me three minutes after waiting probably two or three minutes before that, I was just trying to stay focused, not get too excited or try to lose the energy.
Was kind of just not really thinking much, just focusing on what I wanted to do when I came out the next fame.  I think I was able to execute well.
Q. What were you pleased with getting to that point with your performance today?
JENNIFER BRADY: I think I was pleased with the way, regardless of how I started the match, I was able to finish strong.  I'm really happy with the way I did that.
I think another thing that I did well was just looking for forehands, trying to hit as many forehands as possible, taking advantage of her second serve, which was weak.  I was able to be aggressive and dictate off that.
Q. Sometimes she's hitting aces off the second serve.  A bit of a mind issue?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, it was slow, but at the same time, yes, it's effective because when she places it well, it's good, like any shot really.  Yeah, I mean, I think a couple times she got me on the ad side because I was standing over a bit.  Then she went T.
Q. How tough is it to play someone who can be so hot and so cold?
JENNIFER BRADY: It's really tough mentally because you have to really just stay in it.  It could change in a matter of a few points.  It could go your way or her way.  Just really staying engaged mentally, just trying to be as solid as possible.
Q. Ali won just before you.  She said she likes playing doubles because it prepares her for the singles, being in tricky situations.  How do you feel about that?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, I think obviously we get along really well.  It was a lot of fun playing together in Australia.  I think, honestly, that has helped me over the past couple weeks, just being able to get match play, just being in uncomfortable situations, just finding a way.
Obviously any match where you can win or lose is another opportunity to get better, so...
Q. Up next you have Garcia or Pavlyuchenkova.  Your thoughts on that match?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, I mean, I've only played Garcia three times.  But, yeah, I mean, I think it's going to be a tough match regardless of who I play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT