U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2017
Jennifer Brady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/J. Brady
6-1, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously not the way you wanted your Ashe debut to go.  Do you think it was a matter of nerves?  How did you feel out there?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, of course, going out there I was a bit nervous.  It's a bit overwhelming, going out there for the first time, playing on Ashe, playing the No. 1 player in the world.
But, you know, I think it's a good learning experience for me.  You know, I'll just take the positives away from it.  Yeah.
Q. The crowd really seemed to want to support you.  Did you feel that?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, yeah, I did.  I just didn't give them, you know, the chance to really do that (smiling).
Yeah, I mean, a couple of points they got loud.  Yeah, I just didn't really give them the opportunity to do that.
Q. What do you take away from this experience?
JENNIFER BRADY: I mean, you know, I have had, you know, some good wins.  You know, I think it was just good for me to, you know, get a feel for what it's like playing on a big stage, playing on Ashe.  Next time I play on it, I'll know what to expect.
Yeah, I mean, you know, I think I should, you know, give myself some credit, too, you know.  I had some good wins, you know, made it to the fourth round, you know, not dwell on this and learn from it but still...  Yeah.
Q. What about her game was so tough?
JENNIFER BRADY: I just think she was -- I don't know.  I felt like she was playing pretty well today.  I didn't play my best.  Maybe I gave her the opportunity to play well.
But, you know, I think she was hitting her spots and her serves well.  Yeah, she came out playing, I felt, like the No. 1 player.
Q. Was it something that she's No. 1 in the world, something psychologically kind of throw you off in your performance?  I have been following you the last couple of games and you were doing great.  Just seemed like you were not yourself in this game.  Just curious to know because she's so talented, No. 1, or something psychologically kind of threw you off?
JENNIFER BRADY: I mean, surely yes, but I don't think that's the main reason.  I think she just came out.  She was clearly the better player today.  Yeah.
Q. It looked like you had quite a bit of difficulty on your first serve.  Is that where the nerves came in?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, possibly, yeah.  My first-serve percentage was very low.  Yeah.
Q. Two fourth round appearances in Grand Slams for you.  Your ranking will go up now, more main draws and things like that.  Do you feel a huge sense of accomplishment?  Now that your ranking will go up, probably won't have to qualify for the Australian Open, do you feel pretty proud of what this season has done for you?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, I mean, you know, of course, you always want more, but, you know, if you would have told me in the beginning of the year that I would make the fourth round of two Grand Slams, I'd probably -- I probably would not...
Q. You'd say you're crazy?
JENNIFER BRADY: I probably wouldn't have believed you.  Like I said, it's a great learning experience, and, you know, I mean, I have a lot to improve.  I just, you know, get back out there and...  Yeah.
Q. What's next for you now?
JENNIFER BRADY: Quebec City.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT