DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 20, 2020
Jennifer Brady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. BRADY/G. Muguruza
6-7, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Quite a week. What are your thoughts on the match today?
JENNIFER BRADY: I think really the match started from 3-2 in the second set for me. Never really felt like I was in the match from the very beginning. I think maybe a bit of nerves from both of us. It was a bit of a slow start from both.
Yeah, happy that I was able to close it out at the end.
Q. What are you most pleased about your game today?
JENNIFER BRADY: Just being able to find a way. I wasn't feeling my best. Yeah, maybe didn't play my best tennis, but just found a way to stay in there, compete, come out on top.
Q. When you're playing qualifying rounds, you have a draw that's as good as this one, what are your expectations?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, I mean, just kind of resetting and taking it as a new tournament. I played the three matches in the qualifying, then moving into the main draw obviously you have a bit of experience on the court, a bit of feel for the balls, things like that. It's a bit of an advantage.
But, yeah, it's basically just starting fresh as a new tournament.
Q. How do you feel physically with a lot of matches?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, I feel fine. I'll do my recovery, everything, get ready for tomorrow.
Q. Either Halep or Sabalenka next. The challenges don't get any easier, do they?
JENNIFER BRADY: No. Obviously I played Halep in Australia. Never played Sabalenka. I mean, obviously great players, competitors. I'll probably sit, relax, watch the match. Yeah, whoever I play, it will be a tough one.
Q. What were your biggest lessons from the Halep match? You had a close first set.
JENNIFER BRADY: I think it was more of a self-belief and confidence. I had set points in the first set. Wasn't able to close it out. A couple good points from her, but maybe a couple passive shots from me.
It's more just every point, just playing the same. Regardless match point, first point, set point, just treating every point the same, leaving it all out there.
Q. On court Michael gave you some key words: Anisimova, Beijing. Tell me what that means.
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, I mean, it was the first week we worked together. We didn't know each other. Obviously it was the first time playing Amanda. I mean, she's a great player, up-and-comer. But it was a grind. It was a tough match. I think I was down a break. Sort of the same scenario.
He was just trying to get my mind on just competing, just playing every point, fighting till the end.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT