DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2020
Jennifer Brady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. BRADY/E. Svitolina
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A very good win for you. Second very good win this year.
JENNIFER BRADY: Yes, thank you.
Q. What was the secret of your success today?
JENNIFER BRADY: I think just going out there and believing that I could win. Obviously respecting my opponent, but not to the point where I put the opponent on a pedestal, have to think that I have to play my best tennis in order to win.
I was just focused on my game plan, myself. Think I competed well from the very beginning.
Q. What do you think you did well?
JENNIFER BRADY: I think I served pretty well throughout the whole match. Started off strong on the serve, was able to apply pressure on the return games.
Yeah, I think just from the beginning maybe she felt my presence. I was happy with the way I performed.
Q. How much does it help to play three qualifying matches?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, it always helps. Every match you play, you get more used to the conditions, the court, the balls. You start to get in that competitive match mode.
Yeah, I mean, it's great to obviously have, going into the second round here, four matches under my belt. Yeah, I think it's pretty good.
Q. Why is it going so well for you this year?
JENNIFER BRADY: I would say I have a new coach, yeah, new team, new trainer, physio. Couple German guys, so...
But, yeah, I think we all believe in the same things and just want to get better each and every day.
Q. When you're playing a player that's as successful as Elina has been at this tournament, do you take extra confidence out of that into the rest of the tournament?
JENNIFER BRADY: Yeah, obviously she won the tournament two times, made semis twice, I think. Obviously she plays well here. Maybe she just didn't get the best start from the beginning, and I was able to just keep my foot on the gas, kind of take over from there.
Q. What do you like about playing tennis at the Dubai Duty Free stadium?
JENNIFER BRADY: I love everything about it. I would say it's honestly one of my favorite courts to play on. This is my second time here. I played for the first time last year. There's this sense of kind of calmness to it. You hear the waterfall in the background. In the evening it's quite nice with all the birds chirping.
Yeah, I mean, I think it's a great tournament. Obviously the weather's beautiful. There's nothing to complain about.
Q. What is your favorite sport other than tennis?
JENNIFER BRADY: I'm from America, so we call it football, the NFL. So I follow the NFL, the football. Also college football, professional football, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT