US OPEN
September 8, 2020
Jennifer Brady
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  J. BRADY/Y. Putintseva
 6-3, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. You were just incredibly locked in out there on the court, especially today not getting riled or distracted.  Is that coming very easily to you these days, seemingly?  Can you explain why?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   No, I don't think today it's coming very easily.  I was just trying to focus within myself and not really look ahead or, you know, think about what position I was in really, you know, playing for the semifinals at a Grand Slam.
 I was really just trying to take one point at a time and really just control my emotions and not get too high or too low.
 Q. Is it easier when there is no one around?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   It's a little bit easier when there is no fans to -- yeah, a little bit easier, definitely (smiling).
 Q. Building off of the crowd aspect, does a part of you wish that for your first true great Grand Slam semifinals that you had that roar and applause of the crowd to go with it, to have that as a lasting memory?  Is there a part of you that maybe a few years after this you look back and think, man, I wish I had that roar of the crowd in remembering this moment?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   Yeah, definitely.  You know, if the crowd was there, I think it would have been awesome to have that experience to even just experience the loud roar on Ashe with 20,000 people.
 So I think, you know, I definitely would have enjoyed that, but the times that we're in, unfortunately we can't have that and I'm just happy to be out there competing.
 Q. Congratulations from all of your Pennsylvania fans.
 JENNIFER BRADY:   Thank you.  Thank you.  I love it.
 Q. This has obviously got to be the high point of your career so far.  Can you look back on what was maybe one of the lowest times and compare the two and maybe think about how much confidence you still had then to eventually reach a day like today?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   Oh, wow.  Yeah, I would say there was a huge difference in my attitude, in my outlook of things, just my perspective in life.
 I would say today I'm just, you know, enjoying every single day.  I have a very positive outlook on life.  And not even tennis.  Just even off-court, I would say everything that I'm doing daily, and I hope I continue to think like this and, you know, can enjoy each and every single day.
 Q. Back then, did you say, All right.  It's going to turn around.  We're going to be okay some day?  We'll get to this point?  We all have doubts in our career.  What was your level when you were at that point?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   Yeah, you know, I think if I can think back at a time, I mean, I was playing challenger events, lower challenger events, losing in the qualifying first round, and I was thinking, okay, do I have a chance to make it?  Will I make it?  How can I really succeed doing this?  Am I meant to play this sport?
 There were a lot of doubts, a lot of questions, you know, definitely not positive thoughts, you know, during those times.
 But I think I'm pretty lucky to have just stuck to it and just really continue to just play and practice and compete and get better.  You know, here I am today.
 Q. Taking each of your possible next opponents separately, what do you think of most when you consider Naomi's game?  And would you please answer the same question regarding Shelby?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   I would say -- I mean, Naomi has won, you know, a Grand Slam.  She's obviously a great player.  Very powerful, big serve, big shots off the baseline, one-two punch.  You know, she's a really good player.
 I would say Shelby, she's a really good friend of mine, super happy for her to be in the quarterfinals playing tonight against Naomi.  Honestly, I think that would be awesome if the two of us could battle it out in the semifinals here at the US Open.
 But, you know, I think Shelby also has a really strong game.  She's looking really fit these days.  You know, whoever I face, I think it will be a really tough match.
 Q. Can you just talk through the match today?  Obviously you're a different player than the one that played Putintseva previously, so the head-to-head had a bit of a caveat coming into the match, but talk about just having to navigate that match and how you were able to get it done so cleanly.
 JENNIFER BRADY:   You know, coming into the match today, honestly I was feeling like I was going to poop my pants, but I was very nervous.  I just tried to really stay calm and, like, keep it cool as a cucumber out there.
 I think in the fourth game I was serving, and I really started to feel my legs, so, you know, it kind of -- it kind of helped me a little bit.  I just started thinking about that, and I was, Oh, I'm not feeling great, whatever.
 It kind of took my mind off the match a little bit.  And then I was able to recover and really focus in and think, okay, well, I'm up 4-2.  How has the match been going?  I have been winning points when I'm playing aggressive tennis but not overplaying.
 So, you know, I was kind of, Okay if I just continue that and take it one point at a time, I can at least, you know, put myself in a position to serve for the set if I just continue to just, you know, play my game.  And then I was able to do that.
 In the second set I felt like I was continuing off the same thing.  Just playing aggressive tennis, looking for my forehand, serving well, trying to be aggressive off returns when I could, yeah.
 Q. Why were you so nervous ahead of this match?  What were the things that were swirling in your head this morning and maybe even starting yesterday?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   Just thinking it's my first semifinal [sic].  You know, last time I played on Ashe, it wasn't that great.  Yeah, it wasn't like a pressure -- I wasn't putting pressure on myself or anything like that, but I was definitely a little bit more nervous today than I was in the other matches.
 Q. What was it that made you decide to take the major step a few months ago and go to Germany to put in all this work on your game?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   I decided to go to Germany, because I found a new coach and he was based out of Germany, as well as my trainer there, Daniel.
 I decided if I want to give myself an opportunity to maximize my potential and see how far I can get as a tennis player, I think I have to make a change.  Because they were based out of Germany, I decided, Okay, I'll go to Germany.  I had no problem with that.
 I was looking forward to it, something different, out of the box, different from the usual staying at home and training in Florida.
 So I went over to Germany and trained indoors in the winter, and, you know, I was a little concerned about that, playing indoors in the cold weather before going to Australia, but honestly, it really didn't make much of a difference.  Yeah, really happy with the decision.
 Q. What's the difference between the Jennifer who lost in 46 minutes to Pliskova in 2017 and the player who won in 69 minutes today?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   Three years.  Three years can make a huge difference.  I think I have matured.  I definitely have gotten a lot fitter, I feel a lot stronger out on court, have a lot more confidence in myself and my game.
 I know what I'm doing out there.  I believe in myself, my game, that I'm good enough to win matches and to be at this level and to be where I am today.
 Q. What role did Michael play in all of that, especially your confidence level?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   I would say all of it.  And my trainer, getting me a lot fitter, stronger.  And then also knowing what to do with my game, you know, having a clear game plan on every single match that I go out there and I know what I have to do in order to win the match, you know, having good execution and, yeah, just playing within myself but playing aggressive tennis.
 Q. You're one of the few women that have played regularly doubles in the last, I don't know, certainly since the comeback.  I was wondering what that does for your game and if you plan on doing that going forward, since you're having so much success?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   Yeah.  I would say playing doubles is great for, you know, just in general.  For the singles game, as well.  You're able to work on returns, serves, aggressive playing.  Also able to practice pressure situations.
 You know, I think playing doubles definitely helps your singles game in all aspects.  Just being able to get that match practice, match preparation before playing singles matches.  Then it also builds confidence just getting wins from doubles, yeah.
 Q. What's the conversations been like with everybody back home, your family?  I assume you have been keeping in touch with them and Face Timing after matches and stuff.  How have they been reacting to all of this?
 JENNIFER BRADY:   You know, they are super excited.  They are really happy for me.  Actually, today was the first time I Face Timed my mom and she started bawling.  That was nice.
 She's very emotional.  She's very proud of me.  She was happy.  I'm sure she is watching this somehow.
 But, yeah, it's been nice to receive support from everyone.  Not just my family.  My friends, past coaches, everybody has been messaging me and it's been really nice.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT