NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: SHARKS v PENGUINS
June 12, 2016
Matt Cullen
Patric Hornqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, for Patric and Matt. 

Q. Patric, with the power play success the last couple games, what have been the key adjustments you've made?
PATRIC HORNQVIST: We moved the puck around a little quicker, take what they give us. In the first two, three games there, I think we tried those seam saves a little too much. Keep it simple, get it to the net. 

Q. Matt, how are the kids handling the stress of the Stanley Cup Final? Did they come out with you or are they watching back east?
MATT CULLEN: They're on the way right now with the family there. Went pretty well. They're excited. They bring the intensity level up in our house quite a bit. 

Q. Matt, the PK, what's been so successful since they got the one goal in Game1?
MATT CULLEN: I think it's been pretty consistent for us throughout the playoffs, really throughout the last stretch of the season. Our group is pretty consistent. We've done a pretty good job of pressuring teams, making life difficult as far as taking away time and space and using our feet to close on people. 
It's something we work on a lot, we talk a lot about. It's an important part of the series. They have a really good power play. We understand we need to stay on it and be good. 

Q. Can Brian Dumoulin be trusted as the team deejay? 
PATRIC HORNQVIST: For sure. He's been the deejay the whole year. Can't change anything on that part for tonight. 

Q. Matt, as you go through this, before Game5, now this one, have you given yourself any time to think back to where you were before Jim called you to come to this team and what you were thinking?
MATT CULLEN: Yeah, a little bit. It's come up quite a bit here throughout the playoffs. It's pretty amazing how things work out sometimes. Obviously this would have been the hope when I decided to come here. Realistically it's a very difficult road to climb. I feel really fortunate to be here, I really do. It's funny how things work out. 
I really have enjoyed every minute of it. 

Q. Patric, that third goal, was there anything more you could have done to get that, or is it just playing the same way?
PATRIC HORNQVIST: I don't think so. I think we play a hell of a game the last 55 minutes of the game. We rolled over them. We got so many scoring chances, but we couldn't find the puck. 
We have to play exactly the same game here tonight. Maybe clean up the first five minutes, learn about that. Other than that, if we play like we did, I like our chances. 

Q. Matt, on the PK, you talked about the pressure you are applying. What adjustments have you seen them make to fight against that?
MATT CULLEN: They have a lot of different weapons. I don't even know so much they adjustment as far as they move the puck around really well. They move it quick. They shoot it quick. 
It seems to me they put more pucks at the net, keep bodies closer to the net. I mean, that's kind of the fun part of the playoffs. There's a little bit of back and forth on adjustments. We look at a lot of what they're doing, study it pretty hard. 
But they're good, they have good personnel. It's a challenge for us each game. There's subtle little adjustments even from power play to power play. 
For us, a big part of it is we've been pretty disciplined. We haven't given them a lot of opportunity on the power play. Any power play in the league, if you give them enough opportunities, they're going to score. 

Q. Patric, you talked about playing a really good 55 minutes. How do you keep from coming out flat the first five, ten minutes? Did that have anything to do with playing at home?
PATRIC HORNQVIST: No, I don't think so. They got those first two goals, one wrap‑around, one deflection. You can't really do anything about that. You just have to be strong and come out hard here tonight and learn from our mistakes last game. 
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, guys. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT