AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 11, 2003
Grady Little
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you talk about the incident in the fourth inning? 

GRADY LITTLE:   It's unfortunate that it came to that, but the umpires did an outstanding job of controlling the situation and we went on playing baseball. 

Q.  Was there a message that you and Joe were asked to give to the players, because really, everything else besides what happened went on without incident. 

GRADY LITTLE:   They wanted to just play baseball.  They were put in an awfully tough spot right there.  They did everything they could do to control the situation.  They asked our assistance and that's all we can do.

Q.  What did you think of the pitch to Garcia, was it intentional from Pedro? 

GRADY LITTLE:   No.  Pedro never takes a shot at someone's head like that or up in that area.  But in their opinion, it was, so there you go. 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the mood of the team, it seems to have a lot invested in Pedro as their best pitcher, and to lose the game that he pitched and to lose home-field advantage in the series, what's the mood of the team right now?

GRADY LITTLE:   Well, we know that we are down one game to two.  We've got a ballclub that never quits.  We know we'll be back out there again tomorrow.  We know that we'll be ready to compete again.  But by what's taken place on the field tonight, I think when this series began, everyone knew it was going to be quite a battle, it was going to be very emotional, a lot of intensity.  But I think we've upgraded it from a battle to a war. 

Q.  Did you find Clemens' pitch to Manny Ramirez objectionable; certainly Manny seemed to. 

GRADY LITTLE:   Manny felt that way.  After looking at it on the video, I don't think it was that close. 

Q.  You were able to get Roger in the first inning but then he settled down, did he change something to sort of settle in? 

GRADY LITTLE:   Roger made some adjustments, and he kept getting better and better as the game went on, and that's the kind of pitcher Roger Clemens is.  He's a Hall of Fame pitcher and he's done that more than once in his career.

Q.  What did you think of Don Zimmer going after Pedro? 

GRADY LITTLE:   I think Zim is a little bit old for that.  (Laughter.) But I didn't quite understand.  That was going on to my back.  I didn't see that totally.  I just heard about it.  I couldn't hardly understand that. 

Q.  When you say this is being escalated from a battle into a war, are you expecting more  --

GRADY LITTLE:   No.  It's going to upgrade the intensity.  It's going to upgrade the intensity level, and the emotion is already there at a very high level, and it's just increased it. 

Q.  Were you surprised that no one was ejected after a warning was given, with Pedro's pitch?  Did the umpires ever explain why no one was ejected? 

GRADY LITTLE:   No.  We didn't get into any kind of explanations right there.  We just accepted the warnings and went on.  I thought the umpires did an outstanding job there. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT