AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ATHLETICS
October 6, 2003
Grady Little
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   An update on Johnny Damon?  Anything new?
 
GRADY LITTLE: He had no fracture.  And they're going to hold him there for a couple of more hours and do testing on him.  It looks like he'll be fine.  Johnny won't be going with us tonight.  We're going to leave right away.  They're going to hold him for five or six hours at least, and we'll go from there.  Hopefully he's fine. 
 
Q.   You pulled Pedro after 100 pitches, which showed your confidence in your bullpen.  Explain why they were so effective in this series.
 
GRADY LITTLE: The guys on the mound did a great job for us.  Some of them weren't guys relieving all year, Derek Lowe was in tonight.  Pedro pitched his heart out tonight.  He gave us every bit he had.  We couldn't ask for any more right there in the 7th inning and it's time to turn it over to those guys.  They did a good job. 
 
Q.   Talk about how it feels to win this series overall.
 
GRADY LITTLE: It feels pretty good, to tell you the truth.  We left here the other day and we were down two and we were able to get a couple of games at home.  And tonight, every single game in this series was outstanding.  It was nothing short of what people expected.  It was brought about with outstanding pitches from both teams. 
 
Q.   Talk a little bit about Manny Ramirez's home run and particularly the emotion that was shown after he hit it.
 
GRADY LITTLE: He had a lot of emotion to hold it in there, and he held it in for five games before he got that home run.  When he hit that ball, we were feeling good about ourselves and he was feeling good about himself.  That other team didn't quit, they came back with a run here and run there, and they were there until the very last pitch.  That's the way the whole series went. 
 
Q.   You had the bullpen up early in the 7th inning.  Did you see signs of fatigue in Pedro?
 
GRADY LITTLE: Yes, we did.  I saw the look in his face coming off the 6th inning, that showed me that, and it showed us that.  From there on, we were going to protect him.  He pitched his heart out out there, and we couldn't ask any more from him. 
 
Q.   Did you consider putting Kim in in the 9th inning and do you have confidence in putting him in at Yankee Stadium?
 
GRADY LITTLE: I have confidence in putting him anywhere if he's physically ready.  At this point we're not sure he's 100 percent. 
 
Q.   What's your take on the Yankee series?
 
GRADY LITTLE: I think it's something that we welcome the opportunity, of course, and we look forward to it.  I think it will be exciting.  It's exciting when we played them in April, so I know in October I know it will be exciting too.  
 

End of FastScripts..

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT