MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2015
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. KYRGIOS/R. Federer
  6‑7, 7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Sorry for your loss there.   Just like to ask you, I spoke to Stan last night about the state of the courts.   Were you having any problems with the courts?
ROGER FEDERER:   Not really.   I thought the courts were in decent shape.   Obviously towards the end of the sets you get some bad bounces, but that was the same in Istanbul.
Usually on a clay court that's what you can expect.   Obviously if you play on the baseline makes it harder towards the end of the sets.
But the courts are definitely way better than they were years ago here. 

Q.   Probably not the result you were expecting.   What happened today? 
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, it was a fast‑paced match in terms of we don't take much time between points.   A lot of points were decided by serving.   I expected that.   I expected it to be difficult match.   It was my first round here in Madrid where conditions are entirely different to Istanbul.
Obviously I knew that Nick could play.   From my side there were no surprise.   The result was also going to be possible.   So from that standpoint, I'm not surprised. 

Q.   If I'm not totally wrong, it was your first meeting. 
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, that's your job to know. 

Q.   How was it to play against him? 
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I mean, I enjoyed it.   I always like playing young guys coming up.   Plus I practiced quite a bit with him before the French Open last year before he sort of made his big breakthrough.
He's got a wonderful serve, good potential, so I hope he keeps working hard and that he can compete for the best spots in tennis.

Q.   Were you not surprised by his play on the big points?   He played some amazing points, especially in the tiebreak.   Were you not surprised by that given his age?
ROGER FEDERER:   No, because he likes the big stage.   He's got nothing to lose, no fear, and he's got a great game.   He can rely on his serve so much.   It keeps him in the match regardless of he how he plays from the baseline.
All he needs to do is string a few good shots, a few good points together when it really matters.   It was one of those matches. 
But no doubt about it, it was impressive. 

Q.   If you had one regret in this match, would it be the break that you lost at the start of the second set when you maybe had a handle on this match? 
ROGER FEDERER:   I don't remember what...

Q.   At 2‑Love. 
ROGER FEDERER:   First, second, or third set, but my problem was I couldn't return his first serve.   Just a horrible performance on the return.
Especially first serve return, because actually from the baseline considering that I hadn't really had a good preparation, I actually played pretty good.   I thought I had the upper hand.
As the match went on it got so bad that I just couldn't get into decent positions on the return, so it made it very difficult, you know, to get any sort of rhythm after that. 
But credit to him for serving well and keep doing what he was doing.   But I'm very disappointed by that.   That's what cost me the match, in my opinion.

Q.   What did you mean when you said, We need a clown in the circus.   What did you mean exactly? 
ROGER FEDERER:   There were a lot of bad calls.   Only thing missing was a clown because it was just like such a mess out there. 

Q.   Kyrgios skyrocketed to fame after he defeated Nadal at Wimbledon last year.   Seemed like you have also noticed his talent much before that.   You invited him for training.   Do you find any similarity with Kyrgios at this age and how were?   By 19 you managed to be in the top 30, and Kyrgios also managed to do that, like in the last month when he was 19.   So do you find any similarity between how you were? 
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I mean, I guess some of them are definitely there.   Like you said, the path, raising in the rankings, enjoying to play in the big stage and being dangerous for top guys, no doubt about it we have some similarities there.
In the game itself not really.   He's got a totally different baseline game, serve, and all that.   Clearly having a double‑handed backhand changes everything anyway. 
Yeah, what else comes to my mind?   I don't know.
I think both of us probably also needed some time when we were younger to figure out our games.   We have a lot of possibilities in terms of shot selection.   To hit the right shot they right time is something that for us comes a bit more difficult than a steady baseliner who is just happy to rally. 
We prefer to do other things out there.   That's why he might take a few more years to really crack the code for him.   Yeah. 

Q.   (Indiscernible.)   Do you find any similarities from today's match and last year's?
ROGER FEDERER:   Yes.

Q.   What are they?
ROGER FEDERER:   Missing match points.   Today was probably five or six.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
ROGER FEDERER:   Excuse me?   Atmosphere?   Yeah, you know, bad day.   Happy to home.   That's it.   Same last year.   My wife was in hospital at this time.   I can see my four kids and my wife, so it's great. 

Q.   Are you going to Rome next week? 
ROGER FEDERER:   No clue.   We'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT