SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 8, 2014
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/L. Mayer
  7‑5, 3‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Quite the escape.   Another big one.   Talk about the match, how you think you were able to pull it out. 
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, I mean, I think I got unbelievably lucky today.   Let's be quite honest.   I think he deserved it.   Yeah, I mean, the first match point was crazy.   Then there was a few other ones, as well.   It was so close.   Could be my greatest escape thus far. 
I've had some good ones over the years, but this one might just top it all because I was literally out of the point at one stage.   I had to come up with some shots that were hard to do anyways.   But on match point even more so. 
So I feel a bit sorry for Leonardo, I must say.   But that's how it goes.   You win some, you lose some.   So, yeah, that was my feeling. 

Q.   Taking time off after Davis Cup, did you feel it in this first match back?
ROGER FEDERER:   I was actually not thinking about it going in because I've been playing really well in practice.   Then conditions were quite slower tonight.   I mean, it's cooler.   I think the court gets a bit deader.   Doesn't skid as much.   Doesn't travel through the air as much.   I had a hard time putting the balls away sometimes. 
Then midway through the third set I was like, Yeah, I have been on vacation actually, so it's normal that I'm struggling, I guess.   I wasn't quite happy with the way I was playing at times.   I was trying to go for an all‑time record of missed volleys tonight. 
Maybe that had something to do with it, the eyes weren't following of balls perfectly, I wasn't reading the plays maybe as easily as I was before my vacation. 
But every match I get, every minute I spend more on the court is going to be helpful.   I'm happy I get another chance today. 

Q.   Something you want to say to your fans?
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, they're amazing.   They're all sitting all together at the moment, which is cool.   I wish they would be further down, but what can you do. 
They're very excited.   They're very sweet to always support me.   They truly believe in me.   When I arrived in Shanghai, they asked me if I'm already coming back next year.   It's always quite fun. 
I'm happy I gave them also another match today.   I'm very thankful for their support. 

Q.   We understand you're going to move to No. 2 when it's next adjusted.   That's another achievement from a great year you've had.   What would you comment about that?
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I mean, it's good news.   Better moving up than down.   Nothing more than that.   Clearly I want to move up, play well.   Others not playing so well.   Clearly Rafa hasn't played for some time.   Take advantage of that.   Plus I didn't win a slam this year, so it shows even more so how consistent I've actually played and how much I played this year.   So I guess I deserve it from that standpoint. 
I'll just keep on playing well.   Sometimes it might help me with the seedings, but there's only a few tournaments left.   In the World Tour Finals it might not change anything anyway.   Might be in the same group.   For the rest, we'll see how it goes. 
I'm happy I'm playing so much freer this year and so much better.   Last year here was sort of my comeback really because I had so many issues for almost five months, which wasn't so cool, to be quite honest. 

Q.   You sound congested.   Are you feeling okay health‑wise?
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I'm feeling better.   I was not so well, wasn't bad, but throat and nose blocked, all that, last few days.   I feel like it's clearing, so I'm quite happy. 
Might also affect the way you play sometimes, how you feel out there.   Maybe your energy.   I don't know what it is.   But I'm hopeful that tomorrow I'll feel better again. 

Q.   The schedule is good for the fans that they put you the latest match every day.   Probably it's not good for you to be put in the last match every day. 
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I think clearly I would prefer to play 4:00 or 6:00.   But I've been just going at those night sessions big‑time lately.   All my matches in Toronto were, all the ones at the US Open were.   Here we go again. 
Once you get into the night session mood, and they can't put me at 1:00 today, that would be in 12 hours, it would work, but it's not quite fair to me. 
It's going to be another late night here in Shanghai.   But now once I'm in the rhythm at least it's just going to be crazy.   Going to go to bed at 3:00, 3:30, then wake up at noon, have breakfast.   I don't know, it's going to be crazy. 
I'll come out on court and give my best.   As long as the fans and the tournament are happy, it's all good.   Who cares about me, right (laughter)? 
No, I'm happy to be here.   I'm very, very happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT