SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 9, 2014
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/R. Bautista Agut
  6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   You must be much more pleased with that effort than you were last night.   Did you feel everything was clicking a lot more tonight?  
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah.   I mean, I think I definitely played better.   I had a better understanding of how the balls are reacting, the court is playing, and just conditions in general at night.   So that helped.   
Then again, different opponent.   I definitely think he let me play a bit more from the baseline, whereas Mayer really took big cuts at the ball which made it really difficult for me to control the back of the court.   
I think I was just overall striking the ball better.   Yesterday I had to do a lot of defending.   Today I didn't have to do as much, which allowed me to do really good out there.   I'm glad I got a straight‑set win tonight.   
   
 Q.   What's the toughest part of the overnight recovery for you?  
ROGER FEDERER:   Going to bed at 4:30 is just not healthy in terms of making the turnaround.   Sounds funny in a way, but I think once you go to bed past 2:30, 3:00, it's just so out of your comfort zone potentially that it's just hard to mentally and physically make the switch.   
The good thing is I came from Dubai, where it's a four‑hour time change.   So 4:30 is like 12:30 there.   So I didn't feel so much out of sorts, to be quite honest.   I think that's why I was able to cope with it pretty good.   Tonight I'm going to try to get to bed around 2:00 or 3:00 and sort of work my way back just a little bit.   I wake up at 12:00, come over here at 4:00, it feels like 11:00 in the morning.   The day is gone.  
I think that's the toughest part.   Just maintaining a good concentration, not getting frustrated, taking chances, being inspired on the court.   All those things can chip away once you go to bed so late I belive.   
   
 Q.   Julien Benneteau has beaten you a couple times.   What makes him such a difficult opponent?  
ROGER FEDERER:   I think he plays well against the better players usually.   He doesn't question his game so much.   He's got everything a player needs.   He returns well.   He can serve and volley some.   He's got a nice backhand down the line.   He can take the ball early.   He plays good doubles.   He's got a good understanding, anticipates well.   He's got a good forehand on the run.   
Sometimes when he's got to make the plays against weaker opponents who maybe just put the ball in play, he has to create a lot by himself, it may be a bit more difficult for him.   Against the top guys he really doesn't have to do that because naturally we go bigger, then he can absorb the pace and use that very effectively.   
I've struggled against him in the past, mostly indoors really, then that one time at Wimbledon which was also played indoors.   So it will be interesting to see how he plays here because he has played very consistent, very solid from what I've seen.   Actually, I haven't even seen him on the grounds yet.   We missed each other completely.   
I'm aware of the challenge because, like you said, he's beaten me twice, plus he should have beaten me at Wimbledon that time.   I'm aware of how tough it can be tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   The Milan legends team was here, and Paolo Maldini said you were his favorite tennis player.   What do you think about that?   Have you met him after the match?   
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I was very happy meeting them today right after the match.   They were all there, very happy to be watching tennis and excited to meet me maybe.   I was equally as excited.   
I remember Paolo Maldini, Baresi and Shevchenko for my entire career.   I'm younger than most of those guys.   I remember them winning the 1990 World Cup when I was nine years old and I was on vacation in Italy.   They actually didn't win, it was a heartbreak loss, I remember, against the Argentinians, wasn't it?   
No, but I congratulated many of the guys for a great career.   I think it's nice they're still getting back to sport and supporting even other sports like tennis.   I think it's great to see them.   It creates excitement.   The pleasure was really mine to meet them.   
   
 Q.   Do you know that you have a Chinese nickname?   It means you are the king of getting a lot of points such as breakpoints and game points.   What do you think about that?  
ROGER FEDERER:   I don't quite understand, but it's nice to have nicknames if they're good.   I don't know.   Is that good?   You tell me if it's good.   Not so good?   
   
 Q.   When you meet with so many points, what do you think about when you meet with these points?   You will think about, I will win?   It's very difficult.   
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, yesterday was very difficult.   Today was a bit more easy.   I don't know how to explain.   But every point represents a different challenge.   Like you said, set points, breakpoints, game points, everyone plays different.   
Does that answer your question (laughter)?   
   
 Q.   That's all.   Thank you.   
ROGER FEDERER:   Okay.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT