ROGERS CUP MEN
August 7, 2014
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/M. Cilic
  7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You seemed to be having a little bit of trouble today in practice.   I think I heard you say, It's quite sad actually. 
ROGER FEDERER:   What did I say? 

Q.   You said, It's quite sad actually.   Somebody said, At least you're having fun.   You said, It's quite sad actually. 
ROGER FEDERER:   I was joking, yeah.

Q.   Okay.   So you were having an okay time in practice?
ROGER FEDERER:   I was having a good time, yeah.   The guy was happy I was having a good time.   I was just joking. 
I was having a good time.   I was very happy hitting with Stefan and the warmup was perfect.   Yeah, so you misunderstood that completely.

Q.   Were you having a good time tonight?
ROGER FEDERER:   Nerve‑wracking.   Look, I mean, it's nice winning those kind of matches, because I also lost a bunch in my career, you know.   Especially this season I have lost some closer ones, especially in the stretch from Indian Wells, Miami, Monaco, Rome, Paris. 
It was a lot of them sort of like that, so from that standpoint I'm very happy I came through tonight.   I thought Marin played really well, especially for longer periods, as well.
I'm happy I was able to find a way tonight.

Q.   How mad at yourself do you get after that backhand volley?
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, look, I got kind of caught with my footwork.   It's something that looks so simple, I know.   But then I guess I wanted to hit it too short even though I didn't need to.   Then it's too late. 
That to me wasn't the bad part.   I think the forehand I had later, the other two points I was in the rally, I even I think had the upper hand, those maybe hurt me actually a bit more. 
It's just an overall thing.   It's just hard to forget.   You just can't.
That's why, you know, clearly Marin knows that.   You feel it, the crowd feels it, and they make you understand it.   And next thing you know it's like you're facing break point in the third. 
I'm happy I came up with some great tennis when I had to tonight.

Q.   How was the frustration with the six match points?   It should be very strange, no?
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, I mean, look, it's like, I don't know, 23 break points against Tsonga in Monaco.   That's worse (smiling). 
So from that standpoint, I have been there before.   And it wasn't my, all six match points on my own serve, and it wasn't like I didn't have the chance.   So that was good in a way but also frustrating on the other side.
But you keep going, you know, you keep giving yourself opportunities.   I was hoping to play a better breaker, but Marin got off a good start.   Then it was tough after that.

Q.   How cold was it?
ROGER FEDERER:   Not too bad, actually.   I was watching maybe five games of Milos outside, and I thought, whew, it's really cold, especially up top.   It was more breezy, I thought. 
Then on the court it wasn't so bad.   I must say actually it was no problem, you know.   I think when you're sitting there really it's a big, big difference.

Q.   What are you going to do differently in the match tomorrow?
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, I mean, it's going to be a completely different type of match. 

Q.   Today.   Sorry. 
ROGER FEDERER:   Against Ferrer the rallies are different.   It's less on one‑two punch play which Marin does really, really well.   Takes almost a step in and he's inside the baseline and goes the other way.   Can really take a lot of time away. 
David can do that too, but his serve is not as big.   His first shot might not be as big, but then he is obviously an unbelievable retriever, has some of the best second‑serve returns in the game.
You know, if I don't play well, it's one of those guys that, you know, you're not going to come through. 
I've got to play different as well a little bit.   There is a few adjustments I need to make in a short bit of time here, but I hope I can find a way, you know. 

Q.   Is it true there's some champagne and a birthday cake outside the door and it's going to come in and you're going to give it to all of us?
ROGER FEDERER:   There is some cupcakes or little things.   I just got presented little cakes, so if you guys want some, I can't finish it all (laughter).   I'm happy to share with you guys, of course. 

Q.   I was going to ask the birthday question.   Of all your records and achievements over... 
ROGER FEDERER:   Becoming 33 has been my biggest one (laughter).

Q.   What's the one you're most proud of?
ROGER FEDERER:   I don't know.   I mean, for me maybe becoming world No. 1, you know, or winning Wimbledon probably, something like that.   Just making it on the tour overall.
It was not like a goal for me.   It was more like a dream, you know.   So, anyway, so much more than I ever thought it would be.   I always say that.   I know it's a boring answer but it really is the case. 
Just want you people to understand that, that one tournament more or less at this point doesn't change much, but it's in the emotions and in the grind or in the enjoyment or in the way that I play that I really can actually enjoy it out there.
So for me probably becoming world No. 1 in 2004 or winning Wimbledon 2003 was one of my biggest moments. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT