ROGERS CUP MEN
August 8, 2014
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/D. Ferrer
  6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is it happy birthday?  
ROGER FEDERER:   It's all over.   Finally.   
   
 Q.   So the first question will be how do you manage to get so fast from your defense and you're on the net like so quickly?   I don't see nobody else could do that.   How do you do that?  
ROGER FEDERER:   I don't know.   I remember early on when I came onto the tour, it's something I realized I could do very well, actually, the transition from defense to offense.  
Then the faster I got, the stronger I got, the better my shots became, the more easy it seemed to me.   At the end it became natural, you know.   But for that you need to be, I guess, agile and all that stuff.  
It became a strength of mine and I still use it today, you know, because usually when you're in defense it takes you a few shots to come back into the point, but like you say, I think I am able to turn it around rather quickly.  
   
 Q.   Were you able to get up to anything special or fun in the city before you made it here today?  
ROGER FEDERER:   I went for a nice lunch with my family, my friends who are here, my team.   I had to sleep in the morning, which was a bit of not something I wanted to do but I had to do it.   Otherwise I couldn't have really performed really well out here tonight.  
It was a nice day.   You know, the day was short‑lived.   Slept for a while, and then went for lunch and came over here and prepared.   I wish I could have spent more time with the kids, but, you know, I see them every day so it's okay.   
   
 Q.   Wondering what it was like to have the crowd break into a spontaneous song of Happy Birthday for you in the middle of the match.   
ROGER FEDERER:   Unusual, to say the least.   I think it happened in Montreal also once.   I remember if I was playing Stan?   I'm not sure.   Maybe it was.   
Well, you've got to try to stay focused, but at the same time, clearly it's very much appreciated.   It's so nice, you know, seeing so many people care for you and wishing you all the best and all that.  
I think Canadians in particular are very open with their emotions.   They make me feel very welcome here.   Definitely one of the reasons I try to come back as much as I can every year.  
I'm really having a great time here again this week with my family.   Everybody is super nice.   I do feel the love, no doubt.   
   
 Q.   Do you have the feeling you lost your concentration after such a good start at 2‑0?  
ROGER FEDERER:   In the second set?  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
ROGER FEDERER:   I don't know.   I think David fought back.   I didn't serve so well, unfortunately.   I don't exactly remember when I didn't serve so well, but maybe I had a couple of loose points, sort of let hem back in.   
He played it tough.   Getting back on even terms was something I could accept, but it was just more the end towards the second set I wasn't feeling it so much anymore in my racquet.   I was just not hitting the shots like I wanted them to be hit.   Then my serve let me down a little bit.   
So that was important to tough it out at the beginning of the third.   It was actually quite similar like against Cilic.   The end of the second was tough, the beginning of the third was tough.   
I stayed with him, and then once I did get the breaker, I had my opportunity, I took it.   Then I was able to, with my emotions, I guess, to find energy and really serve better at the very end again, which was key against David because he was, I thought, doing a really good job on my second serve to put me under pressure.   And for me it was important to get more first serves in, and if I had to serve second serves I had to go big.   That was because I felt the pressure from him.   
   
 Q.   The fans, the reaction of the fans, how did it affect on your playing concentration?   Would you like the fans to be a little quiet and it would be more helpful for you, or when they are screaming and calling your name gives you more energy?  
ROGER FEDERER:   No, it's nice to have crowd support for either player.   It creates sort of an electric atmosphere.   Clearly you tend to get more nervous sometimes, but you can also really strive with those positive emotions.   
I think sometimes it's just the umpire who needs to make sure it stays in check for both players, you know, that they don't scream after certain points or certain shots, you know.   I think that's when it becomes tough.  
That's more something I put with the umpire, really, if he is not controlling the fans in that respect.   For me, it doesn't matter.   I mean, you should be able to play this way, but if it happens too often, I just expect the umpire to do enough.   
Today I didn't really feel that was the case.   Whereas the other night I thought the umpire was much more trying to educate the fans what they were and not allowed to do so much.  
Again, the atmosphere is great here in Toronto.   Really, you know, understanding of the game, fair, cheering, and also clapping.   I think it's a great mix.   It's good fun playing here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT