ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2014
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/D. Schwartzman 
      6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   How are your impressions making a first‑time slammer like Diego playing on a big court and like in front of an idol like you?   How do you feel about that, please? 
    ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I think it was kind of tough all the way through, for me, anyway.   I didn't feel relaxed for the entire match. 
    You know, I've always felt he had a little bit of an upper hand from the baseline.   I feel he was doing a really good job being aggressive and making good plays.   Clearly because of his height he doesn't have the biggest serve, and that kept me sometimes in two minds.   But I think he handled the conditions really well.
    I can see why he's ranked where he is and why he probably is going to move up in the rankings.   He's very steady, very fast.   He's got some good qualities, you know.   It's just a matter for him to be really fit and continue what he's doing, you know, working hard. 
    I'm sure like a match like this or tournament like this where he was able to win four matches is going to give him a lot of new information he didn't have before.

Q.   I just want to ask you in terms of your forehand going off sometimes in terms of timing, how much do you think the game needs to get better for you this week and next so you can be content?
    ROGER FEDERER:   Well, today was special in its own way because I got into every return game because of his serve.   So clearly we are going to have many more unforced errors than forced errors. 
    It's always going to happen when you play big serving guys who push you and take chances, you cannot make unforced errors because they are trying to hit a winner. 
    So from that standpoint, the statistics today for me is totally secondary.   It's just really important to moving along in the draw.   My next‑round opponent plays entirely different to Schwartzman today. 
    Yeah, I wish I could have played a bit more freely today overall.   But then again, I think it was a solid match.   I served well.   That's always the key to stay solid in your own service games. 
    I will see how the next match is going to be.   It depends on weather, on wind, all that stuff, how free you can actually really play.

Q.   The Brazil World Cup is in the corner and Switzerland is going to play.   How do you feel about this World Cup?
    ROGER FEDERER:   I'm very excited.   I think it's really cool having it in Brazil, South America, where soccer has such a big part of life.   For us, we are very happy to be qualified for the World Cup and having a chance in our group, really.
    You never know what's going to happen.   I feel like we have a good mix between older players and younger players.   Maybe something is really possible in this World Cup for us.
    I think many believe that, too, so we will see what happens. 

Q.   Kim Clijsters just sent out a tweet with one of your comments that you made, which was:   Sometimes it's okay just to be happy to be playing, that it's okay just to enjoy the game.   You don't always need to be a success.   Some people don't get that.   Could you just talk about that comment and sort of the balance between tennis as a job, your profession, and the joy of the game?
    ROGER FEDERER:   Well, I have a hard time understanding it, as well.   I don't know what I was trying to say back then. 
    Anyway, I mean, I think sometimes in the media or people think it's only fun when you win and when you lose, clearly it's a disaster, it's all really bad.   Yeah, it's disappointing, and it's not great fun.   But at the same time, you can also enjoy a tournament, enjoy a city, enjoy life, you know, as you move along with your career.
    I think that's what I mean, that sometimes things are totally just based on unforced errors or on the little things in life and if you have the big picture in mind, then you realize that missing a few too many forehands has zero impact on how I will actually sleep tonight.
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   You said you were not really free or relaxed.   What's the reason?   Didn't you feel good today?   Was it due to the weather conditions? 
    ROGER FEDERER:   Well, no, it's mainly due to the opponent, you know.   He managed to put pressure on me and keep the pressure on me.   Perhaps also the weather, as well, you know, rain that would come and go and come and go and all that.
    That's it.   Even though I was good on my serve games, and then he broke me during the first set, and then I came back and had control.   Then I was feeling good, but then I don't know what the reason is, but I couldn't really play freely.
    But also, you know, it's good to play this way, as if at each point was a break point, because you have to put more energy into your game.
    But then this being said, it's nice to go through difficult moments.   Today was such a match even though you can't see this in the score.

Q.   How do you feel physically after the first two rounds?   Next is going to be Dmitry Tursunov, as you said, he's a different player.   Do you feel good versus last year when it was difficult with your back? 
    ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I don't even think about this.   I feel good.   I mean, physically I'm fit and the two first rounds were really okay.   I didn't lose any of my energy.   I had two days off, so I'm really relaxed as far as this is concerned.
    Tursunov is a different player all together versus Schwartzman today.   He tried more with his serve, but also with the forehand.   And also I played against him at Indian Wells.   It was 7‑6, 7‑6, that's how I defeated him.   It was a tough match. 
    But at least I know Dmitry, I didn't know Schwartzman at all.   I didn't know if he was a great player, average, or not really good. 
    That's why there was pressure on me throughout the match today probably.

Q.   You said you know Dmitry Tursunov.   You played against him.   What are the keys for the future match, please, the keys? 
    ROGER FEDERER:   I don't know I have played against him on clay in the past, so that will be a first for me.
    And then I think before the match you have to think you're going to play as if it was a hard court.   You know, you have to slide, if you can, you know, you have to run after the points.
    But I don't know which points he's going to focus on.   Is it semi‑volleys?   You know, it's difficult on clay sometimes the way the balls bounce. 
    But, you know, at Indian Wells he played from the baseline.   So we'll see.   I'll see how I can change the rallies.   But also after how I can place my game, if I can use the expression.

Q.   Roger, Wawrinka, after being defeated, after the first round, said that it's difficult for him to manage the pressure due to the title in Australia.   He said that's the difference between him and Djokovic, Nadal, or you, because you can do this.   Maybe we don't realize this all the time, but you can take the pressure and you know you've got to win and you manage to win tournament after tournament.   Do you understand his position today, that is, it's difficult I think for him to take this title he won?
    ROGER FEDERER:   Well, for me, you know, it's totally normal.   I have never really understood how Rafa, Novak, and myself, we can play at such a level all the time, being consistent.   You know, for me, that was a shock to see all of us so consistent like this, steady if I can say.
    Of course, people are used to this, and it doesn't happen.   But for me it's normal.   It might happen to the best players. 
    You know, with Stan, I understand here, I understand where he is, because I was in such a position at a moment in my career, and it's not even the pressure itself.   You know, I think it's how you look at yourself and at your game.
    Without changing everything, you know, this is what he's got to work on and solve this, fix this.   Little by little.   It will not happen overnight.   But with Australia, with Monaco, it's in his pocket already.   Nobody can take this from him.   It will give him time, time to work on this.   I trust that he will find the right solutions in the months to come. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT