DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 27, 2014
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/L. Rosol
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   After the first two games, was it as easy as it looked?  
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I mean, when you play someone for the first time, you never quite know what his best level is or his normal level is.  
That's why you kind of keep pushing on, and that's also why I guess the score came out the way it did, because I never let go.   I always kept making returns, made sure he had to work hard, you know, especially from a guy who I know can serve very well.   You don't know if he all of a sudden finds his groove like he did against Rafa, for instance, and then just serves very well for a long period of time.  
I'm happy that's not what he did today, so I actually got into many more return games than I thought I would, basically in each and every one of them, and overall I'm very happy how I ended up playing today.  
   
 Q.   The mood of that match tonight could hardly have been more different than the mood yesterday.   Is that a relief or is it something that, you know, you had hoped would happen?  
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, yeah.   I mean, yesterday I think I actually played okay.   I just didn't serve well.   You know, if you want to just analyze it within like ten seconds, I think that's what it was.   
I don't break somebody eight times and almost lose the match.   So I definitely didn't hit my spots as well, as today on my serve.   I maybe could argue that Radek is a better return player than Rosol is and all these things, but still I did serve much more clutch today when I needed to, which didn't work at all yesterday.  
That just put me again and again under pressure, and I had to work too hard on my own service games too many times.   That then took away confidence on my return games, I believe.   
Next thing you know, you're in this, you know, you're maybe playing a bit less good than you are actually playing.   And today I was able to play much more clean in my service games and keep the pressure on as well on the return games.   It was a very good match.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow obviously Novak.   Just wondering, from your experience‑‑ he obviously didn't play a match today.   Is that an advantage to him, disadvantage, doesn't really matter?  
ROGER FEDERER:   No, I think ‑‑I mean, now that I played the match I did, I think it's just basically even, you know.   I don't know.   
I mean, he is in the semis, he's already played two matches, he's been here long enough for, you know, preparing, and he's fit enough for anything anyway.  
It's not like it's his first year on tour, something like that.   So he knows how to handle this, and I would take it more as a positive if I was him.  
That's how I would see it, because you're saving some energy for tomorrow, for the rest of the tournament, for the rest of the year.   Every match you can get away from is a good one.  
For me, it was important also probably not to be out there for three hours.   Then it would have been a disadvantage.   But like this, I think it was a good and quick match for me.   I guess we're back on even terms for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   The rankings seem now to suggest otherwise, but does the Big 4 still exist?  
ROGER FEDERER:   I mean, I don't know.   I guess in terms of what we have achieved, yes.   That's not going to just go, whoops, it's gone.  
So sure, Stan's victory stands out now like Del Potro's did in 2009.   That's going to be around and talked about for some time.   I'm happy it was Stan and I'm happy we are going to be talking about him for some time.  
Andy we are still looking to see how good is he going to be playing now in the next few months coming back from surgery.   Different than what I'm coming back from, let's say.   I'm curious to see how that's going to go.   I think that's basically it, you know.   
Ferrer we know is playing very consistent, same for Berdych.   He seems like he's on the brink of something, but then again, what is something?   You know, the next ‑‑I think the American swing is big for Tomas to make sure he makes as many points as possible.   Del Potro, we hope he comes back nicely after his injury.   
Yeah, in terms of results, we are, you know, but there has always been guys around, and maybe finally the guys outside away from the top 4 or the best 4, whatever you want to call them, believe a bit more, which I was always complaining about, that maybe they don't really believe they can beat us, and it seems like it's finally maybe pushing through at least for some guys.  
   
 Q.   Nadal is playing the South American tour right now.   A couple days ago Novak said he would definitely play the South American tour as well.   Will you play the South American tour any time soon?   You were in Argentina in 2012 and you seemed to have a great time there.   
ROGER FEDERER:   I mean, Rafa is only just playing one tournament I think in South America this time around.  
   
 Q.   He was going to play Buenos Aires, but...   
ROGER FEDERER:   But he only ‑‑I know what you mean.   
Yeah, I did have a great time in South America playing exhibitions there last year.   Most likely I won't play this year again.   
Who knows in '15?   But that's still a long way away.   And who knows?   Maybe I will do some European XOs or Asian XOs.   I have more tendency to play Europe again for a change so I can be home for Christmas, as well, maybe play a charity match as well for my foundation at the end of the year, so we are considering many options but probably not South America this year.  
   
 Q.   Do you get more pleasure or maybe satisfaction from a match like tonight's where things were going well or like yesterday's where you've got a lot of problems to solve?  
ROGER FEDERER:   I like these, you know.   Just for the heart it's better (laughter).   It is, you know‑‑ I don't know.   When you play that many matches like we do on tour, you know, 70, 80, 90 matches sometimes, you're happy with every easy match you get you can sneak in.  
But, you know, like before walking out, I was like, I'm happy I am here still alive today.   I fought hard yesterday.   The matches, sometimes you have to come through to end up sometimes winning the tournament, you know.   So for me, here I am all of a sudden, instead of losing second round, I'm in the semis playing Novak.  
So what a day and a half can do to you.   That's where I always believe in sticking around, giving yourself a chance, and something is going to turn for the better.   I hope it's going to be the case this week.  
   
 Q.   I'm wanting your view to clarify your view on the International Tennis Premier League and what, if any, reservations you have about it?  
ROGER FEDERER:   I don't know that much about it, to be honest.   I wish I could tell you like exactly what's going on.   I don't even know when it starts and everything.  
I just didn't sign up because, you know, I didn't want to.   I just first wanted to see it get off the ground.   I wanted them to put in the work.   They already signed up with a lot of other guys.   I hope it's going to be successful, because there is definitely potential, you know, in the Asian market, so many people live here, a lot of tennis enthusiasts come from this part of the world.  
So I hope it's going to be very successful.   Who knows what's possible, you know.   But, yeah, that's basically it for me.   Is it this year where it's happening?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
ROGER FEDERER:   Okay.   So I hope the best, you know.   Really, I do.   
   
 Q.   Just returning to the match tomorrow night against Novak, you've played so many times, 31, because I checked it.   
ROGER FEDERER:   Okay.   I wouldn't know.  
   
 Q.   Do you look upon it as one of the great challenges for you?  
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I mean, I think we started our careers out‑‑ you know, like I remember when he was very young.   I played him I think the first time in Monaco, and then, you know, we kept on playing each other a few times.   
But then we played a ton in the semis, you know, always in the semis, because Rafa and myself were always 1 and 2.   I played Novak a bunch then, you know.   
We went through spells where, you know, we played a lot in a couple of months and then didn't play again, but then we played again a few times, you know, during a few months.  
We know each other very well, and we've played each other everywhere and all the surfaces, you name it, so I think we know each other very well.   I think we always play the matchup actually very good, you know, because we play explosive, aggressive tennis, so there is always some shot making going on.   
I think it's really improved very much over the years, you know.   I mean, I don't need to say it now because he's proven his point so much, but he's cleaned up his game in all aspects:   serves, volleys, movement, anyways, also forehand and backhand, because I always thought he did have some technical issues at some point in his career, maybe in the very beginning of his career or midway through.   He seemed to always find a way.   I'm very impressed when it comes to that.  
I'm looking forward to the match.   You know, one match, best‑of‑three sets on a court like this, it's a bit of let's see what happens, anyway.   We both know that, and I'm looking forward to the match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT