SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 7, 2013
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Roger.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us what you've been doing since the US Open.   
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, let me think.   
I took some time off.   Went back to Switzerland first.   Spent some time with my family.   Just really took it easy, but also did some workout just to stay in shape.   I didn't want to lose everything I had going.   I've been working really hard for many, many months now, making sure I do everything absolutely correctly.   
I did take some time away from the game, just what I felt was necessary.   Eventually I started preparing the last few days in Switzerland really then physically, doing a lot of fitness with Pierre Paganini.   Then I went to Dubai and trained there for about two weeks.   It was very hot over there.   It was like 37 degrees.   It was perfect conditions to really get in some good heat practice.   I had two sparrings over there and had a good time.   
   
 Q.   During that time, did you think much about what's happened this year, how your year has been so far?   In the summer you experimented with a different racquet.   Did you think about things you might need to want to change in the future?   
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I mean, clearly now that the four slams have passed, you reflect a little bit.   But I'm really focused on finishing strong.   That was the main idea behind another strong couple of weeks.   Otherwise I could have maybe played an extra week last week.   
But I really thought right now what I need is a really solid block of practice.   I guess in some ways also 2014 is in the back of my mind and also the end of the year right now.   
I didn't want to focus too much on what happened the last two months.   The US Open, I hardly ever thought about it if I look back, at the Robredo match, so forth.   I didn't think it was that bad, like maybe the way it looked.   I think it was tough conditions.   Tommy played well.   It wasn't my day, all these things.   It's one of those things you just want to move on from.   
But I think my game's been coming back, which has been very important.   Now it's about staying positive and working hard every single day.   That's been the mindset.   
Then as we move along, I'll go more into details, what I would like to adjust in my game, in my mindset, all these things.   But as of now, it was just about getting things done on the court.   
   
 Q.   Rafa is No.1 again this week.   A few words on how impressive it is to see him back at No.1 considering the long layoff he's had.   He's been having the best of Djokovic until yesterday, how close it is, how it could move one way or the other.   
ROGER FEDERER:   I mean, first about Rafa, I think an unbelievable comeback.   No doubt about it.   I mean, one year ago people were saying he might never play tennis again.   One year later he's world No.1.   That's how quick things can go in tennis, which is great.   On the other hand, you know, you got also the other extreme the other way sometimes.   You write off a player a little bit too fast.   
I'm really happy that Rafa's proven himself, for himself personally clearly, but also to the rest of the world that you never write off someone like him.   I'm very happy for him.   I mean, the US Open was an unbelievable victory, getting that done.   
Early on you just thought things went well for him.   But he proved himself so many times this year that he deserves to be world No.1.   Nobody is arguing with it.   Novak is very strong on the hard courts.   He's been the No.1 player for some time now.   He knows how it is to play finals, against the best, against Rafa.   They have a very even head‑to‑head.   It's an interesting matchup every time.   Unfortunately, I didn't see the finals yesterday.   But Novak must have played well.   He usually always plays extremely well here in Asia, maybe in Beijing or Shanghai.   
   
 Q.   Are you thinking about the ATP World Tour Finals at all going into this tournament, securing your place there?   
ROGER FEDERER:   Depends how much I will get asked about it, honestly.   If you don't ask me, I won't think about it so much.   The more you ask me, the more you think about it, the more I'm clearly aware of exactly what needs to happen.   
I have no idea right now what the situation is.   I'm really just focused on my own game, my first‑round opponent.   That's all I really need to do.   If you focus on another player, like back in the day when they say, You're going to play Rafa in the finals, it was nice to talk about these things, but it was so far away.   
It's the same with the World Tour Finals.   It was the goal at the beginning of the season to qualify for it.   I consider it the absolute best of the best tournament out there, so I want to be part of that.   So it's extra motivation for me to play well and be part of that great tournament.   
   
 Q.   I know you said you haven't really thought about next year, but could you see yourself possibly having at this point in your career different expectations for yourself than you've had in the past and what you hope to accomplish, like adjusting that at all?  
ROGER FEDERER:   I mean, the schedule is somewhat done.   There's a few things that can be adjusted.   You always need to be flexible.   I always knew that this year, after a very tough year in 2012, the Olympics, was going to be a bit of a more quiet year.   I expected myself probably not to be as successful and as busy playing matches and tournaments.   
My mindset now is, okay, next year is going to be a great year again where I'm not going to have that many points to defend, especially at some very key moments where I consider myself a favorite.   For that reason I'm really looking forward to 2014 already.   
But I feel like I also need the end of this year to prepare for '14 because it has been a bit of a rocky patch the last couple of months.   But my expectations will always remain very high.   That will never change.   
As long as I'm physically and mentally fine, there's no reason for me not to be taking part in the big matches.   That's what I'm looking forward to in 2014, to be part of those matches.   
   
 Q.   This year you played doubles and singles.   Physically, I wonder whether you have some special preparations to handle singles and doubles.   Secondly, in the second set, both of you were moving more closer to the net.   Was it the strategy that you initiated?   Will you continue this kind of technique in the future matches?   
ROGER FEDERER:   Singles and doubles, it's really only the first match I won this year in the doubles.   It's only the second tournament I'm playing doubles in this year.   
Yeah, I'm not quite sure yet how the schedule is going to be looking like.   I heard Wednesday that I'm going to be playing maybe at 6:00, maybe at 4:00.   I don't know if the doubles is that day or if there could be a Thursday possibility.   I really don't know the schedule to be quite honest.   I'm just really open to hear what the tournament director says, what he would like.   That depends also on Zhang Ze, my partner, if he's going to keep on winning his singles, as well.   That would be great for him.   
I think we did as well as we could.   I think we served 91% first serves.   We were very focused that we got our first serves in play.   
I did tell Zhang Ze to come to the net and finish close to it because I think it's maybe a little bit easier to volley up there, but also you need to have quick reactions.   I think he's doing really well up there.   
I mean, I think his return was sublime, how he played, how many return winners he had in a 6‑2, 6‑1 doubles match.   It's unbelievable, so I am very, very impressed.  
I liked his attitude, positive, upbeat, but serious.   I think as the match went on he stayed serious but started to feel comfortable.   Those are great signs, I think.   So I wish him well with his attitude and work ethic for his career, singles, doubles, practice.   It's very important every day the work ethic he brings.   
   
 Q.   Obviously Hewitt has to win before you play him next.   Your rivalry with him is probably longer than most.   Can you talk about playing with him.   
ROGER FEDERER:   We don't know it's going to happen.   
   
 Q.   Assume it does.   
ROGER FEDERER:   I'd be thrilled, no doubt about it.   I've been practicing a lot with Lleyton lately.   Ever since the Olympics, for some reason, we practiced there, we practiced here last year.   We've been practicing all around a little bit.   We never used to really practice together back in the day.   Doesn't happen so much that you practice with a guy close in the rankings.   It's just something that tends to be that way.   
We had a great practice for three hours, three and a half hours at the US Open where we really pushed each other.   We had a super fun practice.   I think we both would look forward to that kind of a match.   
Just looking back on how we used to play against each other, you forget how.   Then you play two points, Oh, that's exactly how it was.   It's actually a lot of fun.   I was really happy for him when he beat Del Potro at the US Open, even though you know I like Juan Martin a lot.   I've had an exhibition tour with him in Buenos Aires.   We're very close.   
But Lleyton, he's been going through a lot.   To see him being healthy again, happy, family man, all these things.   It's inspiring for me to see him working hard, enjoying the game, still being around.   Many of the our generation of players have retired again, like Nalbandian.   
It's something I'm looking forward to that could happen.   It would be special.   
   
 Q.   You've embraced China, the Asian culture.   A lot of players have told me they really struggle with the culture shock of coming over to China, Beijing, Shanghai, their experiences.   Has it always been this comfortable for you here or has it just been a matter of experience of coming back a number of times?   What is it about the continent that speaks to you?  
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, it's always been easy for me coming here, I must say.   Anywhere really.   I mean, I didn't come here until really 2000.   I was in Bangkok for three days when I was about 14 on my way to the Australian vacation I had before I checked into the tennis center when I came back.   Other than that, I never really came here.   
So the first time I was 20 years old.   I loved it.   People are super friendly.   Okay, a little hectic from time to time, and humid.   But I always thought it was a great experience.   
Because it was so different to anywhere else in the world, I kind of liked that new different culture, different way of life.   People have to be extremely patient here because there's so many people around.   I tried to really embrace it.   I always see the glass half full in life anyway.   It's always been a treat for me coming over here.   
Last year unfortunately here in Shanghai was a tough trip for me, I had to be focused on hotel and tennis.   This year I feel I can be much more outgoing.   I can go places, go out and about in the city, which wasn't possible last year.   This year I'm really enjoying myself.   I hope it's going to reflect on the tennis court as well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT