BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2013
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/R. Federer
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How much of an issue was the back tonight?
ROGER FEDERER:   Same as against Stan.   I mean, I could play.   I'm happy to be out there and able to compete, you know. 
But it's obviously a small issue.   That doesn't work against guys like Rafa, obviously.

Q.   At what point did you kind of feel this wasn't going to be your night?
ROGER FEDERER:   Hanging in there in the first set, so you always believe that with a good return game, and, you know, I dug myself out of a couple of tough service games, that I could do it, you know. 
The longer the match went on, I realized I had to change up my game.   I played differently than I was hoping to be able to.   Obviously he got more comfortable as the match went on, as well.   Things became difficult.
Obviously once I was down a set I knew it was going to be difficult.

Q.   Last night Rafa said that the strategy that he has always used against you, it was always going to be very difficult to apply tonight because of the condition of his knee.   Did you notice something different compared to the other time you played together?
ROGER FEDERER:   Tonight?   He played totally different than the last few times I played against him. 
No, it was the same thing.   Yeah. 

Q.   Kind of related to that, when you came in here, there was a lot of talk about him being tentative, or were you surprised just how well he was moving out there?
ROGER FEDERER:   No, I mean, he's not going to come back if he's not well.   He's not going to come back half broken.   I expected him to tear through the clay.   I expected him to be tough here, which he shows to be.
No question, you know, he's a bit careful at times, you know, his movement.   That's totally normal.   Hasn't played for some time on hard court.   I don't know if it's careful or if it's just getting used to it again.
But we're talking about slow clay courts.   He can return from way back in the court.   It's not like on a hard court where you have to react super fast.   And even that would be no problem for him, otherwise he wouldn't have come back on tour.
So I don't understand the talk in the first place after the three tournaments he played on clay.

Q.   What would you say was your percentage out there today?   Didn't seem from looking that it was all of you. 
ROGER FEDERER:   No, but that was not the case against Stan, either.   But then I win and nobody talks about it. 

Q.   I think you did talk about it. 
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, yeah, but it gets lost in translation afterwards, you know.   You have bigger things to talk about, which is totally okay.
But, no, it was there but I'm ‑‑you could see at least I could serve full basically, and that always gives you a direction.
And then if it was bothering him or not in some moments that's a problem for me to have, but not for me to talk about too much because I don't like to undermine his performance, either.

Q.   You did say at the start that there was a chance that you could reconsider your schedule if you felt there was a situation that might prevail.   Given here, do you think you will reconsider, or do you think this seven weeks now that you're going to take away is probably best for you?
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, I mean, that's the plan for the time being. 
And now go back the next few days and weeks and sort of consider what's next.   Normally I'd like to practice real hard and rest up and recover from this week.   It's been a really difficult week for me, so I'm happy to have played a decent tournament.
Overall under the circumstances I'm happy.   It's all right, and I'm looking forward‑‑ I'll probably maintain my schedule, but you never know.
I always say I will discuss with my team what the schedule is after here once the tournament is over, and I haven't had time to talk about it yet.

Q.   Have you had medical attention?
ROGER FEDERER:   In terms of? 

Q.   Your back. 
ROGER FEDERER:   What's medical attention in America?   No, but what is it?   If I had a doctor look at it?   No, I didn't have a doctor look at it. 

Q.   Where do you actually head from here, Roger?   Do you go to Switzerland?
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah.   I go back to Switzerland. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT