DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 1, 2013
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/R. Federer
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   One of those matches where you had a lot of chances but it didn't work out. 
ROGER FEDERER:   Exactly.   You summed it up.   There you go. 
I mean, that's what it is.   Obviously unfortunate, you know.   Pity to lose that one, but Tomas did well to hang in there.   Obviously I leave this match with a lot of regrets I'm feeling:   serving for the match, with the serve, having chances in the beginning of the second, you know, when he wasn't quite in the match yet, to go break up, you know, set and a break, you know, a few points where things just didn't happen for me. 

Q.   Tomas has had a lot of good wins against the top four guys.   What is it about his game that makes him particularly difficult?
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, look, he's got obviously a big game, has a big serve which makes him difficult, you know, to play maybe on a quick court than a slower court.   Maybe you can, you know, maybe move him around a bit more, but at the same time he has more time to set up the shot; whereas the way the game has gone he has adapted really well to those conditions, you know. 
I have played him numerous times in quicker conditions, and then matches are always close like tonight.   Sometimes when the surface is slower it can be a blowout, I mean, I guess for him or anybody else just because you can expose more of the weaknesses.

Q.   You talked yesterday about concentration.   In the tiebreak you actually had a chance to serve it out, but was it nerves or was that concentration?   You looked nervous. 
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, maybe, yeah.   I mean, obviously ‑‑ it's not at 25 when you're serving for the match like that.   You know, I think I didn't serve great overall towards the end of the second set, and I think that showed in maybe that moment. 
I would have ‑‑I thought I'd go for it up the T but I didn't get that one I was hoping for.   Maybe I should have gone wide on the second serve.   I went for the body.   Maybe I should have done more there as well.   Then I missed a poor return at 6‑5, which I didn't even hit perfect. 
Si that's just disappointing right there, because the match was in my racquet.   You do all the right things for so long, and then at the end you've got to explain why you didn't hit two shots decent, you know.   So it's disappointing. 

Q.   At 2‑1, Roger, in the final set, the energy seemed to just drain away just for that moment.   Was that a crucial part of the match?
ROGER FEDERER:   Crucial was before.   For me, anyway.   (Smiling.)
You know, I tried to be in there.   The thing is if you don't serve well on this court early on in the game, you don't serve well to get yourself out of trouble, things will go awful.   They'll look like you're flat, they'll look like you're not playing well, they'll look like there is no rhythm, which there isn't much.
So if you go into a tough Love‑30 hole, it's tough to get out of it, you know.   That's what happened in the second set to get a break down and it happened again in the third.
I've definitely got to work on that so it doesn't happen.   But anyways, Indian Wells is going to be much slower, so it's going to be a different type of tennis over there.

Q.   Overall, what parts of your game are you happy with?
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, I'm happy that I've played better after the first set here at the tournament, which really got me worried for a second.   Obviously I bounced back in the second and the third set. 
Then I played good tennis against Granollers and also against Nikolay and also today for long periods during the match, but still maybe a touch up and down, which really can happen, you know. 
But, you know, it's just disappointing losing this way, you know.   I think it's the third time I lose these match points against Tomas, twice in singles and once in doubles.   It's just one of those matches you feel you should have won but end up losing.   Always when you lose with match points you have a lot of regrets.   That's one of these matches again tonight. 

Q.   I have a very quick question about football.   I know you're an FC Basel fan.   There is an Egyptian player, Mohamed Salah.   Have you noticed him yet?
ROGER FEDERER:   I haven't seen any of the games because I have been traveling so much, so honestly not enough to be commenting on that right now.   Ask me in a year or so. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT