SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2012
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/R. Federer
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I don't remember it happened in your career, three double‑faults in one game. 
ROGER FEDERER:   It has happened.   And today again (smiling).   It happens, unfortunately. 

Q.   Any other comment on the match? 
ROGER FEDERER:   Yeah, on the match I can talk more about than the three double‑faults because that happens very quickly. 
But obviously starting from there, yeah, I mean, you'll pay the price by having an average game like that against a top guy like Andy.   So it was a bit up and down ‑ too up and down for my taste.   To probably beat him tonight, you know, I played okay at times, but overall Andy was just the better player and he deserved to win at the end really. 

Q.   On the serve, was that the area of your game you perhaps didn't get going well enough tonight?
ROGER FEDERER:   Well, I didn't think it was as bad.   Of course, you know, you play a bad game like this, it really stands out.   That's what people are going to talk about. 
I think I'm playing one of the best return players in the game.   He's extremely confident at the moment.   So I think he also forces you to go there.   I mean, I didn't even try to over‑serve that much, to be quite honest. 
The serving has been okay this week, but not great in general.   It's been a bit up and down.   So has my game from the baseline been.   So I really feel I need some practice.   In the short‑term there's not that much I can do.   Obviously with different surfaces, points are being played in a different way.   Look forward to see what I can do next week.   Eventually, I need a bigger stretch of practice again. 
I feel I've played a lot of matches this year, not enough practice, and eventually it sort of maybe catches up.   Maybe that was the kind of thing that happened tonight. 
You know, it's been an okay week overall.   I played all right.   I didn't play great.   But I did come here and reach the 300 weeks.   I guess I have to be happy with that.   I wish I could have played better tonight against Andy and pushed him further, even though it was somewhat close.   I know as well that it could have gone the other way as well, it could have been even more one‑sided.   I tried hard, and that's all I could do tonight.

Q.   Did you notice a difference in the way Andy played tonight compared to the US Open and when you met him at the Olympics?
ROGER FEDERER:   I didn't get a set, so not much changed really.   I mean, is he maybe more confident?   Maybe.   There's not as much on the line as in the Olympic final.   He's coming off the US Open win, semifinal, not a final, so he can play a bit more freely.   I think I felt that from Andy tonight. 
But, I mean, I also struggled with him at the Olympics.   So, I mean, tonight again was something similar.   I think he's playing really well now since a long time, not just six months.   He's been playing well for years now.   He's right in his prime right now, so you assume he's playing his absolute best at this very moment. 

Q.   Roger, you set yourself this goal of world No.1 by the end of the season. 
ROGER FEDERER:   I didn't.   I wanted to get back to world No.1 this year. 

Q.   Does this result affect it in any way?
ROGER FEDERER:   No, because I already achieved my goal.   I would love to finish No.1 as well for the end of the year.   For that it's going to take a great stretch again, winning Basel, Paris and London I assume to give myself a chance. 
We'll see how it goes.   Look, I'm relaxed about it.   I'll give everything I can.   I want to get through this season well and finish strong.   But it's not the number one goal right now.   Right now it's to manage my schedule, hopefully be in good shape for Basel, then kind of go from there. 
Just to repeat, the goal was to become world No.1 this year, which happened, not the end of the year.   But if that happens, that's a bonus.

Q.   You decided to come to Shanghai at the last moment.   You have a flexible schedule and can't promise anything.   But the fans care the most.   Will this time be the last time we will see you in Shanghai? 
ROGER FEDERER:   I really don't regret coming here.   I had a great trip.   Amazing hospitality again.   People have been very friendly to me, the fans included like you mentioned. 
No, my feeling is not that this is my last time, not at all.   I'm trying to manage my schedule in the coming years that I can come back here hopefully several more times.   So that's what I'm looking forward to do.   I'll be playing in the short‑term a ton of tennis into next year, but I have to manage my schedule.   That's what I'll do.   So I'm going from there.   I really hope I can come back next year again of course. 

Q.   Do you have a plan to play Beijing next year? 
ROGER FEDERER:   Not really, no.   I love coming here.   Look, I had a great time in Beijing for the Olympic Games.   But it's a tough week for me, coming off the US Open, usually playing a lot of tennis all the way from sort of May till the US Open, then having to play two events in Asia, it's tough for me. 
You never know.   But I highly doubt it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT