ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2019
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. FEDERER/C. Ruud
6-3, 6-1, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. What do you think about your Norwegian opponent today and what he did?  Did he surprise you in any way?
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, look, I thought -- I liked how he figured things out after going on a tough run there of nine games.  The third set could have gone either way.  He had chances early, then later, and then again after.
It was nice to see him hang in there.  I thought the first set also was tough, even though that was, it ended up, I think, double break maybe or 6-3.  I can see why he's going to be good in the future.  He's got a great attitude, very calm, very quiet, maybe very Norwegian, I'm not sure.
But it's nice to see that he's very focused, he's got good energy.  Even though he is maybe more on the calm side, also very fair, and no grunting and all that stuff.  It's just nice to play against a guy like that, to be quite honest.
Yeah, I mean, he's going to be doing all the right things, thanks to his father and his team, I'm sure.  His work ethic is there, you can see it already.  He's very strong.
I enjoyed the match.  I thought it was tough, even though I had a good run there for a while.  And that also is very important for me to know, as well, that I can run through a set and a half and just take care of business and gives me confidence for the next match.  That's for sure.
Q. Can you tell us what do you think the future holds for Casper?  Do you have any advices for him?
ROGER FEDERER: Well, I mean, I think for the time being, probably his strongest surface will be clay because he can return from back.  He's got time to set up the shots with his forehand and really use topspin and the variety and the sliding on clay, that, you know, he's searching.
I think for him the key is going to be how can he play return in, play in, play fast points like what Rafa does.  People don't talk about it enough, but he's so good on the one-two punch.  That's what Casper needs to work on.  As he's going to get stronger, his defense is going to get better and he's going to become more and more experienced and knowing how to play in the most important situations.
But, you know, I like a lot in his game.  Today I saw the clay courter.  But I'm sure he's also got the hard court game in him, and I think he's going to be obviously easy top 50, top 20, hopefully soon.  From then on, you know, anything is possible at some stage once you get in the top 20.
Q. A little bit of a different question, but if you had to boil things down to the very basics and just say one, maybe two things what you really like about your forehand, your backhand, your serve and return, just in a phrase, or a concept about those four strokes, can you do that?
ROGER FEDERER: Of my shots?
Q. Your shots, yes.
ROGER FEDERER: I don't know.  My forehand is there for me when I need it, you know.  Serve, I think, for me is about variation and power.  My backhand is there to defend me from tough positions, you know, and add, you know, slice and variation to the game.
Anything else?  Volleys?  Whatever.  They are to close (smiling).  Fairly simple.
Q. Return?
ROGER FEDERER: Return?  Scared not to miss it, try to be offensive when I can.
Q. After playing today on Suzanne Lenglen, your first two matches on Philippe Chatrier, what will you say that the main differences are between playing these two courts in terms of conditions and feelings?  Because from outside, the game seems a bit faster in Suzanne Lenglen.  I don't know if you felt the same.
ROGER FEDERER: Well, I think maybe today looks faster because also the conditions or the weather is hotter.  So when it's hotter like this, I feel there is no bounce, there is more, you know, the ball travels through the air faster.  And, yeah, I had a good time serving well, also, for long period of time.
I think in the third set maybe my first-serve percentage dropped down a little bit, but the biggest difference for me is there is less space behind the baseline and on the sides.  The crowd is closer to you.  Naturally it has a different feel, different ambience, and then I feel also Suzanne Lenglen has always been the more slippery court than Chatrier.  I guess the way the base is done, it seems harder at the bottom, and for that reason, it's harder to find grip, you know.
And on center, it's more -- it's just different.  It's a bit more softer.
Q. Are you nervous when you go out there, or is this just another game in your career, and what is your advice to a young boy age 20?
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I'm a little bit nervous sometimes.  Today I wasn't.  I felt good about my game.  Third round, also.  I felt like I knew what I needed to do against Casper today.  I got good information from Severin and Ivan.  And when you're clear in your head, I think it's easier not to get nervous.
I think as a 20-year-old, I mean, I think it's most important who you surround yourself with, because you take a lot from the people that are with you, manners, work ethic, because technique at this point is almost done.  You know, you can do some minor adjustments, but I think professionalism and all that stuff, you learn so much every day.
It's super exciting and you want to enjoy it and don't want to see the negative things, you know.  You just want to be in that dream world and on this trip you're on and sharing the locker room with the guys, like, for Casper now it's good fun.  You know, you see how everybody prepares, how everybody does it, and you realize I'm actually not far away.  That should give you incredible motivation for every day in practice.
Q. You said you were curious, coming back to clay and Roland Garros after a few years and new material, sort of the way you're playing now would translate at this stage in your career.  What do you see?  You're attacking the net with some frequency and everything else.
ROGER FEDERER: No, I'm very happy.  A few months ago I didn't know what to expect with anything, really.  At this point, now I know where my level's at.  I still don't know exactly where my absolute best is, you know, but I feel like it could be there.  Maybe not, you know.  I'm happy to find out.  You know, either way.
So I'm happy I'm putting myself in a position like this in a fourth round of the French Open after not having played so many years here.  I think for me the first goal has been reached by getting this deep into the tournament, and knowing where the game's at, knowing where the fitness is, the mind.
Also now today, playing a breaker on clay, how to go through tougher points on clay, because you have to construct them a little bit differently than on the hard courts or on the grass, anyways.
So I'm very pleased how I'm feeling and how I'm playing, and still trying to stay true to playing freely and with nothing to lose, even though I know I will be the favorite in the next game.  But regardless, I'm going to try to play as free as I can.
Q. I asked Kim Clijsters today about her earliest memory of you.  She mentioned 1998, the Orange Bowl and especially the moment you came into the restaurant with your blond hair.
ROGER FEDERER: Okay.  That was a mistake, but you see, it's memorable.
Q. Wonder if you remember her from back then.  If not, what's your earliest memory of her?
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, it probably must have been '98 somewhere.  I wonder at Wimbledon maybe or some other place.
But, you know, the Swiss were always very close to the people from Belgium.  I had a Belgian doubles partner in Olivier Rochus, and I grew up with him and Xavier Malisse, throughout my entire junior times, from under-12 all the way to under-18.  Then Kim obviously came into the picture at some stage.
All very friendly, you know.  Kim was the same, always has been.  That's always a pleasure to see her.  Obviously it's more exciting when you can go from juniors to pros together, and go all the way and win, you know, win Grand Slams, become World No. 1.  It's fun.
It must have been at some point in '98 but I don't have a vivid memory she dyed her hair red or anything.  I don't remember that part.
Q. (Question off microphone.)
ROGER FEDERER: I saw her there?
Q. Yes.
ROGER FEDERER: You were there?  I was, too, but I don't remember that part.  (Laughter.)
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. 400th match in a Grand Slam.  Is it still impressive or not for you with these incredible figures in your career?
ROGER FEDERER: Well, it is impressive, but I didn't know, and this answers the question probably.  It's true I played many matches in Grand Slam tournaments, and it's even more pleasant to do this in Roland Garros, because I have a lot of records, milestones from Wimbledon or the US Open.  But doing anything in Roland is very special, because I played a lot here.  It was my first Grand Slam where I was in the main draw.
It's the closest one to Basel, and this counts, as well.  400 is still a lot, eh?  Because I played many matches.  My 1000th victory touched me a lot, moved me.  But 400th match here, or...  No, not 400 victories here but 400 matches, okay.  (Laughter.)
Q. I feel you're rather nostalgic maybe because you're being asked many questions about the past.
ROGER FEDERER: Yes, it's true.  That's what's happening this week.
Q. I get the impression this brings up a lot of memories within you.  You look rather happy to talk about this and to relive things.
ROGER FEDERER: Yes, because I feel that my 20 years on the tour went too fast almost.  I like to think about Florence in '98 or the juniors before, because I had a lot of pleasure.  When you play against people like Casper Ruud, you ask, How was it at the time?  When I started on the tour he was hardly born.
So I think many people I wouldn't say live in the past, but many people have memories which count a lot for your life, for your daily life, especially when you see an old pal talking about what you lived in the past and you think about what's coming up with him or with your family for the future.
But I guess it's mainly due to the fact that I didn't come here for many years.  I started here about 20 years ago.  It's probably due to Casper Ruud.  I'm checking the score for my future opponent from the corner of my eye because I'm still in the present.
Q. Can I speak about the future?  You played against Tsitsipas and Casper Ruud.  What is surprising?  It comes from countries that have no structure.  They suddenly come up like that.  There is no big Federation.  No past.  They're writing the history of their country.  Do you think it's more difficult than for someone like you who was anchored with the Swiss Federation, for example?
ROGER FEDERER: Well, I don't know.  It's probably a problem for Spaniards or Australians or Americans who no longer have 20 players in the top 20, and you suddenly realize that Norway has one and Switzerland has two, and all these countries have several players.
So I guess having a mega structure or national center like here in France where you have so many players and you can stay in your country and learn from everyone.  Everybody's pushing to become the best, under-10, under-12, under-16, and then it continues when they get professional.  I guess it's an advantage.
But I also think that everything is very much based on willpower.  So I don't know about Tsitsipas becoming the first Greek player doing something fabulous.  Must be fascinating, as well.
I was lucky.  I had Rosset, Hlasek, Hingis, Schnyder before me, and they showed me the way and they paved the way for me, because I come from a small country, but we have everything.  We have a national center.  We have a structure.  And I think this is an advantage to come from a country like this.
Q. You're checking the result.  Do you see who will be your next opponent?  It's still not sure, but it might be Nicolas Mahut, who is also 37.  What does he represent for you?
ROGER FEDERER: Surprisingly, I don't remember when we were juniors together.  There were other guys, but we have known each other for a long time.
He knows Severin, my coach.  When we see each other, we always take time to talk a bit.  So I see him more like a friend on the tour who is nice to see and nice to meet.
I know he's on an important path here in Roland, because it's important for French people and people like him.  He's got his family and all his friends here.  It's important for him, and I hope he wins so we can play together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT