U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2011
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/J. Monaco
  6-1, 6-2, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. When it started to rain, did you even notice it during the match and were you worried?
 ROGER FEDERER: I did see it. It was at the beginning of the third, I think. Before we walked on they even had to check. 
 Yeah, I mean, look, if rain came, then - how do you say - that's what it is. Can't change that. 
 Look, I've had to come back several times already the next day. It's already very late. I would have been very disappointed, even not to have a chance to play in front of those fans who wanted to see our match, even though the women's match was great, but I think some also came for our match. 
 It was nice they stuck around and made this match very special because it could also go the other way that the spectators don't really get into the match. But this one was particularly nice. The ovation I got was amazing. That was obviously something I appreciated extremely. 

 Q. How do you explain how crisp you were at such a late hour?
 ROGER FEDERER: Uhm, look, it's happened often to me when I have to -- honestly I waited a long time. I had to wait maybe two hours more than usual. You know, it's not eight. That can happen, too. But it is true, it is extremely late. Our other sports start at 8:00 in the morning, like golf. It's crazy how our schedules change all the time. As tennis players, it makes it extremely difficult to be on your A game every single day. 
 Something happens tonight, you see the women's match, you warm up several times, you wait, maybe have to eat something, you relax again. Your body is also jumping out of your skin because you want to go, then you're held back again. It's tough. 
 I'm extremely pleased with my reaction out there. Like you said, I played really well, crisp, nice. I felt fantastic. Like I said, the crowd helped me a lot in this regard. 

 Q. Is there an entertainer that you would stay at an event until after 1:00 a.m. to see, and who is that?
 ROGER FEDERER: Well, if I wanted to come watch, for me it doesn't matter what's happening the next day. You know, I got a ticket and I would stay until whatever time it is. Sure, it would mess up my schedule a bit, but at the same time maybe I won't have a chance to see that entertainer, person, artist ever again. I would stay. 
 Then again, a lot of people have to go to work and don't want to go through that, which I can understand that as well.

 Q. What time did you get here today?
 ROGER FEDERER: Was it maybe around 5:00, 6:00 maybe. So not too bad.

 Q. When you heard the weather forecast, is it worrisome at all?
 ROGER FEDERER: Well, I mean, it would have been a competitive advantage for, let's say in this case, Tsonga if I wouldn't have finished today or not even had a chance to play. That's why I was happy to at least get out there. After I won the first set, I was, Okay, if the rain comes now, at least I have a set lead. If I come back tomorrow, I feel like I'm in a good position for the following day. 
 But like this, everything's back to normal. I know there's actually a lot of rain coming tomorrow, right? So that was more the part that worried me than actually maybe having to go on and off the court the whole night. 
 But, yeah, there was not much margin there for us because it was already so late. So one rain delay and probably they would have sent everybody home.

 Q. Are you committed to Davis Cup, and, if so, what challenges would playing and getting to Australia present?
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I mean, it is what it is. It's a very unlucky draw for us. Sure, Australia is one of those great nations that enjoy watching them play Davis Cup. So that's obviously what's very intriguing playing against them. 
 But the Swiss were really hoping for another home tie. 8,000 people in the last match, that's a second-round playoff group. We wouldn't have made that many people again because the hall wouldn't have been available. But for us it was tough now to sort of pack our bags, pay a lot of money for flights and hotels. So the Federation is not happy. At least the minimum we can do is try to win that tie and get back in the World Group. 
 We'll see how it goes. I hope I can get there and play against the Aussies.

 Q. Is it challenging after a Grand Slam?
 ROGER FEDERER: After I won the Australian Open, I went to Romania on clay. Arrived Friday, played Saturday and Sunday.

 Q. Do you drink coffee or any kind of stimulant to stay alert when you have this kind of a situation?
 ROGER FEDERER: Like late? I drink coffee during the day but not tonight. I mean, I went to bed maybe 1:45 last night. I'm in somewhat of a schedule that for me it's not too crazy, you know, because I know night sessions were around the corner. I tried to sleep in as much as I could the last couple of days so at least I would be ready to go if it's 5:00 a.m. really. I mean, you have to get ready for that, because that's what's happened already in some of the matches. 

 Q. How good did you play tonight?
 ROGER FEDERER: I played very well. Look, you always play as well as your opponent allows you to play. Sometimes they play differently, so it doesn't suit you. I can see he's a player that can give me a lot of difficulty. But today I just think I returned too well. Then on the serve I was too confident. From the baseline I had the upper hand the whole time. 
 All in the three main areas of the game I was superior, and that made the match outcome pretty straightforward, which is nice.

 Q. Your next opponent is Tsonga. He played a tough five-setter. Your match was short. Is that going to play a factor in the outcome?
 ROGER FEDERER: Not really. I don't think on this one. I don't think his match was particularly long or particularly taxing. 
 Sure, it's a mental drag to go through five sets, but he's got a day off. He finished somewhat early compared to what I did now. So I don't think either one of us has an advantage. My rhythm is for sure a bit more messed up, but from that standpoint I have no worries. If I play at night, I won't say it's an advantage for me, but then I've been there already two nights. 
 I'm just excited to play against him, honestly. He's a nice player to watch and also to play against. It's very interesting. I thought we had a great match at Wimbledon which I unfortunately ended up losing. 
 But I thought I was playing great tennis and shouldn't have, but look, he did well and came back. And he proved it in Montréal how good he's playing right now. He's definitely on a good streak. I hope I can stop him this time.

 Q. Are you pleased to get another shot at him at a Grand Slam tournament?
 ROGER FEDERER: Doesn't necessarily need to be the next Grand Slam, but it's sure something I'm looking forward to. Look, I live for the big matches, live for playing a guy who is explosive, has got some firepower. I like to play those kind of players, especially now that we're in the deeper stages of the tournament. 

 Q. How long did that Wimbledon match stay with you?
 ROGER FEDERER: Not much, actually. For some reason, because I felt I did everything I could, it was almost back to a true grass court match. A couple shots here and there made the difference, particularly back at the break I got in the third set. I should never have been broken. 
 For some crazy reason he gets the break there and the rest, as we know, is history. Normally on grass, people used to serve and volley. This was first serve, first hit, the point was over so many times on both ends. At the end he got the better of me. 
 I didn't walk away too down. I was more frustrated for a little bit because I knew I was playing good enough to win the tournament. And there you are sitting not having a chance to walk out in a couple days. That's what is tough about it, especially at Wimbledon, which means so much to me. But it's what happened. It's tough. It's never happened at a Grand Slam that I was up two sets to love and ended up losing. I did enjoy my vacation, so it's okay.

 Q. Do you feel you're playing well enough to win the Open right now?
 ROGER FEDERER: I think so. Actually in all the Grand Slams this year I've played really well. Australian Open I played great. I think the match with Djokovic was extremely close. The French, clearly I was right there. Wimbledon I thought I was really close as well. 
 Here again, I'm showing good form. So it's up to me now to get on a good run for the end of the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT