MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2019
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. THIEM/R. Federer
3-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Despite your loss today, are you still confident for Paris now, as you played against one of the best players on tour on clay and you came so close, obviously?
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah.  I feel very good about my game.  I thought I had some good matches here, you know, especially last two.  First one was good to get into it.
And obviously, Gael and Dominic are tough on the clay so it was a good battle.  I feel good on the clay right now.
Q. I want to know if you had just decided if you go to Rome or not?
ROGER FEDERER: No, that's why I'm in the draw.  I couldn't make the decision before the game so, unfortunately, I had to wait and see how this match plays out today, if it was going to be 6-Love 6-Love or 7-6 in the third.
Winning or losing, it all matters, so it was an early ask for me to take that decision.  I wanted to keep options open and that is why I'm in the draw.  I'll probably only decide on the weekend, but I'm not sure if I'm going to go.
Q. It is difficult to say now, but are we going to see you in Madrid next year again?
ROGER FEDERER: If you are going to see me next year in Madrid?
Q. Yes.
ROGER FEDERER: As a tourist, maybe.  As a tennis player, maybe.  I've no idea.  I don't know what my clay court plans are for next year.
But I enjoy playing here.  I had a great week.  People couldn't have been friendlier to me.  I thought I played good.  I have good memories from this place, so of course I can see myself coming back, but I don't know at this point.
Q. Is it a disappointment because you had opportunities or relief and happiness because you played a great week after so long not being on the clay?
ROGER FEDERER: I feel sweaty (smiling) and the last doesn't matter.  No, it's been a good week.  Frustrating, clearly.  Losing with match points is the worst, so that's how I feel.  But nevertheless, if I take a step back, it's all good.
Q. Doing well at the Roland Garros, second week for example, means you play less tournaments on grass. Perhaps you'll go to Stuttgart?
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I'm not signed in for Stuttgart, so I just thought it was a lot of grass court tennis last year, so I just felt, like, maybe only Halle is better for me and that's the plan.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT