QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 6, 2011
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/V. Troicki
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you comment on your level today against Troicki, please?
 ROGER FEDERER: I thought it was very concentrated performance. I really thought I saw the ball a bit better. Obviously the conditions were easier for me today after yesterday's match, which we spoke about.
 I came out and had some good opportunities to break early, but I was a bit unlucky twice on the forehand, but I was able to stay calm and wait for my chance and really make him work hard on his serve. 
 I really had many, many chances throughout the match, and obviously eventually I was able to break through and make it difficult for him. From my side, I'm really happy the way I was able to keep Troicki on the back foot, make him feel like he didn't know what was coming his way. That's the kind of tennis I like to play, so it was really a good match for me.

 Q. You are playing against Tsonga tomorrow in semifinal. Would you like to tell what you are feeling for this match?
 ROGER FEDERER: Well, first of all, it's nice to see him back, you know. It's never nice to miss those guys because of injuries. If it's because they're not playing well, look, then they figure out their own way how to make it back into sort of semis/quarterfinal stages of tournaments, you know, but injury is not a fun thing to go through, and he's had a fair share of them. 
 So I think it's exciting playing him again. I think he's a very explosive player with good character, good for the game. I think, looking forward to the match, it's gonna be difficult. It seems like he's hitting the ball really well already early in the season after not having been able to play in Davis Cup. He seems really energized, and that's nice to see. 

 Q. Compared to the match in semifinal in Australian Open, did you remember some things?
 ROGER FEDERER: Haven't thought about it too much. I just walked off the court, you know, but I remember playing a really good match. 
 The big test for me, back down in Australia, was the quarterfinal match against Davydenko, obviously, which I was in big trouble being down a set and break points in the second set, and having lost to him back to back, that was the key for me, really. 
 Then Tsonga, I expected myself to win, really, and I was able to come out and play really sort of a tough first set and then kind of run away with it. 
 It was a really good match from my side. I don't think Jo played too bad, either. I just had a really good day and was able to, you know, to push him and pressure him and not allow him to serve the way he usually serves.
 That was a good match, but, look, one year later, many things have changed, many things have happened. We'll see what happens in a best-of-three-set match again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT