SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2010
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/A. Seppi
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Who was on the court today, Roger's twin or Roger himself?
 ROGER FEDERER: These days it's getting tricky. What do you think, Roger one or Roger two? 

 Q. You know better than me. 
 ROGER FEDERER: Normal guy. There's only one. The secret's over now (smiling). 

 Q. Are you happy with your game today?
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, it was a good match. A lot of rallies, like I expected, you know, cross-court, backhand to backhand, then obviously the dangerous forehand cross-court from either one of us. It was a matter of trying to serve well. 
 I think I struggled midway through the match but got my rhythm back at the very end, which was a good thing. 
 Look, he's a good player. I've got a lot of respect for him. He always makes me work extremely hard. I think that's why the stomach problem at the end. It's hard to breathe out there. We had some tough rallies. I've seen many players like breathing hard here. That made it difficult. 
 But I'm very happy the way I played. I was able to mix up the game well. When he maybe let go a little bit, I was able to step it up. That's the kind of stuff I like to do. 

 Q. Today's match tells us more about how you're playing right now. There were more rallies. Yesterday is more about serve and return. What would you say about your play right now and your energy level compared to US Open?
 ROGER FEDERER: Well, the conditions are definitely slower here. Don't know if it's because we had the roof shut, you know, the last couple days now. But I definitely feel this surface reminds me more of something like we played in Toronto. Without the heat, takes away a bit of the pace traveling through the air, so you play differently. You have to be a bit more patient. The second serve, it's hard to really kick it up high, get free points and stuff. So it goes more through of work points. That's the way you have to play this week. It's a bit different. 
 But the way I'm playing the ball is fine. Today, like I said, was going to be a bit of a test to see how my timing is, how my coordination is, defense and offense, trying to read the balls. I think I did all right, you know. Could have served maybe better at times. But I think he really stepped it up and played a really good match for at least 45 minutes to an hour. That's why I'm happy to have come through. 

 Q. Next up, Robin Soderling, familiar opponent to you. What are you expecting he'll bring? How difficult of a match do you think it will be?
 ROGER FEDERER: It's going to be a very tough match. Definitely going to bring the heat on his serve and try to hit hard forehand or backhand. It's going to be a tough match, no doubt about it. It's going to be very different to the US Open. It's going to be very different to the French Open. We've had the last couple matches in really tough conditions. It was raining during the French. It was super windy during the US Open. We're looking forward to something a little bit normal. 
 We'll see how it goes. We'll see the conditions tomorrow, if the roof's open or closed. I don't think it has much of a difference because I haven't seen crazy winds here in Shanghai and the heat is somewhat moderate. 
 I'm looking forward to a tough match. Even though I have a great record against him, I have a lot of respect for him and am excited about the match.

 Q. You must have received a lot of gifts from your Chinese fans. Could you tell us some impressive gifts Chinese fans have given you. 
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, they're very creative here in this country giving gifts. Obviously many think of my twin girls. Many think of Switzerland, maybe give me a cow or something like that. Others create great books about me and my career, places where they've been, pictures they've taken with me, souvenirs that I've signed for them, they've taken pictures of it. 
 It's very nice. It's very different, to be honest. Not everywhere do I get such nice and creative gifts. I always need to pack in the extra suitcase to take all the gifts back. That's the only small problem, but it's a good problem to have, so I'm happy about it. 

 Q. Today many people read the news online the boss of your company has been sued by someone because of his scandal in football lotteries. In the French Open in 2008, you played with Rafael Nadal. Some said you provided some information to him before the match. Would you like to clarify this or would you like to give your fans some guarantee?
 ROGER FEDERER: Sure, I'm happy to. If it were a different player, I would hope that it's obviously not true. But because it involves my name somewhere out there, I know it's a hundred percent not true. Pretty relaxed about this because I'm for complete honesty for the sport. Leave the game better off than when I arrived to the sport, even though it was already a great platform I had. The last thing I would do is harm the sport and create a negative light on our sport. 
 So it's disappointing that someone's throwing my name around. I would never do such a thing. My fans know that, the people who know me. Yeah, I have nothing to hide. I'm sorry for those who think there is something to the story. But there's nothing. 

 Q. Just to ask you what you think about the defeat of Rafa, is it a huge surprise for you? 
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, clearly. He's been playing such incredible tennis the last - what has it been - basically the whole year, but especially since Monaco, since he's been starting to go on a roll. Obviously you didn't expect Melzer to all of a sudden come through and beat him especially in three sets. You would figure like once Rafa got his teeth into the match, he would be able to come through at the end. But Melzer played fantastic. You saw the winners he hit. He took it to Rafa and he couldn't cope with it. 
 It was interesting to see how Melzer played. I played him a couple of times now in a short period of time. I see why he can cause Rafa some trouble, you know. Obviously it's been a big shock for the tournament, for some players as well, because obviously he's the favorite to every tournament he really goes to right now because of his incredible run he's been on. 

 Q. I heard you like listening to Lady Gaga songs on the way to the stadium. Is that true?
 ROGER FEDERER: No, I have not been listening to any radio or anything. I like music, don't get me wrong, but I don't need really music to pump me up before a match. I usually listen a lot when I'm driving myself. But here I've had good company with friends on my team. We've been chatting and talking. 
 But I like her music. I think she's a great artist.

 Q. If you like listening to her songs, I was wondering the reason she has a song named Love Game?
 ROGER FEDERER: It's got tennis connections. I wonder if she's a good tennis player. I have my doubts. She's created a great CD. I've listened to her music for sure, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT