ROGERS CUP
August 13, 2009
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/S. Wawrinka
  6-3, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 It's a special occasion for our last conference because today we have the top eight ranked players in the ATP reaching the quarterfinals for the first time in the history of tennis. So after the regular press conference with Roger Federer, Eugene Lapierre will be here to answer your questions, so if you have some questions for Roger first.  
  
  Q. Do you feel that over the years you've done your part to get to the quarterfinals and finally the other guys came along or what?  
 ROGER FEDERER: I think I did my fair share, but you know, it's not easy, you know. I think it's actually a little bit easier here, because the top eight had a bye, but at the same time it's not just the top eight seeds it's the top eight ranked players in the world.   
 So it's definitely a special occasion. I think we came close already in the Australian Open this year, and maybe once before this year, maybe one or two players were missing.   
 It just shows the top guys now are really consistent and they're showing up at the big events. It's nice it finally happened.   
  
  Q. Bit of a scare today against Stan?  
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, it was tough. I think we played at a very high level. He was serving great and hitting extremely hard off the baseline and making it hard for me, you know. His favorite surface is even clay, and it shows the potential he still has.   
 It's great to see he's making so many improvements and, you know, I definitely had to battle really hard today to come through.  
  
  Q. Did it help you at all knowing his game as a doubles partner?  
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, it helped me, but it helped him, too. There's good and bad parts approaching a match like this. I don't play Swiss very often on tour because there's only a few out there, and then when it happens it's different, you know.   
 I don't want to say it's bad, but it's just a different feeling out there, because we know our strengths and weaknesses so much that you know exactly what's going to happen because we practice so much together.   
 The doubles is more than just an emotional level. Experiencing something that big together on a tennis court is very rare, because we're individual athletes. You know, normally you're singles players. So you have always that bond for life, you know, so then sometimes it can get a bit tough, you know, playing against Stan on a match court.  
  
  Q. What your thoughts on your next opponent, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga?  
 ROGER FEDERER: I'm excited playing against him. I've only played him once, I think, in Madrid last year.   
 I think he's got great potential. He's a wonderful character for the game, and I think he's exciting to watch and I'm sure also to play.  
 Hopefully we'll play more often in the future, but I'm excited about tomorrow's game. He's got very powerful serve and he's a great athlete. I'm sure it's going to be entertaining tennis.  
  
  Q. Charlie Pasarell can remember every point he made and Lendl remembers every match and every score. How good are you about -- do you know of any other player nowadays who's good at, who knows every score, every set he played and all that?  
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I think I know a lot about my history, you know, the matches I've played, the points I've played and stuff.   
 I mean, I guess in today's game we get reminded so many more times, you see it and you have pictures and film and everything, but I'm getting to the point where I start forgetting matches now, you know, because I just have played so many.   
 I think it's past 700 or 800 now. That's not counting doubles and qualifying and Challengers and Satellites and Juniors and everything. I'm getting up there.   
 And it hit me when I played Gilles Muller at the US Open last year, and for two days I said I never played the guy and I'm excited to play him for the first time, and then even when I was walking into the tunnel going into the match, you know, I never thought I played him before.  
 And then I think McEnroe was making fun of me saying, I can't believe Roger makes a mistake, because the guy has played him twice before, you know; once in Bangkok and once in Indian Wells. But I completely forgot those matches. That was the first time of me starting to forget matches, I think.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT