WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2009
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/T. Haas
  7-6, 7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Roger Federer for you. 

 Q. You looked extremely smooth and fluent today. Everything coming with ease. How do you feel yourself? Did you enjoy the match? Did you feel any nerves or tension? 
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I mean, they're never easy, those big matches. But normally you always play better if your opponent's playing good, too. I thought Tommy, you know, was on a great run. I couldn't even get close to breaking him for almost two sets. 
 Sure, that makes it maybe a bit worried, but it's something that happens quite frequently on grass. It actually also is what happened to me in Paris, you know, where I wasn't able to break him for, you know, I think over also one and a half sets. Because I think I was up a break in the second. 
 I was really happy the way I played today. You know, I came up with some good stuff when I had to. Tough match, because Tommy was playing well. 

 Q. This is your record seventh Wimbledon final and your record twentieth Grand Slam final. If you win the Championship, you'll go back to No. 1 in the world. Which of those numbers means most to you, or do any of them mean anything to you other than winning?
 ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I mean, look, I'm very proud of all the records I've achieved, because I never thought I would be, you know, that successful as a kid. You know, I would have been happy winning a couple tournaments and maybe collecting Wimbledon, you know, sort of achieving the dream scenario, you know. 
 But not really all those records. But it's quite staggering now, you know, having reached again I think it's my sixth straight Grand Slam final I've achieved, as well. Having so many things going for me now again, opportunity again on Sunday, it's fantastic. 
 Quite amazing to be back in the Wimbledon final already because it seems like now all of a sudden everything happened very quickly.

 Q. All sports have incredible records, marks. What does the history book mean to you? 
 ROGER FEDERER: I mean, I think more today than, you know, it used to be. You don't know all the records when you haven't been there. I mean, you know who won Wimbledon a ton of times, who's been No. 1 in the world for a certain amount of weeks, you know, who's won X amount of titles. Those are the big stats you might know if you're interested. 
 But then there are so many other records out there that people don't know except if you reach them yourself or if somebody reaches it. It's nice that they talk about them, because it gives me even more of an incentive to do well, you know, for myself. 
 I love playing against the younger generation, trying to beat those and then the next generation again and playing for the history books, but especially also playing for myself. There's a big incentive. I really enjoy that part of the game right now.

 Q. Certainly the record for Grand Slam victories in singles is the most important record in our game. Could you comment on that particular record. 
 ROGER FEDERER: It's part of it, I think. It's a combination of many things. I think it would be wrong just to look at Grand Slam play. I think that's unfair to the other tournaments. It's unfair to the Masters Cup, which is an amazing tournament. I've also been able to win that one four times. For some reason, people don't really talk about it that much, which is a pity. 
 Then, of course, you know, the amount of titles you win, how consistent you've been, how you've been able to dominate, I think it all comes together. 
 But it's true that over best-of-five-set matches and over two weeks, it is a true test. And that's why I think that a Grand Slam is definitely a part of that.

 Q. We had a few interesting moments in that match. Do you remember the point when both of you came to the net and you tried to make the pass? Tommy just waved his hand. Did that affect you?
 ROGER FEDERER: Not really. I don't know where I looked, but I didn't really look at the ball because I thought he might touch the net. The next thing I know -- or I was not surprised he got to it, but I was sort of happy he got to it so I could make a lob. 
 The next thing I know, it goes way out. But it was a funny moment, you know. 

 Q. Obviously not knowing which of the Andys you're going to face, we'll ask you about both of them. When it comes to Roddick, what do you remember most about your finals against him? How does his play now compare with then?
 ROGER FEDERER: Well, I've played him 20 times, so I've had plenty of time, you know, to study his game, to understand his game. He's always played me also quite differently every single time I've played him. In the beginning of his career, I remember back in 2003, he was sometimes standing way back, you know, on the return. But then I played him one year, I mean, not on grass, but let's say in 2004, he chipped and charged a lot, you know, came to the net a lot. I've also played him when he's serve and volleyed first and second serve almost. 
 I've had many different looks against Roddick. I enjoy how he leaves everything out on the court. I can only marvel at how incredible his serve is. I like playing against him, not only just because of the record.

 Q. You made the point previously that although Andy Murray has a good record against you, you've actually beaten him when it counts most. 
 ROGER FEDERER: What do you want me to say? 

 Q. The form you're in at the moment, you must feel you have a great chance if you should play him again on Sunday. 
 ROGER FEDERER: Absolutely. I mean, I think it doesn't matter who is in the other finals. If it would have been Rafa or Roddick or Murray or anybody, I think it's all to play for, you know, for any player. 
 I don't know how much, you know, like a record, like my great record I have against Roddick, would come into play. I'm not sure. It starts from zero. It's the same thing with Murray's record, which he has a good one against me, but then he's never been in a Wimbledon final before. It's my seventh straight. 
 At the end of the day, you have to let the racquet do the talking. I'm happy where my game's at right now. I'm so excited that I have a day off so I can kind of really get ready for the finals, because it's a big one, you know. 
 I know what's on the line. I hope I can play another good match.

 Q. Will there be more nerves for you, because it could be 15 if you win it?
 ROGER FEDERER: Right now I don't think so, because it helped me a lot going through, trying to achieve the fifth straight Wimbledon, equaling Borg's record. For some reason that meant the world to me. I was like in a bubble for two weeks, just trying to achieve it. 
 So this time around I think I'm much more relaxed. Maybe it's also because of Paris. But I really think that experience, trying to go for my fifth Wimbledon was a really big one, you know. That's why I might be actually a bit more relaxed this year.

 Q. You mean bigger than achieving Roland Garros?
 ROGER FEDERER: What do you mean? 

 Q. You were more nervous about the fifth?
 ROGER FEDERER: Same. Quite similar. I mean, points are played differently on grass and on clay, so obviously there's a different tension out there. But both were huge.

 Q. Mentally?
 ROGER FEDERER: Mentally both were very difficult.

 Q. Have you been texting with your buddy, Pete? Is he coming? What's the report? 
 ROGER FEDERER: Not the last week. Not that I've heard. 

 Q. If you do meet Andy Murray on Sunday, it would be strange, because most of the crowd will actually want Andy to win because he's a Brit. How will you deal with that, or doesn't it bother you?
 ROGER FEDERER: It's a wonderful challenge, you know. I think at the end of the day people in this country are very fair. They understand the game. You applaud good shots. It doesn't matter who they come from. 
 I've had some, you know, good and tough matches over all the years in all different countries and continents. You know, I've played Andy Roddick and Agassi at the US Open, you know, when I came out, and played Pete here. They didn't particularly support Pete that much. They just like hoped for a good match. That's what I'm hoping to see as well on Sunday. 
 I'm not in any way frightened of the thought that they would support Andy in a crazy way. I mean, he deserves it. He comes from this island. It's going to be interesting. I'm gonna look forward to see who is gonna win.

 Q. What do you think Pete Sampras' legacy is? What did you admire the most in his game?
 ROGER FEDERER: I think his success here at Wimbledon, you know, being able to win it seven times. It's amazing. You know, winning it three times, coming back, winning it four times, going for five, it's quite something. 
 And, you know, he finished off with the US Open victory. It was very special against his biggest rival Agassi. I think that's what I'll remember most of him. But especially his fluid game. I guess the best serve we've seen in tennis history, even though today we also have some good ones. 
 But it's just the way he used it and the way he backed it up. And, you know, what a smooth mover he was, as well, which he never really got credit for. There's many things that Pete did incredibly well.

 Q. What has been your approach to all the talk about whether you are indeed the greatest of all time? How would you describe what your approach has been? How much do you listen to it? What do you think about it?
 ROGER FEDERER: I mean, sure, I like listening about it. It means I'm doing something right, you know. But then again, you know, let me finish my career, and then we'll see what happens at the end. 
 I always have had the most respect for all the generations in tennis. Technology has changed so much. You know, even tournaments have changed. US Open used to be on clay and on grass, and now it's on hard court. So it's hard to judge the whole thing. And I think that's what's also unique about our sport. 
 I just try to have the best possible career I can and look back with obviously incredible memories.

 Q. Have you enjoyed these discussions, hearing about it?
 ROGER FEDERER: Rather yes (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT