INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 1, 2009
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/M. Zverev
  7-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was it a matter of getting used to the first set and him and then opening it up in the second, or was it more than that?   
 ROGER FEDERER: No, I mean, he was playing well I thought from the start. He served some good serves, and made it easy for him to hold in the beginning. Made it hard for me to get the break.  
 But I thought I served well myself, and it was a pity I couldn't make the forehand on set point at 5-4 I think it was. But then I played a great breaker and I played well after that, so it was perfect match for me. I was happy with my match.   
  
  Q. Is your level rising at the rate you want it to and you're pretty much where you want it to be, or still more to go?  
 ROGER FEDERER: No, I feel like it was a good match. Now again, it was the, again, different type of match. I really had to take the offensive because he was playing really far back in the court, and I think I did well.  
 I didn't have to play that much defense. I had to come up with some passing shots, and I think it's always kind of good that you're on the back foot and you have to come up with some good shots at the right time.   
 That was a good test. He's a great player. It was an interesting first match we had.   
  
  Q. Another boy of '87 like Novak and Murray, and another left-hander. Do you think he's another left-hander like Verdasco and Murray, they're increasing left-handers, or it's a normal situation?  
 ROGER FEDERER: We have very few left-handers in the game, so it's pretty normal that there should be more coming. I can't imagine having fewer lefties than we had maybe two years ago. We had maybe maximum five in the top 100, which is was very little. So it's nice to have more of these guys.   
 Seems like he's a talented player. I think he's got potential, and he showed it this week.  
  
  Q. Do you think there's less pressure on you when you player on clay now than before, in last years?  
 ROGER FEDERER: Not really. I think everywhere I go there is always pressure involved, because I still think people expect me to go far and win tournaments and so forth. So I feel the same way, as long as I know my game is up there so I can win tournaments.   
 I'll also always have pressure. Even though today I see it a bit differently than when I was breaking through as a junior. It's nicer now anyway, because I'm always playing on center court and I have a full stadium, and that helps to play your best.   
  
  Q. The Djokovic semifinal, are you looking forward to that after Miami?  
 ROGER FEDERER: Sure. I mean, we had semis in Monaco last year on clay. I don't know if we played another time on clay. Actually, Monaco a few years before that in the first round when he was coming up.   
 We haven't had each other that much on clay. Sees like he's playing well again. He came through very convincing against good players, so I expect a good match. I hope I can play better than in Miami.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT