INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 7, 2007
Roger Federer
Stan Wawrinka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please? 

 Q.  When did you decide to play in the double? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Few days ago. 

 Q.  Just a training for the singles or? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  No.  It was to help Stan coming back from injury.  Because we never played, so... 
 In Davis Cup we might play in the future so I thought it was a good idea. 

 Q.  Was it your idea or his idea? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, we've been speaking about it for over a year or so.  But I was always helping out Yves, so I wanted to help out Stan, which was nice. 

 Q.  Are you surprise about the crowd, so many people for doubles match? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  No, not really.  I was expecting center court to be honest, but it's okay. 

 Q.  Women, when the double play here there are just a couple people.  I know you and Nadal are big, but it sold out, and 4,000 people is a very big crowd for the double.  You didn't surprise for that? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  No, because it's Nadal against Federer.  They consider it like a singles match.  We definitely don't.  My main objective to was play doubles with Stan for the first time.  We were able to it. 
 He didn't have pain in his knee, which was most the important.  We had a good time on the court.  If more people are there it's fun. 

 Q.  What was your first reaction when you saw it was Nadal and Moya that you were playing in the draw? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I was happy.  Rather like facing those guys in doubles. 

 Q.  What happened in the match?  Tell us about that. 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Bit of opportunities missed in the second set, you know.  I think we didn't play too bad for first up, you know, Stan coming back if injury.  It wasn't easy, you know, and doubles is played a different way against guys like Moya and Nadal.  They stay back, you know, such good baseline players. 
 We played pretty good.  Missed some opportunities.  Definitely could have played three sets I think. 

 Q.  Stan, how did you feel on the court with this kind of double? 
 STANISLAS WAWRINKA:  A lot of pressure, you know.  When Roger told me we going to play it's pressure for me.  And then when we see we play against Nadal and Moya it's pressure.  But it's a chance to play with Roger for sure and that was nice. 

 Q.  Anything you can take from this from Nadal's game?  Obviously that's the big focus for you.  Just good to be out there playing against him? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  I guess you always learn, you know.  Played him in singles in Monaco, played him in doubles here, and played him in exhibition.  I think I start to know his game in a week.  You don't learn anything in a doubles like this. 

 Q.  Are you expecting to play singles tomorrow or Wednesday? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  I think they were talking about tomorrow.  That's what I've been hearing for the last for days, so it better be true. 

 Q.  Do you prefer these type of tournaments when you have a bye to go a day earlier and then have a day off? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  It's always an advantage if I would have the day off, but first for that I need to win the first round match.  That's a tough one. 
 That's the tough part about having the bye.  I mean, maybe you're one round ahead, but the guy comes into the match with at least one match. 
 It's especially difficult in a tricky round I have with Almagro.  Well wee if the doubles helps me at all.  We'll see about that. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT