AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2007
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 

 Q.  How did you think you played tonight? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  I'm very happy with how everything went, yeah.  I mean, you know, he's a good up-and-coming junior.  You know, he's really made his marks now, the last six months especially, also in the beginning of the year.  We've both been on some winning streak. 
 I was hoping for a good start and I got that.  I thought I was pretty much in control all the time today.  There was one loose moment when he got back to 4-All in the second set.  I got out of that one and played a good end of the set. 
 No, I was really happy the way I played.  Couldn't ask for more really. 

 Q.  He seemed fairly confident beforehand.  Were there any elements of you that wanted to put him in his place a little bit? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Not really.  I mean, I think my previous opponent, you know, didn't receive the respect he deserved, I thought.  Nobody was talking about a tough opponent for me, Mikhail Youzhny.  He's a fantastic player who played semis at the US Open. 
 I get to the next round and everybody's talking about Djokovic.  I couldn't really figure it out.  But, you know, he deserves it.  He's been playing well.  So I definitely don't underestimate anybody.  But I think my last two rounds have been really difficult really. 

 Q.  Who would you consider to be the best of the so-called younger players, Gasquet, Djokovic, Murray?  One that sticks out above all the others? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I mean, Nadal, I guess (smiling).  I mean, he's same age or a year older than Djokovic.  Him by far.  But then you have -- I think the three guys are at the same level at the moment.  All three have really started to win tournaments, achieved a few things, you know.  Monfils is getting there, as well.  He's played well. 
 Now at this tournament, as well, beat Baghdatis.  I think he's a fantastic player, too, Marcos.  There's plenty of guys coming up.  I probably forgot a few.  This is a tough group of youngsters coming up.  I think we'll see really a lot more this year really. 

 Q.  You played Nadal many times.  You played Murray a couple times now.  They play each other tomorrow.  What would you expect from that match? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  An interesting match really, I think, you know.  It's going to be quite a tactical match, I think, because Murray has the capabilities of slicing the ball, looping the ball, and also hitting the ball. 
 I guess it's also got a lot to do with the way he's serving, then who can take kind of the control from the, baseline because that's going to be very interesting to see.  I think hard court is a fair surface for both players. 
 Yeah, I'm interested to see.  It could go either way.  I'm still going to pick Rafa on the night, yeah. 

 Q.  I head a comment earlier that you never seem under any pressure in your matches and everyone is always gunning for you.  You're always expected to win.  Is that the way it feels to you? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  I do have a lot of pressure.  Guys know they always have a chance on the day.  It's a knock-out system, we're in in tennis.  That's the tough part. 
 I also go out there with sometimes, you know, feelings I'm not quite sure about my game.  Am I going to end up sitting here as the winner once again?  I don't know. 
 But today, you know, I'm pretty much in control.  I knew it was going to get tough at times, and that's what happened in the second set.  Especially against young players, you know, we take a lot of chances, who are new, I don't know so well.  It's a tricky match-up. 
 You know, I'm kind of used to also being the overwhelming favorite over and over again.  It's good I got used to it, playing under pressure, because that's exactly what you have to be able to do. 

 Q.  Are you surprised to see Tommy Robredo as your opponent rather than Richard Gasquet? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, who else was in the draw?  Wasn't it Baghdatis, too?  Baghdatis was there.  I knew either him, Gasquet or Robredo was going to get through.  That's really the way I saw it.  I knew that if I would make the quarters, I'm going to play a top guy.  That's what happened. 
 I would probably pick Robredo on a five-set match.  I think Gasquet on any day, I think he is a fantastic player.  I admire his backhand.  I think he's a fantastic player.  To see Robredo through, not a big surprise.  He's a great end of the season, and he deserves to be so far. 
 Never lost to him, I think.  It will be interesting to see how we match up in a couple days. 

 Q.  You're a fairly even-keeled guy.  Going into a match in a tournament like this, I don't know how fired up you are.  Would you say you're a little more fired up playing a guy like Djokovic than maybe any other match just because he's young, considered maybe a bit of a long-term threat? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Yeah, I mean, I think it's more, you know, the media that hypes up all those things, asking a thousand questions about the next opponent.  That kind of gets you going and fired up already. 
 So, I mean, I felt that was the case for the Djokovic match, whereas I didn't have those questions leading up to the other matches.  I feel like I'm being asked to kind of perform.  I'm happy when I do, it's a good feeling to come out and play well. 
 We'll see for the next match.  I think, you know, things are calming down again.  People still know I played well.  I hope I can just keep this level up, because that was a good one tonight. 

 Q.  You're enough of a student of the game to know that probably he is a little bit different than some of the other opponents just because the young guys are unpredictable, you never know when they can pull off a great performance? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Absolutely.  You hope it's not going to be against you.  I did it against Moya in '99, I was 300, he was No. 4 in the world.  I did it against Sampras when people expected him to win. 
 I had some other upsets as well.  I know how dangerous young players can be. 

 Q.  Do you think it's a bit of a hype going around Djokovic and these younger guys who are coming up? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  No, not at all.  I think they deserve the attention.  These guys have had some great results, especially Djokovic here in Australia.  He won Adelaide.  He's been on a nine-match winning streak maybe.  He's playing against the No. 1 player in the world, there's always going to be excitement. 
 I think you have to create it for yourself, and he did that very well.  So, no, I think it's well-deserved. 

 Q.  Since the last time you played him, how do you assess his game, development? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I thought there was a big difference between Monaco and Davis Cup.  Different surface, obviously.  But, I mean, Monaco was strange.  I think it was one of the first matches -- I don't know if it was first round or second round. 
 I mean, it was an awkward match, you know.  In the end, both were just waiting for errors.  That was how it went.  I was just more experienced and a tougher player on the day.  I wasn't feeling great, I remember.  He kind of sensed his chance but couldn't really handle the situation. 
 Then in Davis Cup I played really well, but I had home advantage, my favorite surface.  It was tough for him.  This was kind of more, you know, a normal basis.  Grand Slams, I feel very comfortable here, as well. 
 But I think, you know, I see him going much further also, up the rankings, whereas after Monaco I wasn't so impressed.  I remember saying that in the press conference, as well, because everybody was asking me about him back then already. 
 But since Monaco, I think his game came really a long way.  He has impressed me since, yes. 

 Q.  You are a person who respects the pasts and traditions of tennis.  Have you ever thought about reviving jumping over the net after a much match? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  That's what they used to do.  I walked past the net against Youzhny to shake hands.  Yeah, never know.  Could happen. 

 Q.  Why do you think it disappeared in tennis? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  I don't know.  Maybe we feel like it's disrespectful to jump over the net, kind of shorten the way for the opponent.  I have no clue. 
 I think it's got more to kind of wait at the net, respect the other person.  I think it's got to do more with that honestly than anything else. 
 When did it stop?  Probably '70s, '80s already.  I think it's been quite a while.  But if I do it, you know it's because of you (smiling).  You reminded me of doing it. 

 Q.  Your match looks really good.  Is there anything you want to improve the rest of the tournament? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  No, I'm pretty happy, you know.  I think I'm reading the serves better now, too.  That's coming along nicely.  From the baseline, you know, I feel like I'm getting a good rhythm. 
 The only thing maybe is I would have liked to have finished off the second set easier.  I was up a break, playing real well.  Got a break.  I mean, to miss a smash like this on breakpoint, it's really just disappointing, you know. 
 I just wish that wouldn't happen because it happened against Youzhny, as well, and made things become more difficult.  If I can maybe shut that out a little bit more, make it a bit more harder to break for the opponent, then I think things are looking extremely well.  But I'm already happy the way it's going. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT