TMS - MONTE-CARLO
April 17, 2006
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  What was it like to get back on clay? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, it was all right.  I mean, I've been on clay for a week now in practice, but obviously the match is different. 
 Mixed feelings, really.  I thought I could have played much better.  But then again, you know, I'm very happy to have come through in the end, you know, because he didn't make it easy for me in the second set.  Really made me doubt there for a second. 
 But I had a good start in the third and sort of made me more relaxed.  But I never really felt overall very good throughout the match, so I hope that's gonna come along in the next match. 
 Q.  Djokovic is being talked about as one of the most promising young players in the world.  Did he show you something today? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I definitely think he's a good player, yeah.  I mean, we're gonna play him again in Davis Cup so it's going to be interesting to see. 
 Yeah, I mean, he was all right from the baseline and everything.  I think he's still got many areas where he can improve, so there is some potential, absolutely. 
 Q.  What are you looking to improve for your clay court season? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, right now, you know, I'm trying to sort of figure out what's the best way for me to play and, you know, try to get as many matches as possible and just, you know, time on the clay really.  The more I do that, I think the more sure I get about, you know, just sliding on clay, the points, how they're being played and everything. 
 It's, for me, something very interesting again, you know, to change again after basically eight months on hard courts.  To be able to back it up, you know, with a win today was excellent because coming from all the wins I've had, it's never easy, you know.  You get down on yourself sometimes.  So I'm very happy with the way I competed today. 
 Q.  You said that you will see him again in the Davis Cup.  Does it mean that you will play after all? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Yeah, we'll see about that (smiling).  I don't know yet.  It depends, yes, on my mood. 
 Q.  On what? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  On my mood. 
 Q.  On your mood? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Right now, it does, yeah (smiling). 
 Q.  You've had the chance to see Djokovic now.  How well do you know the rest of the Serbian team? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, Zimonjic, I've known since quite a while.  Tipsarevic, a little bit.  I practiced with him one time in Doha and I've seen a couple of matches.  Pashanski, I just saw a couple of rallies today for the first time. 
 Q.  Do you think it is a team that can jeopardize your team? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, it depends if I play or not, doesn't it?  Yeah, so we'll see (smiling). 
 Q.  I would like to know if there is something particular you appreciate about Monte-Carlo. 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Just a very tiny place, which is very intense, very short walk ways really, sort of a nice, cozy atmosphere I would say.  You know, with the ocean and the mountains close by and the different countries, you know, surrounding this place, it makes it quite a unique sort of city, you know and country at the same time. 
 Yeah, I like it to be honest. 
 Q.  Do you think you could live here? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  I could, but I wouldn't (smiling). 
 Q.  What was going through your mind in the second set?  You lost serve twice.  You said you were doubting a bit there.  What do you think happened in the second set? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I was the guy making all the errors, you know, and that's what happened.  That's what he was not doing, you know, he wasn't making too many errors, played a few good shots.  I thought, you know, the one forehand I missed I think to go up 30-Love on my one service game in the end cost me the game. 
 But, I mean, it happens.  I was actually pretty happy the way I was playing up until then, and then I just had a few sloppy points here and there and he really tightened up his game.  That cost me the second set. 
 And then in the end, one or two breaks, it doesn't really matter, so... 
 Q.  What do you think the biggest difference is between a cement tournament in America or in the summertime, or now in Europe, between clay tournaments between Monte-Carlo and Rome and then Paris? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  What I think is...? 
 Q.  The biggest difference.  I mean, balls, atmosphere. 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Oh, yeah, I definitely think the atmosphere is very different, you know, because I have the feeling here in Europe we usually struggle with space a little bit, you know.  So if you come to Monte-Carlo, Rome and Hamburg, you know, all those tournaments seem to have difficulties of space, you know - if it's for the fans or if it's for us, the players, and so on. 
 It's a different atmosphere also in the stands, I think, the way they applaud.  Sometimes you are surprised how loud they are; sometimes you are surprised how much they are behind you and then behind the opponent.  It totally depends on the moods very much.  It's always a different mood every day you come out, and I think that's pretty special here in Europe. 
 Q.  Maybe looking a little bit ahead for the French - obviously, you'll be asked a lot about it - but you talked about your memories as a child at Wimbledon.  Do you have memories of the French when you were growing up? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, watching it a little bit.  I remember watching Muster when he had the great, great run there on clay, you know, and then backed it up at the French, too. 
 Don't remember too much of Chang-Lendl match and stuff.  This, I don't remember too much. 
  But then, you know, the Bruguera sort of era and Courier, and those matches I think with Agassi once in the finals I remember a little bit because I was playing a tournament, too.  Then as a junior, you know, I came along and played, too. 
 So, yeah, a little bit, but not as strong as Wimbledon for me. 
 Q.  Why do you think Sampras, Becker and Edberg never won it? 
 ROGER FEDERER:  Well, either one or the other should have won it, but they didn't, you know.  Obviously, I think, you know, by serve and volleying first and second serves, or especially first serves all the time, it's not easy.  You're going to run into a guy who's, you know, returning so well and who's just on a good day, you know.  That's why I think Rafter has so few really ATP titles, you know, if you think about it, what a great player he was.  But he always run into these very hot players who return extremely well and like to play with targets, and on clay you get plenty of opportunities.  So I guess that's the reason. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT