TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 17, 2005
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English or Chinese.  
 
 
Q.  Bit of a strange match.  Could you explain exactly what happened in the second set?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  I got off to a bad start, you know.  I figured if I would have kept on top of things, the result would have been very different.  But, you know, that's how it goes.  In the end, I'm happy I didn't use too much energy and came through.  That's what counts.  But obviously, yeah, I'm disappointed I couldn't do better in the second set.  
 
Q.  I think the Chinese fans recognize you as the king of tennis before, but after tonight I think they will recognize you as the king of 2-2-1.  Are you trying to put more amusement into the game because you know we lost so many stars?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  I like to stay out on court for three sets.  It's good for the game, absolutely (smiling).  
 
Q.  In all seriousness, is a bit of your preparation for the semifinals to be out on court for a little bit longer?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  It wasn't long after all.  It was a quick three-setter.  No, this match didn't really matter to the preparation.  But I always believe winning is better than losing going into the next match.  If you lose matches, it's still stuck in your mind, you wonder what happened.  Like this, winning, what I expected really, sort of makes me in a good mindset for tomorrow's practice.  Then the day after, the match is going to be much tougher than it was today, yeah.  
 
Q.  After the first match, you said with more and more matches, you will play better.  Are you a hundred percent right now?  In order to have a hundred percent condition, will you try to play more matches? 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  I don't quite get the translation.  
 
Q.  You said you played more matches, will you have better condition. 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Will you try to play more matches in order to get better condition, a hundred percent condition? 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  I think the question is if I'm going to play more matches to get in better condition.  I think it's just this week, because of the preparation, I'm not at a hundred percent fitness-wise because I couldn't get the practice in I needed on court with tennis or running on the running machine or being able to lift weights.  This is maybe why I'm struggling a little bit.  Again, it's definitely going to get through this tournament.  It's only two matches left at the most.  After this I have hopefully a beautiful vacation and then I'm going to get ready for next year.  But so far this season I never really had condition problems throughout the match.  This is because of the injury I'm not at a hundred percent.  I'm not really too worried about it for the weekend.  
 
Q.  I understand People Magazine has included you in one of their sexiest people alive. 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  You know why (smiling).  
 
Q.  Is that a compliment or a burden?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  It's a compliment, yeah.  That's why I put on clothes tonight so we can speak normally together, don't get all overexcited (smiling).  
 
Q.  Tony Roche is coming here. 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  He is here.  
 
Q.  Did have you any advice from him?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  Yeah.  He doesn't just come here to hang out with me.  I mean, he likes to visit the most sexiest guy alive once in a while (laughter).  He gave me some advice, yeah.  
 
Q.  On a slightly more serious note, you've been following the Swiss football team.  Have you any comment to make on the qualification for the World Cup or the other controversy with the treatment in Turkey? 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  Didn't quite get all the things about the controversial side after the match.  I went to bed because it was getting late.  I watched the match till 4:30 in the morning.  I couldn't believe they were showing it.  I said, "Might as well take it while it's here."  No, I'm very, very happy.  Never in doubt.  
 
Q.  What will you be doing on your vacation?  What will be the next tournament you're going to take part in?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  I'll be playing Qatar.  Vacation, yeah, what do you do on your vacation?  I'm pretty relaxed.  I don't do much pause the year is busy.  I just lie in the sun, get brown, but use sunscreen.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT