AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2005
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  How would you sum that up? 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  Well, it was good, good start.  I think the start of the match was important for me, you know.  That set the tone for the rest.  And never really gave him a chance to get back into the match. So best-of-five, an easy three-setter sometimes they look very, very easy, but I always had the feeling I still had to play some good points to win them, especially against him.  He gets back a lot of balls.  But I'm happy with my performance, and that's what counts in the end.  
 
Q.  Do you think you're an even better player than you were at this time last year? 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  I had the feeling I was playing also very good at the beginning of the Australian Open last year.  So I think about the same.  
 
Q.  Fabrice is a very different player to most players.  Is that the kind of game where you get to try out some things you don't necessarily get to hit against other players?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  No, I play the way I have to to win.  I'm not testing out anything against him.  It's a tournament which means very much to me.  In practice, I can try some things if I want to do that, but not in the match. Against Fabrice I always tend to come in a lot, you know, to make him hit the pass and not me.  That has been working in the past.  
 
Q.  At one stage you appeared between shots to be practicing your defensive cricket shot.  Was that the case?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  That was the case, yeah.  I got a good technique then.  You saw that (smiling). 
 
Q.  Will you take in any cricket while you're here and do you know any of the Australian players?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  I haven't actually ever played, you know, but more for fun with a racquet, never really with a bat.  I don't know, get a few nice balls from some players, some real cricket players, that would be fun to see how it is for a change. 
 
Q.  The shot you played looked like a left-handed...
 
ROGER FEDERER:  Was it?  I can play both sides.  I have to see which one is my side.  I'm not sure, actually.  Baseball I play it here (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT