ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 13, 2018
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. CORIC/R. Federer
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Things are obviously still pretty raw so soon after the match, but what are your emotions?  What are your thoughts?
ROGER FEDERER: I thought he was better.  I think he had more punch on the ball.  He served better.  I think that's it.  The rest, he had more chances than I had.  I got off to a bad start in both sets.  That combination is plenty here in Shanghai with fast conditions.
Q. After here, I guess you will be playing Basel, but have you made a decision on the Paris Masters yet?
ROGER FEDERER: No.  That depends on Basel.  It's always connected.  I always take the decision after Basel.  Yeah.
Q. Some maybe unusual mistakes from you, but it was maybe because of his game that you couldn't find your timing out there?  Or you were also struggling with your own game and tempo?
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I mean, maybe it's a combination.  Maybe I didn't play as good as yesterday.  It was a different match, you know, different player, different ball coming your way.
I wasn't down in the score yesterday, so clearly also that changes things a little bit.  Potentially maybe also he could free-swing a little bit more because he was in the lead.  But then, as well, he was serving excellent, you know, throughout the match.  Sometimes hard to get the ball in play, you know, when he's serving 210 right on the line when he needs it often, and he did that excellent.  That's why I think he was better today.
He didn't give me many chances on his serve, and for me to stay with him, I should have maybe done a better job on my own serve.  But then again, it  wasn't bad either, you know.  And then in the rallies, like I said, I thought he had more punch than me.  Maybe it's a lot of tennis this week, but, you know, quite honestly I'm happy how I'm playing.
Laver Cup was good.  This was a good week again.  I'm happy about my reaction after the US Open.
Q. It's a complicated question:  Will you come back next year?
ROGER FEDERER: Yeah, I mean, look, I don't know about the clay court season yet, I don't know about a lot of things, but the Asian swing and at the end of the season are always pretty set up in a way that if I'm playing, obviously I'm coming here.
Yeah, I hope this was not my last time here in Shanghai playing the tournament.  I definitely plan to come back next year.
Q. Have you thought about next year's overall schedule?  Will you make some further adjustment to it?
ROGER FEDERER: No.  Like I said, I think I will try to take a decision on the clay towards maybe before -- well, let's say while I'm on vacation after London.  So like this I know how to work on my fitness and tennis program for those sort of four weeks in December.
That then plays a role for the rest of the season.  And that's it.  I still don't know.  And please stop asking me.  I really don't know.  And I wish I could tell you all these answers, but I really don't know, but I will play tennis next year, yes (smiling).
Q. How does the body feel after this week here?
ROGER FEDERER: It's not injured, which is good.  So I'm happy about that.  It's always a bit of a shock obviously for the body when you return, especially when you return the way, you know, maybe I have had the matches this week, but I must say I felt overall actually pretty good.  So I'm happy about that.
It's definitely something I can build on ahead now for Basel and then for London and maybe Paris.  I'm happy how the body has felt this week.  You know, sure, there has to be a shock to the body.  There is the pressure that comes with playing matches and playing attacking tennis like I did in the first, serve and volley, and the next couple maybe a bit more defense, especially against Kei.
So I'm actually happy.  I feel like I'm explosive out there, returning well.  Serving, I think, it's okay, could be even a little bit better.  I don't think I played a match where I didn't get broken, so that's something a bit more unusual for me.
But regardless, I think the court allowed for great ball striking.  I felt like I got some great rhythm.  Whereas in Cincinnati I came out of the tournament, I was, like, I don't know where my game is.  It's the finals.  Not bad.  But I couldn't tell you if I'm hitting the ball well or not.
So this week I felt like I was hitting the ball well, and I think that's something that I can definitely take along with me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT