AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2004
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   English questions for Roger. 


Q.  You obviously didn't enjoy losing your serve in the first set.  Didn't take too kindly to losing your serve? 

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I had to react, you know, to come back in the match.  But, you know, I'm never happy when I lose my serve.

Q.  14 games in a row is quite a comeback. 

ROGER FEDERER:  That is nice.  That doesn't happen every day in a best-of-three match, it's not possible, or is it?  No, it was a good match.  I'm happy.  You know, it was difficult in the beginning.  I felt like I was not serving well and not getting the power I wanted.  But after that, you know, I kind of relaxed and it got better. 

Q.  He didn't have anything to hurt you today?  A bit out of his depth, perhaps?

ROGER FEDERER:  You know, it's difficult for him.  He's coming off a long match.  Suddenly he's playing a totally different style.  You know, I kind of read the game well.  I can see where he prefers to hit his shots after some time.  After that, it was getting easier.  And he was getting frustrated.  I was maybe not letting him play the rallies he wanted to.  It's difficult afterwards when you start being down a set, and double break. 

Q.  Did he seem at all physically disabled to you after his big match against Sargsian the other day?

ROGER FEDERER:  Not really.  I mean, maybe one time in the end.  5-1 in the third I thought maybe his leg is still hurting.  But that's normal after such a match.  I wouldn't say he paid the price today.  But it definitely wasn't good preparation.

Q.  How much has winning Wimbledon changed your mentality coming into Grand Slams now?  It seems there's a conviction you can win them all. 

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I'm just more confident, you know, higher expectations.  I'm not happy anymore with a fourth round or a quarters.  You know, I want to get further now.  So that's really what has changed.  Nothing else really. 

Q.  Looking from the outside, it looks as though your movement is good and you're striking the ball well. 

ROGER FEDERER:  (Nodding head.)

Q.  Is that how you feel, as well? 

ROGER FEDERER:  Except the beginning, you know, was a little bit tough.  But after that, you know, again, I felt good, hit freely.  Nothing really to complain about, so... 

Q.  How do you feel about playing Hewitt, given it's the same court as the Davis Cup semifinal?

ROGER FEDERER:  It's the same.  I hope they didn't change it, because I played well in Davis Cup, and also here now.  I'm looking forward.  It's a good match-up.  We've got two totally different games.  We always have good matches.  He's got a much better record against me, so that's his advantage.  But, you know, hopefully I can use something else.

Q.  Why do you think his record is so good against you? 

ROGER FEDERER:  If I knew, the record wouldn't be that way (smiling).  But, you know, I say that every time.  But we have always had very tight matches.  You know, even though I've beat him twice, one time I beat him, I saved match point.  Could be also 9-1.  On the other side, it could also be 5-4, 5-All, whatever.  We've always had tight matches and physically tough I always thought:  Shanghai, Davis Cup, all the other matches.  So looking forward to it.

Q.  How demanding is this surface on the body?

ROGER FEDERER:  It's very hard actually.  You know, I always get a lot of muscle pain from playing on these courts, even though the matches have been easy.  Even though I'm practicing back home in Switzerland on this surface, you know, when I come here, you know, I always have my difficulties.  But that's how it is.  Luckily it's only a few weeks. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT