WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2003
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  First question for Roger. 


Q.  How was that as an introduction to this year's Wimbledon?

ROGER FEDERER:  You know, difficult first round, but I felt good today.  You know, basically I'm happy to have made it in three because it got quite tight in the end.  You know, a few extra gray ones earlier (smiling).  But that's okay.  Felt like I was playing well, so... 

Q.  How conscious were you of what happened to Lleyton during the game? 

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I saw it before I walked on court, you know.  How I felt last year, so... 

Q.  You can empathize.  Obviously makes a huge difference to your half of the draw. 

ROGER FEDERER:  Yeah, well, maybe it does for you guys, yes.  But I've got five matches to go till there.  I think there is enough guys, you know, who can beat anyone right here, right now.  So I'm not really worrying about not playing Lleyton in the semis, you know.

Q.  How confident are you in yourself, your own game?  How do you feel coming into the tournament?

ROGER FEDERER:  I think it was important that I felt my way into a tournament.  It was very difficult to serve and volley on the second serve, I had the feeling.  Because, you know, the guys, they return well today.  I don't know.  I mean, I'm trying to hit my second serve harder than usual, and still they're returning well.  I hope it's just him, you know (smiling).  But it was good, you know, to also play from the baseline a little bit, get used to the harder courts, you know, the higher bounce.  So it's good. 

Q.  With Lleyton out of the tournament now, who do you consider your main threat?

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, you know, I don't know.  I have an outside chance - maybe now bigger.  But I can't really focus about winning the tournament yet.  The road is too long to go.  But, you know, the favorites stay the same, except Lleyton is not the big favorite any more.  Next, to Agassi, you know, I don't know, other good players from the grass court.  


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT