US OPEN
August 29, 2002
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Roger. 


Q.  You really showed your full arsenal tonight, brought out everything.  Do you think you played a lot better than your first-round match?

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, it's a different match.  You know, the first one was very little confidence, different opponent.  You know, against Michael, you always get into the rally because his second serve is not very good, so you can kind of put it into play, you know, quite easy.  For me, obviously it's quite convenient because either I can chip and charge sometimes on big points or I can just play deep and then get into the point, you know.  From the baseline with him I feel like he can't really hit a winner against me, I can always run them down.  I don't put too much pressure on myself to hit the winner right away.  I know even if he attacks me, it's not so, so dangerous maybe like somebody else.  But, yeah, I'm happy the way it went today.  Very good one and a half sets, two sets.  For a while, it was very, very good.

Q.  Confidence rising?

ROGER FEDERER:  Yes, definitely.  Also, I mean, I hit some really good shots today which helps, makes me feel good, you know, when I hit some good shots.

Q.  New feeling after a while?

ROGER FEDERER:  Yeah.  I mean, it was a pity in that third set that the ball was called in, which was called good, because really then I felt like I was playing my best.  That kind of got me down.  I was like very disappointed that the umpire didn't see that.  I mean, I can't believe he missed it really.

Q.  A lot has been made of your sort of lack of intensity.  That was one point where you got a little upset.  Do you think that's a fair criticism of your game, that you don't really show any outward emotion?

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I used to show more, but lately there was not much I could show because I was only losing.  I don't want to just smash racquets.  I have a good racquet, you know.  No need for me to smash that one.  It's myself, my head, which was not working.  But it's true, before I used to show more emotions.  But I'd always have to calm down and save that energy for the match, you know, for the concentration.  When it's going to be a full stadium, I will show more emotions.  Today was not necessary really.  For me it's just important that I'm happy on the court, that I smile, good shots from him, good shots from me, that I enjoy myself.  It's very important for my game.

Q.  Has the loss of Peter Carter affected you, your outlook on things over the last month or so?

ROGER FEDERER:  Yeah.  I mean, obviously, yes.  This is something very tough for me.  It still hurts.  A lot has changed since, yes. 

Q.  Was Michael getting upset with the umpire about something?

ROGER FEDERER:  There's no reason to.

Q.  Did something happen at the end?  Did he want the match stopped because of the rain?  I wasn't there.  We saw it on the screen. 

ROGER FEDERER:  Yes, he wanted to stop. 

Q.  Did you say, "Play on"? 

ROGER FEDERER:  I didn't say anything.  I was just thinking. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT