NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2002
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Roger, please.


Q.  Are you the hardest-working player on the men's tour?  How many hours a week do you put in training when you're at a tournament?

ROGER FEDERER:  When I'm at a tournament, I guess I work around three to four tennis hours, plus maybe an hour conditions.  Usually three hours a day.  One and a half in the morning, and one and a half in the afternoon.

Q.  Why are you driven so hard to practice so much? 

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I mean, I don't think I'm considered as the hardest worker on the tour.  I mean, there's guys that need much more practice than me like Dominik Hrbaty, for example.  He practice five, six hours a day.  I don't think  -- I'm a player who needs much less.  So depends little bit on the game you have.  I just try to work hard outside of the court to reach my goals. 

Q.  Do you know what happened to Tim in this match? 

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, he had  -- before the match against Mantilla, I think he was going with a cart towards the match.  And somehow a guy hit him and he blocked his neck, so he couldn't look upwards today. 

Q.  Kind of freakish accident.  Anything like that happened to you, any kind of strange accident?

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I had last week a blocked back for maybe almost three days, but not as bad as him.  I mean, I could at least play and serve.  As soon as I got warm, I could play.  But he was totally blocked today.  So that's terrible to play like this. 

Q.  Your past history with Pavel and Squillari. 

ROGER FEDERER:  Squillari, I lost in Hamburg last year on clay 3 and 4, or 4 and 4.   Against Pavel, I've got a 2-1 or 3-1 maybe; I'm not sure.  So I never played him on outdoor hard, so...

Q.  What are you adding to your game right now? 

ROGER FEDERER:  What I...?

Q.  What weapons are you adding to your game right now? 

ROGER FEDERER:  I would really like to play more offensive, especially on a faster court like this week, come into net more, serve-volley.  That kind of thing.  This match you cannot say anything about because there's no rallies, so...

Q.  Do you think these courts are too slow to be a good serve -volleyer?

ROGER FEDERER:  I think against a good return player, it's too slow, yes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT