TMS - STUTTGART
October 16, 2001
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

MODERATOR:  Questions for Roger. 


Q.  You seemed to come back more aggressive in the second set.  Then maybe the difference was that he was more aggressive than you in the third. 

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, in the third I think I had a very bad service game the first of the match.  I think that decided a little bit the match.  I maybe had a few more chances in the first.  Yeah, I felt like he was really serving well, getting back a lot of returns also.  I always had to work hard on my service games.  Well, in the end, that's what made the difference.


Q.  Did his outburst at the umpire just before the end of the second set affect you at all? 

ROGER FEDERER:  No, not really, because I knew it was a bad call.  It was good for me.


Q.  Do you think that might have maybe fired him up?

ROGER FEDERER:  No, I don't think so.  I mean, I think we both are fired up enough to play each other.  I think we both are a little bit in a low right now.  He was more fortunate today.


Q.  Your chances of qualifying for Sydney, makes it a lot tougher now, just about have to win Paris to make it. 

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I mean, from now on I probably can stop talking about Sydney.  If I'm playing that bad or I can't even go past the first round, why should I talk about Sydney?  I'm just not playing well enough to be there anyway.  So I'm just going to try to play as well as I can the next two tournaments and we'll see what happens. 


Q.  Why would you say you're in a low at the moment?  Is it confidence?

ROGER FEDERER:  I think mentally I don't feel very good at all in the moment.  Still fighting back a little bit from injury.  The injury is still not gone totally.  I still feel it a little bit.  Yeah, I played the quarters last week in Vienna.  But also there I didn't feel like I was playing the same like before.  So when it gets tight, I'm just not playing well.  It would have been a good match to get through this one, to build my confidence up.  It went the other way.


Q.  What do you think you need?  Mostly matches? 

ROGER FEDERER:  Yeah, I think I was missing matches lately.  Since Wimbledon, I maybe played, what, six matches.  That's not a lot.  I'm the type of guy who needs a lot of matches to play well.  I'm not the type of guy who loves to practice two, three weeks in a row, then play a tournament.  Still waiting a little bit.


Q.  Do you feel you may be putting a little too much pressure on yourself with the points and the idea of Sydney, or are you not thinking about it so much?

ROGER FEDERER:  Obviously, everybody is talking about Sydney the whole time.  But I'm not really thinking about that on the court.  I'm just a little bit too worried about my game because I feel like I'm not really serving well, I'm not really feeling well from the baseline.  When it gets important, I can't make the breakpoints.  It's like, I don't know, just too negative right now probably.


Q.  You said you were both in a low.  Overall, don't you think Ferreira is playing quite well at the moment?

ROGER FEDERER:  I think he played a good match today.  I think it was, yeah, not a bad match today at all, except maybe the end from my side was terrible.  Until there, I think we both played pretty well.  I knew it's going to be tough after he beat Hrbaty in three sets, I knew he was like back playing well.  Obviously he got confidence, because he won here last year.  Hopefully he can go far. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT