US OPEN
September 3, 2001
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Did you feel like he just didn't give you an opportunity, an opening in the match?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  Well, definitely he started off playing very well.  I didn't actually have the feeling I was playing terrible in the beginning.  I was always just one shot behind.  Just missed a little bit early.  But he put a lot of pressure on me.  I didn't serve as well as I did the first few matches.  My serve didn't help me at all today.  That's why it was very tough for me.  
 
Q.  Very disappointing? 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I'm always disappointed when I lose.  But the first two sets, I had no chance.  I had the feeling 4-1 on in the second, I started to get into the game a little bit.  But basically two sets were gone already.  Yeah, the comeback came a little late.  The match was already over when I had the feeling I was starting to play better. 
 
Q.  A good portion of the year is gone.  You've had some pretty good success.  Are you pretty pleased overall?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  Yeah, I mean, I have to say this year has been very solid for me.  I didn't have any bad weeks in a row.  I mean, I maybe lost two or three times first round this year.  So I think that's a big improvement for me.  Also now, coming back from the injury, I've been playing well.  I hope I can carry it over to the indoor events. 
 
Q.  Psychologically, how different is it facing someone with the stature of Andre Agassi?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I mean, he hasn't got that unbelievable serve that you have no chance on it, it's just he backs it up with some unbelievable groundstrokes.  You have the feeling he never misses.  Just playing cross-court with him, either forehand or backhand, is just so tough.  I had to risk a lot from the baseline or try to come in after his serve because I had to finish my points at the net, and he was trying to keep me at the baseline.  So that was very tough for me till I got into that, my game was getting better.  Took me two sets till I could like start playing my game.  Yeah, I mean, he's tough.  Second serves, he doesn't miss a return.  He passes well.  So it was tough.  
 
Q.  Andre said when he plays well, he believed he played well today, it's a tribute to his opponent because only the top opponents bring out that type of play in him. 
 
ROGER FEDERER:  I mean, I think it would have been a good match if I would have really served well today.  I mean, I don't know, maybe I had one or two aces the whole match.  That's very disappointing for me.  My arm was also sore.  I already felt it against Schalken a little bit.  That didn't help.  But I had the feeling in the second and third set that when I was serving well, 3-All, 4-All, that I always had my chances.  If I maybe would have used maybe one of my ten chances, it would have been a better match.  The match was over very quickly, now I'm sitting here (laughter). 
 
Q.  Does it surprise you, a guy who is 31, has been playing on the tour since 16, is not only motivated to be out here, but out here at the level he's been able to keep?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  He had an unbelievable comeback, coming back from being ranked 120 or whatever he was, back to almost No.  1.  Yeah, maybe he's the best player out there with Kuerten right now, Rafter and Sampras.  He has done an unbelievable job.  Have to give him credit for that, definitely.  
 
Q.  Does playing him give you an idea of how hard it is to play at your top level all the time on the tour?
 
ROGER FEDERER:  I think especially Andre's game, the way he's playing, it's amazing how he can stay at the top like he does because he hasn't got the fast points like Pete gets.  He really has to work hard from the baseline.  To do that for over ten years, I think that's an unbelievable thing he did.  I mean, if every player would be as good as Andre, it would be very tough, I agree.  Luckily, they're not all like him.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT