WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2001
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  It looked like you were on your way for an easy win in three sets.  What happened?

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I mean, first of all, I think to win the first set I was a little lucky because I saved a lot of breakpoints  - I don't know how many, but I know it was a lot.  He had the chance to win the second set.  I was up two sets to love.  I was still not happy with my game, even though I was leading two sets to love.  I will tell you the same, everyone thought I would have won in three sets, because I'm not happy with my game because I think I can play much better than I did today.  In the end, it was a battle.  I just fought my way out. 

Q.  Were you not happy with your game only today?

ROGER FEDERER:  No, today.  I served pretty well, the first two sets actually, to get over these breakpoints I had against me the whole time.  But otherwise I missed a lot of volleys, easy shots that I normally don't miss.  I was not happy with my game, kind of irritated all match long.  I don't know why.  Maybe a little bit pressure.  I don't know.

Q.  You're in the third round now.  What can you do about it?

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I'm very happy to be through because I felt terrible when I was down a break in the fifth.  I was scared, yeah, I mean, you can say that because The Championships is almost over.  I'm really happy to give myself a chance now in the third round.  I don't know, looks like it's going to be Bjorkman.  It's going to be tough.  First of all, I have to take it a little bit easy now and get massage.

Q.  Will you work on something specific before the next match?

ROGER FEDERER:  Well, I don't know.  Maybe on my serve-and-volley game, volley a little bit.  Otherwise, I mean, I fell this morning  -- I fell against Rochus once.  I hurt my adductor.  I don't know how you say.  Then it was okay this morning.  It happened again the same thing at the end of the practise.  It came back again.  I just need a little bit treatment there.  Otherwise, I'm fine actually. 

Q.  Your first win.  Looks like during the match he found a way to return very well your serve.  Do you think it's a problem of yours to find a new variety, you have to change, mix up a little bit more, or what?

ROGER FEDERER:  I felt like I always didn't go concentrated into my service games.  He was always up like Love-15, sometimes Love-30.  I found myself often as 15-40 saving breakpoints.  In the first two sets, I really thought I was serving well.  I came up with the serves, with the aces, when I had to.  That really didn't happen anymore.  I mean, of course, the wind came, so the toss was going a little bit everywhere.  I mean, I tried to vary my serve, I tried to kick it, slice it into the body, out wide.  I tried everything.  He was giving himself some time by standing back a little bit.  I just couldn't get my serve right.   My volleys after the serve were not great, so he always had a chance to pass.

Q.  Was it a problem of wind?

ROGER FEDERER:  Definitely in the third and fourth set.  There I really felt terrible from the baseline.  I couldn't return his serve anymore.  He started to serve better.  I started to get worried, a little bit panic reaction.  I was going for too much.  In the beginning, I was just waiting to let him do the mistakes.  Then it was me doing all the mistakes, so... 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT