TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2001
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  What was the game plan out there today?
 
ROGER FEDERER: Well, I mean, I just tried to hold my serve today.  I don't know, it just didn't work, my game plan, what I had in mind because my serve just didn't work and he could do whatever he wanted on my serve.  I think he played well today, but my performance was really bad.  It is a big disappointment, I am a little bit sad losing straight sets like this, it is not easy. 
 
Q.  You said you often learn from losses, the mistakes that you have made.  What did you learn from today's match?
 
ROGER FEDERER: It is a tough question right now.  I don't know.  It was a big match for me to play Pat here, probably the conditions favor him; the surface and everything.  I tried my best today, but I never really found my game.  I had some chances in the beginning, but he served well and after that I didn't have any chance at all on his serve, especially, and also in the rest of the game I just  -- he made me play bad and he could  -- really I would say I made him play well.  I don't know.  Got to work on my serve the next few weeks because it has been a disappointment all week long.  No second serve, you cannot beat Pat Rafter. 
 
Q.  There is so few guys that play his style of his anymore, the pressing forward, the serve and volley, is it uncomfortable at this point for a typical  - an all-court player like you to play a guy who is always coming in and always making a passing shot instead of a rally shot?
 
ROGER FEDERER: I am fine with that, somebody attacking me.  When I feel good I pass anybody and today was, I don't know, the serves were just too weak and you could attack really on almost unpassable shots so it was for him very easy at the net.  I didn't have many passing shots today.  I don't know, I didn't feel  -- I felt okay from the baseline when the rallies were on.  I just, in the end, I couldn't return the ball anymore.  He was starting to serve better and I mean, I don't know if somebody hits with you a serve something must be going very well.  So, today was just a bad day. 
 
Q.  What is next for you now?
 
ROGER FEDERER: Davis Cup against France at home next week. 
 
Q.  Going to play any clay court before the French Open?
 
ROGER FEDERER: I am going to play all the Masters Series, Monte Carlo, Rome, Hamburg and Munich. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT