TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2000
Roger Federer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Last year you didn't have a very good season on clay. Did you change something this
year?

ROGER FEDERER: Yes. I went to Houston. It is in America. I played an exhibition
tournament on clay and I was able to practice for one week and a half. I came back here on
last Tuesday, almost a week ago, and I came here on Friday morning and I went to Nice to
prepare with the Swiss team, the young Swiss team. There was a training camp there and
Saturday morning I came here.

Q. Are you disappointed to play in difficult conditions like today with the match being
stopped and the heavy conditions on the court?

ROGER FEDERER: Of course, maybe it is not very good but it is on clay and you have to
accept all the conditions. It was difficult for me. I think I was able to stand it
properly, but I must admit it was very heavy today and I didn't have many opportunities to
play exceptional winners. It was more difficult to me, but even if I didn't win, it was
not too bad.

Q. But still you made mistakes with your forehand?

ROGER FEDERER: I don't know. I have absolutely no idea which shots I missed. It is
patience I must work on to play on clay. Sometimes I am surprised myself by the mistakes I
make. Suddenly I make two mistakes in and a row on easy shots that I don't usually do.
This year I am playing more tournaments on clay than last year. Last year I only played
three tournaments from the ATP Tour, so we can't really say it was a bad season.

Q. Apart from that do you feel better?

ROGER FEDERER: Yes. Because in the end of last year in Belgium I played on clay and I
played well, although I lost. I was happy with my tennis then, so I am thinking about that
kind of tennis and I know that I can play well on clay. Now I just have to work physically
also. I have to try to move better even on easy points.

Q. Do you think the interruption was a good thing for you? 

ROGER FEDERER: Maybe a little bit. I must say it was a little bit in my favor. I was
able to think about what I had done wrong. I had the impression my racket was not tight
enough so I sent two rackets to be strung with one extra kilo. I played with that one in
the second set and then I took back the other racket and it was better because I was
always missing just because of a little bit and I thought I had to put more points on the
line.

Q. What is your program after Monaco?

ROGER FEDERER: I am going to play doubles with Escude; then I am going to Barcelona,
Rome, Hamburg, Sant-Polten and Roland Garros.

Q. Do you have ambitions?

ROGER FEDERER: Yes, I have nothing to lose. I really can win matches. I am everywhere
in the main draw except Rome but I am ready to play matches and win matches.

Q. Isn't it a mental matter, you always had difficulties in this field?

ROGER FEDERER: Not really. The problem is I always lose matches when they are tight in
the third set like in Marseille and Houston where I lost 7-5 in the third and today again
7-5. This will come with confidence. I need some more tournaments. In Houston the
conditions were very fast. I was able to serve well and make points with that. Here it
didn't work anymore, so you need a second and a third point so you must be solid. It is
good that I played here and I am going to play on slower surfaces from now on.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT