U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2016
Jared Donaldson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. DONALDSON/D. Goffin   
4-6, 7-5, 6-4, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What does that feel like to beat the No. 12 player in the world and get your first US Open win?  
JARED DONALDSON: Obviously it was a really, really exciting atmosphere out there.  I thought that I played really well.  It was tough conditions.  It was hot.  I think we were both trying to move each other as much as possible and take time away from each other.   
So I think that, you know, I just was able to win a few more of the key points today.  Obviously that fourth set I played really well.   
I think it was a really, really special victory for me.   
 Q.  Seemed like your backhand was the thing that was giving you the most trouble the first set and a half, then you turned it around.  
JARED DONALDSON: Yeah.  I mean, I think out there it was flying a little bit.  I was missing a couple more balls deep than I normally do.  That could be because it was a little bit hotter than I played recently.  Maybe wasn't getting quite enough spin on the ball.  But I also wanted to make sure I was hitting an effective ball against David because if not I knew I was going to be in trouble and he was going to move me.  It could have been that.  It could have been a few different factors out there for why it wasn't going in.   
But I just, you know, kept fighting, and eventually things started to go my way.   
 Q.  Talk about your serve, how much that's been a factor in what you've been able to do this summer.  
JARED DONALDSON: Certainly my serve has improved a lot since working with Taylor and I feel that is a big key to my game, especially when I'm able to hold easier, not have to grind out so many points.   
First set, I served really weak.  I think I served like 26% or something, it was pretty poor.  But, again, I just kept fighting and things started to turn my way.  Once I got a little bit of confidence, kind of got my teeth in the match, I think I really went out and did everything I was supposed to do on the serve, not only on from the serve but from the groundstrokes.  Obviously serving well is key, not only for me, but for a lot of guys.   
 Q.  Was there a point in the match where you actually could feel that you were gaining confidence, becoming more aggressive?  Was there something that happened that turned that for you?  
JARED DONALDSON: I think that after the second set, I felt honestly like I kind of stole that set.  Broke back I think at 4-2 or something like that.  Then kind of just kept holding, kept fighting.  Then at 6-5, me, I felt that he just maybe had -- he let me into the match a little bit playing not an amazing game.   
Then I felt like that kind of started to get the ball rolling for me.  I got a little bit of confidence.  I said, Hey, I won the first set, I can definitely win another, and if I can win another, I can win the third.   
I think after winning that second set, it gave me a little bit of confidence, especially after being a break down.   
 Q.  How big was getting the break back to get yourself back into the match, back on serve?  
JARED DONALDSON: Yeah, it was big because I was trying everything in the wrong direction.  Obviously being down two sets to love is not where you want to be.  Normally it's over for you.  Obviously in a slam you play a third.   
But I knew if I was down two sets to love, that was going to be a tall order.  But, again, I just kept fighting and kept doing what I try to do every match, control things I can control.  And eventually, just when the big point game, things just seemed to kind of fall in my direction.   
I think that's kind of the position you have to put yourself in as a tennis player.  The big points are going to come.  You just have to be ready when they do.  Sometimes you win more of them, sometimes you don't.  It's a very fine line between winning and losing out there.   
 Q.  The mental thing, there's so many ups and downs in a match, in your career.  Is it forcing yourself to have a short memory and move on?  How do you deal with all that stuff?  
JARED DONALDSON: Well, I think obviously today I kind of had a short memory.  It wasn't something I was focusing on.  I was just trying to focus on what I needed to do at that point to win.   
I kind of learned that playing against better players, you can't really dwell on the past.  The past is the past.  It's kind of next point, you know.  You just got to focus on the next point.   
I felt like I did that really well today.  There were times when I didn't play great games; there were times he didn't play great games.  When the big moment came, I just seemed to play, you know, good tennis.   
I served obviously really well.  Got a lot of cheap points on my serve.  That definitely helped.   
I felt like I just put myself in positions to make it close, then obviously to win the match and the sets.   
 Q.  Does that apply as well to wins and losses, to move on, not get too down?  
JARED DONALDSON: Sure, yeah.  I mean, obviously right now it's great.  During the match, just briefly after, it was great to win.  Now it's only the first round.  In a lot of other sports you get maybe a little bit more longer breaks to enjoy the moment.   
But, I mean, now it's kind of on to my next round.  I have to get ready for my next opponent, just do all the right things to be 100% ready mentally, physically for Thursday.   
 Q.  Taylor Dent, big serve, tennis heritage, real courage.  Talk to us about what he's like.  
JARED DONALDSON: Taylor has kind of crafted my game since I just turned 17, for all the kind of things I'm doing out there now is a reflection of his influence on me, coaching with me, working with me.  I owe a lot to him.   
I think that his influence and how he believes the game should be played is how I play the game and what I believe.  I think we work really well together because we see things maybe not -- we have the overall picture of what we see, but we don't arrive at the same conclusion the same way.  You know what I mean?   
We see the same overall picture the same, which I think is really important for a coaching relationship.  I think that he's done a good job and I've done a good job also of kind of listening to him and then working really hard at doing what he said.   
 Q.  Be a little bit more specific on the overall picture.  What areas of the game?  
JARED DONALDSON: I mean, so I started working with him to work on the serve.  That was the main reason I went out there.  But he's also added so much more to my game than just the serve.  He changed my technique on the serve when I went out there at 17.  Changed my technique again a little bit ago, right before this hard court swing.   
That's obviously his influence.  My serve is basically because of Taylor and Phil.  But also just trying to play aggressive, take time away from the opponent.  That's also an influence of him as well.   
The serve is maybe the biggest thing, but everything you see out there has been influenced by Taylor and so forth.   
 Q.  You've been here a couple times before.  Did you go into this match thinking, Now it's time?  
JARED DONALDSON: I don't really go into matches thinking, Now it's time, or I have to do something.  Obviously when I saw the draw, I was thinking, Okay, this is my third time here, second time playing I think a top player.  So I knew that going in.  I'm not oblivious to those things.  You're human.  You run through so many scenarios in your head.   
I knew I think playing recently that everybody's good, but there's fine lines in tennis.  So I think it's important to remember that big points come for both players.  You just have to keep focusing on what you can control and not kind of let outside distractions distract you.  That's what I did out there.  I think I did that pretty well today.   
 Q.  He double-faulted 17 times today.  He said it got mental with him towards the end, which of course happens.  You seemed to be attacking his second serve as the match went on.  Were you cognizant that he was just trying to get it in?  What's going through your mind as he's double-faulting?  Are you thinking, I'm going to be aggressive on every second serve?  
JARED DONALDSON: Especially in the fourth set, I was trying to be very aggressive on the second serve, make points quick.  I think in general that's kind of how I play.   
Sometimes, especially against him, where he plays such good defense and keeps the ball so deep, the second serve might be the weakest shot you get during the whole rally.  I knew I had to take my chances and play aggressive when the opportunity presented itself because I wanted to take time away from him and rush him, not have it be the other way around.  Where in the first set, I felt I didn't do a great job returning.  Also I think when I left the ball too weak for him, he was really hurting me.  So, again, I knew I had to play the point on my terms and be aggressive and so forth.   
Obviously, yes, I think that him double-faulting did benefit me, of course.  But I also think it was kind of a two-way street where maybe he lost a little bit of confidence or knowing that he needs to put a good second serve in so he's not moving so much.  I think both things kind of came into play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT