AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 6, 2019
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you take us through the emotions on the first tee, what that felt like?
LORENA OCHOA: It's been great.  I kind of like pictured what was going to happen and I was trying to think, spending some time, quality time with Annika and Nancy and Se Ri, and it was a lot better, you know, than I thought because all the emotions, once you get up there, the people are cheering and clapping, all those moments, they come back and you get goosebumps.
It was very, very special, yes.  I feel honored that they ask me to be part of this special group, and I'm going to remember this forever.  It's been very special.  Yesterday, having the opportunity to spend time with all the amateur players and talking to them, and just being more informal in telling them about experiences on Tour and the challenges and the great things about being a professional, and now this special day, it's been beautiful, thank you.
Q. Whose driver did you hit on the first tee?
LORENA OCHOA: I have my equipment, my driver.  It's 12 years old.  It's the same one I retired with.
Q. It was Se Ri who didn't?
LORENA OCHOA: No, no, they asked her which equipment she would like to have, and she were very nice on giving her what she needed.
Q. Big picture, what do you think this event and this day will do for women's golf?
LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think it's going to be -- not in English, but like a line (indicating upward) for golf, not only women, and every sport.  Here at Augusta National they have been so responsible about doing everything great, and I think the vision of having this event is really something that will change the perspective of women and also the way they see the sport.
These ladies that played yesterday the practice round and today the tournament, for them it's going to be something that they are going to keep it for the rest of their lives, and also, it's going to be a great motivation for the new generations.  This is as big as a tournament that you have in your mind, the U.S. Amateur, or the Olympics that you dream that you want to win.  This is going to be a good motivation.  Yes, good, good in every aspect.
Q. Are there any qualities of Maria that reminds you of yourself at that age?
LORENA OCHOA: Well, Maria, she's really good. She's a great player.  We are friends.  Every time she wants to ask me something, she texts me or call me.  I'm very impressed how easy she plays.
She's a very strong player, but at the same time, you can tell that, you know, she is relaxed and she enjoys.  She smiles and she's learning and she feels very grateful to be here and that's also very important, and she's done everything, what it takes to be a good player, she's very serious about her practice routine and yes, I can't wait to see what is the future for her, and I will -- she knows that I'm here to help in any way I can, and more just be a friend for her.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT