GINN OPEN
April 20, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Lorena, thanks for coming in and joining us. Another great round, another win, and the big question I might have is what are you starting to do with all these trophies?   
 LORENA OCHOA: (Laughing) Thank you. You know, for sure it was a great day today. It was different. I think it was a tough back nine, and yes I have another big trophy. I don't know. I'm going to ask my mommy where should we put it?   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scorecard. Starting with the birdie on the 3rd hole.  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, on the par 5, I was about ten yards short of the green. I hit it with my sand wedge about one foot and then my birdie.   
 And on number 8, I hit a 7-iron, 145 yards, pin high, maybe 12 feet, and I made it.   
 On number 9, I hit it two a 3-wood, 235 yards. I was maybe 35 feet, two-putted for birdie.   
 On number 10, I hit 215. I hit my 5-wood just on the side bunker on the green, and I go about two feet, made it.   
 Bogey on 15. I made my second shot a little bit to the right out of the green. I was on the fringe. And I made again, 30, 35-feet and I three-putted, and that's it.   
  
  Q. What club was it?   
 LORENA OCHOA: 8-iron, 135.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for Lorena.   
  
  Q. You talk about being tired this week, how did you kind of hold up in the round and especially with the heat? Did it affect you today?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think you can just put it away that I made it. I survived. I was tired. I think mentally and physically tired. I didn't have, you know, many legs at the end in the last two or three holes. I kept thinking I'm tired, and you know, a few more minutes I will be done.   
 So I'm just glad I hung in there and I was able to finish strong. I'm a little upset about that three-putt on 15, but at the same time, it was tough and that's the way it is. And, for sure, I'm ready to take a break.   
  
  Q. Do you think that your iron play and your approach shots, is that the determining factor today? You seem to be always around the hole on the par 4's on your second shot. Just talk about how important that was?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I think I'm hitting my irons really good. I keep giving myself little birdie chances. I did miss a lot of putts today. I was a little bit handsy with my putter. Maybe it has to do because I didn't have a good warm-up. Because it start raining and I didn't have a good time to putt. And the greens were so wet in the morning, so I just didn't go out there with a good rhythm with my putter.   
 But definitely, I won the tournament because of my second shots, just being so consistent.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the way that you played specifically on holes number 9 and holes number 10? I mean, those were birdies across the board all four days. Specifically, when you weren't on the green, how great you were out of the bunkers on both of those holes?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah, for sure one of the things I was able to do this week was just take advantage of the par 5s and make a lot of birdies. I think it was my best week on the bunkers. I think I made all of them up-and-down, and that's my worst. I'm way down there.   
 Every time I'm in the bunker I say, okay, let's get this one to improve a little bit in the start, you know. So I think I did a good job this week, and that makes me happy.   
  
  Q. Earlier this week we were talking about the comparisons with Tiger Woods. This may seem like a silly question, but all that you've done this year, do we need to start comparing him to you?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, that's something that's out of my hands. That's more the fans and the media point of view. But to be able to put my name next to him is always an honor, and I'm happy with that.   
  
  Q. Is it on your mind about possibly, as we brought up the talk going into this year was is Tiger going to win all four majors? Is that in your mind? Are you thinking about that?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Winning the four majors? Yes, of course.   
  
  Q. Do you want to add to that? Do you put your on yourself to do this? Was it a goal of yours right from the beginning?   
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I don't need to have any extra pressure. I know I can do it. I believe in myself. It will be something amazing. I'm just, it's too early to start talking about it.   
 I have a good tournament before that McDonald's Championship, the LPGA Championship. So I'm just going to do it one at a time, and I think I can do it.   
  
  Q. I know you worked a lot in the off-season on your wedges, can you talk about how well they've come through for you in these last four weeks and how big a factor that's been?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, for sure. And in Singapore it didn't show much as well as in Mexico City. So it was like oh, my God. What happened? I practiced so much. But I think it was just waiting.   
 Once I started getting my rhythm and start playing tournaments week by week, you see the strengths of your game. And I'm happy I spent that time not only with the wedges but in the putting. I see that I'm a lot more consistent with the speed especially when I'm putting. I'm going to continue that, I like it.   
  
  Q. Can you compare yourself last year with your wedges to this year?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think last year it was around 50%, maybe 45%. I think right now I'm close to 65%. And I think I still have room to improve.   
  
  Q. Last year you made an endorsement deal with Ping, I love your commercial, by the way.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Oh, thank you.   
  
  Q. I'm just curious to see, you did not use a Ping putter until the beginning of this year from what I understand?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. Out of all the different models, how many putters did you actually try to fit into that the putter that you're using right now?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Only three, maybe two. Because two of them were exactly the same. Just one had a line on the top and the one didn't have a line. I tried to have something that just a similar to mine, and it was very easy.   
 You know, I was never worried. I always thought there would be a change to get better. I had to play Ping for a long time, growing up, and you know, in college. So I have a hard time. Obviously for the contract I've been making a lot of birdies this year, so I think it was a great change.  
  
  Q. When you take this week off, will you touch a golf club at all?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I'm going to rest Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and then Thursday, back to practice, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. And then I'll travel on Monday. So three days.  
  
  Q. Did you go to Augusta earlier this week?   
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I was in Mexico playing the tournament in Morelia.   
  
  Q. So you were not there earlier in the week like Monday or Tuesday?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I was what?   
  
  Q. In Augusta earlier last week, Monday or Tuesday?  
 LORENA OCHOA: No, no, no.   
  
  Q. You look frustrated on the front nine. You had four putts inside 20 feet. Was there any concern? Because you said you had a poor warm-up, and you had so many chances you were going to miss a fair amount as well.   
 LORENA OCHOA: No, no concerns. Like I said, I'm really pleased and happy and it's more on the mental side, you have to be patient. If it doesn't happen in the front, it will happen on the back. So that's what I did.   
 I was just trying to, and I was in good shape, I would say tied or hitting by one. But I thought once I start making putts, should be good. So that was it, I was positive about it.   
  
  Q. Would you say this is your toughest victory of the year? Mostly by the back nine you got under control. Was it good to be battling someone?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah, I think it was the toughest back nine. A lot of things going on with conditions, a few tough holes. It got windy the last three holes. And I don't know at that moment I was only on the lead, just one shot in the lead. So for sure it was the toughest on the back nine.  
  
  Q. What can you tell me about Yani Tseng as a player and what was it like to be around her?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I was very impressed. She was very nice. We talked a lot. Her English is great. Being 19 years old, it's very impressive. The way she hits the ball, how aggressive she is. So I congratulate her, and I also told her that I'm going to see her many Sundays, so it should be something nice.  
  
  Q. Did you give her any advice along the way or share any tips with her?   
 LORENA OCHOA: No, we talked about the way she practiced and where she practiced and who is her coach. I think she's doing great, you know. It's just all about experience, and she will improve year by year.   
  
  Q. The pace you're on right now, are you to the point in your career where you feel really greedy? Like a greedy person? Ending anything less than first would be a complete disappointment?   
 LORENA OCHOA: No, (laughing), no. I don't think you should get to that point never. And always be very thankful for what I have right now. I'm very thankful.   
 You know, I feel that it's been a blessing, you know. But I know that my time will come. It's just the way life is. I'm just trying to enjoy my moment. And I would like to enjoy it for a long time. So even if it's going to be an up-and-down ride, hopefully I can stay there.  
  
  Q. Any number on how many times you think you can win this year? I mean, 5 of 6 to start?  
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I'm not going to put a number. Because how about if I win a lot (laughing). I want to shoot low. I'm going to try to win every week.   
  
  Q. If you had to -- is there a certain category or anything that would be the most important factor in being able to win so many times in a row? Is it mental strength, is it physical strength? What do you think it is? Anything that you think puts you above everyone else in that?   
 LORENA OCHOA: A combination. I think one, the mental part. Because even if you don't have your best swing or your best rhythm or you're not feeling the best in your life, you have to be able to manage the score, and you put yourself in a good position. So it's more mental.   
  
  Q. How would you compare where Yani is at 19, to where you were at 19?   
 LORENA OCHOA: She's for sure much, much better. When I was 19. I just, you know, played college golf. I was hitting my 7-iron 145 yards, and she already hits 155 yards. I was trying to beat the college girls, and she's trying to win an LPGA tournament, playing with the best players in the world.   
 So like I said, it's very impressive. I think if she continues that, she's going to be a top player for sure. Very quick.   
  
  Q. Last couple of weeks there's been comments from commissioner about the Olympics. I know it doesn't happen publicly, earliest would be 2016. What is your opinion on golf being in the Olympics and your involvement? Would you be interested in participating if that happens?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I would love to participate if it happens, or even an exhibition just for us to show what can we do. And it would be great to represent my country. I think it would be something very special. But at the moment, I don't think it looks like a possibility, but I'm waiting for that. It would be great. Good news when it happens.   
  
  Q. I'm just wondering what is for lunch tomorrow and who is going to be there?   
 LORENA OCHOA: For lunch tomorrow, on Monday, we get together all the family. My brothers and their wives. My sister and her husband. And I have to catch a flight it leaves in one hour.   
 But Mexican. My mom knows which one is my favorite plate, so hopefully we'll have that.   
  
  Q. She's cooking?  
 LORENA OCHOA: She's cooking, uh-huh.  
  
  Q. What is your favorite plate?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Cochinita Pibil, it's like a meat with hot sauce. It's good.   
  
  Q. You said you skipped running yesterday because you were tired. When is the last time you skipped a workout, it's a long time?  
 LORENA OCHOA: That I skipped work?   
  
  Q. A workout. You said you skipped a workout, what is the last time?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I did last week, too in Morelia. No, you just have to know how you feel and make sure you don't overdo it. So when you are tired, you just rest. I didn't do it in Morelia, I was tired on Monday. Thank you, everybody.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT