GINN OPEN
April 18, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for joining us. Another good round today, 9 under for the tournament and three back right now. Can you just talk about how you played today.  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. Hello, everybody. It was a great day. It was one of those days that it's just easy. Giving myself a lot of birdie chances and I never really had to make like a long putt for par or anything. Especially the back 9. I played really good the back 9, 4 under on the back.   
 So on the front it was a little bit slower. I keep missing my birdie putts, but I thought, Just be patient. We have a great -- making the turn on that Par 5, No. 9 and 10 and birdied those two.   
 From there just got good momentum and keep it going. I'm happy to be at 9 under and ready for the weekend.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you do your card really quick?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I birdie No. 9. I tried to hit the green in two with a 7-wood. Just finished pin high on the left side in the rough. I chipped about six, seven feet and I made that for birdie.   
 No. 10, I tried to hit the green in two with a 3-wood. I had a bad lie. Maybe 210 yards to the front of the green. I ended up just in the side bunker on the right. I get it out about one foot and I had that for birdie.   
 No. 12, Par 3, I hit an 8-iron 135 yards just a little bit long, maybe 12, 13 feet. I made that for birdie.   
 On 13 I hit a 4-iron 188 yards pin high just left and made a long putt, about twenty feet. I made that.   
 Then on 17, I hit the green in two with a 5-wood. 214 yards to the pin. I hit a 5-wood just on the front of the green and two-putted for birdie.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: How far was your two-putt?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Twenty, twenty-five.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions.   
  
  Q. Just a technical question on your drive. So many people try to break down why you're able to get so much power. What do you think the key is to how you're able to get so much power on your drive?  
 LORENA OCHOA: It's a combination of everything: Strong legs, I move my hips really quick, I go to the gym and lift weights, and I improve my swing. I have angles at the top of backswing that creates more speed when I hit. A little bit of everything.   
  
  Q. Did you look at the board and see what Yani was doing? And did that kind of spur you on in the back 9?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah, for sure. I saw here when we were on No. 10. I said, Well, if we want to win this tournament we better start making some birdies. And, you know, I was just glad that I made my move on the back. You know, I really like my position. I'm excited for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Yani is having a pretty good rookie year and pretty good tournament. Do you know much about her game at all?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't know much, but you're right. I heard that she's a great player, and for sure she is having a good year, a good start. So I'm excited. As well as Minea Blomqvist. I like her a lot.   
 We don't know how it's going to finish at the end of the day, but if I play with them it should be a fun day.  
  
  Q. You haven't had to come from behind a lot, certainly not this year. I think you said yesterday that you're not a great come-from-behind player; is that accurate?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I usually come from behind. Like right now I'm behind.   
  
  Q. This year.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. I don't think I lead a tournament...  
 MIKE SCANLAN: You led two of your first wins: Singapore and Corona.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Either way, I mean, I like coming from behind. I don't think you have the pressure to be on the top for four days. I really like where I am right now. I think three shots from the lead, I feel comfortable where I am. It's nice to be a few shots behind.  
  
  Q. What is it about being behind that you enjoy?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you know, it really gets -- you're 100% there and just trying to take advantage of every opportunity, try to be aggressive and catch up and make some birdies. So I think that really helps your game, your goals, to be, you know, 100% there and try to make every putt.   
 That's why, I mean, even when I'm winning I try to think that I'm behind and try to play my own game and make a lot of birdies. That's the only way to keep focus and play good.   
  
  Q. Are these some of the quicker greens that you've seen on tour? If so, do you enjoy putting on fast or slow greens or vice versa?  
 LORENA OCHOA: For sure this is one of the quickest greens that we putt, maybe top four or five. I enjoy it. I think it's a challenge, especially long putts and especially with the wind.   
 It's always important to have good distance control with your putting. That makes things harder. I think the harder the better.   
 We have just fun and you really get mad sometimes and frustrated, but it's help you a lot to improve your game.   
  
  Q. Obviously you're a nice and easygoing person. When you're playing on the weekend with somebody who's maybe ahead of you, is there a part of you that says, I'm going to take her down or take my lead?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I always want to take everybody down. I think you can do it with a smile on your face and be nice and talking to them. You don't have to be mean or rude.   
  
  Q. That's probably one of your best quotes ever.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT