GINN OPEN
April 17, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LORENA OCHOA: I started on No. 10, birdied No. 10, hit the green with a 50-degree wedge, just a little bit long on the left side, maybe 25 feet, and I made that for birdie.
 Birdie on No. 14, I hit it 110 yards with a 50-degree wedge, pin high, maybe 12 feet, made that.
 On 17 I tried to hit the green in two with a 4-iron, just finished in the left bunker, side of the green, and I got it out to about six, seven feet, and I made that for birdie.
 Birdied No. 7, I was just short of the green in that bunker on the right side. I hit it out to about one foot, made that for birdie.
 On No. 8 I three-putted. I hit it with a 5-iron, my second shot, 175 yards. It was pin high but I had a long putt, maybe 35, 40 feet, and I three-putted that.
 No. 9, I hit the green in two with a 5-wood, 225 yards. I was a little bit short, again, probably 25, 30 feet, and I two-putted for birdie. 
 THE MODERATOR: All in all, not a bad round today, 4-under. Like I said on the way in, it seems like every day you're in here in the interview room. Does this ever get old for you? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm happy to be here hopefully every day for many years.
 THE MODERATOR: Talk about your round today, what went right? Only one bogey, five birdies. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, well, I'm happy. I did leave some birdies out there, especially making the turn. 17 I made birdie, and then 18, the first hole, 1, 2, and 3, were short putts for birdies, and I missed those. But that's the way it is. I think these greens play tough, especially in the afternoon. They are kind of bumpy and really fast.
 I think we got lucky with the weather, just a light breeze, nothing too hard that we couldn't control.
 I took advantage of a good round in the afternoon, and tomorrow we will hopefully have better conditions in the morning and I can be a little more aggressive and make more birdies. 

 Q. What was your best shot of the day and why? Was it the sand shot on 16, or was it the putt, the 25-foot putt? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I want to say my second shot on No. 6. I was in the left rough and I had like 185 yards to the pin. There was a lot of wind right to left, and I managed to put it just pin high, a pretty good shot. I didn't make the putt, but I was happy with that. It was nice to finish with a birdie, too. It gives you -- you feel happy and ready to go for a good dinner and straight to bed. 

 Q. You mentioned yesterday about being a little tired. Were you able to get the rest that you were looking for and feeling about where you want to be?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. I mean, I'm still a little bit tired. I wouldn't say it's all the energy that I ever felt, but I'm okay. I think I'm hanging in there. I know there's three more days. I'm going to do the same the next three days, just take it easy and hopefully go home early and relax. I should be good. I think it's important that you know the way you feel and just try to work with that, and I'm excited for tomorrow. I'm in position, and I'm going to make sure I give myself a good chance to win the tournament on Sunday. 

 Q. Does it help you knowing that next week is a week off, so it's really only three more days for you and then back to Mexico?
 LORENA OCHOA: Very much. If I knew I had maybe two more tournaments coming, I would be crying right now (laughter). But that's for sure something that I keep in my head. I'm having lunch with my family on Monday, and it should be great. That's always nice to keep in mind. 

 Q. Just talking about that, how do you stay focused this week, knowing that, okay, you're looking forward to that Monday lunch?
 LORENA OCHOA: I do different things. I'm here because I'm ready to win. Every tournament I play, I play to win, and I'm going to do whatever it takes. I'm 100 percent, and tomorrow I'll be there 100 percent again to play 18 holes. But like I said, it's nice thinking that I'm going home instead of having two more tournaments. It's something that gives me comfort. 

 Q. Obviously a lot of people have been talking lately about the rest of the field chasing you and you've had these large leads and obviously the lead in the standings. But at least for one day you're doing the chasing. Do you like that position where you're kind of looking at those leaders and going after them whether it's the first round, second round, third round?
 LORENA OCHOA: Of course I like my position right now. I like to play and come from behind. It's impossible, I guess, to win a tournament by seven shots the first day. You have to move your way up there. That's why I feel very happy with my round today, and hopefully tomorrow we keep making birdies and improving.
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Lorena. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT