GINN OPEN
April 16, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Lorena, thanks for coming in and joining us today. You've been on a real tear in 2008. You've clinched your point; you're going to be inducted into the LPGA Hall of Fame in 2012 with your win at the Corona Championship. Can you just talk about how that felt to do that at home in Mexico in front of your home country and coming back here and beginning this stretch?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Sure. Hello, everybody.   
 It was a very special week playing that tournament in Morelia and getting my last point for the Hall of Fame. It's just a great time being able to do it at home. I have a lot of family there, and my coach obviously, and just the rest of the fans being from Mexico. So it was I guess something that I'm just going to remember for the rest of my life.   
 Morelia has something. Last year I got to the No. 1 in the World Ranking and this year I gained my last point for the Hall of Fame. So maybe I'm going to think of buying a house over there (laughing).   
  
  Q. Obviously you're on such a roll, won four of your last five, two majors. Talk about the momentum you have coming into the Ginn this year.   
 LORENA OCHOA: I think this is a great tournament. I've been close a few times, especially last year. Right now my golf is at a good level. I've been playing good and I feel comfortable the way I'm hitting the ball.  
 I am a little bit tired. I tried yesterday and today just to take it easy and rest, especially in the afternoon, to be there tomorrow 100 percent. I like my chances. It's tough competition, really good players, and I'm going to just try to go day by day, have a good start tomorrow and just go from there.   
  
  Q. You keep reaching all of these wonderful goals, No. 1 player in the world, winning majors, getting into the Hall of Fame. Curious, are you setting new goals on a weekly basis, and if so, what would your new goal be now that you've attained the Hall of Fame?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, my goals are the same. You know, I for sure wanted to do a lot of good things this year and get a lot of trophies. The beginning of the season has been fantastic.   
 But I have many tournaments. I would love to just keep winning, breaking records that way. My goals, like I always say, are for the things that I have control of them, and getting my practice, a couple hours of short game and getting my routine on the greens, making sure I improve my stroke. I've been trying to do different shots when I go out and do my practice rounds on the course, getting practice in different lies to keep good balance. So all those things are the ones that motivate me that I want to improve every week, and hopefully that helps to win more tournaments.   
  
  Q. You've won the last two major championships, and that would be the one thing that you haven't really collected over your career. If you can kind of stay hot in June, because there's two tournaments in a three-week span, is it crazy for us to think you might be able to hold all four at the same time? You seem to have figured it out.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, for sure I'm thinking of that. That's something that as a player would be something great to achieve. And of course my eyes are on that. But I don't want to put any other pressure, just play week by week, and whenever it comes June I'm going to be ready there, and one tournament at a time. First I've got to give myself a good chance at the McDonald's and then we'll go from there. So that's too far ahead. Right now I'm here and this is a big tournament, and we'll see what happens in June and July.  
  
  Q. Lorena, 18 titles in 24 months, that's a heck of a number. How does it feel to have someone like Annika Sorenstam stating that she's chasing you?  
 LORENA OCHOA: (Laughing) well, you know, I like the way it feels being in the No. 1 position. I don't mind that a lot of players are trying to catch me. It feels good to be in the No. 1 position. I'd like to stay there hopefully for a long time. I'm going to do everything it takes to stay in that position.   
 I'm just trying to enjoy my moment. I've been working hard. This has been something that took me a long time to achieve. It's not something that happened in a couple days or in a couple months. You know, so I'm going to continue that, just motivating myself, practicing hard, and hopefully I stay at the top for a long time.  
  
  Q. Brittany Lincicome was just in here talking about last year at this time, people didn't really know who she was, and now her picture is everywhere, on the banners and cups. What's the key to when expectations are raised and you start getting that recognition to remaining focused?  
 LORENA OCHOA: To continue to play good? Well, I think my way of thinking is just don't change anything that is working. There's no need to do anything different. Just be the same girl. Just go out there and enjoy it when I play.   
 I think I've found the way to practice, the way to travel, the way to rest, and all of that is just because of experience year by year. I'm going to just keep doing the same, no need to change.   
  
  Q. Were you aware the Women's U.S. Open this year the course is going to be par 73 with five par-5s, which would seem to be a nice little advantage for you, someone who's that long off the tee?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I didn't know. So good news (laughter).   
  
  Q. One of the things that Brittany mentioned in her interview before you was not only how good a golfer you are, but she bragged on how good a person you are, that you would give the shirt off your back. What do you attribute not only your success but your humility?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. Well, number one, my family. They are the ones that made me this way, the way I grew up, my education, the values. I went to a Catholic school. That helped a lot (laughter).   
 You know, when I first got here, ever since -- I felt welcome, you know, and that's the way I treat others, with a lot of respect. I'm trying to be friends with all of them, and that's what I get back. This is a great environment. I'm enjoying myself, and I feel like this is a big family. We spend so much time here traveling week by week, and this is just who I am. I'm not going to change; I think that would be wrong. That's my number one goal, to be the same inside or outside of golf, and this is who I am. Thank you.  
  
  Q. I've heard the streak that you're on compared to the streak that Tiger has been on. Do you like comparisons like that? Would you compare yourself to him in that way?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think it's just something fun, last year how many tournaments we won and how many majors we won, and this year he had a better start than me. He won those first three tournaments and I was a little behind, so I was just joking, okay, we need to catch up. We need to win two more tournaments.  
 I think it's fun. Of course Tiger is someone that I admire a lot and I have a lot of respect and I always look for him. I always try to see him play on Sunday to see what is he doing. It's an honor to be compared to him and it's a great motivation for me to try to beat him.   
  
  Q. You've had a lot of close calls at Ginn events. Do you feel like they owe you one the last couple years?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah, they owe me a couple (laughter). Again, what happened last year, a learning experience, but it was tough losing here with a double bogey on 18 and then in a playoff in Charleston. So here I am, I'm going to give myself a good chance, and hopefully I can get that beautiful trophy on Sunday.  
  
  Q. What kind of relationship do you have with Tiger? Has he ever sent you a text message or do you guys talk at all?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Zero, no. I saw him for the first time in many years last year at Augusta, at The Masters, and just very briefly just said hi to him, and he did congratulate me, said congratulations for a great year, and that's it. I wish -- it's impossible. We are never close. We play different tournaments and different schedules, and I still live in Mexico. Hopefully in the future we'll have a little more time to see each other or maybe practice together or become friends.  
  
  Q. Obviously everybody makes so much about your golf for good reason, but off the course what kind of music do you listen to? What's in your iPod right now?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm very bad for that. I almost don't listen to music, but every time I go home my sister gets me the songs that are popular because then I go home and I don't know anything. She will just give me some of the new songs and say, come on, learn these ones. No, I'm very easy. In English I don't even know -- in Spanish I like probably slow rock. I don't know how to say it in English. I don't like any rap or heavy metal or hip hop, just more calm and relaxed.   
  
  Q. You've always been able to make a lot of birdies, and sometimes as a result of being aggressive you've made a few bogeys along the way. Do you feel like as you've gotten older out here your course management has gotten better and that that's something that you're still learning, when to go for the green lights and maybe when to play safe?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I mean, for sure I've improved in the course management. Dave, my caddie, he's been great. I think we really accomplished a lot together and have been improving with time.   
 He helped me a lot just to sometimes -- we don't need to go for it, just play safe. He gives me good advice. I think we both understand my game. He's been, for sure, someone very important that helped me to improve in that manner.  
 But at the same time I'm an aggressive player and I'm not going to change that. Sometimes you have to go for it, and if you make a mistake, sorry, but that's the way it is.   
  
  Q. You are the No. 1 player in the world. Away from the course do a lot of people recognize you the way they might recognize Annika or someone else on the Tour, or are you able to stay pretty under the radar?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Here it's a little bit easier. In Mexico it's impossible. For me here in the States it's a little bit easier and I can be just more relaxed and I can go out for dinner and have a quiet time. But not in Mexico; Mexico it's been really tough, but that's okay. That's the way it is. It's part of being a professional. If you want to win tournaments that comes together. I'm trying to learn. It's tough because I don't have my time that I used to, especially when I'm in Mexico. But I'm trying to learn and deal with that in a good way, be happy with what is happening.   
  
  Q. Earlier on the range today you hit a number of nice shots and then you hit a fat one and broke out laughing. Is it easier to laugh as the No. 1 player than it is to be the 121st player?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Is it easier (laughing)? If you're out here for the right reason, because you love the game. That's one of the things that I don't understand from some players, when they do a bad shot and they talk bad to themselves. I think the number one rule is just be able to laugh. Hit a bad shot, everybody hits bad shots. I always used to say when I hit a bad shot, you know, that's my amateur moment. You have to laugh. I have no problem with that. That's the way I enjoy it.   
  
  Q. Everybody has been going over how great the last two years have been, but do you remember back to three or four years ago when you were really having a hard time breaking into the winner's circle?  
 LORENA OCHOA: If I remember, yes. But it was fun, too. It was just a learning process, you know, and I knew it would take me a few years to feel comfortable to get my win, my first win, and I knew it would take me five-plus years to get to the No. 1 position. All those moments and tough times and bad tournaments is what made me who I am today. I remember those times with a lot of joy, with a smile on my face. Yeah, for sure.   
  
  Q. You left the University of Arizona as a sophomore to become professional. Any thoughts on maybe ever going back and finishing your education?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I think I would like to establish something later on; I'm not sure if in Arizona, maybe back in Mexico. I'm very involved with my foundation. I'm very involved with education and teaching or coaching or even helping kids to do different activities outside of school. So I would love to do something like that. I always wanted to be a psychologist, so maybe I'll even do something around that, we'll see.   
  
  Q. I was just wondering, do you think that you will win a Grand Slam before Tiger?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you need to let me know when is he going to win, and then -- I don't even know when do they have exactly the dates for the majors? I guess right now I'm a little bit ahead because I won the last two. So I like that idea; I'm ready for that.  
  
  Q. You are an inspiration for many girls, many golfers in Mexico. Two of them already belong to the Arizona University, your school. What do you think, and do you believe that you opened the doors for them?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, every time I go back to Mexico, I try to talk to junior players and tell them how important it is to get the university experience, and I always encourage them to go to college. I really love to see a few Mexicans playing for U of A. I love the school and I represent them with a lot of pride.   
 You know, college golf is the best experience; I recommend that to everybody, and get there, hopefully finish their education and get the experience of four or five years, and then come here to the LPGA or the PGA.   
  
  Q. As the No. 1 female player in the world and now a certain inductee into the LPGA Hall of Fame, what more are you hoping to accomplish in your career? You've said before that you're interested in having a family, so does qualifying for the Hall of Fame make you feel as though retirement in the next four or five years might be an option?  
 LORENA OCHOA: You know, when I started playing golf I said that I wanted to play around 10 or 12 years, being 100 percent, having golf as my priority. But I think around that time I'm going to be getting to the Hall of Fame. So to me it will be a dream come true to finish all I want to finish at that time, and then after that just go home and go to Mexico, hopefully have a family and spend time at the foundation. That's what I want to do at the end.   
 But right now I'm just trying to focus on the next couple tournaments in this 2008 season and just try to do one year at a time.   
  
  Q. You are leading the driving distance on the Tour, and at the Kraft you just kind of demolished everyone; I think you led by 20 yards. What are you doing both in the gym and on the driving range that's getting you so much more distance off the tee?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, in the off-season I work out a lot. I lift a little more weights. I changed my ball, and I am improving my golf swing. I have better position at the top of my backswing, and that helps me to have better angles and to create more speed when I hit the ball so I have maybe five, seven yards of increase in distance with my driver. I like to see that. It really helps to make the golf courses a little bit shorter and give myself more birdie opportunities, so I'm going to continue that.   
  
  Q. My question is I was talking to your caddie Dave Brooker down at the Kraft Nabisco, and he told me that he had some local knowledge at Interlachen because he had caddied there in the Solheim Cup. I was wondering if you could tell me -- I didn't ask him, do you know who he caddied for for the Solheim Cup team when they played at Interlachen?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I want to say Carin Koch, maybe I'm wrong. I think always it helps when you have a little bit of local knowledge. But he told me the same in St. Andrews and I won that, so hopefully the same happens at Interlachen. I would love to win the U.S. Open.   
  
  Q. I wanted to ask you about the Olympics. As someone who takes a lot of pride in your country, what do you think about the idea of having golf as an Olympic sport?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you know, there is not much we can do; it's out of our hands. I'm just hoping that we have an opportunity to go there and play or just do an exhibition, and hopefully I'm still around so I can go and represent my country. It would be something very special.  
 Right now I'm helping in Guadalajara. We have the Pan-Americans, and I'm part of that. It's helping them with -- pretty much they're going to be in Guadalajara. They are talking of maybe having a golf exhibition, so that will be a good start. And then hopefully we get them interested in having us in the Olympics.   
  
  Q. I'm calling from Springfield, Illinois, where we have the State Farm Classic, and as you may have noticed, this year it's been moved to mid-July after being held in late August. At this point as far as your schedule like in July, are you planning to play here in Springfield at the State Farm Classic, or have you decided yet?  
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I'm sorry, but I don't think I'm going to play the tournament. I played that tournament a few years before, and I do like to go there. It's just that the schedule right now is not the best -- it doesn't fit the best in my schedule. So I'm sorry, and hopefully I can make it, if not this year then next year.   
  
  Q. You're about to reach your first year of the No. 1 in women's golf, taking the spot that Annika Sorenstam held for a long time. Do you think golf right now is in a new era, or how long do you think it will be before we consider this a new era in golf?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think what we've seen so far, the way it's moving, the LPGA and the PGA and how global is the Tour right now, having so many international tournaments, we now play three tournaments in Mexico. So for sure we are in a new era. It's amazing to see all the interest we have from different parts of the world, and so many international players we have here on the LPGA. So I'm just happy to be part of that. I think we are moving forward and are still going to achieve a lot more, so it's a great time for us to be playing at this moment.   
  
  Q. You grew up competing in a lot of different sports, and nowadays it's becoming the norm for kids to begin focusing on golf alone beginning in their early childhood, and I was just wondering, what do you think of this trend? Do you feel that your early participation in a variety of activities has actually benefitted your golf game more so than if you just focused on golf as a child?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, very much. I think when you are a child you don't know for sure what it is you want to become in your life. It's important that you try many different sports just to see which one you enjoy the most and you have more fun. I swim, I played tennis, I did horseback riding, I did many different activities. I love basketball, volleyball, and also when I was 13 or 14 I chose golf to be the only sport that I would practice and improve and get better.   
 Hopefully if kids are asking their parents to take them to the golf course and the only thing they want to do is to play golf, that's good. Hopefully parents don't force their kids. Hopefully it comes naturally that they like the game and they love to go to the golf course. That's a better way for them to have a bigger opportunity at the end when they go to college, to be better and to be -- maybe wanting to be a professional golfer. So my advice would be all the different sports help to level off your abilities, to find your strengths, to make you a healthier and happier person. So don't worry if your kids play different sports because that's the best way to go.   
  
  Q. Why don't you use a glove when you play? I know you've said that you've never used one, even when you started. But why?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't like the way it feels. You know, I'm more like a feel player, especially around the greens, and I never liked the way that it feels with a glove. I don't have no problem with calluses or my hand doesn't sweat, so having no glove is more comfortable to me.   
  
  Q. When you won the Nabisco a few weeks ago you and a lot of your family and friends jumped in the lake. Now the Samsung in October is going to the in Half Moon Bay right next to the Pacific ocean. Are you going to make a run down to the beach if you win there?  
 LORENA OCHOA: It's very cold in the water. I've been in California in July and it was too cold for me, so I think in October it will be way too cold. Maybe no. Maybe we have a different celebration that time. Hopefully I can win the tournament.   
  
  Q. I was just wondering if like Annika you would ever consider playing in a PGA TOUR tournament.   
 LORENA OCHOA: No. My idea was first to play on the LPGA and dominate here and just try to do my best and achieve my goals. I've had a few offers to play, especially in Mexico, in the PGA TOUR event that goes to Mayakoba. But right now I have no intentions to do that. I think it's completely different. I think there are other things that I could do to improve my game or to have an experience, maybe an exhibition, but not to play on the PGA.   
 THE MODERATOR: Lorena, thanks for your time today, and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT