KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 4, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Congratulations on a strong second round. It's a major championship and a strong field, and you have a one-stroke lead, how are you feeling and enjoying the competition? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, hello, everybody. It was a good day. I can't complain. I did my best, and there were a few putts out there that hurt me, but that's the way it is. It's a major championship. 
 It's playing tough today. I keep repeating to myself, just be patient and you're in position and you have a couple more rounds together. And I'm going to enjoy and I'm in a good position where I like to be starting the weekend, and I'm excited to get here tomorrow, Saturday, and to try to go low, to have a low round. 

 Q. How did that putt on 18 stay out, and what was your reaction to it; did you believe it? 
 LORENA OCHOA: You answered the question; I have no idea. That was the story of my day today. (Laughing) It was just stay patient, one more time, give yourself a birdie chance, and that's what I did. 
 And on 18, it was like, okay, we deserve this one, come on, let's make it, and it was pretty much in the middle of the hole and just at the end decided to go left and lipped out. I didn't have anymore emotions to show. I was done and ready to go home. (Laughing).

 Q. How do you avoid getting frustrated when 5 and 6 and 8, it looked like you made putts and it looked like you made one at 18? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I did it today. You know, I felt if I didn't get mad and stayed patient, I kept repeating myself and you are fine and you still have many holes to go, and I'm sure we'll make a few birdies on the back nine. 
 It was just -- it's a weird feeling, you know, because I did hit the ball really good. Gave myself a lot of birdie chances. Made mistakes, only one bad one, 15, and the rest was really solid golf.
 So I guess just that, you know, it's having faith for the next couple days. 

 Q. What happened on 12? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I was in the rough and I hit a tree. I was in the rough on the right side, 129 yards to the pin and I decided to hit an 8-iron just punch, fading 8-iron and I think I just misjudged. The ball maybe was high on the grass, you know, and it seems like I just went under the ball and I didn't catch much of the ball and the hole, it just shoot right, hit to the tree and went to the rough and hit it on to the green and two putts from 20 feet for bogey. 

 Q. Realistically, in your opinion, in regards to your opponents, how many strokes out would be the least likely to wind up winning this tournament? In other words --
 LORENA OCHOA: So what would be the winning score? 

 Q. So if somebody is within five strokes of the lead right now or six strokes, at what point in time in your opinion below that do they not have a chance to win in your opinion? 
 LORENA OCHOA: They always have a chance. I mean, I think if you are ten shots even the last day, you still have a chance, yes. 

 Q. Can you elaborate a little bit on that? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, there have been many examples before. The tournament in Mexico City, the girl that won, she was ten shots behind, and she won by one. 
 So, it happens. You need to be careful. 

 Q. I have a question about the heat; has that affected you at all, because Annika apparently had problems after her round today. 
 LORENA OCHOA: No, not to me. I'm okay. I feel strong, okay. 

 Q. Have you ever had problems with the heat in your career? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, actually I think it was the Women's Open in Wichita a few years ago; it was really warm. 

 Q. You mentioned missing birdie opportunities, but you made those birdies at 10 and 11 and then got to 7-under and were 3-up briefly. How much did you feel that you were really taking control at that point before you played 12?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you know, I just keep telling Dave, let's just take advantage of this beautiful day and try to get momentum from 10 and 11 to take a few shots on the lead. But I don't feel it didn't happen and we couldn't do it. Just the last few holes are really tough. They were playing tough. 

 Q. Right now are you more frustrated that you didn't make more putts, or looking at it despite not making a lot of putts but still shot 71 and you're right there? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I think overall, it was a great round. You know, probably missed a lot of putts that I should have made and were close and they were really good birdie chances, but I think I prefer making those on the weekend than today, and I'm feeling good. The important thing is that I feel strong and really confident with my game, especially with my driver, and I'm going to try to keep doing that. 

 Q. The other day you said being a happy person is the secret to be a strong player; is that right? I'd like to know what makes you happy besides golf, what do you enjoy.
 LORENA OCHOA: What do I enjoy by sides golf? Chocolate cake. (Laughter).
 No, everything, I love being with my family, just going out for dinner, you know, being in México, going on vacation, everything. It's not hard. 

 Q. How about water skiing, are you still doing the water skiing? 
 LORENA OCHOA: And I water ski, yes.

 Q. And climbing the mountain? 
 LORENA OCHOA: More my brother. I like that, too. 

 Q. If you had a choice --
 LORENA OCHOA: You can do both. Water ski; you can always get chocolate. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Let's go over your card.
 LORENA OCHOA: 2, I hit 3-wood and 2-putted for birdie on 2. 
 Then I made birdie on No. 10. I was in the right rough and hit a 9-iron 130 yards and left it short maybe six feet and I made it.
 Birdied No. 11. I hit the green in two with a 5-wood, 218 yards, and I was maybe 35 feet long and I 2-putted for birdie. 
 And I made a bogey on No. 12, I hit it into the right rough and I was just behind a tree, tried to hit an 8-iron with a fade. I hit the tree; went left to the rough, and then I hit a wedge, punch-wedge about 110 yards, maybe 20 feet and I missed that for par. 
 Then I bogeyed No. 15. I was in the middle of the fairway, 142 yards to the pin. Into the wind, I hit a 7-iron and I missed that shot to the right bunker. And I got up and maybe ten, 12 feet for a par and I missed that, too. 
 DANA GRASSRHODE: Thank you very much. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT