KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 3, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lorena, thanks for coming in and joining us today. A great opening round, 4 under, 68, and you are one stroke out of the lead. Can you talk about your day and your first round under your belt in 2008 of a Major.  
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello, everybody. It was a good day. It was a good start. I mean, I am really happy. Actually, it was pretty soft without the wind and the greens are hard and fast.   
 It was important to get a couple birdies early in the round to give myself some momentum, and I was making the turn very -- the first three holes on my back nine, on the first nine, and you know -- on this course you need to be really smart and really patient. You need to get good tee shots, so things are a little easier in the fairways, just be patient and wait for the right time. Someone has to try to do that for three more rounds.  
  
  Q. Let's go over your scorecard for everyone, starting with your first birdie on the 13th hole.   
 LORENA OCHOA: I hit a 9 iron 130 yards pin high, maybe 6, 7 feet and I made it.   
 Number 14, I hit an 8-iron 145 yards, a little bit long, maybe 12 feet, and I made it.   
 Made bogey on 15. I was in the middle of the fairway, hit a 9-iron just a little bit thin and ended up short in the front bunker, and a bad bunker shot. I was maybe 12, 15 feet, and I made that for par.  
 Birdie at 18, 75 yards to the pin, I hit a sand wedge, maybe 5, 6 feet, and I made that for birdie.   
 And then the first hole I hit a wedge 115 yards, one foot, it was slow.   
 And then the second hole I hit a sand wedge 75 yards, again, about two feet.   
 And then on the third hole I hit an 8-iron 145 yards, just a little bit short. That was the longest putt, maybe 20 feet. I made that for birdie.   
 And then bogeyed number 8. I hit a 6-iron, it just went through the green on the right side, a little bit long, and I had maybe a 35 feet. I putted from the fringe, and I came up short maybe 6 feet and I made that for par.  
  
  Q. Will you take three more rounds with this score?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes.  
  
  Q. Because of the conditions?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Because of the conditions? Yes, for sure. I mean, this course, I get zero wind in the next three days and hit it really good from the tee shots, you could make two more birdies, but it sets up combination, and I am happy with my round today. I will take that for sure three more days.  
  
  Q. Lorena, other than the obvious tough conditions here, how much did the wind impact your play today?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I didn't understand. I am sorry.  
  
  Q. How much did the wind, particularly on your back nine, the front nine, impact play today?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I think that the last -- how much does the wind affect? I think the last three holes were kind of -- number 7, number 8, having the pin on the left, wind left to right, 170-yard shot.   
 And then number 9, the tee shot was nearly impossible. The last three holes were playing tough. I mean, I saved the par on 7, (inaudible) finish, but it's a Major, it's playing like a Major.   
  
  Q. Was it hard to be patient early, short irons and fairly easy holes, 10 and 11, no birdies?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah. You know, it's just the beginning. We play a Major a little bit different. It's four days, there are going to be some low scores the first two days, and then anything around par is good, trying to make as many pars as possible, so yes, you cannot get mad, giving yourself a chance at birdie and then just missing, it's more of a way of saying I am okay, some putting for birdie, it's fine, a lot of fast ball, so I did that today.  
  
  Q. Annika, so many times when you looked back and probably needed binaculars to see her, do you ever feel sorry for her?  
 LORENA OCHOA: No. No, I don't know what happened today. I like her, but what can I do?   
  
  Q. Lorena, playing up ahead of you was Annika. A lot of players are saying they are looking for your name on the board, to keep track of you. Do you still look at Annika and where she is, even now?  
 LORENA OCHOA: All the time.  
  
  Q. All the time?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes.  
  
  Q. I have to ask why. I know why, but tell me why.   
 LORENA OCHOA: I didn't understand.  
  
  Q. Tell me why.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Because she is a player to watch. She is so good and so consistent and she likes to win, and that gives -- that always keeps me, you know, in a way alert and motivated and know where I stand.   
 I am a person that always likes to look at the leaderboard, even if it's not Annika, some other player, but to see her name means something, you have to watch out.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 LORENA OCHOA: I think my driver was great today, only missed one fairway, and I love my sand wedge on the 18th hole. It was only 70 yards, it was downwind, and I managed to control it and it rolled back and made birdie, with the gallery, always feels good.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. They gave it to me yesterday when I went and visit them, so yes, when I was walking on the putting green I saw the sign on the top. That was very nice. Thank you.   
  
  Q. One more Annika question.   
 Obviously, a lot of players, yourself included, are in the mix this week. She played well here in the past, she has so much history here, winning in the past. How much of an advantage is that as the weekend unfolds?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I don't really think about that. I cannot be playing and thinking about other players, I am only there thinking of me and my chances and the way I feel. And I think experience counts a lot, but I also have good experience, and I like my chances to be there on Sunday and win the tournament.   
  
  Q. You were longer than last year?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes.  
  
  Q. How?  
 LORENA OCHOA: How much?   
  
  Q. How? How did you do it?  
 LORENA OCHOA: A little bit of everything. I have been -- continue with the changes in my swing, my backswing, a little bit shorter on the backswing. I work out a little more, a little more weight, and I change the ball, I am playing with the I -- the Callaway ball, so I think the combination maybe give me 5, 7 more yards with the driver. I think. I am trying. I hope. I am getting better and better. I used to be very long and cross sometimes with a driver. I don't think I am doing that as much this year.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible).   
 LORENA OCHOA: I am strong. I think I move my hips really quick. That generates a lot of speed, the power behind the ball, and that helps. Like I said before, the combination, you know, working out and my swing and --  
  
  Q. (Inaudible).  
 LORENA OCHOA: What did you say? Give me a hard time about that, how can I be so little and hit it so far.   
  
  Q. Are there any more questions for Lorena? All right. Thank you for your time, and good luck this week.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT