HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 29, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Lorena, 7-under on the day, 13-under overall.  Off to a nice lead.  Can you just talk about your round and how you feel heading into the weekend? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Hello.  Yes, it was a good day today.  I just got on a birdie run and made I think seven birdies in eight holes.  You know, it was great from my driver to the putting.  I kept hitting my second shots really close and gave myself a lot of birdie chances, so I was very consistent.  One of those days you really want to memorize and hopefully repeat. 

 Q.  Congratulations on a great round.  Obviously hole No. 13 was not one maybe you want to repeat.  Was it just a split-second detraction there for you? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I don't want to repeat that bogey anytime.  I don't really know what happened.  I didn't feel comfortable over the ball for the first time, so I did the job of moving back and not hitting the shot, but then again, I think I just tried to make a really quick swing and missed the ball to the left. 

 Q.  Lorena, how long was the shot at the 2nd and what club did you use? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I used a 9-iron, 125 yards, and I was just a little bit long, maybe 12 feet. 

 Q.  The scoreboard has a very Tiger Woods-like feel to it after just the second round.  How does it feel, kind of having the same sort of dominance? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, it's always good anytime, first round or second round or take the lead on the weekend.  I like to be there.  But I guess a round like today really helps me to improve with my game, to learn to be in the lead and just stay there.  But it has been great, the first two days, and I'm going to make sure I keep doing the same in the next two days. 

 Q.  On 16 and 17, it looked a little bit like you lost your footing.  Can you tell us what happened there? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  A little bit - 

 Q.  You slipped, lost your footing a little bit. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  When there is an uneven lie, sometimes I do that.  Any time you move forward, nothing happens.  It's always when I come through in line.  That's why I always -- I make sure to keep with the rhythm and just continue that. 

 Q.  Do you remember the last time in a tournament you led by seven shots at the halfway stage? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No (laughter).  Maybe it's the first time. 
 THE MODERATOR:  I can look that up for you. 

 Q.  The course itself, looking at everyone's scores, seems to be two shots harder today, maybe three shots harder, and yet you've shot an even better score than yesterday. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think in this course on these greens it's all about putting the ball on the right side of the greens.  It can be really close to the pin or it could be really far.  I feel very comfortable with my irons.  I've been hitting it really good, especially having good tee shots.  That helps a lot.  Like I said, I'm going to try to repeat that the next two days. 

 Q.  After two rounds, any pressure now? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Not necessarily pressure, but there is always -- I feel comfortable.  I like to see myself in the lead, and it's always good to have as many shots being ahead of other players.  But I feel comfortable.  I don't think I need to put pressure on myself, just get here tomorrow, be relaxed and do the same thing in my warm-up and be very positive and try not to think that I'm leading the tournament or that I'm leading by seven.  I'm going to play like the score is tied or maybe like I'm three shots behind so I keep playing aggressive. 

 Q.  You've told us that you've worked very hard the last few months, but having said that, playing your first competitive tournament for three months, did you really expect to come out and shoot 66-65? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes (laughter).  That's why I practiced very hard. 
 I was very happy yesterday because it's one thing practicing hard every day, and another thing to come to the course in a competitive round, playing under pressure and being able to hit the shots close to the pin and make the putts.  So I was really pleased, really happy to make sure that all the things I worked on, they are showing good results.  So I'm proud of that.  I think my coach and I made the right decisions in the off season, and I'm going to continue that, to try to get stronger and get better. 

 Q.  Is there anything specific you did over the winter compared to over winters like working in the gym or working -- 
 LORENA OCHOA:  More time on my putting, one extra hour every day, and I do more weights at the gym.  We were able to improve even a little more on my back swing, to have it not too long. 
 Yeah, we have a long-term goal of shortening my back swing and we're just improving year by year. 

 Q.  Do you have any superstitions or lucky charms? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No. 

 Q.  Why don't you believe in that? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I believe in God.  I'm Catholic.  I have a faith.  I pray in the morning.  I ask for a little help, and the rest is just golf.  I try to concentrate and give it my best. 

 Q.  Were you a little bit surprised on 16, that both Paula and Ai laid up or came up so short, and have you ever considered not going for the green there? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I was going for the green for sure, 100 per cent sure.  You know, it's one of the holes that I did miss the hole a little bit to the right.  To stop the ball, you have to keep the ball on the left side so you make sure you land on the fairway and then you have roll to the green.  So I just missed the shot a little bit on the right side. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Lorena, thanks a lot. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT