ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Nice round today. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you. 

 Q.  A comment on your game? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, it was a good day, just very solid, very consistent, hit some good drives, a lot of birdie chances, and hopefully I'll have one of those tomorrow. 

 Q.  What's it like when you go out, you're tied for the lead today but you go out tomorrow and you all start with a clean slate? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  That's the tournament this week.  I like it.  It was important to me to get a good pick in the group I wanted to play.  I'm glad I'm going to be able to do that, and I'm going to get here tomorrow 100 percent ready for a good round. 

 Q.  Why was it important to pick where you wanted to play? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, first I wanted to play good.  Just gives me good momentum, and you feel good.  Instead of being a little bit uncomfortable with my game I feel very positive and I like very much the way I'm hitting the ball, and to pick my group tomorrow, I would like to be at the last group.  It's better to play at the last and just knowing what you need to do. 

 Q.  Would you like to play with anyone in particular? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No. 

 Q.  I'm busy. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, I don't know who's going to pick first, Paula or me.  If I do get to play with Paula, that would be great. 

 Q.  How do you play tomorrow, just go flag hunting and try to make 18 birdies or sort of pick your spots and react to what's happening in front of you? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Both (laughter).  How about that?  No, I think it's always important to get a good start.  Hopefully just get to the third hole, birdie the par-5, and it would be a good to be a couple under before nine, and then we'll see how the back nine goes. 

 Q.  How comfortable have you gotten with the attitude that you're the player to beat?  You've been comfortable with that all year. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I like very much.  I've been feeling good.  I think it's important that my name means something.  You know, I'm just trying to enjoy it.  I really like my position and I'd like to stay at the top. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible.) 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think all of us have a really good chance.  There's only eight players, the best players in the world, and it's going to be fun.  I'm just glad that I'm going to have an opportunity. 

 Q.  How is this different from last year when you barely got in after the playoff as opposed to playing pretty good all week? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I feel like I have a better chance now.  Last year was just tough for me playing with the wind, and I didn't feel 100 percent with my swing, and today was really different because I feel solid, I have good rhythm, I'm making a lot of birdies so far in the first three rounds, and that gives me confidence for tomorrow. 

 Q.  You're the only player I saw go for it in two on No. 3.  What made you decide to do that, and were you playing that aggressive? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, it was a perfect number for my 3-wood.  As long as I didn't hit it 100 yards to the right, I should be fine.  Not too hard of a shot. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT