ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LORENA OCHOA:  When we were on the back nine, I tried to put myself in good position for the first day, and then I thought, okay, it's good that there's going to be a cut after Friday.  So I'm okay.  I'm really going to put that behind.  I didn't even feel I missed those shots that much.  It's a big difference playing with the wind, and I'm going to put them behind and get ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  What happened?  I didn't see it.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I hit a 7-wood.  It was about 189 yards to the pin.  The wind was coming into us a little bit from the right, and I just hit the ball on the right side, and it didn't move nothing left, just stayed right there on the hazard line and bounced right into the water.   
 Then I did the same thing with an 8-iron.  I dropped in the dropping zone, and it was 135 yards, and I grabbed an 8-iron, trying to hit a low shot, and I did the same thing, just hold it on the right side a little bit, and it bounced into the water.  I was worried about that I was going to run out of balls.   
  
  Q.  Obviously how well you played besides that hole has got to give you a great feeling going into the rest of this week.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I'm really happy.  It's always good to be under par on this course.  We thought in the morning 2- or 3-under would be a great score.  It was a good day because the conditions were nice.  We didn't have too much wind.  But it's only one bad hole.  I'm playing solid, I'm playing good.  I like my game right now, so I'm going to get ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  If something like that had happened in a regular stroke-play tournament, would it have been more frustrating than it is right now?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  You know what, it's only the first day.  I think I'd be probably about the same.  I'm only three shots from the lead.  I mean, it's -- I finished 2-under.   
  
  Q.  The big question is what's the lead, whoever is in 1st or whoever is in 16th?  Which way do you look?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Of course you want to be at the top to make it, but the more you play the more comfortable you get with this course and the conditions and the speed of the greens.  Of course I'm trying to shoot low.  But I'm happy where I am.   
  
  Q.  Did you see the fan with I _ Lorena on his shirt?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  What did you think of that?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you (laughing).  No, it was very nice, yes.  Thank you, and he's been here every day, so it's nice that we have good fans.  Thank you.   
  
  Q.  Do you like the new tee box on 17 on the left?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  We were talking about it in the Pro-Am.  I like it better, probably the one on the left.  It didn't work today, but I like it.  I think it's nice to be close to the fans, and it makes a nice angle to the green, so it's good.   
  
  Q.  Is that distracting at all when you see that?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No.   
  
  Q.  Do you see that a lot, guys with shirts?  Do you see that a lot at different tournaments?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I only saw him once.   
  
  Q.  At different tournaments, though, do you ever see that where guys come out and make their own shirts?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  So it's nothing new for you?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, it's something very nice from him.  I think it's fun to see different things.  They come here with the Mexican flag and cheer for me.  It's good to feel some support.   
  
  Q.  Talk about your birdie on 15, too, by the way.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  15?   
  
  Q.  The par-5.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I tried to be safe and hit on the right side because I didn't like my distance.  85 yards to the pin with a sand wedge, and I thought I hit a great sand wedge and just long, just bounced a little bit outside the green.  But it was a beautiful chip, nice grass, perfect room to work with, and I felt good about it.  I took the pin out and I made it.  It made me look good on TV (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT