LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 6, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Lorena, you shot a 67 out there, you're two strokes out of the lead, can you talk about putting together your lowest round of this tournament so far? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Hello, everybody, good night.  Thank you for waiting. 
 It was a really good day, especially the start, it was great.  The first three holes, I made three birdies and I thought it would be a really low round, and I tried hard on the back it was hard to continue the momentum and get it going.  I made my first mistake on hole No. 12.  I made a silly bogey and I was a little upset.  But really happy with my finish, that save on 16 and birdie on 18. 
 So, I'm feeling good and I think I'm in a good position, and that's all that matters and I can't wait to be here tomorrow. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Today you were playing with Suzann Pettersen, you guys are No. 1 and 2 on the Money List, and the only two winners to win multiple times on Tour.  What's it like being partnered and playing with someone of that caliber? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, it was a great day.  Suzann and I, we get along pretty good.  It's nice to be playing six hours with someone that you like and can talk and have things in common.  I really enjoyed the round, especially watching her make a couple of eagles.  That was exciting and hopefully I can do that tomorrow. 
 I think it's been a great year for both of us.  We've both tried to push ourselves and get better and better.  I'm sure she's going to be at the top for many years.  She was fun to spend time on the golf course and I enjoyed the round. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Let's go over your card, starting with a birdie on the first hole. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I hit 6-iron in the bunker on the left, 160 yards, about ten feet and I made that one for birdie. 
 2, I hit a 50-degree wedge 100 yards and just tapped in one foot. 
 No. 3, I hit in the green in two with 5-wood, 210 yards, just behind maybe 25, 30 feet, and I 2-putted for birdie. 
 No. 5, I hit the green in two with a 4-iron 185 yards just pin-high again maybe 15 feet. 
 11 I tried to hit the green in two with hybrid 210 yards just on the right side in the fringe and made it on for birdie. 
 12, I hit 5-iron way right, even right of the bunker and the green.  I chip okay, maybe five feet and made that for par. 
 Then bogey on 13 I missed my second shot to the right with 8-iron in the bunker.  I hit out of the bunker short -- it went a bit long, about 15 feet again and missed that for par. 
 15, I tried to hit the green in two with 5-wood, 200 yards, was a few yards short of the green and made the birdie with a chip-in putt. 

 Q.  On the 9th hole, you are standing over there and she's already in the hole with an eagle, Suzann is eating an apple over in the back; what's going through your mind while you're waiting and how much of a momentum change was that? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No. 9, my second shot it was fairly easy, only 210 yards to the pin and perfect lie, wind helping and I felt uncomfortable over the ball, and just hit this big hook and got a little upset.  Suzann just made that chip over there; perfect.  (Laughing). 
 But, no, it's okay.  I think it's much better on a Saturday or Sunday.  She's already had a couple of good rounds, and hopefully tomorrow it's my turn. 

 Q.  You've had success the past 12 months, both coming from behind to win and holding the lead; do you feel going into tomorrow with how things are shaping up? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I actually like my position.  A few tournaments I've been in the lead and I'm just kind of getting into a match play way of playing, just being too careful about the other player. 
 Tomorrow is going to be different.  I think I like starting from behind.  I think two shots is not too bad, and I'm just going to try to be really aggressive tomorrow and hopefully I'll get a good start and put some pressure on the first group. 

 Q.  On No. 9, did you think you recovered well there?  That was a tough lie, and then to chip it in, to chip that close, did you think you recovered from the frustration? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, it was okay.  I gave myself a birdie chance, that was important, and then it was good.  It's okay to make pars. 

 Q.  On 17, the short par 4, you had a good drive and chipped it a little long and missed a birdie putt.  Do you feel like you left a lot of birdies out there on the course today? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  For sure.  I think at least a couple of them.  That's why I'm a little bit, not upset, but I just felt that I could be a couple of shots better by now. 
 Like I said before, I think everything is good.  It's Saturday night and we have 18 holes to go and I'm going to make sure that doesn't happen tomorrow and just have a good round tomorrow. 

 Q.  You talked about being aggressive; how aggressive is Suzann going to be; typically she's pretty aggressive out there. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, she's an aggressive player.  She's not afraid.  That's one of the things I admire most about her.  She just goes for it and she's always very -- I mean, her mental side is very tough.  You can always learn from players, and she's certainly a really good -- she loves competition, and like all of us, she likes to win. 
 I know it's not going to be easy, and I know not only her, but Lorie Kane and a few other players are close.  You just need to think that they are going to play very good, so you just have to try to be even better. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT