LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 4, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  The wind was blowing pretty hard, and you still managed to shoot a 69. You must be pleased with the way you played?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, really happy.  I think it was one of those days.  And I'm going to play in the morning, and I'm going to take advantage of that.  I like to be in a good position, I think, for the first round.  Just to be in the right number in the first few places and.   
  
  Q.  It seems like you always find a way to jump on the leaderboard in your first round.  Do you focus on achieving this?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  That's one of the things I've been trying to work this year.  Trying to get a good round and not be too far behind.  It seems like it's important for me to get a good start.  So that's why I'm feeling good today.  It was a very solid round.  I didn't make any mistakes.  You know, three birdies, and I feel good.  I'm ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Can you give me an example of a shot or a hole where the wind really played a factor and you had to rethink your club or change your club?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  On the last one on the 9, I was making my 5-wood to my 3-wood.   
  
  Q.  Second shot?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  My second shot.   
  
  Q.  How far out were you?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  200 to the front, and 236 to the pin.   
  
  Q.  What did you end up shooting?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  3-wood.   
  
  Q.  The 5 and the 3?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh, yeah.  I was thinking on if I could just finish in the middle of the green, you know.  And I never thought I'd be too far.  Just put it a little closer, and it was perfect this time.   
  
  Q.  You were on the green?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  On the bunker on the side.   
  
  Q.  Bunker on this side?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh.  Up-and-down for birdie.   
  
  Q.  What's your confidence level now?  You've won so often this year, last year.  How do you feel as far as confidence?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think my game improved a lot.  And I do like just feel comfortable.  I think even with being in that position for me many times.  And I don't want to say that I'm confident, I'm the best, of course not.  You have to be humble and just -- that is the number one rule just.   
 But at the same time also you know my name means something, and that's important.  I try to put pressure on players and that's good.   
  
  Q.  You see your name up on the leaderboard, does that put pressure on them, you think?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think so.  I can't talk.  I don't like to talk this is more about playing.  But you know, I know I like myself to be at the top and, you know, make other players think.   
  
  Q.  How difficult is it to get a rhythm when you're waiting that long to play?  You guys were out there five and a half hours?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think this course just plays that way.  It's very from green to tee a long distance.  And it's kind of like just be patient in the round.  Just don't try to rush.  Just take your time on every shot.  And you have to mentally be prepared.  But it's fine.   
  
  Q.  Your swing, there is so much power there.  How do you explain it?  Is it an Ernie Els type of rhythm?  How do you generate that power?  You're not exactly a huge person either, so.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I have strong legs.  And I move my hips really quick and have good space to lean back.  Just something natural, the way I swing.  And if I start playing good, I'm more like a field player and rhythm is important.   
  
  Q.  Always had power though?  Always been a power hitter?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I always try to improve.  There are things you can do to improve - going to the gym and more exercise and getting stronger.  All of those things help.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT