NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 30, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Lorena, thanks for joining us today.  You put together a great tournament after your vacation, and you finished tied for third place.  Talk about your final round today and how the course was playing for you.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  Well, it was -- I don't know, for some reason I couldn't feel comfortable.  Definitely on the front again very slow.  Start with a bogey and then couldn't make any birdies.   
 It was just a tough day.  I don't know.  I guess not meant to be.  Maria played really good and made a lot of birdies, and especially the way she finished with the birdie on 17 and then par on 18.   
 You know, I guess she won the tournament, so...   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your scorecard, starting with the first bogey on the 1st hole.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  First one I hit the ball on the green but it was way right.  Probably one the longest putts I ever had.  Maybe 15 feet, and then 3-putted.   
 And then on No. 8 I hit the green in two, just long, maybe 25 feet, 2-putt for birdie.   
 No. 12 I just miss the green.  I was on the left side in the fringe and I tried to putt it about, again, 25 feet again.  Leave it short maybe six feet, seven feet, and I miss that.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  That was a 3-putt there?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yeah.  And on 15, again, I hit a 50-degree wedge just short of the ridge, maybe 40 feet putt, and I 3-putted again.   
 16 I hit an 8-iron about 15 feet and I made it.   
 On 17 I hit the green in two with a 4-iron 175 yards and I 2-putted for birdie.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How close was the first putt?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Very long, 40 feet.  On 18 I hit the green in two pin high, maybe 30 feet away, maybe more, and I 3-putted.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Questions for Lorena.   
  
  Q.  I believe you 3-putted four times today.  Was that more a product of not get your approach shots on the right level of the greens or not having the speed today?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Both.  I think today my second shots -- days before I was very consistent, just hitting close to the pin and give myself birdie chances.  Today I just couldn't hit anything close and few times I make them on the wrong side of the green and have long putts.  I couldn't get used to the speed.   
 Sometimes a little bit really fast being on Sunday and a little bit windy, and I just couldn't make the change and I keep leaving my first putt really short, just like I did on 18.  It happen a few times.   
 You know, it's a learning experience.  I'm okay and happy for Maria.  It's not bad finishing in third place, and I can't wait to play next week.   
  
  Q.  You made a great charge with the birdies on 16 and 17.  Talk about putting the pressure on them and the way you finished.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, that's why also I feel good.  I didn't give up.  I tried to finish strong and I was aggressive.  Especially on 17 trying to hit the green and I made it, and under pressure, and I'm happy to see those things.   
 One of the things that I liked today was my driver.  I'm doing lost of progress with my driver under pressure just hitting them straight and putting them in a good position.  You know, there is always good things that you can take from a day like today, and I'm going to do that and be ready for next week.   
  
  Q.  I guess you're a little bit disappointed the streak had to end.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Of course.   
  
  Q.  I know when you came you were really wanting to keep that going.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, of course.   
  
  Q.  I am hoping you can elaborate on what you were thinking once you realized that the streak that got so much attention was about to end.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, you know, it's just part of life.  It's golf.  It would be too good to be true.  First time I win three in a row and then win four, five, and six.   
 So nothing else you can do but give myself another chance in the future, and hopefully we'll start next week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT