NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 29, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Lorena, thanks for joining us today.  Great round out there.  3-under par, and now you have a one-shot lead.  Talk about how you played today. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Hello.  It was, again, I think very similar, my day today compared to yesterday.  Kind of like a slow start and nothing really going in the front 9. 
 Then finally No. 8 I made my first birdie and missed birdie on No. 9 and 10, missed birdie on No. 11.  It was just kind of like hard to make some putts and get it going. 
 But I'm really happy because I played solid golf.  Good on my tee shots to the green and good with the speed on the green.  It was key today just to be patient and not to get too angry and anxious about it.  Just build some momentum. 
 I like my position.  I'm ready to come tomorrow and play the final round. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your scorecard, the three birdies. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Birdie No. 8.  I tried to get it on in two but I was on the right side outside the green.  Then I chip about four feet and I made that. 
 Birdie No. 12.  I hit it on in two with an 8-iron, 135 yards.  Close again, about four or five feet and made it. 
 And then 15 I had only 85 yards.  I hit a sand wedge just a little bit long, maybe 15 feet, and I made that for birdie. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Questions for Lorena. 

 Q.  We're talking history here.  You have an opportunity tomorrow to tie two legends in golf.  Is that in your thoughts at all, or are you just looking at this particular one round to win the tournament? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Only the one round to win the tournament.  I think it's not good to think too much ahead of what could happen if I win.  I'm just going to try to get here tomorrow, do the same that I always do, my same routine, and just enjoy my day. 
 I really want to win, but I want to make sure I give a hard fight out there, and hopefully it's my week. 

 Q.  You mentioned earlier about your slow starts.  Seems like each day it's taken you like eight holes to get going.  Now that you have the lead, how important is it to get off to a good start tomorrow to maybe pull away and put pressure on the other players? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think that's something key.  I think tomorrow I'm going try to make sure I make a couple birdies before hole No. 8, the Par 5s.  That will be the best scenario for me. 
 But, you know, it's okay.  I think this is one of those golf courses that you can hit good drivers and good second shots, and because the greens are so uneven, you know, and even if you are ten or twelve feet your putt in for birdie is not easy. 
 So instead of feeling like you're missing and missing and missing, you know, just try to take it easy and be fine with a par and just keep it going. 
 So either way, you know, you never know how it's going to happen, and I'm prepared for tomorrow.  I think Stacy and the other players are close.  They all want to win.  I'm just going to make sure I take care of my things.  Don't get too distracted on their games and I think I should be in good shape. 

 Q.  Talk a little more about your record as a front runner.  I believe five of your six of your wins have come when you've led in the final round.  Talk about your record as a front runner and being in that position. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think just it's a lot about experience, and every time you feel more comfortable.  This is my fifth year on Tour, and sometimes you win just a different way.  All of them are very different.  Doesn't matter if you're in the lead, how you feel if you're coming from behind or if you're hitting the ball great or missing, every win is different. 
 I guess tomorrow is just, you know, another day, and I'm going to try to, like I said, just build momentum and, you know, I trust myself.  I have faith and I know I can win the tournament. 
 I like to be on the 18th green with the trophy. 

 Q.  You and Stacy kind of pulled away from the field.  Did it have kind of a little bit of a match play feel on the last few holes on the back 9 there? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think that's one of the good points.  I don't want to feel like it's a match play because then you get too involved in the other players.  You know, if she misses then you're fine and if she makes par then you're fine with par. 
 I think that is the wrong way to play the tournament.  I'm trying to play my own game be aggressive.  I want to make a lot of birdies tomorrow, hopefully have a low round, so it's, you know, fun for everybody. 

 Q.  You were animated with some of your putts today.  I know you had the early walk on your birdie on 15, and the early walk on 16 that lipped out on you.  You seemed to really be into it today, into the moment of being in the heat of the battle again. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh.  I feel good, and I want to thank the fans that were here today.  Yes, you know, it's all about having a good time and making putts for birdie for us and for the galleries, and hopefully we see a lot of those tomorrow. 

 Q.  Stacy had a lot of very nice things to say about you, talking about together in junior golf and all that.  What's your opinion of her? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I remember her a lot, especially in college golf.  Seems like we were paired every round in the last group.  We used to walk around and have a good time. 
 It's always nice to play with a friend.  You know, you feel comfortable and you have good atmosphere and you kind of like enjoy the rounds a lot more.  That makes the day more special.  It was great today, and hopefully going to be the same tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT