NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 28, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Lorena, thank you for coming in and joining us today.  You really caught fire on the back 9 and finished your round with three straight birdies.  You're within three of the leader.  Talk about your round.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Hello, everybody.  Yeah, I don't know, for some reason it was a slow start.  I think that the front 9 is a lot easier than the back 9.  I was hitting the ball good, I just couldn't make may putts.   
 Again, I keep leaving myself in the wrong place having to lag my putts in.  And then I just didn't make any birdie.  The first one was on No. 9.  Birdie No. 9 and No. 10, so that gave me good momentum and that really helped.   
 Approximate then I bogey 14 and got a little upset.  I and thought, This is no time to waste.  You have to finish strong and make sure you try to get in the last group for tomorrow.  Today my caddie, he told me, We're fine.  The last three holes the pin placements are easier.  On the front and there are birdie chances.   
 We talk about it and it was perfect.  Just finish with three birdies and be in a good position.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over those birdies and bogeys, starting with your first birdie on the 9th hole.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No. 9 I hit a 50-degree wedge 105 yards just maybe eight, nine feet and I made it.   
 No. 10 I hit again a 50-degree wedge 100 yards just a little bit short, maybe 12 feet, and made it.   
 No. 14 I missed my driver to the left and then I tried to hit a 7-wood to the front of the green.  Just a little bit short of the green.  I was about 50 yards still to the pin.  I play a 9-iron just a long 9-iron.  Went by maybe six, seven feet and I missed that for par.   
 On 16 I hit the green with a 9-iron about ten feet downhill and made it.   
 On 17 I tried to get it on in two and I went to the left side of the rough.  I didn't have a good chip.  Went by about another ten feet probably and made it.   
 On 18 my 50-degree wedge.  No, no, sorry.  That was my pitching wedge.  So about 110 yards, and I was a little bit short of the right side might be 12, 13 feet, and I made it.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Questions for Lorena.   
  
  Q.  I notice on 17 that the three of you were bending over.  There was like a bare spot on the green.  Were you concerned about that because of the lie where your ball was?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh.  I mean, there was really nothing.  It was just on my line, so I just thought, Get a good solid hit and it should be fine.  I try not to worry about it and it worked.  I made the putt, so I'm happy.   
  
  Q.  Getting out of the spot right above the bunker on 17 it was kind of buried, wasn't it?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I didn't have the best lie.  It was important to finish over there because I hit a great second shot and I thought I would give myself a good chance for eagle.  But I just made it a little bit to the left and, you know, understandable.  It was a Par 5 and I was positive to give myself chance for a birdie, and I did it.  Either way doesn't matter how you did it.  I made birdie, so I'm happy with that.   
  
  Q.  What club did you use on the fairway?  Did you change?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  On the second shot?   
  
  Q.  On 17.  Were you trying to get to the green from that spot?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I hit to the green with a 5-wood, 215 yards.   
  
  Q.  That was right above the bunker though on 17?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh.   
  
  Q.  Did you change clubs on that particular shot?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No.   
  
  Q.  It was a 5-wood?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh.   
  
  Q.  The rules official came in the tent when y'all finished.  Can you walk us through what ya'll were discussing and what that was all about?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  On my second hole I hit my first putt and it just went by a little bit, maybe a foot.  I went over and I was trying to finish -- just, you know, I didn't have my regular stand.  Just before I put the putt on the ground the ball just kind of like tipped, kind of like moved just very little.   
 I, you know, and then I finish and I made the putt.  So they said I didn't cause the ball to move because I never ground the putt.  So no penalty.  I kind of knew, but I wanted to make sure I get it from the official to make sure it was straight.   
  
  Q.  So you were just confirming?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh, before I signed my scorecard.   
  
  Q.  You parred the first eight holes.  You were still six shots behind.  Obviously Stacy got off to a good start today.  Were you thinking at that point that you can't let her run away with this?  You've got to go make up some ground on the last finish there?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh.  I knew right away.  Before I started playing she was 11-under.  I knew it would be important today to just keep making birdies get as close as I can.  I think I'm in good shape.  There are two more days.  I like my position, and I am going to keep putting pressure on her and making a good round tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT