KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2010
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Well, welcome, everyone. Thank you for joining us this afternoon. We have Lorena Ochoa with us, one of our co-leaders today. Also an opportunity for you following the special announcement to talk to her about her round, if you weren't able to get in some questions earlier today, but we're really here for a special announcement today about Lorena Ochoa and her foundation, so I will turn it over to Jason Taylor, who is actually the CEO of the Lorena Ochoa Foundation to tell us a little bit about what we can expect about her work in the States.
 JASON TAYLOR: Thank you, Kim. Hi, everybody. Again, my name is Jason Taylor. I'm the CEO of the Lorena Ochoa Golf Foundation. Thanks for coming here today and thanks for being part of the launch of this diversity program for the world of golf. 
 The mission of the Lorena Ochoa Golf Foundation, it's in the press kit, I'll just read it to you, is to reach those under-represented in golf and provide them with the opportunity to enjoy the game and all that it provides as well as to pursue careers in golf. And to say more directly, the demographics of golf in the United States are a little out of skew, or a lot out of skew with the demographics of the United States, and it's the goal of the foundation to change that through outreach programs, through alliances with other groups to provide opportunities and introduce new people to the game in a fun and festive way and keep them in the game, but also teach them how to play the game. There's always a gap between learning the game and getting out on the golf course. And our goal is to bridge that gap and we're going to reach out to you and we're going to reach out to faith-based groups and we're going to reach out to civic groups and take the game to them in fun, festive ways and maybe nontraditional formats. 
 Working with Southern California section of the PGA, we're going to pilot many of our programs or most of our programs in Southern California until we figure out what's working best and what's not working. And once we're ready, we're going to launch nationally and break through the rest of the country. And with those programs we're going to go to nontraditional places and we're looking to expose people that haven't seen golf in the past and expose them to golf. Some of those places, maybe soccer tournaments, Little League tournaments. We want to take golf directly into schools and faith-based groups and directly into civic groups. And we know, especially with Latino culture, it may not be something that was prevalent or was available to them or knew it was available to them as kids. 
 And in a nutshell we want to just invite them. We want to open our hands up, invite them to play the game in a fun, festive way, providing equipment, providing education and take them out on the golf course. And we know there's a whole life out there in the world of golf that's very beneficial and will open up eyes and help educate kids as they're growing and help have an impact on them for the rest of their life.
 One of our first official functions of the foundation, Lorena Ochoa Golf Foundation, is going to be a fund-raising tournament we're having next week at Industry Hills Golf Course in the city of Industry, called the Pacific Palms Resort, that's put on AeroMexico for us and the Mexico Tourism Board helping, as well as the LA Visitor and Convention Bureau, has been a very wonderful partner in this. And this is going to be our flagship event. It's next Tuesday, April 6th, and it's going to be an annual event hosted by Lorena. So if you want to come on by April 6th, we'll be out at Industry Hills and you can see Lorena and she'll say hi. She's going to put on a wonderful exhibition just like she has here for the last two days and has in the past of golf and for the weekend, too. 
 Additionally to that, we're also launching another venture called the Lorena Ochoa Golf Academy. We're going to fix hooks and slices, and we're going to make people better golfers, which is the goal of every golf academy, but we want to do that with a little different twist on it, too. We want to make sure the academy is affordable and accessible with the goal of reaching new golfers. We want to create new golfers. We want to again show a whole different world of people that maybe didn't know golf was available to them that it is. And all in the same path of the foundation, we're going to reach out as a business model and show that that can work also in the world of golf. And the first one in the United States -- we plan to do many -- is Goose Creek Golf Course Public Facility in Mira Loma near Riverside, California. Great facility, been in business 11 years, one of the premier facilities in Southern California. 
 And at that facility we're putting everything in it. We're going to have the latest technology in the world of golf, we're going to have all the monitors, all the cameras and we're going to have the great instruction. Lorena will be there. Her coach Rafael Alarcon will be there, will be teaching, following his instructional message. 
 But in addition to those traditional things, again, trying to show maybe a different business model in golf and an outreach model that it actually mingles with business and it's successful in both ways, we're putting in a separate building that is going to have the traditional golf things, like club repair and club design, but it's also going to have a fitness center, which is obviously part of playing great golf, but it's also going to have classroom areas, so we can reach out to schools and we can reach out to those faith-based groups and civic groups, adults and children, obviously with the focus on children, and show them what a great game we have and how it's going to impact them and affect them positively for the rest of their life.
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. Hello, everybody. Thank you for coming here today. For sure this is a very exciting time. It's different to talk about an activity or something and talk about the foundation and the things that we're trying to do outside the golf course besides being in competition. 
 We were waiting for this to be the right moment. We have been planning this for the last year or so, and we decided that starting in 2010 would be the best time to start the program. It's called the Lorena Ochoa Golf Foundation, a little bit different than the one we have in Mexico, just the Lorena Ochoa Foundation. That one is just for education. We have a school and we support more than 300 kids and it's all about education. 
 This one in the United States we're trying to reach out to all the Latinos and make sure we help them as much as we can and give them the opportunity to learn the game of golf and to be comfortable in later years, teachers, professionals playing on tour in any of the great tours that they have here in the United States. So just to open for them different ideas and opportunities in life. I feel that that's important. 
 I feel like I have a responsibility to help as much as we can. We are professionals. What we do for a living and the opportunity that we have is amazing, and I will always be very thankful, and I want to share that and help as much as I can. 
 And I think what Jason is doing is something amazing. We believe in that. We have a lot of faith that good things will happen and we need to be patient. The first time happened really quick, and we have tournaments where we are happy to see the numbers and we are excited to have the first tournament fundraiser to get the program out and the publicity and get the people to know what we're trying to do. So very new. This is the first time we come here to the States. I feel like what we're doing in Mexico so many things and it's time now to come here and help. 
 It's a big number of Latinos out here, and we're hoping to help as many people as we can to put our name, and later on we're trying to move to different places in the United States. Starting in California being close to Mexico and having Jason working with us was something that we are for sure happy about. Thank you for saying yes. We're excited to see the results. 
 So we wait for you on Tuesday, should be a fun day, and hopefully continue to have many more tournaments and see more Latinos playing the game. Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you to both Jason and Lorena, and before we wrap up, I just want to invite LPGA Commissioner Mike Whan just to say a few words. 
 MIKE WHAN: Thank you. Usually when the players start playing, I always say to the media, "stop quoting me and talk to them." 
 This is one time, actually the first time I think I've said this in my tenure, I hope you quote me today, because about three months ago I got asked in an interview, I was in Florida and a reporter said, "give me one word that comes to mind when I say Lorena Ochoa." And I said, "heart." 
 And he said, "excuse me?" And I said, "Everything she does comes from her heart. I mean when you talk to her, you just feel like you're talking to her, there's no filter between her heart and her mouth. If it's in her, it comes out of her, and as I hear you guys describe the Lorena Ochoa Golf Foundation, it just goes right back to heart. And I really even feel like this foundation mimics Lorena. 
 Faith, yes, got it started in Mexico, clearly a hero from there, but just like her and her game, she transcends borders. When we were in Thailand, the crowd that was following her and screaming at her both in Thai and Spanish was impressive. She knows I walked like six or seven holes just because I couldn't believe somebody that was that size could hit the ball 295 yards, so I kept thinking how could that be possible? 
 Just the fans that we saw in Singapore, and then we come back to San Diego, and now here at the Kraft Nabisco. It just shows me how much she transcends borders. It's no surprise to me that a foundation that's so based in heart is now transcending borders, and I have no doubt that if anybody bets against how big this thing will become, you just don't know her, because when it comes from heart, it just never stops. 
 So like I've said many times, don't quote me, but this is one time if you don't understand that Lorena Ochoa comes from the heart, stop one time, don't ask her about the 7-iron she hit on 11, ask her about life and what's most important to her and you'll get the filterless heart-to-mouth connection. It's been powerful for me and I hope at some time every media person gets a chance to experience what I've experienced on a firsthand basis. Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: Lorena will be more than happy to talk about her foundation and also following those questions, if you do have any questions about her round today, I'm sure she would be happy to take those as well. 

 Q. What do you think the biggest challenge is that you face getting the word out to the Latino audience?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, for sure we need your help, the media. We all know that is very important, just to get out the word and for people to learn of the program and to get excited.
 It's always -- you need volunteers and you need to live it. You need to get there, learn the game, grab a club, do some swings. We want to try to get as much as possible, to be and run different activities. 
 So I think everything starts small and then from there you keep going and make bigger and bigger things. So believe even we are getting a small start, get a good start from the ground and then build something really big. 
 But we have a lot of challenges, but we are ready for those. I think it's time to help. I think the Latinos deserve the opportunity, and there are so many people with great abilities at home and they represent the country in the best ways.

 Q. Question for both Jason and Lorena. Can you just talk about having the initial home base be Southern California? You mentioned the large Latino presence. Was this kind of the plan from the start to have it in Southern California and go from there? What attracted you most about Southern California?
 JASON TAYLOR: Well, I live here. That was a big attraction to me. And I'm a third-generation member of the PGA, so I have a lot of history here. 
 And the PGA of Southern California is a really strong connection, really active, not only do they play golf, but a really active community outreach program. I became president of the Southern California PGA in December and I have a two-year term with that, so that's obviously aligns very strategically with a very strong organization. 
 And there's so much golf leadership as far as management companies, whether they're here or local over in Scottsdale, and manufacturers that allow us to pull together. That's what it's going to take to be successful, your question. We need to bring everyone together, industry wide, manufacturers, club managers and players together to go forward with this, and it's a good starting point. There's a lot of people and a large Latino population.

 Q. And also for the academies, is that going to be just in America or is that international?
 JASON TAYLOR: No. It's going to be international. We do currently have sites in Mexico. We're in discussions with some facilities in China right now, and we have very strong plans, aggressive plans for the United States. We're going to open our first one in Goose Creek in Mira Loma, California, which is, again, a great facility. And we're very fortunate to be in there for our first facility, and once we really find out what's working and iron out the business plan, we want to expand through the rest of Northern California and Southern California and cut across the country.

 Q. What about Goose Creek and why you guys decided to make Goose Creek the first one here?
 JASON TAYLOR: Goose Creek is a fabulous facility. One, the three laws of real estate: Location, location, location. Wow. You just can't get better. It's right in the Inland Empire, which is somewhat the heart of Southern California. It's a wonderful location, easy to get to from LA, Orange County, and from the Riverside area. 
 And on top of that, the ownership out there, the management is fabulous. These are golf people out there that operate Goose Creek. They make golf decisions, they are golf course. Everything they do is about golf. 11 years they host many qualifying for USGA events. They recently held the Champions Tour qualifying event and a number of top amateur events. 
 They have a wonderfully large practice area, huge grass tees. We want to teach real golf, hitting on grass. It was kind of a gem when we first talked about this. I spent hours in my car driving all over Southern California, and the first one happened to be fortunately just a few minutes from my house, but they accepted us and loved the idea, and we hope to be open this summer. 

 Q. Lorena, often we'll see players toward the end of their career take on these large projects. You've taken on a lot of large projects. You give to so many projects while you're No. 1 in the world. Can you talk about all the challenges you face while the top players in the world are trying to knock you from your spot? How do you balance it all?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think, you know, you learn by playing. To me I always said my foundation is my No. 1 motivation. I think that's the reason why I'm here, and that's why I play well. 
 And I've been very lucky to be successful. And this one with the idea of starting in the United States, I think I'm being more excited than being popular in golf. It just gives me goose bumps. I'm so excited about it. And just to imagine the kids, how many kids will be there, they want to learn and getting the first idea of what golf is about. And it gives me motivation. 
 And yes, I will face challenges, but I think it's worth it, to see them and face challenges, it's going to be worth it. And I'm going to continue working hard and help as much as I can. 

 Q. Do you feel a sense of urgency to do as much as you can while you are still playing competitive golf since you've made it clear you're not going to be like your playing partner Juli Inkster and be out here when you're 49?
 LORENA OCHOA: For me everything comes at the right time, or more important, you need to be smart and really try to decide when is the best time for something like this to happen. And I did this early in Mexico with the foundation. I didn't have much experience or money or anything, and I decided that I wanted to do something to help. 
 This is a different situation. Like I said before, I'm very lucky to be playing good golf and get results, and I feel a responsibility to do it. And I want to make sure I do it at the right time, and we think this is the right time for all of us, for the profession of golf in the United States and Mexico and the opportunity to reach out and help with publicity and be a good example for the kids. So we believe it is at the right time to start here in the United States. And we are ready to go. 
 THE MODERATOR: Are there any questions for Lorena about her performance today on the course as well? 

 Q. Lorena, could you talk about your round, particularly your Back 9 after you made the turn, you seemed to really catch fire. You had yourself in a lot of birdie situations.
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. It was a good day today. Not necessarily easy because I started a bit slow and made a couple of mistakes, and then was able to bounce back and made a few birdies, but I for sure take my 2-under. 
 And it's not easy playing a major championship. You miss a couple of fairways and you're like, oh, my God, what's going to happen. And you're trying so hard to make birdies, but I still have a good feeling. I think I'm in, you know, in a good position. I like to give myself a chance to win the tournament on Sunday and everything is going in the right direction. 
 And I'm going to try to do tomorrow the same, just concentrate one day at a time, and be very patient, but you never know how the conditions are going to be tomorrow, and hope I have another great day. 

 Q. What happened on 18? You had a bogey there, I believe. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh. I hit my 4-iron to the lip, and it bounced on the green and rolled to the water on the back and I keep in the middle of the fairway my approach shot and two-putt for bogey.

 Q. The wind seems to be picking up quite a bit out there right now. How is that going to change the way you play tomorrow?
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't think it's that windy. I'm actually really surprised that it seems to be calm. You never know what is going to happen next day when you open the doors of the house and maybe it's blowing hard, but I'm ready for everything. It's the same condition for all of the players and I'm going to have my chance tomorrow. I'm going to try to be 100 percent. 

 Q. Lorena, there weren't a lot of low scores out there today when the conditions seemed similar to yesterday. Can you just talk about the difficulty in scoring, what prevented players from going low?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, the greens were harder for sure, and the pin placements were really hard. Yesterday seems like they were trying to be nice to us, putting some nice pin placements trying to make us feel good, making some birdies, but today it was more like a challenge. Some of them were close today, on the edge and different, with the slope, hard greens. If you don't get the right angle, it's impossible to get close. So I think that's why you see the difference in the scoring. 
 THE MODERATOR: That's it. Thank you all for coming.
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you very much. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT