CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Lorena, thank you for coming in.  Well, if you haven't got the attention of Canada yet, you certainly did today.  You tied the course record with a 7-under 64, no birdies, and you pretty much played in the rain all day.  How are you doing right now and how do you get through that mentally? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I had a really good day today.  Tough to play in the rain, but I actually love the rain.  It's been good to me.  For some reason I just feel very comfortable.  I started with a birdie on my second hole and gathered momentum from there.  So here I am, in good position for tomorrow, and that's all that matters. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Can we go over your scorecard?  No. 2? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No. 2, I hit a 9-iron 120 yards about six feet, and I made it. 
 No. 3, I hit a 50-degree wedge about ten feet, and I made it. 
 No. 4, I hit a 5-iron 175 yards to about 15 feet and I made it. 
 No. 7, I hit a 7-iron 145, just pin high, probably 10, 12 feet, and I made it. 
 No. 8, 175 yards, a 4-iron.  That was probably like six, seven feet, and I made it. 
 No. 10, I hit a 50-degree wedge again -- I'm sorry, a 56-degree wedge, 90 yards to two feet. 
 14, I laid up and I hit an 8-iron 140 yards, just pin high on the left side, maybe 10, 12 feet, and I made it. 

 Q.  The bad weather out there, does that allow you at all to be a bit more aggressive in going after the pins, and were you thinking about the course record at all on 18? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, it allows you to be more aggressive.  I think today I kept hitting good tee shots and putting myself in good position.  The course was playing longer today, and I was able to be in good position from the fairway.  I was thinking about the course record.  It didn't happen, so I have one more day tomorrow. 

 Q.  Early on in your career you didn't always close the deal on Sundays.  Do you feel a lot better given what's happened to you in recent months about how you can fare when you're in charge of the tournament, given what happened at the British Open and a few other events? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I do feel better.  I never felt bad.  I think just sometimes it doesn't happen for you, and it's a way of learning. 
 I like my position tomorrow.  I think there are a lot of really good players behind, but I trust myself and I have a lot of faith that I'm going to be there tomorrow and win the tournament. 

 Q.  You said you loved the rain, it's been great to me.  Can you give me some examples?  How has it been great to you?  I suppose the British Open might be one. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  The British Open was rainy, and cold, too.  And conditions today, not as cold, not as windy, but when it rains -- we played in the rain I want to say 13, 14 holes.  It was a long day in the rain.  You get a good feeling when you start making birdies, and it's been raining daily for me, so I like that. 

 Q.  Not typical Mexican weather? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Not at all.  But something good, I'm never too comfortable playing with a sweater or jacket, and over the last few weeks I'm getting more comfortable now, so that's something positive for me. 

 Q.  When you arrived here this morning and saw the weather, did you have to readjust your thinking?  The last couple days have been fairly comfortable, and all of a sudden you play in the rain and the cold.  How do you approach that? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  You know, conditions are the same for everybody, and you need to be able to have control on your swing and feel good out there.  I think less players play good.  You have to look at it as a positive side.  It's part of the game.  You have to learn and just think that it's going to be the same for everybody, so if you start complaining, if you feel bad that it's raining, it's going to be cold, if you start getting in a mood, it's not going to be good for you.  You just try to be happy even if it's raining. 

 Q.  Is there any pin that's ever been on any golf course that you're afraid to attack?  There was a couple pins today -- on 5 I know you were the only one to go for that pin.  18 you went right for the pin. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think it's right that some pins you can go at them or you're afraid to go at them.  Sometimes you need to be a little more smart and play to the side.  You just need to have the balance and think it's worth it to go.  In this case I was trying to go for the course record and I'm going to try to make birdie. 
 But I'm in the lead tomorrow and if I feel comfortable maybe I'll go three yards to the left or right side and be a little more careful.  You have to know when to be aggressive and when not to be aggressive. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, I'm an aggressive player.  Today, like I said, I was trying to make a lot of birdies.  That's the only way you can really shoot low and do something that they remember. 

 Q.  You've been taking money out of everyone's pockets and yet everyone on the Tour seems to adore you.  Can you just talk about that? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think it would be hard for me to answer, but I want to say thank you to all the LPGA players and just everybody around who's been so nice with me.  I respect all of them a lot, and I get that back, so I appreciate that very much.  It's only the money (laughter), and I try to be nice. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you all very much.  Lorena, fantastic round, good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT