CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How many miles do you put on your body a day?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I don't know.  I usually run in the morning, a beautiful run by the river.  I did good today.  I'm feeling good, happy with my run.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about what your round was like and the things you did well?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  Well, I hit the ball really good, especially with the irons, a little bit not so good with my driver, and it was kind of an up-and-down round, but I'm pleased I finished in the red numbers.  And I think that's all that matters, to be in a good position for the rest of the tournament.   
  
  Q.  A lot of the golfers were talking about maybe how the wind was picking up coming into the afternoon.  Did you find that, as well?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I was a little surprised with the scores.  I don't know what the conditions were in the morning, if they were easier.  I hope tomorrow we get a good break with the wind in the morning and hopefully make a lot of birdies and catch up a little bit.   
  
  Q.  How were the greens?  Some of the players said they're a little bumpy here and there?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  That's just the way they're going to be.  It's fair for everybody, but you need to be patient, and if you miss a couple putts just try to understand that and be ready for the next one.   
  
  Q.  What did you think of the galleries in Edmonton?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Great galleries.  I want to say thank you for all the support, and the city and the volunteers were obviously very excited and very, very happy to be here playing and hopefully they enjoy the rest of the tournament.   
  
  Q.  I see you very well connected to the fans.  In the Pro-Am you take time to talk to them and line up here, every golfer stops to sign autographs.  Is that just the nature of the LPGA, you just want to give back as much as the fans give to you?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, sure.  That's our number one purpose, just trying to be nice to the fans because we appreciate that very much, their support.  It's the least we can do is spend some time with them and sign some autographs.   
  
  Q.  Any hiccups for you during the round?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I had an unplayable and I had two times a rules official to come and help me with a couple of drops.  So it was a different day.  But like I said, I'm happy that I finished under par.   
  
  Q.  Where was the unplayable?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  That's a good question.  I'm confused between the front and the back.  I think hole No. 5.   
  
  Q.  Did you have a little Canadian luck with your belt buckle there?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I have good friends that are here and they asked me to wear it, and I love to do it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT