RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN CALLANDER:  Ladies and gentlemen, we have Lorena Ochoa who played today a round of level-par 73 and is currently standing on 6-under par, 140 one shot ahead of Wendy Ward.  Can I have your reaction to the round today, please, Lorena? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, sure.  Hello.  Yes, it was a good day.  It was tough, tough conditions.  I'm very pleased with my round.  I'm upset about that 3-putt on 18, but I didn't leave myself in a good position for my second shot.  Nothing I can do now.  I'm just glad I still have the lead. 
 I think, you know, this morning, the weather was good, and in the afternoon we thought it was going to be even worse.  So I guess we got a break and we're trying to be positive.  Like I said I'm happy with the way I finished and I can't wait to be here tomorrow. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Conditions were okay this, afternoon but different from yesterday, wasn't it? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, for sure, the golf course completely changed.  Different tee shots and different places to aim.  It's very different, and you know, I'm very pleased the way we worked the strategy with my caddie.  I think we are in good shape and I think we understand pretty good the golf course and hopefully, you know, we can keep doing the same thing for a couple more days. 

 Q.  Was it more of a cross wind today? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, no, yesterday was across, too, but just very light. 
 Today it kept changing during the day.  We were starting into the wind and then just kind of like moved away.  I don't even know which direction, but it's moving -- actually into the wind on 18, so that was different, too.  But I'm just glad I'm in and it was a good day. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Can we go through your birdies? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No. 1, I hit my 7-iron to six or seven feet for birdie. 
 On 11, I used the green on one, way right, maybe 50 feet and I 3-putted.  I leave my first putt short about ten feet and I missed that. 
 And then on No. 14, I hit on the green in two with a 3-wood, I want to say 240 yards.  I actually was maybe 15 feet for eagle and I 2-putted for birdie.  
 Then 18, I hit the green in two with a 50-degree wedge, long, and a little bit left, maybe 25 feet and I 3-putted. 

 Q.  This year at Wimbledon, the women got paid the same as the men. Do you foresee this ever happening in golf? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Oh, I would love to see that.  Hopefully I'm still around when that happens. 
 You know, we are really happy with what we have right now.  I think the LPGA is doing a great job.  I think we are moving forward very fast, and we are very, very pleased and happy with the Commissioner and just the whole tour. 
 I'm happy with what we have.  Hopefully, you know, we can always get better and hopefully we move forward. 

 Q.  In your lifetime? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, hopefully it happens and I'm still playing, that would be nice. 

 Q.  What happened on the 14th. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  You know, you hit so many good shots on this course that you don't finish where you want them to and then you hit other ones where you get a couple of good breaks.  But that one was perfect, just the line that I wanted to, and I was hoping to get a good bounce, and it did. 
 I'm sorry I didn't make that putt for eagle, it would have been really great, but I'm happy with the birdie. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Thank you very much, Lorena, and good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT