KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2010
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We're here with Lorena Ochoa. Congratulations on a great first round 68. Can you take us through your first round?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. Thank you. Hello. You mean like every one? The course?   
 THE MODERATOR: No. Just your highs and lows, how you felt out there, how your game was working.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Oh, okay. It was a good day for sure. It helped me with a good start. I make a really good par on the first hole and birdied the second hole to keep my momentum going.   
 I was happy to see that and to live that because it's been hard the last few weeks, so you know, I can only tell you that I think it's a great start. Secondly, taking advantage of the good conditions, the weather and having a good course for the afternoon, and tomorrow hopefully we'll go for a continuation.   
 THE MODERATOR: Some questions?   
  
  Q. You said yesterday you wanted to get a good start on Thursday. The wind never showed up. That obviously helped. What is it about this tournament? You always seem to start well here. You shot a 62 here one year on the first day.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh. Well, I like to be here. I look forward all year to be here and to be back. And it's just a good feeling.   
 You know, this is just the beginning. I like to get ahead of the game. It's a great start this morning to be 100 percent, and I get advance more.   
  
  Q. Lorena, six birdies today and a couple of close calls at birdie looks. You must have been pretty happy with your distance control with the irons today.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. I think starting last week we were really good about the distance control, and I couldn't afford last week for sure.   
 And yes, it was soft greens and hard greens, getting all day the big bounces. I think I was putting for birdie on a lot of holes, so I think that will be a key. I think tomorrow if I do the same, I should be in good shape.   
  
  Q. Of all the people who were rooting for you in your gallery, how many did you actually know or recognize?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I am -- this is crazy, but I went the other day and asked for 50 tickets at the tournament office because I had 50 earlier, and the rest are just friends they come every year. They are good friends, American friends or people from different places in Mexico, so I just want to say thank you for being here, and hopefully they enjoy the weekend.   
  
  Q. Lorena, it's supposed to get a lot warmer the next three days, and that'll probably dry out the golf course. How much tougher is the golf course going to play, especially if there is wind?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Really tough. There's the chance that I could, you know, swing differently, or change. It's going to be the same course for all the players.   
 I think that's why I'm happy to have a good start because you never know what'll happen tomorrow. You could show up here and all of the sudden the wind is 30 miles per hour. So I'm just happy that I went through and it was a great day for me and I'll be prepared for everything. You never know what's going to happen here. I'm prepared for everything and it's more important for you to be patient. When you make mistakes and you miss fairways, just be patient out there.   
  
  Q. Were you in the rough today, and how tough was it if you were?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I was two times. It was pretty tough. I was able to save par I think on all of them. The two bogeys I made -- one I hit the fairway; one, I hit the rough and I missed bogey, and one I made from the fairway I made bogey. So I think from the four times three times I saved par, so that was good.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 LORENA OCHOA: Good. I made early in the round, I saved a couple of pars. They were about 12, 15 feet, so I was really happy to see the ball going in, and I was feeling comfortable with that.   
 And then I started making birdies at the end of the front and starting the Back 9, so I need to continue with my same practice and getting a good feeling and I'll be there tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What, if anything, are you going to work harder on this week than tomorrow?  
 LORENA OCHOA: The same -- I think something that is working like I did today, I'm going to continue with the same.   
  
  Q. It's Holy Week. I know your faith is pretty important to you. I was just wondering if you were going to take in any services this week or will this be any more special to you on this Sunday?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. I think for that reason, because it's Holy Week, there are a lot of relatives here. I think I'm not planning on doing something different, but spending time with the whole family.   
 We're getting together pretty much every afternoon just spending time together and enjoying that we're all here together and hopefully, you know, it's something that I'm aware of, and I always pray like I always do, and hopefully we'll enjoy this week.   
  
  Q. Lorena, you mentioned your putting was good today. How close was your birdie attempt going in on the 18th?  
 LORENA OCHOA: You didn't see it? Just on the edge. I started a little bit right. I was just playing the right edge, and I hit it a little bit right, but I had hope. It was looking that it wanted to turn and just stayed on the right side.   
 Thank you.  
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? Thank you.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. Bye-bye, thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT