RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   COLIN CALLANDER:  Good morning, we have Lorena Ochoa after a fabulous 6-under par round 67.  Very well done.  Give us your thoughts on the round today. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  Hello, everybody.  Yes, it was just a really good day.  It was one of those days that things are easy, and really, my tee shots, I was in good positions on the fairways.  And I was really glad that I took advantage of the nice conditions in the morning.  We got up today with just a little bit of breeze, and I took advantage of that and making some birdies, and now I'm in a good position. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  What time did you have to get up this morning? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  5.00 A.M. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  So you probably did not feel all that great. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, it was a really early wake-up call but I don't mind that.  I'm a morning person.  But my aunt, said, "Oh, you're going to finish playing around noon; so what are we doing then?"  So we have the rest of the afternoon free, but it's nice, I have some time here and I'm going to spend the day with them. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Was that the best conditions you've played in so far this week? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think so.  I'm sure -- I don't know how the next three days look and how the weather is going to be, but like I said, I'm happy I did it today and just kind of take one day at a time and we'll see how it looks tomorrow. 

 Q.  What will you do the rest of the afternoon? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I'm going to practise a little bit, my long putts.  I think we have to do that a lot and get used to the speed, and probably just get together with the family and have an early dinner, maybe watch a movie. 

 Q.  What movie? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I only have three movies.  Maybe Harry Potter. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Can we go through the birdies, please, starting at the fifth hole, par 5. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I was on the par 5 just short of the green, ten yards in front of the green, and I hit a 50-degree wedge and maybe ten feet short and I made that for birdie. 
 Then No. 8, I hit a 9-iron, 128 yards, a little bit closer, maybe seven feet for birdie and made it. 
 No. 9, I hit wedge 120 yard yards.  Just pin-high, about the same, seven, eight feet and I made it. 
 And No. 10, I hit my wedge, 115 yards, about three feet and I made it. 
 No. 15, I hit my 8-iron, 140 yards, really close, like two feet and I made it. 
 No. 17, I hit the green in two with a 5-iron, 190 yards, a little bit long, maybe 30 feet and I 2-putt for birdie. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Any good saves or anything like that? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  My toughest hole was 16.  I hit it just on the right side of the green in the short grass and I had two putts, maybe 15 feet and I made two putts for par.  So that was good to save par. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  You had a great run around the turn.  Do you reckon that's a key area of the course? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think so.  I think if you have a light breeze, I think the first -- maybe the third, fourth hole through 10, there are some birdie holes if you can take advantage of that. 
 Starting on No. 11, it's pretty tough so I kind of just play a little bit more safe and try to find a way to make pars on some of those holes. 

 Q.  Is this a dream start for you, or  could you see a score like this? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I love my start.  You know, I believe in myself and I was feeling good in the morning.  You know, we are all so excited to be here that I'm just glad I did it right on my first try and just take as much advantage as you can, and now I'm feeling good.  I just want to go relax and tomorrow, play my round; if I'm not leading the tournament, just play my round like any other round and play one day at a time. 

 Q.  Did you expect to shoot a score like that? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Did I expect the score I did?  I had my in my head but it was even better than I thought.  Once you start playing and you see the good conditions and you feel the good rhythm, you're like, okay, let's go, let's try to go 6-, 7-under.  So we tried to take advantage on the back and make something really special, and it was good. 

 Q.  Do you like being ahead in the tournament or having people chase you? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Always, either way.  I think you have to learn to do it both ways.  And I think on a course like this, it's always important to have some advantage, because we are up for everything, maybe bad weather in the next couple of days or a bad hole and you can be in one of those bunkers.  Anything can happen. 

 Q.  How many holes did you use driver? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Six holes. 

 Q.  Since you're all excited about being here, what's the best thing about St. Andrews? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  What is the best thing?  A tough question.  I think today that I was able to score, I think says a lot and there's been a lot of talking about how can we shoot these scores and how can we finish.  It just I'm glad I did good.  And it's always a good memory, the first round at St. Andrews, 6-under; that's going to be special.  I'm going to keep my golf ball and my scorecard and I'm going to keep that in a good place. 

 Q.  Do you get the sense you are making history being here? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think -- yes, I think -- well, no.  I think we are already making history just by being here.  So that's why the first day we are trying to enjoy it as much as we can and always have a smile on your face and we're having a good time. 

 Q.  How creative do you have to be on this course? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  A lot.  And I was talking today to my caddie, he did a great job and I want to say thank you to him.  Just the way we made some decisions, how to play against the wind and maybe if it's right-to-left wind, just really try to play with a fade to make sure it landed soft on the green and you don't get that much roll. 
 He told me on the 18th that it's the best round he's seen of my ball-striking.  So it was a good day. 

 Q.  What's your caddie's name? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Rupert.  He's from England, so he's happy to be here. 

 Q.  What's the best piece of advice you've had from anybody about playing here? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I don't have a person in my mind, but it's always just to really accept what happens to you.  You know, if you're in a bunker, just smile and keep your head down and just smile.  This is one of those courses that there are going to be some good bounces and good breaks, but it's not -- it's just part of the game; just accept everything. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Were you in any bunkers today? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No bunkers. 

 Q.  With all of the blind shots, how have you adjusted to lining up, the unusual way you have to aim, and what hole did you have the most difficulty? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think No. 13, that's a little bit too crazy, that hole.  We are a long way on the second shot and when you're on the green, there's people here on the par 5 and there's too many people on the green trying to putt.  And they put the pin on the right side and it was just impossible to be close.  I hit a great shot; it was probably my best shot of the day, and I was still 40 feet from the pin.  So that 13th hole was pretty tough, the second shot. 

 Q.  Are you doing anything different this week to help you with all the blind shots? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, nothing.  That's one other thing, I'm very simple player.  I don't like too much information.  I know I have a good picture in my head how the holes look, but here, if it breaks to the right here, breaks to the left; sometimes too much information.  For me, it's just better to get out there and just picture the shot and be even more free, just do what I feel instead of having too much information in my head. 

 Q.  You said you're going to keep your golf ball and your scorecard today.  At home do you have a big collection of mementos? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes. 

 Q.  In a room? Where do you keep them? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Different ways.  In a glass -- I don't know how to say in English -- like on the wall.  The ball, in different places -- just, I don't know how to say.  But we have a trophy room and I'm going to put it over there. 

 Q.  What's the best round you've ever had? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think Mobile, Alabama, 9-under, in a really tough wind in 2006.  And 10-under at the Kraft Nabisco in 2006, too. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  How does this rank? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think it's very similar, yes.  In 2007, for sure, my best round to date. 

 Q.  I noticed today you didn't have any practice swings when you were putting. Is that something new? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Before I used to make a couple of practise swings, and that's one of the things I don't want to spend too much time over the ball thinking or second guess.  Now I don't make a practise swing, and it's been working.  I still have room to improve but I think it was a positive change. 

 Q.  What do you think you will need to score the next few days? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  What do I think I need to score the next few days, for the championship? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No idea.  (Laughter). 
 It's just in the morning, when you open the curtain, you are hoping no rain no, wind.  So depending tomorrow how it looks when you open the curtain, you just really don't know. 
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Lorena, thank you very much, indeed, and enjoy this afternoon. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT