RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN CALLANDER:  Thank you for joining us, Lorena Ochoa, World No. 1.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  I think you've played the course three times, what are your thoughts?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Hello, everyone.  Thank you.  Yes, I played in the Pro-Am and it was my first round.  I got here on Sunday and I played the first practise round early on Monday.  I was by myself.  It was really good just to have a little time around the greens and really see all of the new things.  It was a great experience.   
 It's complicated because my caddie, we had to figure out where to hit it.  From the tee it's a little bit crazy.  It's a really good course, and we enjoyed it.  Today, I think today in the third round I finally really just remembered all of the -- you know, every hole, thinking where should I aim the ball, because everything is very different in the wind.  You just have to have a picture in your head of how the golf hole looks and just try to make a decision every day, you know, on every hole, it's very different.   
 And then long putts is very important.  I think we all know that this is new and just having those 50- or 60- or 70-footers, putting is a very unique experience and I've been doing a lot of those.   
 I'm feeling good and very excited about tomorrow and I can't wait to start playing.   
  
  Q.  What exactly does it mean to you to be at the home of golf?  Is that something special for you?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yeah, for sure.  I think for all of us, you know, first time for me and we don't know if this is going to be the last time.  We need to just enjoy every step and every moment.  And here we are, stand on the first tee with a big smile and just appreciate.  You know, golf is golf, but just if you start thinking about how many legends and players have been here, walking on that 18th fairway, the green, it's very special.   
  
  Q.  Did you know much about St Andrews before you got here?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Just like all of us, I think we watch mostly the majors on TV and actually my coach, Rafael (Alarcón), he played here before many times.  He played here at the Dunhill two years ago with a lot of good players, Ernie Els and a lot of good players.  Every time we are being practising on a course, he was like, you know, "This is a shot like St. Andrews."  Like at 3 or 7 or 11, or he always talks about 11 the par 3, how tough it was.   
 You don't realise how hard it is until you get here.  It's like the Masters.  You don't see 100% how the course is, how hard it plays, until you are here.   
  
  Q.  Have you any special memories of of St. Andrews?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I remember David Duval's birdie -- that's not the first one, but I remember when he won, very good.  And of course when you have those that they replay on the biggest moments of many years before; obviously when Tiger won by a lot, and hopefully we get that good weather.   
 But just it's nice to just remember those memories.   
  
  Q.  Have you been practising specifically for this course?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, you know, we always on the range, we always spend time the last three or four months, we know that we are coming here so just try to spend I'm hitting lob shots and trying not to get spin on the ball and try to play against the wind, different shapes and a lot of running -- like low chips around the green with 6-iron, 5-iron, 4-iron.  Just trying to, you know, do something similar that we are going to use this week.  And it worked, I think it was important just to get your mind-set.  I just feel comfortable now.  My rhythm is good and my swing and I'm feeling good.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think there have been so many first time winners on the LPGA Tour this year?   
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, for sure, that means that there are just more players that can win every week.  Before maybe you could be only three or four and now it's 20, 25.  It's hard to mention a name or say a number.  But just the level of golf, it's really high right now, and as we all know, a lot of it is because of Annika.  She just pushed and trying to be a better player and also be really healthy and strong and just right now it's tough.  The competition is really good.   
 At the same time, that's why I know there are so many good players coming.  You know, I really need to keep playing good if I want to maintain my position of being No. 1.  It's going to be a fun race and I'm excited.   
  
  Q. If you had a choice, would you rather be world no. 1 or win your first major?    
LORENA OCHOA:  What do I prefer?  Both.  (Laughing).   
  
  Q.  Is there more pressure on you now to win?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Do I feel more pressure?  No, no, no.   
  
  Q.  The longer you go without winning a major?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  If you have that in your mind when you are playing, I think it would be really bad but I don't do that.  I just go out there and enjoy myself and try to play some good golf.  If it happens, it happens.   
 Like I said, I think in 2007 was a year for me to start winning majors and I still have one more chance.  I'm going to try hard.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think there are so many good Korean girls around at the moment?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I don't know, maybe you can ask them.  I just think in a way -- I don't know.  That's a tough question.  You know, they do have a really good mental side.  They are very strong and the way they practise.  They practise really hard.  They get up really early and stay really late.  They are hard workers.   
 I don't like it very much when they come too young, not only Koreans, but other players when they are 18 and they just turn professionals.  You see a lot of players like Paula Creamer and Morgan Pressel, but I think at the end -- to me, going to college is a great experience and I wouldn't change that for anything.  I would do it again and again and again.   
 You know, I think it's great to see different players from different parts of the world, but hopefully they wait a little bit longer to turn professional.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  I think the second part of that question was, do you think your success will encourage more Mexican girls to come through?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  We are waiting for maybe one or two next year, and it looks good.  I may be 35 or 45, but hopefully.   
  
  Q.  What would it mean winning your first major here?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think for sure, if they will ask you at the end of the year, which major do you want to win and the answer would be all of them and all of them are special.  But if you put everything together, it would be very, very special.  And here we are, so, you know, hopefully start tomorrow with a good round and the important thing is to be in a good position on Sunday and just try hard.   
  
  Q.  Where does golf rate in México?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, it is improving.  It is really making a change in the last three or four years.  And we have a lot of golfers read now, a lot of girls playing junior golf or just in college and there are a lot of girls just trying to become professional and play on the LPGA.   
 So it's a great improvement.  I think we are making progress and it's looking good.   
  
  Q. Have you ever teed off just after 7.00 am before?    
LORENA OCHOA:  No, never.  My aunt told me yesterday -- what are we doing the rest of the day, I don't know.  (Laughter) but it's good.  Hopefully it's not very cold.   
  
  Q.  How important is it for you to have your family here?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Very important.  I have pretty much my whole family.  My mom didn't make it but my dad, my two brothers, my sister and an aunt.  A lot of close friends, some relatives, like 25 Mexicans are here.  So it would be nice.  It's very important for me that they are here, and they know and it would be great to share the moment with them.   
  
  Q.  No Mexican greenskeepers here?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No (laughs)   
  
  Q.  How many friends and family do you have that have come over to watch you?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  25.   
 COLIN CALLANDER:  Lorena, thank you very much and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT