HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Lorena, thanks for coming in.  A disappointing loss to Meaghan Francella out there.  Can you just talk about your day a little bit and how you feel right now?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Hello.  I'm doing okay.  Obviously I lost today and I just kind of lost momentum at the end.  It's hard to win.  Meaghan was playing really good and I made a bogey on 15 and 16, and I lost the match.   
 There's nothing really I can do now, enough said, and I'm going to try to -- not to think too much.  I'll try to be positive and relax the next couple of days and get ready for the next few tournaments.   
  
  Q.  Your second shot on 16, how much did you have to the hole or to the green and what happened?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I had 210 yards to the hole, and I was trying to hit a 3-wood and I just missed the shot.   
  
  Q.  And the drop after that up there on the hill, did you have a decent lie up there?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think I had a decent lie.  Just decelerate and hit it a little bit high.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard to play match play tournament when you're No. 1 in the world, do you feel like there's kind of a bull's eye on your back?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, it's the same for everybody.  It's fun and it's different and really anybody can win.  So, you know, it's good.  I didn't win today and there's nothing I can do right now.  You know, she played really good, and you know, I wish her the best for the next few rounds.   
  
  Q.  A year ago she beat Annika in the playoff and now she's beat you; she's beat the No. 1 world in the player twice.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  That's pretty good.  You know, we talk about it before when she beat Annika in the playoff and it's not easy to beat Annika in the last round or in a playoff.  You know, that tells you that she's a really tough player and she's very motivated to win and she's not afraid.  You know, good for her.  I wish her the best for the tournament.   
  
  Q.  Obviously Meaghan had a lot of people pulling for her today; was that evident to you, even playing, just noticing people in her crowd?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I mean, I know she's from here.  I'm happy that she enjoyed her day and having so many relatives in her crowd.   
 I still had a lot of Mexicans that came to watch me play and I had a lot of support.  I always feel just really thankful for the gallery.  It was a good day and they respect my shots and the same for Meaghan.  It was very fair.  It was a nice atmosphere and she was very nice to me, she would tell me good shot, and it was a friendly match, and she was the best player today.   
  
  Q.  Was there anything about her game that impressed you the most?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, those two things, I don't think she's afraid and she's very competitive.  You know, she showed before that she can handle the pressure, and she's going to be good.  She's going to be a top player for many years.   
  
  Q.  Even if you're the No. 1 player, does anything count as an upset in this tournament when it's so unpredictable to begin with?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, yes, for sure, I don't like the way it feels when you lose.  You know, we don't like it.  Today I was feeling good, I had my lead and I was playing well and all of a sudden I lost the match.  You know, I think you just have to be prepared for anything.  It's more like a mental game, so I'm just going to try to like I said, take it positively and just rest and get ready for the next tournament.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Lorena, thanks for coming in and good luck next week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT