HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Welcome, congratulations, a six and five victory over Ashleigh Simon.  Can you talk a little about your day?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  Hello.  It was a good day.  I think match play it's always important to get off to a good start.  I hit a good putt on the second hole, it was a long putt, probably 25 feet and I started 1-up.   
 It gave me a good momentum.  So I think it was a good day, from the tee shot to the hole and I had lots of birdie chances, so I hope to keep doing the same the next few days.   
  
  Q.  Please talk about the pressure of being No. 1 and how you've been able to handle it all year and how it's been for you so far?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  It's been good.  I think you know, I just tried to keep it simple.  Sometimes it's more, you know, from all of you in the media and maybe people back in México are expecting a lot of things from me.  I'm just trying to be the same and enjoy, and practice is very important and to be really focused and practice really hard.   
 There are so many good players trying to be No. 1, I'm going to keep doing the same thing.  I think it's hard because we have so many more activities outside of the golf course.  I think with the help of the people that help me and make sure I don't get too tired and always get my practice time.  It's been good so far so I want to try to continue that.   
  
  Q.  The 6 & 5 ties a tournament record for largest margin of victory.  How important was it for you to get out early and to make a statement coming out of the gate as the No. 1 seed?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, very important.  For sure that's the plan, just to get off to a quick start and it's easier for the rest of the day and I'm going to try to do that tomorrow.  I'm going to try to be aggressive at the beginning and make a couple of birdies and hopefully things will turn around and just get it going.   
  
  Q.  How many birdies did you make today?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  That's a good question.  Two for sure -- I can't remember.   
  
  Q.  Would you talk about the course conditions?  It played quite a bit longer today.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  It was playing long.  I think the wind picked up, especially later in the afternoon.  So it's important to just feel comfortable and judge because the wind kind of goes different directions.   
 The greens even they have rain yesterday, they were a lot faster today than they were playing in the Pro-Am.  I think I did really good with the speed on the greens.  That's going to be key this week because some of us are going to be having long putts, and if you get the speed down, it's going to be important.   
  
  Q.  Do you adjust your game plan as far as stroke play or match play, are you playing the player or the course or how is it different from stroke play?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, of course it's different because just it's a lot easier because someone could surprise you.  But at the same time, I think if you are playing your game, you are playing consistent, you are giving yourself birdie chances, you should win.   
 So what I try to do is just play like any other tournament, you play against the golf course and try to make a lot of birdies, and I think the rest should take care of itself.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Lorena, thanks and good luck tomorrow.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT