HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Thanks for coming in.  We have world No. 1 Lorena Ochoa in the interview room.  You had a week off last week to recharge your batteries, but you have three victories this season and you're the first seed for this tournament.  So how does it feel to be on top of women's golf, and where is your game right now?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, hello.  Yes, I'm doing good.  I just had some goals at the beginning of the year and reaching them and now I'm in a good position and that is making me happy.  We worked really hard in the off-season.  So I've been preparing myself to be in this position, so I'm trying to enjoy it as much I can and I'd like to be there.  So I'm going to keep working hard and do whatever I need to do to stay in that No. 1 position.   
 Match play is a different tournament, but I like it.  I think it's something fun, something different.  I'm an aggressive, player and in match play, it's easy to go for it and don't worry too much about what could happen.   
 And I'm very excited to be here.  I already practiced the golf course.  It's in great shape.  I think they did some changes and I saw some good things.  I think it's in impressive condition, and I can't wait to start the tournament on Thursday.   
  
  Q.  Do you consider yourself the defending champion, seeing how you won the tournament here last year, or do you look at Brittany as the defending champion?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, I think she's the defending champion.   
 But I can only tell you that I have really good memories from this golf course.  I love the place.  I have a lot of support, a lot of Mexican, Hispanic and even people from different parts of the United States, they came and supported me that week.  It was a special week for me.  So it's always good to feel the good memories.   
 And I like my chances.  I think it's one of the golf courses that suit my game.  I like poa annua greens and fast greens, and it's a beautiful course.   
  
  Q.  What advantages will you have this year with the changes on the last three holes on the course, after you won here in stroke play; how will they help you with match play?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think the way they put the three holes, having two par 5s, I think it helps me.  I'm hitting my driver good.  I'm hitting a good distance and I can reach the two of them on two.  It gives good birdie opportunities, and I think that's really key, playing smart on the par 5s and trying to get as many birdies as you can and score from there.   
 So that's the plan.  You know, you never know how many holes you need to play to win.  But if it goes to 18 or some extra holes, the par 5s I have a good chance to reach the green on two and that gives me a good chance.   
  
  Q.  Is it any different for you; is there any added pressure being the No. 1 seed in this tournament?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  In this tournament, no.  Like I said, I'm enjoying myself.  I have nothing to do.  I really enjoy playing golf and it's been great.  You know, I play every week to win, and sometimes you do and sometimes it's hard and things don't go your way.   
 But I'm just trying to -- you know, I'm going to take this tournament like any other week.  It's one day at a time and one player at a time and don't think too much on winning the tournament.  Just, you know, you have to beat a lot of good players to win this tournament.  So just one at a time and hopefully I can be on the 18th green on Sunday.   
  
  Q.  Eight years ago today marks the infamous collapse of Jean Van de Velde at the British Open.  I was wondering if you were aware of that and are you hoping to avoid a similar situation?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I don't understand.  That happened --   
  
  Q.  It happened eight years ago this weekend.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  This weekend, where?  Over there at the British?  No.   
  
  Q.  Not worried about it?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, I didn't know it happened eight years ago.  (Laughing)   
Q.  We were told that you were going to play Ashleigh Simon in the first round, the young South African player.  Are you familiar with her and have you ever met her?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, I'm not familiar with her.  I'm sure if she's playing and you get in this tournament, it's because you are one of the best players in the world.  So everybody is just really good.  You know, you cannot think it would be easy or just not hard, the match.   
 I'm going to -- I'm always trying to play No. 1 against the golf course and just be aggressive and try to make a lot of birdies.   
 But I hear a lot of good things.  I think she's doing good, she's playing good.  She's solid.  What I would like to do is not get distracted by the other players, just to play my own game.   
  
  Q.  Since you've replaced Annika as the No. 1 player in the world what, exchanges have you had?  Have you ever had a conversation about that, the two of you, and what was the nature of the conversation?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Annika, you know, she's a great player.  She's a great person.  She's been always very supportive.  She helps me a lot when I first came out on Tour and we always had a lot of respect in each other.   
 She came up to me and said congratulations and that I've been playing very consistent and at the same time, she's like, "I'm coming back and I'm getting you."  I understand that.   
 I know she likes to be in the No. 1 position, and I know there are many good players behind, and I appreciate great that very much.   
  
  Q.  What sort of mental approach do you take in a tournament like this, because if you go all the way through, you're going to have to play 36 holes on Saturday, 36 holes on Sunday; how do you get through that mentally and physically?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, like I said, it's just, you know, one round at a time.  You can't be thinking about what's going to happen on Saturday or Sunday.  I know it's a challenge physically, and it's a big challenge and I'm prepared for that.  I think I'm one of the players that tries to be in shape, and if it means going to work out, that's very important and that's one of the things that's really helps just to be fit and not get too tired especially when we play two rounds.  So I am good in that part.   
  
  Q.  When Annika was No. 1 for so long, was it frustrating being behind her all the time trying to chase her, or did you think you were ever actually going to get there before you did it?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No.  I was never frustrated.  When I turned professional and when I set my goals, my long-term goals, I knew it would take four or five years to be No. 1 in the world.  It's not something easy that could happen in, you know, one year or ten, 20 tournaments.  It takes a lot of consistency and just so many tournaments playing good and being on the top.   
 You know, last year I think I was No. 1 on the Money List.  That was a really high goal that I set and I was very happy to achieve.  But the most important thing this year when I get to the No. 1 World Ranking, I knew it would be a long-term goal, that it would take four or five years and that's the way it happened.  And that's where I want to be, I want to make sure I keep playing good.   
  
  Q.  Your ability off the tee and how well you hit the ball, do you think that gives you a bigger advantage in match play in order to put pressure on your opponents to try to keep up with you off the tee?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, like I said, it's a big advantage to give yourself eagle chances to make a couple of easier birdies.  Besides that, I think it's more important to give yourself a good opportunity from the fairway.  So it's something important.  I've improve my distance since last year, just going to the gym and I changed my driver and it really helped.  It's always something that we look to improve every year.   
  
  Q.  Looking ahead a couple of weeks to the British Open, how big of a deal is it to you to get to play the Old Course at St. Andrews?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think just like everybody, it's a dream come true and it's going to be for sure the most special week for us; at least to me in my five years' career that I've played so far here on Tour.  We're just really excited to go.  I don't want to think too much now.  I think perhaps we have two big tournaments before that and it's not a time to think about it right now.   
 I'm going to have a lot of support.  My family is coming and some friends from México, so there will be a lot of people carrying the Mexican flag around and I'm very excited to be there.   
  
  Q.  How many times have you played the course in amateur tournaments or practice rounds?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  St. Andrews?  I've never been there.   
  
  Q.  Just from what you've watched, the men's tournaments?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I've never been there.  My caddie, Dave, he's from England.  He's been over there a few times and caddied a few times.  So it's going to be a week that I am going to really pay attention to what he says and just really follow his instructions.  It will be good.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  All right, Lorena, thanks very much and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT