U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Lorena, when Cristie said when she made the birdie on 14 she felt like she was on her way.  Did you get that sense that the momentum shifted at that point? 
  LORENA OCHOA: No, I was feeling good about my game. I think that I made par on 14 and we still have a few holes to go and I was only one shot back. So I was always positive and I was always with the hope and fate that things would turn my way and I could win the tournament. Unfortunately, that bogey on 17 really changed everything. But there's nothing I can do now. 

 Q.  How about 15? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  15?  Well, I made par. 

 Q.  But you were hoping probably for birdie if you drive the ball in the fairway? 
  LORENA OCHOA: Yes, for sure. One of the things that I struggled at the end was with my driver. I think that I was a little bit tired and with the pressure, that was an important hole to hit the fairway and trying to hit the green in 2. So for sure I am, I regret that driver, but I did my best and I think I did really good saving that par. 

 Q.  Speaking of saves, you started the round with six footers, eight footers, making par all the time, that was probably a vote of confidence for your self. 
  LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I am proud of myself. There is nothing to be ashamed of. And I tried really hard. I think the beginning was tough. A lot of players together and then Cristie start good and I got a good momentum, I was feeling good, confident with my game, and just at the end things just turned back on me. 

 Q.  If someone would have said minus 3 at the start of the week, you probably would have taken that, wouldn't you? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  Yes.  For sure. 

 Q.  Talk about the decision on 17, the shot out of the bunker, what did you hit and what happened on that shot from the fairway bunker? 
  LORENA OCHOA: I was about 210, I hit a 5-wood. I was trying for sure to putting the ball on the green and just swung a little bit too fast and I hit the ball on the top. Just a bad swing. 

 Q.  Was that just the difference between that swing and the one you hit from 14 on Thursday, just a small difference?  Did you have visions of doing that again? 
  LORENA OCHOA: Yes. I did have visions of doing that. I was just trying to be smart and play a safe shot and I was trying to put the ball in the middle of the green and give myself a chance. And just got quick on that swing and it's hard to hit a bunker shot when you're going through a lot and I have some branches in front of me from the tree and it didn't look good, so you know, it's just, it happens. 

 Q.  You obviously had chances to win Majors, you had a chance again today, how frustrating is it for you to be here again talking about not being out there? 
  LORENA OCHOA: No, I think that if you have the chance, you put yourself in contention and you're trying to win a tournament, I won't change that for anything. I don't need to be frustrated, I'm just happy to be in this position that I'm giving myself a chance to win my first Major and we still have one more at the end of the year, so I'm going to try to get that one. 

 Q.  Given the delays and the weather, how did the course hold up as a test for Major Championship golf? 
  LORENA OCHOA: You can see on this course, I think that the golf course was in great shape, I don't want and I want to say thank you, everybody here worked so hard and it's just a beautiful place. 



 Pine Needles, I will keep it in one of my favorite places and I would love to be back, not only for a tournament but just to practice and be around.  I really enjoyed the week. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT