U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CRAIG SMITH: Lorena Ochoa, back to even par.   
  
  Q.  I'm looking at your front nine, which was the back nine today, bogeys on 15 and 16 and then birdies on 17 and 18.  Great way to finish off that nine.  How did it happen?   
   LORENA OCHOA: Yes, thank you. I struggled a little bit at the beginning. I made three bogeys on my front nine. I was a little upset, but at the same time I knew we had a lot of holes left. And that, the other nine was playing a little bit easier, so I just thought to be patient and hoped to be making one birdie before we made the turn, but I made two birdies and it was really a good feeling. And I was just more relieved in the back of my mind and just with a different mindset and just being aggressive and wanting to get back to even par.   
  
  Q.  You didn't play any golf yesterday, didn't actually get out on the golf course.  That's so unusual in the middle of a championship.  How did you handle that?  What did you do?  How did you prepare your mind?   
   LORENA OCHOA: I love it. I really needed a rest. Coming from last week with the win there and I was coming from Mexico and I had a pretty busy week in Mexico and then flying here and playing 18 holes on Monday. And I didn't really have much time to rest and it was perfect timing.   



 I feel very lucky with the playing in the morning like I did on Thursday and just having a nice and easy day yesterday.   
  
  Q.  Did you hit any balls or hit any putts at all yesterday?   
   LORENA OCHOA: I didn't. No. I slept in, watched a movie, we played some cards at home. A game of cards. And we just had a good time. That was the idea, just to be a way from golf and just try not to think too much, because it's a lot of stress and a lot of thinking during this week.   
  
  Q.  What movie did you watch?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Prison Break.   
  
  Q.  How did you know you weren't going to play?   
   LORENA OCHOA: No, no, I came here. I was, of course I was prepared to play. Just mentally prepared. But I came here and it didn't happen. So I just went back home and I tried to put it in a positive way like I said, I really needed the rest, so very nice to get back home, put some pants on and just enjoy the afternoon.   
  
  Q.  Are you ready to play another 18 right now?   
   LORENA OCHOA: I am. Yeah, I think as much golf as we can play today would be great. So we have a little bit less golf tomorrow. Yeah. I'm ready. I really feel good. My back nine, I did have a good rhythm and it would be good to play today.   
  
  Q.  The way you played the last 11 holes, that gives you a lot of momentum going into this afternoon.  Was there something about your game that you found or did you sort of get in a better rhythm?   
   LORENA OCHOA: I think I was, the way I started, I was a little bit too quick with my swing. Using my hands a little bit. And just trying to really be conscious about it. And just play more, just give myself a little bit more time at the top of my back swing, be a little bit more patient with the transition.   



 And I was very happy with making those birdie on 17 and 18, it really just put me in a good feeling and it's all about good momentum and that's how I'm feeling right now.  So it will be great to get back and play some more golf today.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about your position right now?  Do you feel like you need to push it a little bit or do you think maybe the field might come back to you a bit?   
   LORENA OCHOA: Both. Hopefully both happens. I'm just going to try to do my game, not to worry about the leaders. I think that I'm close enough.   



 We have two more rounds and like I said, I'm feeling good, hopefully my name means something on the leaderboard and I'm ready to play a good round next.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT