KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2010
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Welcome, Lorena. We're here with Lorena Ochoa, who is the Rolex Rankings World No. 1, four-time Player of the Year, and Lorena, just talk a little bit about last week. You finished tied for 52nd. Talk a little bit about your play last week and then how you're preparing for this week's championship. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, hello, everybody. Well, for sure I didn't play the way I wanted to play last week, and not necessarily the best feeling to get into a major championship. But the truth is that I always try to just learn from what happened. 
 This is a great place to me. This is probably my favorite tournament in the year, and I like the course. I like the way I feel. I have good memories, and I got a good practice on Monday and today a good day with the pro-am, and to play a round today was important to get the feel of the greens again.
 And I'm ready to go. I'm going to play like every other tournament, being very positive. I'm going to play to win, and hopefully things go well.
 I think it's important to get a good run on Thursday and then just go from there, one day at a time, and trying to be patient. 
 THE MODERATOR: You said last week that you were struggling a little bit with the distance control in your irons from a combination of practicing in Mexico City in the altitude and your increased fitness regime. Do you feel like you have a better handle on that now? 
 LORENA OCHOA: For sure. I think even in San Diego, I didn't play as good. I felt a lot more in control, especially with the distance, getting the right club section, so that helped.
 I missed a little my driver. I think that was key. You know, last week the rough was high, so good preparation for this week, but not the best if you miss fairways. So I worked Monday and Tuesday on my driver. It's much better right now. 
 Distance control seems -- for sure here, being warm, we get a nice -- good days of warm. The ball is flying really long, so I'm going to make sure I get a good feel. I do feel that I have more control, so I'm good on that part. 

 Q. When you came here this time last year, you spoke about how happy you were in your life both on and off the golf course. Just wondered, just you got married, do you think that's changed the way you approach the game at all? 
 LORENA OCHOA: No. I am really happy again this year, and for sure I think being happy helps to make some birdies and be good out there. 
 I think, you know, Andres has been close to me for the last few years, and he knows what I do, and we talk about it, and as long as I play golf, it's my priority. I dedicate the time I need to, all the hours practicing, either at the gym or being on the range or the golf course, and so when I'm here, I'm going to play 100 percent. But do feel a lot of support from Andres, and he's been great to me, so thank you for that, and I think it should be a fun year. 
 I'm just getting a start. It's not easy -- I think at the start of the year for all of us playing a couple tournaments in Asia, it's a little bit slower and it's hard to get in a rhythm and play good. I'm going to -- why not try to start this week and then continue that. 

 Q. Brittany Lincicome won last year here, and she hits the ball a long way. When you won here a couple of years ago you were out-driving everybody for 20 or 30 yards, but the year before that Morgan Pressel won it, and she doesn't hit it very far. Is it more important to be in the fairway here to avoid the rough or just be long because the holes are longer and the course is longer? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I mean, that's the proof that anybody can win. You just need to get four good rounds. In a major championship it's very important to hit the fairway but as important to hit the greens. I was trying to hit today high quality shots, and they were still releasing seven to eight yards with a 7-iron. 
 If it gets windy, it's going to be tough out there. I guess you can't have it all. It's a big tournament, and I think it's more important being mentally tough, just being smart out there and be patient. 

 Q. We often hear about the value of experience, but 17 different players have won the last 18 majors. You're the only player to win two in that stretch. Why do you think that is? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Maybe you can answer that better. You know, you only have four chances a year. Sometimes you put a little bit of extra pressure on yourself. We can see that the competition is getting better and better, so many good players playing all around the world. I'm glad to have that -- me being the one that won two majors. Just like every week, you see so many new names, but really there are plenty of qualified players that can win every week.
 I think it's just fun to see that. I'm one to try to think that stuff. I think it means that we all have an opportunity, and I'm going to try to have my opportunity on Sunday. 

 Q. You won those two majors pretty quickly, and I think people thought that, okay, once she finally won one then she's going to win another and another and they're going to come easily. Are those expectations too much, or was that the same expectation you perhaps have been putting on yourself and maybe pressing a little in these majors?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, for sure we all try to be there 100 percent for the majors, but that's the way I do it for every tournament; it doesn't matter if it's small or if it's big. You only have four chances, like I said before, and you like to win them, so sometimes the frustration if you miss a shot or if you have a bad round is a little bit more than usual. 
 But no, I'm going to -- for sure I don't put pressure on myself; extra pressure is not necessary. I'm just going to try to go out there and enjoy it. 

 Q. You've been pretty vocal in the past about talking about when you retire it will be because you want to start a family, and yet there are numerous examples out here of women who have started families and are continuing to play. What is your mindset? Why do you not want to do that? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think life is too short, and I always say that I want to play golf and be there 100 percent and be very competitive, and my goal is to stay in that No. 1 position as long as I play. And then just different stage for my life, in this case, I want to be home. I want to be with my husband. I want to every day do things and be at one place, not traveling with a suitcase. I have that very clear, so when that time comes, I'm going to make sure I tell you and then just spend time at home. 

 Q. You mentioned that you really like playing out here. What are some of the things that make it so enjoyable to you, the layout of the course, the weather, the strong field, the crowd? 
 LORENA OCHOA: All of those, and the Mexicans. There are a lot of Mexicans coming this week. It's a fun week. I'm glad it's during the Holy Week and everybody is taking vacation from work and school, and I was counting yesterday probably around 45 relatives coming, and other friends from different parts of Mexico, so it should be a crazy week. They think this is like a soccer match. They come and they yell and they have their Mexican cheers. That's just something special. It gives you extra motivation. 

 Q. Since your victory here two years ago, what do you think is the biggest change in you as a golfer? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm trying to be consistent. I think that's what is good out here. I think once I find something that works, just continue doing the same. Hopefully in a way mentally I'm tougher. Experience helps. Hopefully I've learned in the last two years when I've made mistakes and going through bad times.
 The last year was a tough year for me, and being the Player of the Year last year means a lot more than a couple years before that. It was just easy to do it. I think just all around I feel stronger, mentally ready, and I'm going to try to pull that out this week, and hopefully that helps, too, to have a good tournament. 

 Q. Which is more important to you, winning a major title in a season or being the Player of the Year?
 LORENA OCHOA: I think the Player of the Year. I don't like people when they just put so much attention to majors, just you have to win a major to be a great champion, and they always prove who is the best player. But if I win eight tournaments and I didn't win a major, I'm going to be really happy and I'm going to get my Player of the Year.
 So I think overall I do have my goal to be the No. 1 player and get the Player of the Year trophy, but I try to just keep it short. My goal is to concentrate one tournament by tournament and to get that at the end of the year. 

 Q. Can I ask about your foundation and some of the schools and stuff you're doing down here in southern California?
 LORENA OCHOA: Sí. We're going to have a press conference to talk about the foundation on Friday, a couple days, so I'd prefer to wait and give you all the information on Friday. Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: That press conference will be here at 3:00 on Friday. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Lorena. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT