U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Lorena, good round, you really were playing steadily and pars and then one bogey, one birdie, until you got to 14 and then you had the eagle.  On the par-4.  How did that happen?   
   LORENA OCHOA: I missed my, I hit a 3-wood from the tee, I just missed that on the right side. I was in the middle of the bunker. And then I had 195 to the hole. And I hit a 5-wood. I was just trying to, I had a really good feeling and I told Dave, I was almost like joking, "Can I hit my 5-wood, please?" Because I knew he was wanting to talk to me about hitting my 7-wood.   



 And I said, "Just trust me, I like this one."  And I hit it perfect and just nice high fade and I guess it was very nice to just hear the crowd clapping and getting louder and louder and it was very special.   
  
  Q.  You were flying high at that point.  And then 17.  What happened on 17?  The double bogey.   
   LORENA OCHOA: On 17 I was on the second fairway -- no, no, the rough, sorry, on the right side. And I had like 194, I think. I hit a 7-wood and I just I had a little grass behind and it just came really hard with no spin on it. And I was very lucky to just go in between the two bleachers and didn't hit anything and went to the rough and to the pine needles and over there. And over the street there. So it was an OB. And then I did drop it and I hit a 4-iron just another five yards short of the green and up-and-down for a double bogey.   
  
  Q.  Did you ever find your ball?  It went through the bleachers and across the street?   
   LORENA OCHOA: I didn't get it back. Maybe I did. But the USGA official was over there and he said it was over there, over the street and that it was OB. So I guess that, you know, nothing really I can do. I think it was just an, I thought the shot was perfect and it was just a bad one. A little bit of bad luck. But nothing you can do and I'm really happy with my round. I'm okay.   
  
  Q.  What was the emotion after you missed the putt on 18?  You took a step like you thought it was in.   
   LORENA OCHOA: No, I kind of like second guessed over the ball. Like I thought it might break a little bit more. I should have played it with more break.   
  
  Q.  As badly as you want to win a Major do you feel differently when you step up to the first tee or you're playing out there in a tournament like this than you do at any other LPGA event?   
   LORENA OCHOA: No, no, that's exactly why I'm making sure it doesn't happen. Just to play like any other tournament and enjoy myself. And play just one day at a time. And my idea is to be in a good position for Sunday.   



 There's not much that you can do in the first couple days, just being in a good position and don't get too far behind.  And I'm doing good so far.  I'm really pleased with my round today and I can't wait to be here tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Is that difficult to do?  Given the stage here and everything, is it difficult to treat it like any other round?   
   LORENA OCHOA: No, I don't really think that like, "Oh, my God, I'm playing in the U.S. Open", I just play golf.   



 I love to play and I played and I tried to make birdies all the time and I tried to play smart.  And I think that the difference for sure is that you need to be more patient than any other golf tournament.   
 So if I have eight straight birdies in my front nine and I had a lot of birdie chances and I was just like you just need to take them, if you make them, great, you know, and if not, it's fine too.  Instead of getting upset or mad.  And it's the way to play and I think I'm doing good.   
  
  Q.  Very strong performance by the international players today.  Your thoughts?   
   LORENA OCHOA: Well, I'm happy to be an international player and to be part of that group that is playing good. It will be great to have a Mexican win the tournament.   
  
  Q.  You're North American, right?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  North American?  What do you mean?   
  
  Q.  It's a big continent.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  Yes.   
  
  Q.  You only hit 8 fairways, you have a little work to do maybe with straightening out your tee shots?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I only hit 8 fairways?  I think I hit more.   
  
  Q.  You missed 1, 9, 10, 14, 15 and 17.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Of course I'm very happy with my tee shot, I thought.  Hopefully, I hit a little bit more today.   
  
  Q.  You started at the McDonald's, you were kind of behind the first day and you never really, you were always too far behind to really get caught up.  Were you thinking about that at all this week trying to kind of stay up toward the top right away to give your self a better chance?   
   LORENA OCHOA: That's been my goal since the beginning of the year in Hawaii, just to make sure I get a couple good rounds and then usually when I start okay, good, I have more chances.   



 So to me tomorrow's a very important day.  To play in the afternoon and get here and post a good round and I'm in a good position for the weekend and have a good chance.   
  
  Q.  Are you happy with your start?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  Why?  Because?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think playing in a U.S. Open it's always good to be around par, just because of that.   
  
  Q.  Can you describe the emotion of pulling your ball out of the cup and for an eagle and then a couple holes later you're OB and maybe if you're five feet one way or the other you get a kick off the grand stand and save par?   
   LORENA OCHOA: Yes. It was a great feeling. I was in the bunker and I was close to getting on my knees, but I thought, no, I'm in the bunker. And it was great feeling. My family's here watching me play and I think it was very special for my mom to be there too. And I'm going to keep that ball in a special place.   
  
  Q.  Was it kind of strange to see the huge gallery with the group in front of you given that you're the No. 1 player in the world and that gallery was a lot larger than yours?   
   LORENA OCHOA: No, no, I have no problem with that. I really appreciate the fans and the gallery and sometimes when you get less attention it's even better just to do your own thing and it makes things easier.   
  
  Q.  Who is here from your family?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  My mom, two aunts, and three close friends and my brother's getting here this afternoon.   
  
  Q.  That's a long way?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  It is.  Yes.   
  
  Q.  How often does your mother come watch you play?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Maybe eight times a year.  10 times.  They come a lot.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT