MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, very happy.  Obviously I would like to be a little bit closer but I'm happy.  It was a tough day.  You know, the only thing I can do is be positive for tomorrow and hopefully I'll make a low round tomorrow. 

 Q.  Is five too much?  Do you look at the difference of ten and five or the number of players between you and the leader? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Either way is the No. 1 player -- I think five shots is not too far behind.  I think it's comfortable.  It's been done before, so I think I can do it. 
 The good thing, I'm going out a little bit earlier and I think getting a good start, putting some numbers up there could be really good to put pressure and get it going for me. 

 Q.  You birdied the par 5s.  Were you able to get many chances on the par 4s? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I missed for sure two or three birdies, very makeable.  I left some opportunities out there. 
 I played it safe on the tough holes, and I had a little trouble the last few days, the second hole and the fourth hole and the sixth hole and a couple of holes.  I think tomorrow getting a good start, get the tough holes out of the way and hopefully make a couple of birdies before No. 8, the par 5, and I can do something good. 

 Q.  Do you know anything about the young lady who is leading right now? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  We knew that she was good.  I think in Corning, she finished with the top players. 
 I don't know, I'm not going to think about who is up there, just the number and put pressure on them. 

 Q.  It sounds like the wind was a factor? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, just like any other day, it is playing a lot tougher with the wind.  I think hard fairways, too, and hard greens.  It's a difficult type of golf, especially the wind direction was coming completely the opposite from the first two days, so it's a lot of course management. 

 Q.  Talk about the course playing different with the rain last night, were the greens softer or firmer than yesterday? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, they were firm.  I think with the wind and being warm, it just really -- they were playing harder and faster, for sure. 

 Q.  Do you think if there were a couple of putts you could have made, you could be easily leading this tournament? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, no, no.  Easily, no.  I'm still behind.  But I'm just really pleased with my round today.  It's good to score 3-under for a day like today.  I'm glad I'm already done.  I'm in a good position.  Of course I would like to be closer but I think I'm in a good position and tomorrow I'm going to try to be aggressive and give myself a chance. 

 Q.  Are there any tough holes that you need to improve on tomorrow to be in contention? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  There's only one hole -- I think I did pretty good today, just playing safe and making par on the tough holes.  I gave myself a lot of opportunities. 
 I think if I make a couple more putts than I did today, should I post a lower round and give myself a chance. 

 Q.  You have a tremendous power for making long shots, is there any secret for that, any special secrets,  or exercise, or diet? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Just a combination of working out and using good equipment.  It's just something I've developed, the swing speed with the years.  That's what I try to do when I go home in the off-season is just try really hard to improve my speed and be stronger so I can hit the ball farther. 

 Q.  What other sports have you played? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  All of them.  I like sports very much. 

 Q.  Any special foods? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Mexican food.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  What do you think the leaders have to be at for you to have a chance to come back? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Anything, I think the good thing is I should be around the Top-10.  There are some players that are more than three or four shots -- there have been tournaments where even Annika has been from ten shots behind.  So you never know what's going to happen. 
 I just need to be positive and come tomorrow a little bit before them and post a low round. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT