GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 3, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Lorena, you had a great round, a great tournament, you've got to be tired but a 73, that's only a couple shots off of the low score today, a 70.  In that wind it had to be exhausting.  Talk about your round. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  Hello.  It was a tough day, especially long with the wind and too much thinking.  It takes a lot out of you. 
 I feel really good. I played solid.  I never lost control.  I was feeling really comfortable.  Obviously big mistake on 16 making that bogey.  That was the hole I lost the tournament.  So nothing I can really say.  Nicole made a great birdie on 17, so you know, she deserves it.  She played very solid with the wind and she was always very patient and great win for her. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Could we go over your scorecard? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No. 7, I hit the green in two with a 4-iron, 185 yards and I made 3-putts.  My second putt was about five, six feet. 
 No. 8, I hit pitching wedge 125 yards to six or seven feet and I made it. 
 No. 11, I went over the green in two and just a little short in the rough again.  Chip out about five feet and I missed that for par. 
 Birdie on 15.  I hit a 4-iron 175 yards just a little bit short, maybe 12 feet and I made it. 
 Then 16, I had 75 yards to the hole and I miss the green on the left, just in the rough and then I chipped long about ten feet and I missed that for par. 
 On 17, I hit it pin-high but on the left side.  It was outside the green just on the cut and I decided to putt.  With the break, I had my par putt, again, another ten feet and I missed that for par. 

 Q.  How difficult is it to resolve 16 and 17?  You 3-putted both of those today and you bogeyed both of them again today. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Very difficult. 

 Q.  It looked like after you made your par putt to stay in the playoff on 18, it looked like maybe you were regaining a little bit of momentum, and then the drive into the hazard; did you just lose it left? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I don't really know what happened.  I've been working a lot not to do those shots to the left, and I think I just got a little bit fast, kind of like a quick swing and just hit it left.  The wind was coming left-to-right, so you really needed to aim far left to hit it on the fairway and I just didn't feel very comfortable -- over to that grass, yeah, a little bit quick. 

 Q.  Could you talk about the course conditions today?  I think it's too hard to play in this wind today. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  How hard is it to play in the wind?  It's very hard.  You have to be just very patient.  Especially it takes a long time.  But we knew when we got here that it was going to be a long day, pretty windy, maybe rain, so we were mentally prepared for like a tough day.  And it's the same condition for everybody, so the best player is the one that is going to win. 
 So I was mentally prepared.  It just didn't happen for me. 

 Q.  Was the pace of play a problem at all?  Is that a problem, getting your rhythm out there? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, I don't think today.  Maybe for sure a little bit more yesterday; the 13th hole we had that long wait. 
 Today it was just okay.  We knew it was like nowhere to go and there were too many groups all together, two nines.  So when we teed off, we just looked at each other and said, this is going to be a six-hour round, so just be patient. 

 Q.  Will this affect you at all going into next week's major? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No.  No.  I think you want -- you know, really want to win next week after this week. 

 Q.  You've won many tournaments obviously.  Are you at all concerned about a couple of opportunities this year that you were not able to come through on, México and here; are you concerned at all about your closing ability right now? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No.  I'm not concerned.  I think I need to be there to learn.  And sometimes when I win, sometimes it's easier, or I have two or three shots lead and I feel comfortable and that nothing bad happens from any other player to break through with a really low round.  It's just different ways of winning. 
 I need to learn to win in the tough ones.  For sure I need to improve my playoff percentages.  I'm going to work on that.  (Laughing). 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you all for coming in.  Lorena, fantastic tournament, congratulations.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT