GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 2, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Lorena welcome.  Great round.  Couple bogeys at the end, but you're still in the lead.  Can you just talk about your round and how the weather affected it?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Hello.  Yes, yeah, I made a couple bogeys at the end but still really pleased with the round.  I think a couple under for a day like today is good.  I'm just trying to put it that way and be positive.  I feel angry and just a little frustrated playing so good, you know, and just finishing with those -- I 3-putted 16 and 3-putted 17.  You know, one of those things that just happens, a combination of the conditions and just bad with my speed.   
 The important thing is that I'm still in the lead, three shots, and I'm in good position for tomorrow.  So, you know, I'm happy to be there.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Can we do your scorecard, please?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I made a bogey on the first hole.  I was in the left rough and I hit a 6-iron just short of the green and I didn't make up-and-down.  I went by the hole about ten feet and I didn't make it.   
 On the third hole, I tried to hit the green in two with a 4-iron.  I was short in the right side of the bunker and I made up-and-down, just one foot for birdie.   
 Then the fifth hole, I hit 8-iron 145 yards just short a little bit, maybe ten feet and I made it.   
 Then on the sixth hole, I hit a 50-degree wedge 100 yards just a little long, maybe 15 feet and made it.   
 Then No. 9, I made an eagle, my third shot, same number, 95 yards, and I hit a 50-degree wedge just landed on the right side of the hole and just came back and I made it.   
 On the 12th hole, I missed the green in two with my 5-iron on the right side.  I had a really nice lie just pin-high and I made the chip.   
 On 13, I made a bogey.  I went to the right with my driver to the bunker and I hit a 4-iron just a little short, about 20 yards short.  And I missed my chip and I was about 20 feet short of the hole, about two putts for bogey.   
 Bogeyed 16.  I was on the green on three, long putt, maybe 30-footer.   
 On 17, I hit a 7-iron to the green maybe 20 feet and I 3-putted.   
  
  Q.  How difficult was it to concentrate when you had that long delay, I think was it the 13th hole?  Did that have an effect on playing?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  The wait was okay.  It was not too difficult because we ate and finally got some time and we're just talking.  But the problems, I was on the bunker with a 4-iron in my hand; and just pouring rain, it wasn't looking good.  So I just hit it out and just trying to make up-and-down for par and it didn't happen.  It was okay.  It was just a long day overall.   
  
  Q.  How long will it take you, or will it take you very long to put aside the late bogeys and concentrate on what you have to do tomorrow?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Tomorrow, you know, of course I'm going to be smiling and happy.  You know, in a way, I don't want to be sarcastic, but if you think about it, 2-under for a day like today is a really good round.   
 I just talk to my caddie and forget about it and it's something that I had long putts and it was raining and I just lose the speed on the greens.  I think I'll be good for tomorrow.  I'm really excited to be in a good position and I'm really excited to get the tournament, and I'm going to be 100%.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Anything else?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  We all want to go.  (Laughter).   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Go dry off, Lorena.  (Laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT