GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 1, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  You're in the lead after the second round by three strokes.  Can you just talk about your round today.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  Hello.  It was a really good day.  I've been hitting really good the tee shots, and that really makes a big difference.   
 It was harder today to control all the run of the ball in the afternoon.  Just the greens are really hard and hard to stop the ball.   
 But I think they did a very good job with the course management, and today my caddie really helped me.  I think tomorrow and the weekend going to be very important.   
 It's almost playing like a U.S. Open.  You have to be so careful with the club selection from the tee.  Hopefully tomorrow we do the same as today, because really was good.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Can we go over your scorecard?  Birdie on 3.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  I hit 6-iron for my second shot, 70 yards, and I went just over the green.  Then I made -- hit my chip maybe three feet and I made it.   
 Number 5, I hit a wedge 120 yards just pin high, maybe 12 feet, and made it.   
 No. 11, I tried to hit the green in two and I was just short on the right fringe and I just chip about five feet and I made it.   
 On 13, I hit a 9-iron, 125 yards, and just a little short again, maybe 13, 14 feet, and I made it.   
 16, I tried to get it again in two, but I was on the right side of the bunker about 30 yards from the green and I hit it with about a 50-degree wedge again maybe five feet and I made it.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Questions for Lorena?   
  
  Q.  If you could just talk about, for us people who don't play golf as well as you do, what's it like to be in a run like this where it seems you're hitting the right shot at the right time each round?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, you have to enjoy it, because -- it's been a really good week, and I just hope I get two more solid rounds.   
 I really work also with my shots and with my putting, and I made 28 putts yesterday and 26 putts today, and that for me is really good.  That's one of the thing I'm trying to improve the most, just my putting average, my percentage.   
 Yeah, I'm just trying to enjoy it as much as I can.  I like to be in a good position for the weekend, and I'm there, so hopefully we get two more good...   
  
  Q.  As a young player, I imagine consistency is a good thing, because you might play up and down when you're younger.  How do you get to the point where you can do this on a week in and week out basis?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think it's a mental part.  I think we can all hit the ball and we can all -- you're all going to make a mistake and you need to be patient.  You need to control your emotions.   
 The only way to learn is with experience and years and years and tournaments and tournaments.  I feel more mature, and it's only because of so many tournaments.  I feel better with my game, and that always helps.  It's easier to win tournaments when you control yourself.   
  
  Q.  You talked a little bit about it being sort of like U.S. Open conditions.  Can you talk a little bit more about specifically what conditions are like the U.S. Open here?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  The hard fairways, the -- hard to judge how far the ball is going to run.  And you need to just sometimes hit a 5-wood, 7-wood, 3-wood.  It's not a driver golf course because the fairways are really narrow and high greens.   
 I mean, we're talking about having the ball 10, 12, 15 yards before the pin, and that's not usual, you know.  So you have to judge and really think a little bit more in every shot.   
  
  Q.  Sort of a follow up from that.  You mentioned landing the ball short.  If the weather comes in, will that change the way you try to approach the greens?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think for sure it will be a little bit, but you never know what's going to happen.  It could be dry during the night and just rain tomorrow, so it's going to be important to adjust when we are playing and really pay attention and really find out -- if it rain during the night it could change a lot the course, so be ready for that.   
  
  Q.  You talked about playing in control before.  Has it been as easy to remain in control since becoming No. 1 and perhaps more attention on you when you come to tournaments?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Nothing is very different.  I'm the same.  I feel good and I feel comfortable.  I believe in myself and I have faith that I can control all the things that I can control, and hopefully, you know, get through and do that for many years.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Lorena, thank you very much, and good luck on the weekend.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT