GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 31, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN:  4-under par after the first round.  Welcome.  Can you just please talk about your round quickly. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh.  Hello.  It was a good day.  It was an easy day.  One of those days that just hitting really good the ball.  Hit a lot of fairways and didn't get myself in trouble. 
 Doing good on the greens, was running the ball good.  Actually, I probably missed a couple birdies opportunities, but I'm really pleased.  I'm really happy. 
 I'm excited about tomorrow because today the course in the morning for sure will be playing easier, and I'm just glad I took advantage of that. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Can we do your scorecard, please? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh.  I make birdie on the third hole.  I hit the green on two with a 7-iron, 160 yards, 2-putt for birdie. 
 Make birdie on No. 6.  I was only 70 yards.  I hit about maybe five feet and made it. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  What club? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Sand wedge.  And then on No. 8, I made a bogey.  I hit my 8-iron over the green just on the fringe, and I just misjudged the feet and I just leave it short, and I missed my putt for par.  It was maybe four feet. 
 No. 9 I make birdie.  I was hitting high on the right side behind the bunker, and I hit just a sand wedge, leave it short maybe 12 feet and I made it. 
 And then birdied 13.  I hit the green with I think 9-iron.  9-iron just a little short.  Maybe 12 or 13 feet and I made it. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  How far out were you? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  125.  And I made birdie on 16.  I lay up, so I have 25 yards for my first shot and I hit a sand wedge about two feet and I made it. 
 Made bogey on 17.  Hit a 6-iron 155 yard and misjudged the wind and went over the green.  I tried to putt it from outside of the green, leave it short, and the 2-putt for bogey. 
 18, I hit a 9-iron, two, three feet, and I made it. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  How far away were you? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  140. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Thank you.  Questions for Lorena? 

 Q.  Are you surprised the scores are as low as they are today, or were the conditions right for doing a lot of scoring with not a lot of wind? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, no the course is soft.  I think, like I said, before it's important to play in the morning and just take advantage of the round if the morning. 
 I think the afternoon scores are going to be higher for sure, so I'm just glad I did that.  Tomorrow is going to be different.  I just have to be more patient and play with the wind.  It's hard to be aggressive in this course. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the important of getting off to a fast start in an event, and if you feel like you're doing that better that year? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Uh-huh, yeah.  I think I'm doing a little bit better.  It's always one of my goals to get a good first round.  It's always good for my reports at the end of the week. 
 If I start good, it's easier not coming from so far behind and trying to catch up all the time.  So I'm going to just do like always:  One day at a time.  I'm really comfortable with my round today, and I'm going to go and practice now and get ready for tomorrow.  I think it's important to be (indiscernible) for the weekend.  That's what we all want to do. 

 Q.  I have to ask, did you hear yet about Michelle Wie's withdrawal today, and what is your reaction to that? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Someone told me when I step up on the 18th green, so I feel sorry for her.  I don't really understand exactly what is going on, but hopefully she's okay. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Any other questions?  Lorena, thanks for coming in.  Good luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT