GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 30, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Lorena, welcome.  You're the No. 1 player in the world right now, eight top-10 finishes this year in 10 events.  You became the first repeat winner of 2007 two weeks ago at Sybase.  Took a week off last week, now you're back.  How are you feeling?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Hello.  I'm feeling really good.  I think was a good time to go home last week and spend a little time with the family and just relax.  Even better after a win, it's just really good to go and have some quiet time and just do something outside the golf course.   
 I really am feeling comfortable.  I can recharge.  I went and saw my coach, make a couple adjustments with my swing, also with my putting.  I've been working hard on that.  I think I'm feeling good for good things for this week, a big tournament.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Lorena.   
  
  Q.  Can you comment on the golf course this week, how you think it's going to play and also the field.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think it's a golf course that is going to take a lot of good ball-striking.  I think it's going to be a good challenge for all of us.  The fairways are just playing faster and faster.  And the greens are hard, too.  It's going to be important from the tee to get a good position on the fairway and just play from there.   
 The good thing is the par 5s are reachable, especially two or three.  We have to take advantage of that, of the distance, try to make birdies on those holes, and just try to play the rest smart because it's a golf course that anything can happen.  That's why you have to be also patient.  If something comes up, you make a bogey or a double bogey, just be relaxed, try to understand and go from there.   
  
  Q.  What was it like to have a Hall of Famer ask you for your autograph?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, I was just talking to my dad, and I wanted to get some autographs from them.  I really want their autographs.  I think it's a good idea.  I'm going to try to get that (laughter).   
  
  Q.  One of the ladies asked you for your autograph.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, but I want to get theirs.  More important.  We owe so much to those ladies.  They are very nice, always so enthusiastic, just beautiful women.  It would be great to take a picture with them or have some of their autographs.   
  
  Q.  Could you elaborate on the adjustments you're working on, specifics.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Being specific, I was a little bit bending my knees, and now I'm just trying to have a little more better posture and be a little bit taller.  On my putting, I was a little too anxious, sometimes coming from the inside on my stroke at the start of my backswing.  So I work on that.   
 It's always good to have just little things to work on and feel confident when you do them.  So I've been working last week, two, three days with my coach, then the beginning of this week.  I think it will be something to help me play some solid golf.   
  
  Q.  This obviously is not a major, but can you put where an event like this ranks on the LPGA schedule as far as the quality and so forth.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, this is a great event.  We all know that the Ginn Resort has been supporting the LPGA a lot.  We appreciate that very much.  Everything is great inside and outside the golf course.   
 My point of view, as a player we treat all of the tournaments thinking that this is the best and also just try to focus where we are, try to do our best where we are.  I play one week at a time trying to win every tournament I play.   
 But this is a great situation.  Never been here in South Carolina.  My first time in Charleston.  I enjoy very much the town and the sea.  We're doing good.   
  
  Q.  I know your goal was to be No. 1.  In the time that you have been No. 1, have things been different for you on the golf course?  Are the expectations different now?  More people looking at you like you're No. 1, you have to prove it?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think in a way yes.  But for the other part, I think I been working for many years to be in this position right now.  It's not something that happened, you know, quick.  I feel prepared.  That's where I want to be, in the No. 1 position.   
 I think the pressure, everybody talking, in a way, is something positive because now my name means something.  Players or fans, they know that I'm a good player and that I can win.  That's always good.   
 I'm enjoying myself.  I'm going to try to enjoy as much as I can.  I'm going to work really hard because I want to be in that position.   
  
  Q.  Could you talk about playing in a tournament hosted by Annika and what she has meant for the tour and for your career personally.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  That's a very important point.  Me as a player, I grew up, and when I came to the United States, to Arizona, I always hear about Annika, Annika, how good she's playing.  Then when I was playing college level, how much she dominates the game.  I admire her so much and respect her so much.  She's the one that make us be better players, just to be in good shape, work hard, hit the ball farther, really raise the level of golf.  I will always have that respect and admire her.  I want to say thank you for that.   
 It's great being here playing her tournament.  I think she's back.  She sounds like she's better, in better shape.  I wish her always the best.  We want her to be back playing for sure.   
  
  Q.  Do you want to see her stay near the top, maybe not No. 1, but do you think it would be good for the game for her to be at this level for a little while longer?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I think Annika is a competitor; she likes to win; she likes to be No. 1.  I know is going to be a big challenge.  I know is going to be hard.  She likes to win and be in that position.  I think as long as she stays and plays here on the tour, it's because she believes and she can be No. 1.   
 I think the next few years are going to be a lot of excitement.  I'm just happy to be part of that.  I always say when it's time to change from the dominant player, Annika, I would love it to be me.  I'm doing good so far and I hope to stay in that position.   
  
  Q.  You said Annika made you all get into better shape.  How much does fitness and strength and conditioning play into women's golf these days?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  A lot.  I think that's probably the most important change in the last few years, what makes a really big difference in my results from 2004, 2005 to 2006, it was the good shape that I was able to maintain the whole year.   
 We always train hard in the off-season, but it's really hard to maintain that for the whole year.  That was a big difference for me last year.  In 2006, at the end of the year, I was strong, had a lot of energy, was still working out, running.  That really make a difference on being on the top of my game all the way to the end, so I'll try to do the same this year.  Not much chocolate (laughter).   
  
  Q.  I don't know your status in Mexico, but how do you rank among the sports heroes of your country.  Not to brag on yourself, but are you like Tiger Woods in Mexico, like one of the soccer stars?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I don't think I will be able to say that myself.  My life in Mexico is changing a lot.  Every time I go home, people are there waiting for me, the media, just the fans.  They recognize me more and more outside when I go to the movies, restaurant.  But I'm really enjoying it.   
 I think what I'm really happy is because golf is really changing in the minds in the people.  Before everything was soccer.  Now we see different sports.  That's a big step forward just to make golf -- everybody is aware what is the game.  They understand now how is the LPGA, where we play, what we do.  That's great to see that we have more fans and more interest from the people.   
  
  Q.  Financially has it meant more endorsements for you, financial aspects of being a top-rated golf star?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I'm doing good, even five years ago when I start playing.  I'm lucky.  I'm unique.  I'm the only Mexican.  Get a lot of attention.  I'm always on the TV, on the media, in the newspapers.  I'm lucky in that way.   
 Hopefully we can continue that.  I will always appreciate very much my sponsors.  Since the beginning they've been loyal and really enjoying this year by year, the new things that come to all of us.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Lorena.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT