KIA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY J GOLF
March 25, 2010
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL SCANLAN: How was it?   
 LORENA OCHOA: It was good. I'm happy the way I started. You know, that 3-putt I didn't feel good about, but at the same time it was good to be under par. Looks like the course is playing tough so I'm happy with that.   
  
  Q. The earlier the finish the better, with the way the breeze is coming up. Did you feel that later in the round?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, well the last three or four holes are really open, and for sure you can tell that they -- that it's right into it, so they are playing long.   
 I'm glad I took advantage of a good day today and hopefully tomorrow will be good in the afternoon, and we will manage the wind.   
  
  Q. You impressed with the 6-under today?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I thought around par, maybe 1- or 2-under, but that's very impressive, great round, uh-huh.   
  
  Q. What did you do well out there and what did you not do well, do you think?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I think I played consistent. I hit with my driver, I missed a couple of drives early in the round, but I was able to make pars, and the rest I was just trying to stay par in the tournament.   
  
  Q. How about putting?   
 LORENA OCHOA: It was a good day; I think I made four birdies. It was good.   
  
  Q. Any long ones?   
 LORENA OCHOA: No, maybe tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What was on your second putt here? What was the read on it?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I started a little bit outside. I pushed it a little bit.   
  
  Q. You were pressured in Singapore. Did you immediately go home and start practicing, did you take time off?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I rest, like I always do, when we have a few weeks break. I rest about five days, I went home and then I started practicing again.   
  
  Q. What did you work on, anything specific?   
 LORENA OCHOA: The same. I think what happened in Thailand and Singapore was very -- obviously I was confused with my shot selection, I was confused with the distances, and I have a hard time with that.   
 It was good to go back and practice at the course and see the ball, and do different shots, so that put me in a better feel with my distances, and today was a good day with my club selection, so I think I'm improving on that.   
  
  Q. That was a grooves thing?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I think a combination with the altitude of living in Mexico City and the ball, going to the gym, it was hard to tell what happened.   
 MICHAEL SCANLAN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT