SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 17, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Lorena, thanks for joining us, great round out there currently tied for the lead at 4-under and you're the defending champion out there this week.  Just talk about how you played this week. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  Hello.  It was a good day.  You made a birdie on the second hole and bogey on my third hole and really just take it easy and say I have a lot of holes left and some reachable par 5s and you'll be fine.  Right away I make two birdies.  That puts me in the red numbers and better position. 
 After that, I just kind of like feel really comfortable and I think the key today was hitting my driver really, really straight.  I don't think I missed any fairway with my tee shot so that was very important.  I just had fun today and I'm in a good position in the tournament. 
 PAM WARNER:  Let's go over your scorecard. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  On the 11th hole, I hit the green in two with a hybrid club, 190 yards.  I have 20 feet so I 2-putted for birdie. 
 On the 12th hole I was 190 yards.  I tried to hit a hybrid again and just missed it on the right side.  I tried to play from there and went over the green and then chip just a little bit among, maybe 20 feet so I have two putts for a double-bogey. 
 Then on the 13th hole I hit a 9-iron 125 yards, just maybe four feet and I make it. 
 14, I have 9-iron 120 yards and maybe two feet and made it. 
 Then on the 16th, I hit a wedge 120 yards pin-high and made it. 
 On the third hole the par 3, I hit a 4-iron 185 yards close maybe ten feet and I made it. 
 4, I hit my 50 degree wedge maybe just a little bit short, eight or nine feet and I made it. 
 Then on the 5th hole, I hit the green in two with a 4-iron, 185 yards, put the ball in the middle of the green maybe 25 feet for an eagle and I 2-putted for a birdie. 
 I bogeyed No. 8 I missed the green on the left side with an 8-iron and just a little bit short with my chip and I missed that putt for par. 

 Q.  Was there something in particular you were seeing out there, you had a couple streaks with a lot of birdies in a row.  Was it something you were feeling or just looking at the pin the right direction or just your game is on top? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, it's something that I really tried to do every round of golf I play.  Once I make a birdie, get a good rhythm and don't lose the momentum and try to get it going and get a lower round. 
 The last two weeks in Tulsa and Kingsmill, that was my struggle that every time I make a birdie, then a made a bogey.  I felt like I couldn't get a good momentum going.  That was the difference today.  I just made a couple of birdies, feel really good and start giving myself birdie opportunities and that really changed my day.  So I'm going to try to do the same in the next few days. 

 Q.  Can you feel when you're getting momentum?  Do you sense it at all? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, yes, well, I think it's all about keeping the momentum.  So just when you are in a hole that maybe is not that easy or you're in a shot or in a position that you don't feel comfortable, just make sure that you find your way to make a par and just move to the next hole.  Once you make the momentum, it's hard to get it back. 

 Q.  So I guess this course you love as much as -- 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I like this course a lot, very much.  I like this traditional golf course that's tree-lined.  It reminds me of my golf course at home.  I always have fun out there and it's just a nice feeling to play on a course like this. 

 Q.  On 8, it looked like you took a big chunk of dirt.  Did you just put too much power into that is this what happened on that shot? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I hit behind with my hands. 

 Q.  With a 72-hole tournament, do you have a different mind-set it the first round or early in the tournament, as opposed to a 54-hole tournament? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  It is different.  A three-day tournament, it's hard to recover interest a mistake or from a so-so round.  Four days gives you more room whenever you don't think it's as good, you could still be in good position and not too far from the lead. 
 I prefer a much better score for the tournament and it's always good to get a good start so we're doing good so far. 

 Q.  There were a couple of logjams today, does that throw a wrench into your game?  You said you're all about building momentum and not losing it, when you have to wait a couple of minutes, did that screw you up at all? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, no.  You have to be able just to, you know, don't even think about it, it's the way it is and we've waited many, many tournaments many times before and you just have to be conscious about it and be relaxed and talk with your caddie and make a couple golf swings. 
 It's important to not get irritated, you know, don't get angry, just kind of be relaxed.  We had a nice group today and we had a good time laughing with Morgan and it's also nice to be in a nice group. 

 Q.  I know you haven't won a tournament since you've been named the No. 1 player, it holds form that you're at the top of the leaderboard at the end of day; what's going to go through your mind tomorrow when you start your round? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I'm not going to do anything different.  I always play to win.  I always try to do my best and I'm an aggressive player.  I've been close in the last few weeks, and this will be a nice week, I'm just going to play one day at a time.  It's important to be in a good position and to give myself a chance on Sunday and hopefully it will happen. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT