GINN OPEN
April 12, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thanks for joining us.  Great round out there.  6-under par.  In the lead right now.  You had 8 birdies today.  Talk about how you played. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  It was a good day.  I been working on getting a good result the first day of the tournament.  It makes a difference for me.  And that was a goal today, and I was glad that I -- I started on the Back 9, and I birdie the first hole and birdied No. 12. 
 It really gave me a good read.  Tried to shoot for a low round.  I make a lot of birdies.  I think the key was hitting those irons close.  I had a short putt, you know, a lot of birdie chances.  Just really happy the way I finish and being in the position I am for the first round of tournament. 

 Q.  Let's go over your score card. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  On No. 10 I tried to hit the green and I was in the right bunker.  And made -- just hit it out about two feet. 
 And then No. 12, the Par 3, I hit 7-iron 52 yards, about three foot.  On 13, I make a bogey.  I actually hit my 3-wood from the tee way left to a bush, unplayable.  I had to take a drop over there and then I hit my 5-wood to the green and then two putts for bogey. 
 Then 16, I hit 7-wood and 200 yards.  Really close.  I almost made hole-in-one.  It was like one foot.  On the third hole, the Par 5, I hit the green on two with the 5-wood.  220 yards just in the middle of the green.  25 feet and I made 2-putt for birdie. 
 No.4, I hit a wedge just 105 yards a bit higher on the left side.  Maybe 8, 9 feet and I make it.  Then the Par 3, next one I make a bogey.  I hit a really bad shot, a 7-wood just right of the green, about 20 yards right of the green.  Didn't make up and down.  I missed my putt maybe 12 feet. 
 No. 6 was 140 yards, 9-iron and two feet, really close.  Then No. 7 I was like 70 yards to the flag and I hit a sand wedge a little bit short, maybe fifteen feet, and I make it. 
 Then No. 9, I tried to hit the green in two.  I was in the right bunker short of the green, and I open up for birdie, maybe 4, 5 feet. 

 Q.  How do you feel about Annika pulling out?  You're in a great position to take over that spot.  What are your thoughts? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I didn't know Annika pull out.  Greg told me and told Dave and my caddie today in the round.  And I'm -- I really feel sorry for her.  Hopefully she's doing okay and will recover soon and be back.  I wish her the best.  She's a great player and a very nice person. 
 And I think, you know, she's going to be a tough time these few weeks, but I think she'll be back strong.  About my have chances, you know, I'm thinking the same way.  I just to do my own thing and I'm going to keep doing the same. 

 Q.  Wouldn't you rather take it as opposed to her being injured and then get it that way? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I would love for her to be playing, yes.  So I guess, you know, right now it's the way it is.  But I think I better keep playing good and, you know, just take advantage of that.  But I wish her all the best.  Hopefully she will be here. 

 Q.  What would it mean to you to win a major this year? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  A lot.  I think it would be something nice to just get done.  I think I will have good chances.  I feel more prepared and I think the experience in previous years that I've been playing really help me to be a better player and playing also playing in major. 
 I mean, I'm going to keep trying hard and give myself chances, and hopefully it will come this year. 

 Q.  When it does come for you this year, what sort of celebration would you expect? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I don't know.  I'll let you know when it happens.  I think it will be -- something about the celebration is just what it means for me as a person, and it's a goal that I have.  I have that goal for many years. 
 When you win a major and win US Open you have that big trophy it will be a special thing. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LORENA OCHOA:  That I'm going to be able to reach -- 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think I will always give as much time as I can to the fans.  You know, now, and I did that a couple years ago and I will do it for the rest of my life.  I compromise it's something that I respect very much is the fans.  The fans come and watch us play and cheer for us.  Sometimes it's hard because of the timing, but I will always give as much time as I can. 

 Q.  You talked about getting off to a good start.  Do you feel like that's a problem? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Not necessarily a problem, but I sometimes -- I don't find myself in the tournament like until maybe the second round where I'm maybe three or four shots behind.  And then if I am coming from behind, then I need to really come back and make a of birdies to make a great round Friday or Saturday. 
 I think it's key just to get a good first round and feel solid.  Then you can have a different plan for the rest of the week. 

 Q.  How does the plan change when you're on top of the leaderboard? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  It feels better, and you know, I don't feel in an rush that I need to just come tomorrow to go really low.  The position I am right now I think tomorrow a solid round will be good.  I'm always an aggressive player, and I'm going to try to it make as many birdies as I can.  You know, 4- or 5-under will be great.  It does make a big difference. 

 Q.  What is it about the tournament that you like, about the course that you like? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think today it was important just to take advantage early in the morning because the greens were really soft because of the rain last night.  So I'm glad I did, because they will get a little bit faster and harder.  In the practice round they were harder. 
 I think as the week goes on, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday going to be playing very different than today.  So I'm glad I did that, because it's good to get a good start. 
 There are a lot of different lies:  Downhill and up slope and different lies.  I think you have to be hitting the ball good to create birdie opportunities.  I'm glad it worked for me today.  I think if you don't feel comfortable with your swing it could be a course that could really, you know, get you. 

 Q.  How much time did you spend reflecting on the Kraft?  Did you think much about it, or were you just looking ahead? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I always say I try it look ahead.  But the only bad hole on 17, you know.  At the same time I have nothing to worry about because it was only one hole, one bad shot, and I really -- I think I had a great chance.  That always gets you a little bit upset because it was a good tournament to get. 
 But I was there and, you know, only one bad hole.  I would be worried if I would be like making bogeys and bogeys or doubles.  Or after the third round getting a high round.  But I'm pretty happy the way I finish.  I was lucky enough to finish in the Top 10.  I want to keep going and hopefully break a record.  As many Top 10s as I can get. 

 Q.  What were your impressions of the golf course? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I was very impressed.  The golf course, I always say -- you never know if they're talking too much or you're thinking too much.  And when you get there you see what everybody's been talking about.  I had high expectations and, I mean, it was what I thought:  Really hilly, of course, and I can't believe those lies and the shapes of the greens.  It's a special place to be.  Hopefully I can play sometime. 

 Q.  Tell me how much of an importance to you to bring the awareness of the game of golf to the country of Mexico? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  It's very important.  I think it's time to get more fans and little girls and boys playing.  I think it's been a great experience for all of us.  We're learning and in the process of -- you know, right now the game is more accessible and we have some public golf ranges and public golf course, and golf academies.  We're trying to help kids to play the game.  And using, little by little, and hopefully we can continue that and hopefully there will be more Mexicans in the future out here. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LORENA OCHOA:  It's always good to -- me and Brittany get along pretty good.  We were teasing around and just joking.  You know, it was funny because, on the last few holes she was behind me and she gave me a good read of the greens.  I was like, I give them to you maybe tomorrow.  So it's always good to have a good playing partner and enjoy the day. 
 It's all about having a good time.  And I enjoy being around her.  A great day today, and she finish strong and hopefully she will finish strong tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT