KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  So this morning what were you thinking about on the first tee?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I was really -- like I said yesterday, I was trying to be really (indiscernible) trying to get a good momentum, which didn't happen.  Sometimes when you try too hard it just doesn't happen.  And I still golf, the timing with my driver, and that made things harder because the fairways here it's really hard to figure out.   
  
  Q.  How much did you think about 17 last night?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, not really.  (Indiscernible) last night friends came in from Mexico, relaxing afternoon, doesn't matter how many you make (indiscernible) they're saying it should be better because (indiscernible) the last group for them to follow me.  (Indiscernible) yesterday and afternoon and actually very relaxed.   
  
  Q.  Question on 17 today, any thoughts about that, just walking up to the 17th tee?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No.  I was trying to kind of -- (indiscernible) maybe making (indiscernible) one of those.  It just didn't happen.   
 And I have a 2-putt.   
  
  Q.  When you hit the side of the green you turned to the gallery or you gestured, what did you say?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, I was just saying (indiscernible) but just made like a funny comment.   
  
  Q.  What do you take away from this?  What do you learn?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think especially being under pressure is (indiscernible) my hands, a little active and I hit some shots that really cost me a lot this week.  (Indiscernible) more patient and maybe take more time with my (indiscernible).  And I didn't participate because I think some parts different story.  I'm going to work around that.  Hopefully do my part and I have this week -- next week.   
  
  Q.  Anything about Suzann that has impressed you the last couple of weeks?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I think she's using a different coach and (indiscernible) and I understand why I won last week.  Maybe this is her week.  I just feel really happy for her.  Hopefully she can make it through the week and I'll be cheering for her.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT