KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR:  Lorena, thanks for coming in joining us today.  You shot a 71 today.  Currently tied for the lead.  Just talk about your own today.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  Hello.  I'm really happy being 4-under right now.  I started in the morning.  I started on the back 9, and I was trying to get into the rhythm, hitting my driver, one left, one right.  I didn't really know what to do.  And I played much better on the back 9.  Good momentum.  Birdie on 18.  Helped get a good momentum for the back.  And the solid back 9.   
 So I made one double bogey and two bogeys, so just being able to finish under par on this course really makes me feel good.   
 So the only thing that was important was being in a good position for the weekend, good position for tomorrow.  I'm in a good position, so I'm really pleased with these first two rounds.   
  
  Q.  Can we go over your score card?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I make (indiscernible) 10, number 11.  And I tried to hit the green on 2.  I was just short of the green about five yards.  And opened down, about two maybe three.  Made a couple on the 13.  My driver to the left and then I went to about 20 yards short of the green.  And just got it up on the green, kept rolling to the back of the green about 20 feet.  And I make two putts for a bogey.   
 Made a double bogey on the 15.  Hit my driver to the right.  I had some branches and I need to hit like a low ball and I just started a bit like on the top of the ball and didn't get it up in the air.  Ended up right on the row and hit a wedge in the middle of the green.  Still some branches but I hit a little bit on the left and just finished on the lip of the bunker.   
 Am I supposed to explain everything?   
 (Laughter)   
 Because then I went over the green on 4 and just opened for a double bogey.  Then I make a birdie on the 17, 160 yards.  Just trying to land the ball on the front of the green and it was close, two feet.  And on 18 I tried to reach the green on two.  I just barely cleared the water and then I just chipped sand wedge about a little bit short, maybe eight, nine feet and I made it.   
 And I make bogey on the first hole, hit the green on 2.  Maybe 30, 40 feet.  And then birdie on 6, 135 yards.  9-iron.  About five, six feet I made it.  Birdie on 8, I hit a 6-iron on the left side about 12, 15 feet and I made it.   
  
  Q.  On your 3-putt on No. 2.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  The first ball?   
  
  Q.  Seemed like right after that you had a couple other putts that, for example, No. 2, leave about six feet short, then you made that one.  You were working hard to complete 2-putt for a two, three-hole stretch.  Can you talk about the importance of not dropping any shots during that stretch and apologies for such a weird question.   
 LORENA OCHOA:  3-putt on the 10 which I was really upset because I was on the green.  I've been going through so many on my front line just staying on the ground making a 3-putt you don't want to have the bogeys especially in the majors it's important when you put them on the green to make sure that you leave with a happy par and so I 3-putt that one and the second and third, fourth hole I kept leaving myself kind of like three, four feet putt to make pars and those were key.   
 And that really changed, just making them, giving me relief and I always kept myself in a good position.  And never too far down.  So after that just my first opportunity I make it and just everything really changed and I was able to turn it in a good way.   
  
  Q.  Lorena, when the bottom was kind of falling out for Karrie on the backside, does that affect you at all?  Do you pay attention to what is going on with her and how she's going backwards?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No.  It did not affect me.  I was trying not to pay attention.  Actually, I was surprised maybe on the 7th hole, I realized how bad she just played the last few holes.  I was really worried about my game.   
 Like I said, I was just trying to save pars and I was just 100% concentrating on my game.  I do feel bad for her.  I think major golf courses, when you struggle it just looks so bad.  That's why you have to make sure you play a safe game.   
  
  Q.  Lorena, you were put on the clock, did that worry you at all?  How did you cope with that?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  We thought we were fine.  We were really surprised with that.  We were waiting a few holes before, and I guess me and Karrie we're fast players, like once you get it going it was okay.  I played good the couple holes and that didn't really bother me.   
  
  Q.  Lorena, your second shot at 18, what was the distance on that and it looked like you cleared it about by two, three yards.  Was there a debate on that shot?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, we weren't 100 percent sure to go for it, but it was 192 yards.  We were between the 7 and 5-wood.  The ball was on the ropes.  You're not sure how much grass is under the ball.  Actually I first grabbed the 7-wood and they said maybe try a 5-wood because you don't know how it's going to come up.  And we did hit the 5-wood and when I hit it I thought it would be fine just really nice shape and because knowing that I have the 5-wood in my hand that would be plenty.  And barely cleared the water.   
 So that was great consolation today.  Thank you.  Saved me.  And it will be just a different story, the ball would be under water right now.   
  
  Q.  We've all been writing this week about your quest to take over the No. 1 position from Annika.  Is that something that you're thinking about the night before, before you tee off or is it you just go out and play golf?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, I just go out and play golf.  Believe me.  It's just something that I'm not in a hurry.  I've been waiting for five years.  Maybe two weeks, three weeks, four weeks more is not a problem.  So I'm just, like I said, excited to have my chance and be in a good position and hopefully we'll do it this week.   
  
  Q.  Are the greens, how hard are the greens and are they the same as they were yesterday?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, they were probably about the same but I think in the afternoon they will be harder than yesterday.  The back 9 is hard and we're just lucky to play that back 9 before, early today.  Especially some of those players having longer irons to the greens.  It will be hard to put the ball close.   
 It's going to be a tough course.  I think on the weekend it's going to be really challenging and the scores are going to be very low.   
  
  Q.  Different than they were last year?  Is there a noticeable difference?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  I think the speed on the ropes is just about the same but the heart of the green, a little harder this year.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think that happened?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I think they want to keep it just soft for us so we don't shoot so many under.  (Chuckling) they are blaming it on me but last year --   
 (Laughter)   
 Q.  You've said a couple times that you don't really think much about the No. 1 ranking this week but you've obviously wanted to win a major for so long and came close last year.  How much does that sort of stir your competitive juices to go in the weekend with a chance to win your first major?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I do want to win the majors.  I play every week to win, and when you're playing a major like I said before, we only have four chances a year.  So we really try to put everything together, all of the best game and just be patient and play smart and everything together.   
 And I can say that I feel more prepared than years before.  So I'm going to give it a good try.  Hopefully we jump on that on Sunday.   
  
  Q.  4-under after 36, has you tied for the lead for the moment.  Do you have any sense for what the number might be after 72 holes, how low you might have to go?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  After yesterday we thought that it would be hard to get past 10-under.  So I think on the weekend that is just tougher conditions.  I think just 1 or 2-under should be good.  That doesn't mean I'm going to be trying to make pars, I'm not going to play (indiscernible).  But you have to keep that in mind, when you make a mistake, make a bogey and you see yourself around par, it's always good.   
  
  Q.  Are you ready to do something for the people in Mexico, something special?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  If I'm ready?   
  
  Q.  Ready to (indiscernible) this tournament in Mexico?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  To what?   
  
  Q.  I'm sorry, I forgot what I was going to say?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  To celebrate?  If I'm ready to celebrate this tournament in Mexico?   
  
  Q.  (Spanish)   
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, after this week I'm going to be in the states for a couple more weeks.  And I have another tournament in Orlando.  So hopefully we can win a few of them and have a big celebration after that.   
  
  Q.  I'm sorry, I got confused I was trying to ask you that in Spanish and I did not say it in English.  Can you say it in Spanish, too?   
 LORENA OCHOA: (Spanish).   
  
  Q.  Couple questions on the double bogey, is there anything you would have done differently had you had the second shot over again?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  Played just more conservatively straight out?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I had a problem before.  It's tough to make a decision because for us we don't have that much strength comparing ourselves to men.  And I was trying to hit a 4-iron from the rough.  And a 4-iron is pretty, how do you say it, very slow.  And it's hard, from the rough, hit it down and get some height.  So I would definitely probably hit a 7-wood, just play more -- it's easier to pop it out with a 7-wood, play more on the left side.   
 If you're in the bunker, fine.  Just give myself a chance to make a 5, bogey.  But it's always easy when you think it after.  When you're out there, I was trying to put the ball on the green, you know?   
 So those are the things I made the mistakes and just because I need to learn.  I need to mature and it's not going to happen again if I'm on the rough the next few days I'm going to play differently.   
  
  Q.  How far did the ball go?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  10 yards.   
  
  Q.  Secondly, when you spoke yesterday about your first bogey at 11 and you realized that the major and you're going to make bogeys here and there, be patient, et cetera.  When you're behind the green and you're still in deep grass, and you're lying 4 and this could get really big, what were you telling yourself then?  The same thing?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No.  Not right there.  I was just thinking take enough time.  Do things very slowly and make sure you get yourself down.  And I saw myself as still under par.  Like I said, it's always good to be in the red numbers when you're playing a major.  And I would like, in the rounds, you have so many more ways to improve.  Mentally I was thinking you're fine, you have birdie and the front 9 will play easier and I was in a good aspect.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that was a good up and down?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  For the double bogey?  Yes.   
  
  Q.  When you came here to Arizona for college and didn't speak English very well but were playing golf, what were some of the first golf phrases in English that you learned?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Golf phrases?  Not really golf phrases but I always use the word "super" like how do you play super good, super bad.  I use super.   
 So they were saying come on you need to change your word.  So I went to "happy."   
 (Laughter)   
I'm happy.  So I must be working on my vocabulary.  I need to be better.  But when I go home, with my friends and family I get blank in my brain and forget about English and then I'm here trying to get it back.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT