KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Lorena, thank you for coming in and joining us today.  Great round out there.  Started out strong, were tied for the lead, had a few bogeys along the way, finished 2nd.  Just talk about your round today. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I didn't have a good day today.  Really good on the front.  Was really excited, shot 32 on the front.  You know, reminds me from last year having the great start.  It was easy.  I just saw the flag and was trying to be very aggressive, give myself a lot of birdie opportunities on the back. 
 I make a couple of mistakes that cost me, two bogeys.  Really happy making birdie on 18, just leaving, you know, with a really positive attitude about the way I finish and my day. 
 I been working on having a good first round.  It really make a big difference on the way I finish the tournament depending on the first round.  We're very conscious about it on today, just having a good first round and getting a good start.  That's what we did.  I'm really happy with my day. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Let's go over your scorecard. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  I make birdie on the first one.  I hit a wedge 120 yards.  A little bit long, maybe 20 feet.  I made it. 
 I make birdie on No. 2.  I try to reach the green on 2.  I hit it to the left bunker, don't get it out, leave it a little bit short, maybe six, seven feet.  I made it. 
 Birdie No. 7.  I hit my second shot with a 9-iron 140 yards, just tap-in, for birdie. 
 Birdie No. 9.  I hit my shot 110 yards with a 50-degree wedge.  Again, just one foot. 
 Then I bogey No. 11.  I hit to the right rough, put it in the middle of the fairway.  I had 105 yards with a gap-wedge.  I didn't even know those trees were in my way.  I thought I'd hit over them.  I hit those branches hanging short of the green, just put my ball down.  Couldn't make up and down. 
 On 14, I miss my tee shot on the par 3 just short left.  The spin was on the left side, too.  Didn't really look good.  I had a little bit uphill, then going downhill on the green.  I didn't make up and down either. 
 18, lay up to a really good number, 105 yards.  I hit my gap-wedge just a little bit long, maybe six, seven feet, and I made it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Lorena. 

 Q.  What did you think when Karrie's shot almost went in the hole?  Did you see her shot? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, yes.  No, just it was exciting.  I just said, Come on, you want to make it again and now in front of me.  She just laughed.  No, but it was a great shot.  I have no problem making those on a Thursday.  It makes a big difference (laughter). 

 Q.  Last year you shot 62 in the first round.  Today 69.  Everybody's saying the course conditions are a lot tougher.  How do you feel about this round compared to what you did the opening round last year? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Like I said, I been working on my first rounds.  I think today was a good round, for the first major of the year, being in a good position.  It means a lot. 
 We talk about it.  And I think, you know, the course is playing a lot tougher.  I think the greens are really hard.  You really have to have like a strategy, hitting the ball just short of the pin 10, 12, 13 yards in most of the holes.  That really change the game of the golf course. 
 I'm feeling good.  As far as you can, seven, eight, 10-under, you always want to keep it going.  Once I made that bogey on No. 11, you have to remind yourself, This is a major championship.  You have to be humble.  You just have to take that bogey and try to keep it going. 

 Q.  Did the fact that the course has been lengthened at all, did that make a difference?  A couple players said it was noticeable, affected their club selection on a few holes. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  The greens? 

 Q.  No, because it's longer. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, especially having the greens so hard, I think it makes a different game with an 8-iron or 6-iron.  Those two holes on the Front 9 where they put the tee back, it really changed the way we play the holes. 
 I think, you know, fortunately - how you say it - I'm hitting the ball hard.  I did okay.  I think in a way, it's in my advantage.  You know, it's always good to have that little extra distance. 

 Q.  It seemed like you gave yourself an awful lot of good looks at birdies.  Could you talk about your putting today.  If you felt more should have gone in, that's one thing.  I wonder if you take a positive out of it, that fortunately you hit the ball really well today? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I did hit the ball really good today.  You hit really good, you don't putt good, and then you make one of those long putts and you're all over the place.  It's just part of the game. 
 I will go right now and practice a little bit, especially making those 6, 10 feet, see the ball going in, and get more comfortable.  In the morning, I think I have a little bit really slow backswing.  The transition was a little bit aggressive.  I kept missing the ball a little bit to the left. 
 On the back, I felt better - better chances, better putts.  I'm going to try to do the same thing tomorrow. 

 Q.  Obviously the pairing today with Karrie, she played pretty well.  Did you think about what happened last year with her, or were you just concentrating on what happened today? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, no.  I mean, this happened last year at the beginning of the year.  I already play with her a hundred times.  We play together a lot.  We enjoy each other company.  I like to play with her.  I think it's always good to play with someone as competitive as she is. 
 No, I didn't think about it.  I just kind of like was doing my own thing. 

 Q.  You seemed so confident today compared to the last year at the same time at the tournament.  Your confidence has risen.  Is that a fair statement? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  My confidence? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  I do feel much better than last year.  I think the experience really teach me.  Not only last year on the major, but just what I been through, you know, winning those tournaments, being so close to win many times.  That make you definitely a better player. 
 This is the first major of the year.  We only have four a year.  You really want to have everything you have in this week.  I'm feeling good.  I'm ready to go.  Hopefully tomorrow I take advantage of the opportunity that I play in the morning.  Hopefully we have good conditions.  Hopefully I be as aggressive as I was today and make more birdies. 

 Q.  Obviously there's a lot of talk about you this week for the different situations that you already know about.  Were you at all more nervous today than you may have been a year ago just because maybe you know you're playing so well and it's right there? 
 LORENA OCHOA:  No, no, no.  I'm really comfortable, very calm.  I go to the range, just warming up, I was feeling really good.  Just like any other day, you know, any other round. 
 Even playing with my friends back home.  It was a really good warmup.  I was hitting the ball good, joking with my caddie.  I think that makes a big difference.  Just trying not to think too much that this is a major, this is important, this is a great tournament.  You know, just kind of play like any other day and things will work easier for you. 
 So, no, I'm feeling good.  I don't feel that pressure.  I'm just trying to enjoy, and it's been working.  I think it's a process.  Just gets better and better, you know, year by year.  This has been good for me.  I do want to keep playing good.  My goal is to finish No. 1.  I have to making sure that I just, you know, keep practicing hard and play good for the rest of the season. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 
 LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT