KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 27, 2007
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GRASSRHODE:  Obviously, this is Lorena Ochoa, welcome back.  I know last year at this tournament it was a little tough, you lost in the playoff but you're coming off of a win last week that you really battled back from, so do you kind of feel the confidence staying with you?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, hello.  Yes, I'm really happy to be here.  This is a great week, it's a very exciting time, having the first major of the year.  I think what happened last year to me was a great experience.  I learned a lot and I gave myself a chance to win my first major in my professional career, and I didn't do it and I didn't like the feeling of losing and you know, kind of giving the tournament away after a first a great round.   
 So I'm here, I'm back and I think winning last week gave me a lot of confidence.  I know my golf is at a good level.  I'm feeling good with my iron shots, my driver.  The good thing is that all of the players know that I'm playing good, so you know, I can't wait until Thursday and just get a good first round and I'm going to try really hard to get this first major.   
  
  Q.  Karrie was just saying the same thing that you just said; that she felt like you learned a lot from coming so close and not winning this tournament, and that carried through to one of the reasons you had such a good year was you learned a lot here.  What was the one thing you took away, that you let it slip away, or you were able to come back on Sunday afternoon and still get into the playoff?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  I don't want to say -- probably my third round, especially on the back nine of my third round, I gave away two or three shots that I should have just kind of like get it done and make sure that I have good lead for Sunday.   
 What happened on Sunday, we had a lot of players trying to catch up.  I was playing in the last group, a lot of pressure going on.  And then especially with Michelle Wie playing so good, the crowd was cheering so hard for her, and all of a sudden on the 16th, Karrie made an eagle.  So there are things that you cannot control.   
 So to me my mistake was on the third round.  So I learned a lot, just how you should play when you're on the lead, when you're winning a major, when you're on the third round.   
 And then Sunday, I was really proud of myself, I won't forget the way I finished, making birdie on 16 and trying to hit the green in two on Sunday and got it close for an eagle chance, making that putt.  Those are things I will never change.  They made me a better player and they really teach me, and I know, you know how much just trust yourself and to be good under pressure, manage the lead, a lot of emotions going an.  It really teach me and made me a better player and helped me to be a more consistent player throughout the 2006 season.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that if you win this tournament, you are the No. 1 player, no matter what the rankings say?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  No.  It's not something that I could say.  It's something that shows with the results, with good tournaments.  And I do believe Annika, she's been the best for so long and she dominates the game for so long.  I believe in myself to be No. 1 player in the world but it's just time, and I'm trying to be patient and I'm fine.  She deserved to be No. 1.  One more week if I win or I don't win, it doesn't mean anything.  We need to be patient and I think it could happen this year in 2007, but I don't want to say it won't happen next week.  Hopefully this is the year and I'm really motivated to get that rank to be No. 1.   
  
  Q.  If you win this week, what will the reaction be like in México?  There they run out on the streets?  What will it be like?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Hopefully.  They always promise me that when I win my first major it will be like México winning a soccer match, so I can't wait to see that.  When México wins a tournament, they all go to this one place called La Minerva, which everybody said when the soccer team wins, they celebrate there, like drink and run and listen to music, mariachi bands and they promised me they will do that.  We'll see.   
  
  Q.  Annika said she gets more pumped up and energized going into a major.  Obviously she's been around a little longer.  Do you feel more pumped up or do you feel more pressure when you come to any of the majors than you would in a normal tournament?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  It is an important week.  Even though my way of thinking is just to play like any other week and do the same routine or same practice, make sure you take enough rest and exercise.  But subconscious, you know it's a major and you kind of like -- when you practice, you put extra time and extra attention on the greens and when you chip around.  I think those are the things that, you know, change from any other week.   
 I don't want to change my thought process.  Just try to play my own game and not think too much about other players.  I think if I win my first major what's going to happen -- just play like any other week and the more chances I give myself to win, it's going to happen.  So I'm going to try to let things happen instead of forcing them.  I think it will be easier for me and then we'll see.  I will just play with my heart and hopefully on Sunday we're happy on the 18th green.   
  
  Q.  Can you speak about the state of golf in México, what does this mean including your ambition to be No. 1 for the kids, not only for the girls, but for everybody in México?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Again I've seen so many changes so far with the way the media sees golf, the people of different -- the golf courses, everybody.  Like I said I grew up playing by myself with boys and now there are so many girls playing the game.  We just opened our first Ochoa golf academy in Guadalajara, and I'm doing this with my coach and my brother and we have already 80 girls and they are playing.   
 Just to see those numbers and to see those little kids playing, it really change to me -- I just get motivated and I want to play for all of them to that golf is an opportunity that you can get on a scholarship and you can come to the United States and get a scholarship and play professional.  I'm really excited to see those changes and hopefully what I am going will help even more and bring more the kids.  I hope to see a couple of Mexicans next year on the Tour.  I'm hoping in a few years we'll have more Mexicans.   
  
  Q.  This is the first major that Michelle has not played in in several years, I wonder, do the players talk about that, and her not being here, does that take away in any way, shape or form anything from this tournament?  Does it detract from the tournament that she's not playing?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  For the players, no.  You know, the media knows better or the fans to answer the question.  I think right now the LPGA is in such a good place and the competition is tough and so many new players.  We are trying to play good and get to the No. 1 position.  I think it's just a lot of good things, a lot of positive things.   
 And about Michelle, I just feel she is doing okay.  I think she probably deserves some rest, and, you know, she's having some time for herself and making sure she's good physically and mentally.  I think it's good for her.  She's a great player and she will be here sooner or later and playing really good, so we'll wait for her.   
  
  Q.  You talked about the influence that you're having in México, do you sense a connection with the Hispanic population in the United States; do you think they have got some kind of rallying point around you as well, the people in México?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I want to say two things.  I love to see other Mexicans when they come here and support me, and every time I see a Mexican with a Mexican flag cheering or saying something in Spanish, it gives me extra motivation to play good for all of them.  I enjoy it and like to share what I do with them.  At the same time I feel more support from Americans or people from Canada or just, you know, Asia, all over the place, and I do appreciate the support.  It's just a great feeling to see that come and watch us play.   
 It's been a lot of joy in these last few years.  You see the change and the progress and it feels good, so thank you to all of them.   
  
  Q.  You played with George Lopez today who is from Los Angeles but obviously of Mexican descent, and he says he has been following you for a long time, since you were in college.  Do you get people saying, oh, we were rooting for a Mexican to finally get out on Tour, even though they are Americans who are saying that?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, like I said, it gives you like a motivation to keep playing good, and it's very nice when they recognize you and the hard work and other sacrifices.  It makes it better, the Mexicans, they know how hard it is to be here and just take advantage of the opportunity and do something, achieve your goals and your dreams, and I think it's something that we can all relate.  And George Lopez, he's a great person, you know.  I want to thank him for coming and to play in the Pro-Am.  He's been always so helpful and offering to help me with my foundation and to help kids back home in México.  There are a lot of good things that we can achieve together, so thank you.   
  
  Q.  Can you just talk about your round with George today and some of the things that might have happened on the course with him?   
 LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I get all of the jokes because they are half and half, English and Spanish.  I'm lucky to understand both.  He was very funny.  He's always -- to me, today was a perfect day, because I'm coming from a tough week last week with all of the emotions and pressure, and yesterday I had practice in the afternoon, really good practice, but I'm still tired.   
 And today was just -- I talked to Dave, my caddie, he was just like relax and laugh and don't pay much attention to your swing, just have a good day.  And George made it really great.  We were joking around and talking about he's going to Hawaii for a vacation, and it's always good to see him on the other side where he's joking.  He jokes when he's around the other players and about to hit but when we walk from shot to shot, he's just like a normal person:  The things you do outside of the golf course and how hard it is for him to travel all the time, the things he's been doing, the shows and the commercials.  You know, he's a guy that just came from a really small place actually close to Guadalajara.  His father grew up over there and he grew up over there and just for him to be here in the States, and like I say, achieving what he's done so far, I think it's really admirable.   
 DANA GRASSRHODE:  Thank you all for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT