WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 26, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Lorena, thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  We always appreciate your time.  A great 64 out there today.  You have a two shot lead heading into tomorrow.  Just talk about your day and then we'll take some questions.
LORENA OCHOA:  I really enjoyed my round today.  Today is my mom's birthday, and I was just joking around with Dave, my caddie, saying, "I'm going to shoot 10 under for my mom."  We tried really hard and we came close.  It was one of those days I tried to enjoy the day as much as I could for my mom and be happy all day.  It's nice to be in the lead, a two shot lead for tomorrow.

Tomorrow is a different story.  One more round, it depends on the players and the conditions.  Maybe we have bad conditions.  Right now I'm happy.  I'm going to get ready for tomorrow.
Q.  You've had such a great year.  Talk about your confidence going into the final round tomorrow.
LORENA OCHOA:  Being in the lead is so exciting.  How you play and how you feel under pressure.  I can only say that this is a good golf course.  I know this is a course that everyone can make birdies and go low.  I have to be careful and keep playing aggressive and keep making birdies.

I have to be really focused on my game and not look at other players, and hopefully it will be fine and I'll get that trophy tomorrow.
Q.  What was the best part of your game today?
LORENA OCHOA:  I think my irons on the back nine.  I had a couple of tap in birdies.  That was the difference between yesterday and today.  Yesterday I was in between clubs.  Today was just perfect.  It was a great feeling.
Q.  You didn't appear to have very many long putts.  It looked like many of the birdies putts were inside 15 feet.  Is that accurate?
LORENA OCHOA:  I will say yes.  I only made one long putt on No. 5.  The rest were, I would say, inside 15 feet.
Q.  Are you a leaderboard watcher?  Were you aware that you were separating yourself a little bit?
LORENA OCHOA:  I like to watch the leaderboards.  I like to know where I am and what I need to do.  There were so many players just tied and trying to get the lead.  And on the back nine, because I was trying to get to 10 under, I started making birdies and I put myself away with the lead.  I think it's the first time that I'm going to be a couple shots ahead going into the final round.  It will be fun tomorrow.
Q.  First time in your career or first time this year?
LORENA OCHOA:  The times I win, I think I was behind.  So tomorrow is a new experience for me.  I'm going to, like I said, try to enjoy and play my own game.  I'll play safe and go from there.
Q.  Do you think your mother will be disappointed you didn't get to 10 under?
LORENA OCHOA:  No.  Hopefully she's happy.  I tried hard.
Q.  Did you call her this morning to wish her happy birthday or are you going to call her after this?
LORENA OCHOA:  Afterwards.  It was early in the morning.  She likes to sleep in.  I will call her when I'm finished.  Hopefully she watched the tournament on TV and enjoyed the day.
Q.  You've finished second a lot in tournaments this year.  In any of those, did you have the lead going into the final round or not?
LORENA OCHOA:  I can't remember.
PAUL ROVNAK:  I can look it up for you.
Q.  Were you aware on that last putt you could have tied the course record?
LORENA OCHOA:  No.  Too late.  I'll try tomorrow.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your scorecard, those 8 birdies today.  Start with No. 4.
LORENA OCHOA:  No. 4, the par 5, I hit the green in two.  I was about 15 feet for eagle.  I made two putts for birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  What did you hit onto the green?
LORENA OCHOA:  5 iron.

And then I made birdie on No. 6.  I hit a 5 iron again.  I was about maybe 25 feet short of the pin and made it.

No. 8, the par 3, I hit 7 iron 145 yards to about four feet past the hole and made it.

9, I hit the green in two with my hybrid club, 200 yards to the green, two putts for birdie.
PAUL ROVNAK:  From how far?
LORENA OCHOA:   30 feet.

No. 10, I hit my sand wedge 60 yards to about seven feet, made it.

12, No. 12, I hit my sand wedge about 30 yards to eight feet, made it.

13, I hit my 60 degree wedge 95 yards to the hole, and it was about two feet.

16, I hit my 8 iron 135 yards to about one foot.
Q.  Is there any part of this course that you feel you can actually attack to go low, to shoot low?
LORENA OCHOA:  I think you have to take advantage of the par 5s.  I think today I did a couple under.  I think yesterday I did 4 under on the par 5s.  It's important that you take advantage of those.  I was already 3 under for the day and then go from there.
Q.  Did you get any more roll in the fairways today that allowed you to get a shorter club into the hole and allowed you to get closer to pin?
LORENA OCHOA:  No.  We were playing in the morning.  I think it was more windy today and some holes were downwind, and that just helps you get closer to the pin and have a shorter club.
Q.  While you were off this tour for a couple of weeks, Karrie took over the money lead.  I was wondered if it was one of your goals this week to get that back?
LORENA OCHOA:  That is my goal, for sure, not only this week, but to be in that position at the end of year.  I'm glad I'm here and I'm playing good.  It's a race to be the money leader.  I really needed to take that break.  It was nice to go home and spend time with my friends and family and just relax and get charged to play these few weeks.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT