WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 24, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Lorena, a great round today, no bogeys and 5 birdies for a 67.  You birdied your final two holes today.  Go ahead and talk about your round.  You've been having a terrific year so far.
LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  I enjoyed my round.  I didn't have the best start.  It was a little bit slow, but then I made a couple of birdies to get it going.  I'm really pleased.  It's good to be in this position.  And I'm excited to be here in Columbus.  It's a great golf course.  I like it.
Q.  You closed with two birdies, 17 and 18.  That kind of turns your whole perspective around on a day when you close with two birdies.
LORENA OCHOA:  I was 3 under at the time.  I birdied two finishing holes.  I hit a really tee shot on 17.  It spun back to about 15 feet.  I didn't make so many birdies all day.  I wanted to make this one.

On 18, I had a really good second shot, 8 or 9 feet, and it made a difference in my day.  3 under would be fine.  But 5 under, I feel a lot better.  I'm happy with that finish.
Q.  This is your first tournament with Dave on the bag; is that right?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.
Q.  How did that work out?  Obviously pretty well.
LORENA OCHOA:  I can tell he works hard.  He has the information we need.  Every time I asked, he had the information.  He is very positive.  I like that a lot.  And at the same time he is easy going.  I like to talk and have a good time on the course, and I think it is good.  We're working on it.  Being the first round, I think we're both really happy and excited to keep improving and making a good team.
Q.  Considering you were playing pretty well with your former caddie, was it just time to part or what happened there?
LORENA OCHOA:  I had a couple of things that I didn't like.  I wasn't 100 percent happy with my other caddie.  He's a great guy.  He's a real good friend and I admire him a lot, and I appreciated all the things he did for me.  But I could see that I needed someone different to be out there, especially with me in tough situations, you know, under pressure.  I'm looking for that little extra.  You need to have someone that you understand and that he understands you 100 percent, or helps you in a tough situation and that way helps you to be the No. 1 player.
Q.  To be more positive, help you mentally just to encourage you?
LORENA OCHOA:  No, I had no complaints with Lance.  He is a great guy.  I don't want to mention anything.  I just needed a little something else.  I'm trying to find something else to feel 100 percent comfortable on the course, to make the right shots, the right decisions, and I'm looking to find that with Dave.  Hopefully he will be the one and we'll work together and make a good team.
Q.  How did you hook up with Dave?
LORENA OCHOA:  I guess just timing.  I always knew he was a great caddie.  I had seen him before working with Grace.  He was very professional, honest.  You can tell.  I like his personality a lot.  The timing was good for me.  Grace decided to take some rest and I was very good with Lance, I just decided to give it a try.  I'm glad he said yes and now we're working together.
Q.  Brittany Lincicome said earlier that it might make 20 under par or more to win this week.  The top finishers on the board today hardly any bogeys or above.  What's the reason for all the birdies out there and not many bogeys at all?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think the course is playing soft.  I don't know if they're watering the course or what.  The conditions of the course are playing more like a target golf course.  You get up there and try to hit it straight to the hole.  It allows a lot of opportunities to make birdies.

The par 5s are playing short, especially the first three par 5s.  You can make at least two or three birdies out there on the par 5s, so it's good for short hitters.  And if you're hot with your irons, it will be easy to make birdies out there.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your scorecard.  Start with the birdie on 5.
LORENA OCHOA:  I made birdie on 5, I hit a 7 iron 155 yards just long, maybe 15 feet, and I made it.

Then I birdied No. 8.  I hit an 8 iron really close, maybe two feet from the hole, and I made it.

I make birdie on No. 11, the par 5.  I tried to reach the green in two, but I was just short on the fringe and I made a good chip, it went just a little bit long, and maybe 6, 8, 7 feet, and I made it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  The birdie on 17, you said you made a 15 foot putt.  What did you hit off the tee?
LORENA OCHOA:  A pitching wedge, 124 yards just a little short, and I made it.

Birdie on 18, I hit a 6 iron 165 yards, just a little bit short, maybe 8 feet and made it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT