WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COLIN CALLANDER:  We have Lorena Ochoa.  Congratulations, you must have done very well today.
LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.
COLIN CALLANDER:  You got off to a very fast start, two birdies in the first two holes, would you like to talk about that?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, well, you know, I knew it was very important just to have right away, a good start, make a couple birdies to put myself, you know, around even par and have a good chance to finish under par today.

I think especially the first nine holes today made it easier having that wind direction that helps you a little bit on those two par 5s.  The funny thing is that I didn't make any birdies on the two par 5s, so it was kind of like a different round for me.

But I started with two birdies on the first and second hole and that really put me up and gave me some momentum.  I knew I needed a low round to put us in a position for Sunday, and I really wanted to take advantage that I was playing in the morning with nice conditions and I'm glad I did.
COLIN CALLANDER:  You've had an incredible season this year.  What do you put it down to?  You've been winning almost every other week.
LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  Well, I've really enjoyed this year so far.  It's been a really good.  I'm playing a lot more consistent than last year, and that helps to keep myself in good balance and keep working hard and be motivated for the rest of the season.  It's a very different story than last year and I'm just excited that I learned from experience the things I need to do to be in good shape for the whole season.  I'm just enjoying myself.

Right now it's great to be in a good position to play good tomorrow.  And I'm really excited, I'm going to try hard tomorrow to play good.
Q.  What sort of things?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think the things that I worked on in the off season helped me.  At the end of last season I was tired and disappointed and struggling with my swing.  I did some changes in my swing with my coach, Raphael, and we worked on the top of the backswing.  I was crossing the line a little bit and too loose at the top.  We've been kind of working a lot on that, just, you know, keep a better line at the top of the backswing shorter to, have more control and it really helped me.

I was in really good shape, motivated and I keep myself in good shape through the season and I've been working out last week and this week and things are a lot different than last year, so I'm happy.
COLIN CALLANDER:  What is Raphael's last name?
LORENA OCHOA:  Alicone (ph).  His birthday is today.  Yesterday he was joking, "You're just waiting for a good round tomorrow, it's my birthday."  So, I'm glad.  He's been my coach for a long time.
Q.  Is it easier now being in contention on Sunday?   In the last round of Kraft, you said it was a little bit different for you to be in position, but now it's not different at all, is it easier now for you to be in contention on Sunday.
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think I wouldn't put it that way, I don't think that's correct.  I think when you're five or six shots out of the lead, sometimes you can win.  So I'm just shortening that gap and I put myself with more chances to win tournaments on the weekends, and that's what I'm trying to be, just be more consistent.  Even if I don't have    like this week, in good position and trying to finish good at the top.  So I'm always trying to finish in Top 10, Top 5 and have a chance to win a tournament, so at the end of the year I have good results and achieve my goals.
COLIN CALLANDER:  Let's go through your birdies and bogeys.  What did you hit in on 1?
LORENA OCHOA:  I hit 5 iron or 4 iron on the first hole, 4 iron maybe ten feet and made it.

2, I hit pitching wedge to probably 13 feet and made it.

No. 8, I hit a sand wedge 95 yards just one foot from the pin.

11, the par 5, I was on the right side of the bunker short of the green, and I had two putts from 70 feet.

13, I hit 8 iron, six, seven feet and I made it.

15, I hit the green in two with a 3 wood, maybe 25 feet for eagle and just made two putts for birdie.

18 was a 5 iron, again, maybe 12, 13 feet and made it.
COLIN CALLANDER:  You're obviously going to tee off very late tomorrow.  What do you plan to do between now and then?
LORENA OCHOA:  Same, you know, just rest a little bit, have a good dinner.  It's nice to wake up tomorrow and have some time off and exercise and try to be as relaxed as possible and be ready for tomorrow.
Q.  How excited are you about your chances for this week?
LORENA OCHOA:  In my country it's very important, so you open the newspaper, before they didn't know much about golf.  Now they see Lorena Ochoa    they don't know much about golf and now they follow what I do.  It's nice when I get back home, they recognise me and so they wait for me every time I go back to meet me and my friends.  It's very nice.  I do this for my country, I love my country and I hope when they wake up they watch what I did and they will be happy.
Q.  Inaudible?
LORENA OCHOA:  I have no idea the number.  There are only about, you know, close to 300 golf courses in Mexico when the whole country, so there are not a lot of golfs.  No, the number, I have no idea.  But I had a chance to meet the president and talked to him, he called and said congratulations.  He's been very nice.  Golf is getting more popular and they are supporting the golf.  It's nice to see a change and I feel a lot of support from them.
COLIN CALLANDER:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT