HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA GROSS RHODE:  Talk about your match today.
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, hello.  I had a great day, with the morning and then the match in the afternoon.  I hit the ball really good, not too good with my driver, my tee shot, but I putted really good.  I think that was the big difference from the first two days and today.

I made a lot of birdies.  It was fun.  It was a tough match playing in the afternoon.  A little bit easier in the morning but a tough match playing in the afternoon.  I think we made like three birdies on the front and I was like only 1 up.  And then played good, you know, starting on the back nine, and then Sophie came back and I was only 1 up and then she gave me an opportunity on the par 5 and I took advantage of that.

You could tell at the end, we were so tired, it's hard to put the ball in the fairway on the green or just to make a good putt.  But, you know, I ended up winning.  I made a great putt on 16 and I'm very excited to be back tomorrow.
Q.  You were down two holes in the beginning of the second match today through five
LORENA OCHOA:  I think only one.
Q.  You were down one hole.  So you didn't get off    I know you got off to a pretty slow start yesterday; we talked about that.  Was your start better today or it seemed like you really hit stride in the middle holes just like you did yesterday.
LORENA OCHOA:  My start in the two matches was much better today.  With Sophie, I started with a birdie and make three pars and I made another birdie.  It was all square    actually, 1 down, and then with Mi Hyun Kim in the morning, I make two long putts.  I make a birdie on No. 4, too, so I was really making those putts and making those birdies.  IT really makes the difference on the day.  So I was close and we had a tie match instead of just giving them away and me 2  or 3 under.
Q.  Brittany says she knows you fairly well from fellowship.  Does it surprise you she won today, and what do you think about her game?
LORENA OCHOA:  It didn't surprise me to be honest.  She's the type of player that you could see that she's good for match play.  She hits the ball really far and has a lot of confidence in herself.  She plays very aggressive; she doesn't care, she just goes to the pin and tries to make birdie.  When she's on, she's on.  I guess she had a really good day.  I want to say congratulations to her.  I do know her from fellowship and I'm glad that we being believers, we are close to being in the final.
Q.  Are you more comfortable playing match play with people you know well, as opposed to somebody you're an acquaintance with?
LORENA OCHOA:  I think so.  I think it would be just a fun match.  I think it's going to be friendly.  I think just, you know, we respect each other.  I like her and it's just going to be more like, you know, we'll be able to play better.  We'll make more putts.  I don't think we have nothing against each other.  It's not going to be something where we don't want to talk to each other.  It's going somebody something that's more relaxed and I think that will be fun for both of us, more enjoyable.
Q.  I know you want to keep going only, but do you feel satisfied to have reached the semifinals after you came here last year and had such a tough first match?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, this is a whole new year for me.  You know, I want to get the trophy.  I want to be No. 1, so that's my goal.  Nothing is going to change that.  I need to, you know, believe that I can do it and just play like I play every week.

You know, I play for the trophy and I'm just going to try to take, you know, one match at a time.  I'm going to try to be really focused in the morning with Brittany and try to play one whole at a time and play really hard.  I'm going to really do my best to be in that final and make a good chance to win the tournament.
Q.  Considering how well you've been playing lately, did you come into this with a totally different outlook than you did last year?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, especially because I know more of the players.  That makes you feel, you know, a little bit more comfortable.  And also me having a good year, I think it sets you up in a good position where they know that you are playing good and you are making a lot of birdies and all of that together helps.  I'm just going to keep doing the same things that's been working so far and we have tomorrow, a big day.
Q.  How is your mental and physical condition right now after 36 holes?
LORENA OCHOA:  I feel pretty good, better than I thought.  Yeah, I'm okay.  I guess it's early, I'm happy.  Go to bed really early today and just wake up tomorrow.  I like to sleep at least eight hours, so I need to go to bed pretty soon.  (Laughing)


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT