HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA GROSS RHODE:  We're going to get started.  Thank you very much for coming in.  You had a tough round against Karine Icher today.  Do you just want to talk about that?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, hello.

Yes, I did have a tough match today.  I didn't have the best start.  I missed the green a couple times long and left.  You know, the lies around the greens are kind of in the long grass and I couldn't make up and down.  Then she makes a couple birdies and then it was just bad timing.

Everything happened and, you know, to her    starting on No. 11, I just thought, there are a lot of holes left and try to be a little patient.  I just needed something to get going my way and get very good momentum.  I made birdie on 11, and 13, I just really switched really quick which and gave me a really good momentum.  It was a tough match out there.  I'm just glad I made it to the 18th and had the win today.
Q.  Just talk a little bit about 11 was the turning point for you, and long putt on that?
LORENA OCHOA:  It wasn't close.  She putted first but it was maybe 15, 17 feet.  So I made that one.  Then it was like a relief, like, okay, now I got something go in.  I was in an emergency needing so many birdies, I was so many down, from there, I had a lot of holes left, I needed a couple good shots.  12 and 13, I put it a couple feet from the hole and I make another easy birdie.  I guess 13, that was the key in my round today on the back nine.
Q.  Can you talk a little about the par 5s, do you feel like they are reachable out there now, is the course kind of drying out?  Are they going to be reachable maybe later on in this tournament?
LORENA OCHOA:  I think especially in the wind direction, I think today, No. 11 was reachable for me.  I just hit on the left.  I was 206 from the front, so I would be able to hit the second shot on the green.

14, it wasn't too long today.  I think we get the right wind direction, we'll be tomorrow closer to get to the greens.
Q.  Do you think it's better for you to have to fight back today and win, rather than to win easy going into tomorrow?  Which would be better for you?
LORENA OCHOA:  You never know.  A win is a win.  I just really hope to have a better start tomorrow.  It was kind of hard today.  It's a lot of emotions and try to keep yourself calm, but, you know, you only have a few holes left.  There are a lot of things going in your mind.  You know, I'm going to make sure I have a better start tomorrow and hopefully it won't be as hard as today.
Q.  Do you give yourself a chance to kind of look at the bracket you're in, the bracket you're in is a pretty tough bracket, you're still alive, Se Ri is still alive; have you looked at that and thought about how many matches you have coming up to reach the final here?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I feel lucky about my draw.  I think all of them are really good.  I have nothing to say.  I think all of the matches are going to be really good.  Since the first day, there's so many good players out there.  There have been a couple of surprises, but I'm going to just, you know, try to play tough tomorrow.  Mi Hyun Kim is a really good player, especially because she's shorter, she's going to be hitting before me to the greens.  So I'm going to make sure that, you know, I figure out what strategy to play and then, you know, maybe in the first three holes, then go from there.
Q.  When you're 4 down after nine, how difficult is it to block that out and say, you know, I still have a chance?
LORENA OCHOA:  I knew 11 was a key.  I really needed to get that one on No. 11.  I told myself if I hit this one, I'm only 3 down and we'll still have seven holes to go.  I'm glad I made that birdie because if not, things would be a lot different.
Q.  Do you feel that the longer players like yourself do have a big advantage, especially these first two days?
LORENA OCHOA:  Always in match play, just like I said, I think they have the better chance to put you under pressure because they are the ones that hit the green first.  A lot of these players, some of the Koreans, they are so good from 180, 190, 200 with a 3 wood and they put it closer than you with a 6 iron; that's where you get frustrated.  You have to be patient.  When you have to leave the ball back to hit first, you have to do it.
Q.  What do you know about your opponent, for those of us who don't know the opponent you have tomorrow, she kind of buzzed right past Laura Davies today.  What do you know about her?
LORENA OCHOA:  Mi Hyun Kim?  I played with her a lot of rounds.  I played with her this year at the last round in Orlando.  She won the tournament.  I know that she's a really solid player, just like what I said, she's really good from 170 to 200.  She's really good putting.

I think it's going to be key to get a good start to feel comfortable and especially to put pressure on her, because if not, she can go her way.
Q.  You keep saying to get a good start.  How do you do that?  You just can't say, I'm going to have a good start, and have a good start, otherwise you'd do that every day
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, the first hole, you're 1 up.  (Laughing.)
Q. Tomorrow is a very long day, physically and mentally; are you ready for that?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I am.  I am in good shape physically.  I think that will help.  I was a little bit frustrated on Sunday at the Open that I didn't have a good day.

So I just really want to try to take advantage tomorrow.  I think it's going to be more like mental stress, like mental tired.  So, you know, hopefully I'm just going to try to be patient, because it's a long day.  I think the key is going to be patient and just let things happen your way.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT