MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Go ahead and talk about the round.
LORENA OCHOA:  I'm very pleased.  It was a tough day out there, especially because of the conditions.  You almost felt like we had no more brain to think.  It was just tough conditions and it was a very long day.  So I'm happy that I managed myself to keep things under par and I'm disappointed with that last hole, you know, making three putts.  But all in all, I'm in good position to be coming back tomorrow.
Q.  It was that much different mostly because of the wind then?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.
Q.  Mostly on the front nine or the whole time?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yeah, in the morning and but mostly later in the afternoon.  It just stopped a little bit, the wind in the afternoon.
Q.  How are you?
LORENA OCHOA:  I'm okay.
Q.  How much did you watch the leaderboard there and do you watch it?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I do.  I like to know where I am and I make a couple bogeys, I make two birdie and then couple bogeys and then I just told myself I'm still in here and there are a lot of holes left.  And it almost felt weird because today when we started second round I almost felt like I had 18 holes to go to finish the tournament.

So I kept thinking that there was still a lot of holes to go.  So anything could happen and you have some    you know, I always was aware that I was always three shots back, so I was always in range.  And then I tried to get a little bit of a chance and then I make a couple birdies here so it was all together, all the same time, really good.
Q.  How many people can still win this tournament, do you think, if the scores stay at 7 under or 8 under?  How many people have a realistic chance?
LORENA OCHOA:  I haven't seen how many people are 4 under.  But I think everybody who is 3 under or 4 under.
Q.  Within four, probably?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.
Q.  What do you do tomorrow when there's so much activity, so many people, so much movement?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I guess trying to be patient.  I don't think I'm going to be looking to the scoreboard that much tomorrow, just try and play my own game and then maybe look at the scoreboard at 16 and hopefully it will give me good news.
Q.  Go over your scorecard?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  On 1, I birdied that.  I had 110 yards.  I hit my 50 degree wedge, really close, about two feet.  And I made that.

Second hole, I hit a    where was the pin?  I hit I think the 50 degree again and I was pass about 25 feet and I made it.

And then I make bogey on number 5.  I hit it just way long and left of the green.  I was on the fringe and I putted so it was about a 40 foot putt and I make two putts or three putts, sorry.

Then on 6, I miss my driver to the right and then I missed my second shot to the right and I hit it about 10 feet and I missed that putt.

Then on the 10
Q.  Did you chip to 10 feet?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yeah.
Q.  Okay.
LORENA OCHOA:  And then on 10 I hit it pin high with a 9 iron about 15 feet and I made it.

Then No. 12 I hit my 7 iron about two feet and I made it.
Q.  18?
LORENA OCHOA:  Three putts from about 25 feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT