HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 25, 2010
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Nice round today, you finished up two of the last three holes with birdies to get to 4-under tied for the lead here. Just tell us about your day.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, hello, everybody. You know, first of all I'm happy about the good day. It was a good start, and I like the position.   
 On my second shots, I missed the greens and I didn't make up-and-down, so hopefully tomorrow I can be a little bit closer. But I think it's always important to get off to a good start. So I'm excited to play another good round tomorrow and hopefully everything goes well.   
  
  Q. How is the golf playing compared to the last couple of times that you've played here, and how does it compare with some of the golf courses that you play on the LPGA Tour in the U.S.?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, it's difficult to compare. I think every course is very unique and it's nice, different places, different parts of the world. For sure, this one is in great shape. It's beautiful. The greens are very small and very true. So you can say that it's a good challenge. I think the wind today was going in a different direction, so that was tough. It was hard to get the right club selection. So hopefully tomorrow is a little more consistent and we can make some more birdies.   
  
  Q. Have you identified what you're doing with your second shots; is that what was troubling you last week, that they were not as accurate as you wanted them?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Last week, you have uneven lies all the time, so I've been losing my balance a little bit. So I'm working on that on the range. I still have to improve and hopefully I can be more consistent the next few days.   
  
  Q. I know Suzann has not been spending as much time in the gym this week, and Cristie the same. Have you cut back at all because of the heat? I know you're used to heat, but what's your workout routine?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I did four times last week, this week already twice. But instead of running for 45 minutes and do some lifting, I've just been going for 20 minutes of a light run just to feel some energy. But I'm not doing what I always do in a normal week, for sure.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised that there's so many players playing well after round one?  
 LORENA OCHOA: No. There's very many good players. That's the way it is, the first couple of days, you see many players in a good position near the top.   
  
  Q. When you won here two years ago, you played beautifully all four days and you really ran away with the tournament. What do you specifically remember about that week? What worked for you, and how close is your game now so the level you were playing at two years ago here?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I would like to say that my game is in a better position now. Hopefully in two years I improved a little bit. But what happened two years ago was fantastic for me. Sometimes everything is right every shot, every day for four days in a row.   
 I think I have a good opportunity to win the tournament, but that means that I need to do four round in the 60s, and then not make many mistakes. And I'm trying to -- I have good memories from two years ago, but I'm just trying to concentrate on what I'm doing right now, where my game is right now. So like I said before, I'm working on my second shots, trying to be more consistent, and then hopefully we can go out with another good round tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I make a good driver, a couple missed drivers, a couple, maybe three that I missed really bad. But I made a lot of long putts. If you look at it, I was joking with my caddie saying that the stats for today, they are going to be difficult to get them.   
 So at the same time that's why I'm so happy because 4-under is a great start, and what is important is that you need to be able to score. And for tomorrow, if I play more consistent, I think I have a good chance to put up a low round.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks so much, Lorena.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT