MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Talk about your birdies and bogeys, if you don't mind.
LORENA OCHOA:  I make so many, you know.  I make a birdie on the first hole, just a sand wedge, 80 yards and then just tap in.

I got bogey on number 6.  I went over the green on left side.  And I had a really good chip about three feet.  And I miss that.

Then I make birdie on the last hole.  I hit a 7 iron pin high.  But it was a long putt and about 25 feet.  And I made that.

And then birdie number 10.  I hit a sand wedge too.  I hit 85 yards to the hole.  About eight feet.  I made it.

Then I make double bogey number 12.  I hit into the water and then I hit it to the green.  About 15 feet.  And I make two putts for the double bogey.

Then 13 I make an eagle.  I was 136 yards and I hit an 8 iron.  And I made it.
Q.  Did it hit and roll in, or do you know?
LORENA OCHOA:  It had one bounce a couple yards before and then in.

And then 16 I make birdie.  I hit another sand wedge.  I was about again like 95 yards.  And I putt it about two feet.

And then on 18 I hit a 7 iron, 145 yards, about 15 feet.  And I made it.
Q.  So range of emotion, how did you feel, first of all, after the double bogey?  Just kicking yourself or you figured that's only three holes?
LORENA OCHOA:  It was my 10th hole and I just made a mistake from the tee.  I made a bad swing.  You never    I thought that there was so many good holes out there, the conditions are good, so just don't get mad at yourself and try to make some birdies.  And right away I make an eagle.  So it was fun.  It was just really quick.  You know, all of a sudden we look at the board and then we saw red, so it was nice.
Q.  When you hit the ball in the air on 13 did you think it was going to be like close or did you think it was going in?
LORENA OCHOA:  Oh, yeah, I hit it and I thought it was perfect.  And I just kind of like thought it had a chance to go in.  But I didn't think about it.  All the people just, they just kind of start clapping and then start clapping really hard and I knew I made it, because it's hard to see, because you don't see all the way to the hole.  So it was real fun.  And we just talk about, you had a good chance to go in.  It was just perfect.
Q.  What about first day of a Major?  I know you said you don't think of this as a Major but another golf tournament.  But 4 under par, you're in good position?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  You know, that birdie on the last hole really helped me just to make my day and be happy and I didn't make    I was just 190 yards to the green on the par 5 on the number 8.  And I didn't make birdie.  I was so mad.  I hit it a little bit to the right and didn't make a good chip and didn't make the putt.  So this birdie was really important just to keep me in, you know, and just happy.

Just being able to have everything taste better now.  And I'm in a good position, and I try not to think about it.  I just come tomorrow and do the same.
Q.  How would you rate the way you hit the ball today?
LORENA OCHOA:  I hit it really good.  I hit it really good, really close, shots just, like I said, I have probably about two, three, five feet about 12 times today.  And the conditions were really good.  No wind, so it was playing shorter, the course was.  So I'm just happy that I took advantage of that and we'll see what happens tomorrow with the conditions.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT