FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Lorena, thanks for coming in and speaking with us, a great round today, 66.  It looks like you'll end up being in a tie for second place if things keep going the way they are.  It will be the fourth runner up this year to go along with a win.  You're having a terrific season.  Just talk about your day and we'll take some questions.
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I played really good today.  It was a fun day.  It was a bit slow on front nine but it really it came strong on the back nine.  I had a good finish.  I ended up in the water on 18 but I saved par.  So I just tried really hard and came up a little bit short but it was fun out there.
Q.  How far in on 18, and what did you hit?
LORENA OCHOA:  For my second shot, I was 180 yards and I hit my 5 iron.  I hit behind in the middle of the water.
Q.  Did you think you had an eagle there to have a chance to win, was that the idea, I guess at 180, you're going anyway?
LORENA OCHOA:  We have a good club in our hand, just put it up there to make an eagle, so we were trying.
Q.  Talk about playing here, you played so well here and again this year, talk about being comfortable here.
LORENA OCHOA:  I feel very comfortable.  I just love this golf course.  I have a couple of friends here and I like the fans.  The golf course sets up good for my game and I'm hitting the ball well and it's good for long hitters because the conditions are raining so much, I just can take advantage of that and try to play aggressive and make some birdies on the par 5s.  It's always fun when you shoot, you know, 17 under; I think you have a good time out there.
Q.  Angela Stanford is struggling, and she's been the leader each day, what pressures are there to having the lead coming into the final day, and can you get a little conservative and just start making pars and all of a sudden you can't get out of the rut?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, well, I think every tournament it depends on the player.  Every tournament has different situations.

You know, Angela is a great player.  I think she has not been up there in a long time.  It's all about getting comfortable.  You know, I've been there many times but I just didn't win at the end.  You learn, you know, with experience and how you feel yourself and how you hit the ball, where you miss and things like that.

You know, I just want to say that I wish her the best.  I think she's a really, really good player and a great person, and I know she's going to be up there many times, and just keep trying hard and don't give up.
Q.  How much of an advantage maybe did Cristie have playing there in that final group with Angela and maybe able to measure herself against what Angela is doing?
LORENA OCHOA:  I don't know if she had an advantage but it all depends on how you started the day.  If you are able to make a couple of birdies and put pressure on Angela    you know, that's the way golf is.  You know, sometimes it goes your way.  Sometimes it doesn't happen.  You know, I guess Cristie has more experience.  She's been out there more times in the lead recently in the last year or so, so she has an advantage because of that.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Let's go through your score card.  You birdied No. 4, the par 5.
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I hit an 8 iron 135 yards to one foot.

Then I make birdie on No. 11.  I hit my Seth 117 yards about 12 feet and I made it.

I birdied No. 12.  I hit my 4 iron, a little longer, maybe 18 feet, and I made it.

15, I hit my wedge 120 yards, just a little long, maybe 15 feet, and I made it.

16, I hit my 7 iron 145 yards to a foot.

17, I hit my sand wedge 75 yards.
PAUL ROVNAK:  How long was the par putt on 18?
LORENA OCHOA:  20.  Thank you, see you next year.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT