FRANKLIN AMERICAN MORTGAGE CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAM WARNER:  Lorena, thanks for coming in and joining us today.  You must be excited to be back here, your first career victory here and you finished second last year, do you just want to talk about being back?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, this is a very -- I love to be here, I love the golf course.  The fans are very nice to me and I have some friends here, so I love to come here.  I practiced and played the day before for the very first time.  I'm in good shape and ready for the tournament to start.

This tournament, it always rains, so you have to be prepared for that, but you have to be in a positive way and not get mad about that and just have fun.
PAM WARNER:  You've been successful this year, you're on top of the Money List right now and you have a victory, do you just want to talk about your success so far?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, this is my best start of the season; since my first season, this is the best start I've had.  I'm very comfortable with my game.  I worked out every day in the off-season, and I'm very happy to see that the results are coming and working on the right things we needed to work on.  I'm hitting the ball a little bit farther; that helps, the extra distance, especially on this type of golf course where you want to make some birdies out there.

I'm just trying to take one tournament at a time.  I think I only have won one, but hopefully I'll keep trying hard and I get some more trophies.
Q.  What do you like about this course?  You've won here, but you've also played well here at other times and had low rounds.  What do you like about this course for your game?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think the golf course is always in good condition.  The greens are very tough and you can be very aggressive; I like that.  I'm more like an aggressive player and I like making a lot of birdies and have a low round, and this is a course that you can do it.  I enjoy it very much.  When I'm on the tee on the first hole, the only thing I want to do is make the birdies and try on every hole.
Q.  So I guess you don't mind the wet weather then, because if you're aggressive, you don't mind the rain coming?
LORENA OCHOA:  No, no, I actually enjoy playing in the rain.  I grew up playing in the rain.  Back home it rained a lot.  Particularly in the summer we used to go and play and get wet and have fun.

So I have pretty good memories, I like playing in the rain.  If it rains it's fine for me.  It's the same for everybody so you just try to do your best out there.
Q.  You've been playing wonderful the last month, do you attribute that to anything?
LORENA OCHOA:  To everything, I did some changes on my swing, on my swing plane not to cross the line over the top.  I work out a lot doing some weight training.  I do yoga.  I do a lot of things to improve.  So I'm just glad, it's nice to see some good results and I think I'm going on the right track.  So I'm going to just make sure I go in and be very focused and.
Q.  After such a good start to the season, what are your goals now?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, my goal has always been to be No. 1.  I'm leading the Money List right now but like I said I want to take it one tournament at a time and I try not to think about it too much.  I try to take one tournament at a time and just try to get as many chances as I can and just try to be more consistent.  So I don't want to change and I just want to keep doing the same thing I've been doing.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT