GINN CLUBS & RESORTS OPEN
April 28, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in.  It seems like you're in here every day now, you're playing so well this year.  One shot off the lead, just go ahead and talk about your day, and then we'll take some questions.
LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  It was a really good day, and I'm very pleased, very happy.  I feel really good, really solid on the front nine, make four birdies and then just missed a birdie on No. 10 and make a birdie on No. 11.  So I was pretty much all day close playing for birdie.  I had a bad hole on 14, and after that, I had birdie chances on 15, 16, 17 and 18.  I didn't make any of those, but I'm still hitting the ball really good, hitting the ball close and having birdie opportunities which I think is very important.

I feel good.  On 14, I make a bad decision on that hole with the tee shot, we were excited and we were playing aggressive and decided to hit a driver and I just missed it a little to the right and hit it over the fairway into the bushes and had an unplayable.  You know, one thing after another one, so I make a triple over there, but just without that hole, I feel really good.  I'm hitting the ball good, putting good, so it's okay to come from behind on the weekend.  I wouldn't mind being in the last group, and I'm in good position, and I'm excited about the weekend.
Q.  What happened at 14 after the unplayable?
LORENA OCHOA:  I drove it in the dead area thinking it was fine; that it would be a little bit hard and I dropped it in the straw.  I didn't have a shot, I had a lot of trees in front of me and I tried to get a 9 iron over the tree.  I hit the trees and it came down and then I have a shot under some branches and I didn't put and it stopped in the rough and then I chipped and I missed the putt.
Q.  Have you played with Mi Hyun  Kim before?
LORENA OCHOA:  I played with her a long time ago, maybe last year.
Q.  How much further off the tee are you going to be than her; 50 yards?  It's going to be a pretty extreme distance because her game is totally different from yours.
LORENA OCHOA:  I'm not sure.  I think when you play with her, you just try to do your own thing and try not to pay attention to whatever she's doing.  She could put it like 210 and then put it really close to the hole; she could put it closer than you with a 9 iron.  I'm just going to let her do her thing and I'm going to try and focus on my game.  There are a lot of good players out there.
Q.  Did you do anything specifically to put the 14, the triple bogey, behind you and move on at 15?
LORENA OCHOA:  Just try to forget about it.  Just me and Lance, my caddie, we were talking and said, you know, we have some holes to go and try to get some birdie opportunities and forget about what happened.  And we did.  We were fine.  I didn't get mad or, you know, at first we just kind of let it go and I finished strong.  Even though I didn't make any birdies, I finished strong and I was really close to the hole.
Q.  When you're at home in Guadalajara, are there people trying to talk to you and interview you, and is it crazy and can you go out in public without people bothering you?  Are you that famous now down there; are you that high profile?
LORENA OCHOA:  I do interviews pretty much when I get there and all the media have been very nice.  They give me my time off.  Though don't distract me when I'm practicing, so that's good.  All in all, when I go outside to the movies or to have dinner, most of the time they recognize me on the street but most of the time they are like, "Oh, there's Lorena," but it's not bad.  It feels good that they recognize you and it feels good.
Q.  I know we're only halfway but we've been here since Monday, your impressions, it's a first year tournament, have they pulled off what they were hoping to pull off?  Has this been a well run event and a good golf course?  Looks like it's going to be one of the better tournaments looking ahead.
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, the golf course is in great shape.  The greens are a little bit new, you can tell; they get chewed up in the afternoon, but I think that's a matter of time.  I think it's very exciting for the fans and for us it's a good challenge out there.  It's been windy and we have a lot of spectators so that makes the tournament a lot more fun.  Everything is going well, yeah.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your card, Lorena.  You started with a birdie on 1.
LORENA OCHOA:  I hit a 9 iron 120 yards and I put it close, five feet, and I made it.

Then I made birdie on 5, the par 3.  I hit 5 iron 180 yards downwind, and I put it pin high, maybe ten feet, and I made it.

Then I make birdie on No. 7.  I hit my driver trying to putt it in the front bunkers and it stopped before on the rough.  And then I hit a sand wedge and it just rolled past the hole maybe 15 feet and I made it coming back.

9, I tried to hit the green in two and I had a nice lie uphill in the front bunker and I made a really good shot with my sand wedge, maybe four feet.

11, I hit the 9 iron 115 yards into the wind.  I put it really close, two feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT