HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 24, 2010
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Lorena, thanks for coming in. You were the inaugural champion in this event in 2008. If you, would, give us some thoughts on being back in Singapore for the third time and how excited you are to play this year's HSBC Women's Champions.
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello, everybody. It's nice to be here for sure. I have good memories from two years ago. Also, last year, I played good. It was a good tournament for me. So, you know, it's important I think to try to bring back those memories and play good. 
 So I'm excited to try tomorrow and I'm going to try to give myself a good chance for Sunday. I really would like to win. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you tell us about last week? You played well but you were not near the top as the defending champion. Can you tell us how you played and how you're feeling coming into this week? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think for sure, I would like to play better than what I did last week. But at the same time, you never know how the scores will be. It's very different when you are coming from practise to play a real golf tournament. I don't feel too comfortable with my second shots. I still have to get used to a routine, and trying to get it close to the hole and trying to make birdies, it's really different than what I have done for the last two months, besides hitting balls and trying to improve your golf swing. 
 But I feel good. I'm happy. I feel like my swing is in a better position, so hopefully we can start making birdies and just be consistent. 

 Q. I asked Jiyai what she likes about you, and she said that you make a shot -- even if it looks impossible, you can make it. So I was wondering, what do you like about her? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, that's nice of her, thank you. I would talk about how consistent she is with the driver. She always hits it right in the middle of the fairway. So if you play easy golf, stress-free, that would be I think the No. 1 positive thing, very consistent. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you talk about your pairing tomorrow? Obviously two of your friends on Tour, and the defending champ and also last week's winner, Ai, and Jiyai, and of course you as world No. 1. Pretty good pairing. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I love to play with Ai. I was really happy to see that. Last week I played with her. I think we all are kind of easygoing and we like to talk and just have a good time on the course. I'm sure we'll enjoy it. I'm really looking forward, and I think it should be a good day for the three of us. 

 Q. As are you ready to hit the first drive -- what goes through your mind right at the beginning? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I just want to put it in the middle of the fairway, the first driver, or I'll be in trouble. 
 It's true, when we say one shot at a time and one day at a time, or you're going to get ahead of yourself. Just try to hit the fairways and you'll feel comfortable. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 LORENA OCHOA: For sure, I would like to be the Player of the Year for sure, and as well as being No. 1 in the world. But it's a lot. I'm trying to do everything to break Annika's record. I'm just trying to play, and I think it would be more important this year for me to win more tournaments and try to win five, six tournaments, I think that would be a great year, and the other things will happen together with those wins. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 LORENA OCHOA: No, no, I always say that I would play at least ten, 12 years. This is my eighth year. So I'm going to keep playing and keep enjoying the time that I'm here. So when I'm at home and it's trying to prepare a family, I will stop playing and do different things outside of the golf course. 

 Q. 
LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think I spent the last 28 years in Guadalajara, and now I live in Mexico City, so that's probably the biggest change. I'm really happy, and I can practise many places and decent golf courses, and also the weather is different. I think it helps your game, you know, being in many different conditions. I'm good, I think as long as I'm in Mexico City for the right reason, it should work. 

 Q. How did you feel about Michelle --
 LORENA OCHOA: I like it very much. I like to just keep it simple. I like to come out here and just do my practise and to play, and it's not easy, you know, having all of the media and all of the following. I like the way she is, she's a great player and she deserves the attention. I think she's done a good job. 

 Q. Do you think people resent that and they will only accept a player when she wins or that she has found her way because she has won and deserves it -- inaudible -- do the other players, how do you look at it?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I can only say for myself. I think she's very talented but I cannot say if it's right or wrong, but to me, I would not give advice to other players. It's very important to go to college and hopefully play two or three or four years in college and then come out here, because the LPGA is going to be here forever, you don't need to rush. 

 Q. (Can you talk about how Tanah Merah is playing compared to last year)?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I think the course is exactly the same. The wind today was going in the same direction and I think it's going to be playing similar this year. We are going to be able to make a lot of birdies -- I can't remember the winning score last year. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: 11-under. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Every day, you can go 3- or 4-under for sure. And a couple of the holes, maybe you can putt for eagle. I think it's a fun course. The greens are in great shape and they are rolling very smooth. So I think you are going to see some good scores. 

 Q. Would you say that you're a contender?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I believe that every time I play, I can win, I'm going to try my best. 

 Q. Inaudible.
 LORENA OCHOA: The numbers speak for themselves. I think it's the mathematics that you need to see. I know that competition gets tougher and tougher all the time. I don't like to speak about one player, but everybody is very strong and everybody wants to win. That's why I know that you need to work harder, you know, all the time, so that's what I'm trying to do. I would like to stay at the top. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT