GINN CLUBS & RESORTS OPEN
April 27, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAM WARNER:  We are joined by Lorena Ochoa.  Thanks for joining us again today.  You shot a 67.  Do you just want to talk about your day out there?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, I had a really good day.  I'm very pleased with the way I finished.  I think 5 under to start a tournament is really good.  I feel comfortable and I am in good position.  It was a tough day out there, a lot of wind, especially on the back nine.  It was amazing.  For 130 yards, I would hit like a 7 iron, and it was playing really, really strong, the wind.  So I'm very pleased, especially with the birdie on No. 9, my last hole.
PAM WARNER:  Let's go over your score card real quick.  You started on 10.
LORENA OCHOA:  I started on No. 10.  I make eagle.  I hit my 3 wood.  I have 220 yards and I put the ball on the green maybe 25 feet and I made it.

And then I make birdie on 14.  I hit a witching wedge 115 yards, just a little bit long, maybe 15 feet and I made it.

I make birdie on 15.  I hit my 7 iron 145 yards, pin high, maybe six, seven feet and I made it.

And I make birdie on 16, the par 3.  I put the ball just on the front part of the green and the pin was like 22 on, on the right side.
Q.  22 yards, you're saying, 66 feet?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I was not like on the front.  I was maybe like five or six paces on and I made it, that was a really long putt.

On 17, I hit the green in two.  I had 125 yards.  I hit my 3 wood pin high on the right side, maybe 30 feet and I made two putts for birdie.

And I make bogey on 18.  I was 145 yards, a little bit into the wind, and I tried to keep the ball low.  I just missed it to the left, to the bunker on the left side on the short part of the green.  I didn't have much room and I couldn't make up and down.

And then I made all pars on the back nine.  I make bogey on No. 8.  I was going for birdie and I was playing really aggressive.  I went by maybe four feet and I missed the ball coming back.

Then No. 9, I hit the green in two.  I had 125 yards again.  I missed my 3 wood just a little bit short of the hole maybe 15, 20 feet and I made two putts for birdie.
Q.  You're playing so well this year, probably the hottest playing on Tour, what have you done from the end of last season to the start of this season to take it to another level?  What have you done to improve your game even more since last year?
LORENA OCHOA:  Everything.  I work out a lot.  I try to change my swing a little bit to make sure that I have a better plane on my backswing and have more control.  I think that helped me a lot, working on my swing, especially when I play under pressure.  Mentally, too, I've been working on my game.  I'm a very aggressive player, and I know I make a lot of birdies, but sometimes I also make a lot of bogeys.  This year I've been a lot better on that and I've been more consistent and not making so many mistakes out there.  That helps me a lot.

I think it's all about confidence.  You know, when you feel good out there and you start making putts and shooting low rounds, you know, you feel so much better and you trust when you're doing, so I think my short game improved, too.  I work a lot on my driver control because I used to hit it long, but not as straight as I should have, and this year I'm hitting much better.  I'm hitting more fairways.  So it plays easier from the fairway.  You know, just little things I think we can always improve.  I'm going to keep working hard and keep it going.
Q.  As well as you've played this year, do you almost feel like you should have won more than once, and had you finally won that one time, was it like, all right, it finally paid off?
LORENA OCHOA:  I'm okay.  I want to win, you know, more times and I have chances but I think everything happens for a reason.  I'm just trying to be patient.  I want to try to knock on the door as many times as I can, and this is only my fourth season.  So hopefully they come at the right time.  I'm really working hard to be out there.
Q.  You've obviously won in Vegas and then took last week off to go back home.  With as much as you have going on when you are at home, how much did you practice and how much did you play?
LORENA OCHOA:  I always take the first couple of days off just to sleep late spend time with my family and friends and relatives.  After that, they know my routine and I'm there to practice and get focused on my game.  So I did my routine like in the off season like every day, I practice from 7:30 in the morning to 2:00 PM.  And then afterwards I eat with my family at lunchtime and in the afternoon I go to the gym and do some yoga or whatever I need to do.  I've been doing very good on that.  I know what I need to do, I feel more comfortable, so we're getting better.
Q.  You mentioned being more comfortable, it seems like just watching you, you've grown a lot more comfortable being in the spotlight in the last couple of groups on Sunday, is that a fair statement?  You've got less and less nervous and more and more in your own mind that you can play and you're as good as anybody out here?
LORENA OCHOA:  What's your question?
Q.  You've gotten more and more comfortable playing in the last couple of groups over the last year or so to where you're maybe not as nervous, is that a fair statement?
LORENA OCHOA:  I think so.  I do feel more comfortable.  I like to be under pressure.  I think we all play better under pressure.  You get more focused.  You want to do well.  I like to play under pressure.  You have adrenaline; you hit the ball farther.  Yeah, I think, you know, the time and experience helps you a lot.  This is my fourth year and I feel every time I feel a little bit more comfortable, so it helps.
Q.  Can you be the Player of the Year this year, are you ready for that?  Do you feel like you're ready to be on the cover of the media guide next year all by yourself?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  (Laughter).  That's why I'm here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT