KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Lorena, thanks for coming in and joining us.  Another good round today to follow up the fabulous 62 yesterday.  You're 11 under par and currently have a 5 shot lead.  36 holes to go.  You're in great position.  Talk about your day and we'll take questions.
LORENA OCHOA:  I played really good today.  I felt I played good.  It was harder today than it was yesterday.  I only was 1 under today.  It's just the way it goes.  The weather, it was very windy on the back nine.  It was hard.  So I'm really pleased with my 1 under.

I really like my position.  And like I said, I'm going to take one day at a time and just come back tomorrow and enjoy a couple of more days.
Q.  Does a round like this make you realize how good yesterday's round really was?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, it does.  It's just amazing how easy it was yesterday and today how hard I worked for 1 under par.  It's a huge difference, but I'm really pleased with my round today.
Q.  Last night did you celebrate your 62, or what was your mindset?
LORENA OCHOA:  I tried not to think about it.  I really enjoyed yesterday.  It was a very special round, but I went to bed just trying not to think about it.  I was pretty tired yesterday.  And today I did the same, I just tried not to think about my 10 under.  I knew it would be hard to play as good, so I just played a new round.
Q.  The round that you played, what did you think when you got to the first tee and realized that nobody from the morning did anything really spectacular?
LORENA OCHOA:  I was happy to see that.  It makes me feel comfortable.  I didn't change my plans.  I thought be patient, play smart, try for the middle of the green and give myself a chance for birdie, and that's what I did.

I'm pleased to make good decisions.  A couple of times I had to lay up from the rough and I did it.  I made a couple of good pars and it made me happy that we were thinking right.
Q.  What was your best par?
LORENA OCHOA:  Two really good pars.  On No. 6, I was on the right rough and laid up and I was 90 yards and hit to one foot.

And then on No. 17, I hit my 5 iron to the right of the green a little bit short and I chipped maybe to three feet and made par.
Q.  Did you play any more cautiously because you had a big lead?  And looking ahead, how will you approach tomorrow?
LORENA OCHOA:  No, I was just trying to play smart.  I think you have to try to make birdies out there.  You play this course like a major because it's really tough, especially if you don't hit the fairways.  So I think that's the key.  Try to focus on the tee sheet and getting yourself in a good position and then go from there.  I'm not trying to play aggressive.  I'm playing good.  In a major, five shots is nothing, and I'm going to try to be smart out there.
Q.  In the past, how comfortable have you been with playing with leads and are you getting more comfortable in that position?
LORENA OCHOA:  I'm okay.  It always feels good to be a little bit ahead of the players.  I'll just come tomorrow.  I don't want to focus on other players, whether they're catching me or no, I'll try to do my own thing.  I feel good.  I enjoyed today.  My goal is just to be patient the next couple of days and enjoy the tournament.
Q.  Karrie was in here earlier she said sometimes if you shoot 62, the next day, if you shoot 70 it can feel like an 80.  What did 71 feel like?
LORENA OCHOA:  Pretty good, actually.  It was tough out there.  I'm very happy with my round today.
Q.  At this stage, did you start looking at leaderboards at all.  When Karrie went eagle, birdie, and then started to catch up a little bit, did you notice that?
LORENA OCHOA:  If I look at the leaderboard today?  No, not much.  I did on 14, the par 3, and I saw that Karrie Webb was playing good, and that's it.  That was the only time.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Take us over your scorecard.  Start with the birdie on 2.
LORENA OCHOA:  I made birdie on 2.  I hit my 8 iron maybe 10 feet, and I made it.

I made bogey on No. 7.  I missed my tee shot in the rough and then I hit
PAUL ROVNAK:  Left or right rough?
LORENA OCHOA:  Right.  Then I hit into the bunker short of the green and had a really good out to three feet and made the putt.
PAUL ROVNAK:  So it was out of the bunker to three feet?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.

I made birdie on 11.  I laid up, so I had 125 yards.  I hit my 9 iron to eight feet and made it.

No. 12, I was 120.  I hit my wedge pin high a little bit more, maybe 12 feet, and I made it.

Then bogey on No. 16.  I missed my 3 wood to the right in the rough and I couldn't get it to the green, I was just short of the green, and I chipped and left it short maybe 15 feet and then made it.  That's it.
Q.  Have you played with Michelle before?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes, a couple of times.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT