FIELDS OPEN IN HAWAII
February 24, 2006
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Lorena, thanks for coming in, another solid round, 9 under par for the tournament and you're in a great spot to give this thing a good run tomorrow, as you were last week.  So just talk about that going into the final round and then we'll take some questions.
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I didn't have my best round today.  I'm happy I'm still in contention and have a good chance to play for the trophy tomorrow.

I hope, you know, the birdies I didn't make today, they drop in tomorrow.  So I feel good.  It's okay to be a couple of shots back and I'm just going to come tomorrow and make birdies and hopefully have a chance to win the tournament.
Q.  How did you expect to follow up a 64?
LORENA OCHOA:  Golf is funny, I wasn't feeling good, and then especially in the rain when I was hitting balls this morning, I told my caddie I'm not feeling good.  I have no rhythm and not as good as the day before, but the scores, it didn't happen.  I was a little bit off today.  I was hitting a little bit to the right.  But it's okay, I'm in good position.
Q.  What's it going to take for you tomorrow?
LORENA OCHOA:  I'm going to try to get something from my second shots to make sure I get the right distance.  The wind was swirling around and changing directions a couple of times, so I made a club selection mistake and so I'll make sure that doesn't happen tomorrow.  It's important to keep the ball below the hole because if you get past these greens, it's hard coming back, so I'm going to try to go close to the pins.
Q.  You have to feel pretty good, this is a new tournament but at least this is a tournament record yesterday, you set a tournament record last week, do you have thoughts about that?
LORENA OCHOA:  I feel very good.  I think I'm just happy because you know when you have a good start of the year.  You know, that is why you work in the off season and why you needed to work.  I really spent time working with my coach and on my swing.  I feel that I have more control now and basically in good conditions.  I'm very excited and more because I'm going to Mexico in a couple of weeks, and this is going to give me confidence for my game and get me ready for Mexico.
Q.  Getting so close, was that an inspiration last week, or motivation, or is it still a disappointment?
LORENA OCHOA:  No, no, no.  I was fine.  I gave myself a chance to win the tournament.  I came from behind and I have a really good run on Friday and Saturday.  I was just happy that I have an opportunity and I did my best.  I played really good, I hit really good shots and just came a little bit short on the right side.  But I feel good.  The more chances I have, the better, and I'm going to keep trying.
Q.  Inaudible?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes and no.  I thought the scores would be a little bit higher.  I thought three or four players would make a lot of birdies, but
Q.  Was it that much harder today?
LORENA OCHOA:  I think because of the wind, it changed a couple of times and the easy holes were playing a little bit harder.  The par 5s, I was supposed to reach them in two a couple of them but it was hard to reach them.  It was very different from yesterday, very different conditions.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Let's go through your score card.
LORENA OCHOA:  I make a bogey on the fourth hole, the par 3.  I hit my 4 iron to the right side.  Then I chipped maybe five feet short and I missed the putt.

Then I make birdie on No. 9 with my 5 iron from 145 yards, just a little bit long, maybe 15, 18 feet and made it.

Then I make a birdie on 14, the second par 5.  I tried to reach the green in two.  I was on the fringe on the right side and I chipped and I almost made it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you, Lorena.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT