MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 8, 2004
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in and joining us.  Everybody in the media center was sitting there when you hit that bunker shot on 18 and I think we had a little bit of trepidation, you wind up that putt, but you jarred it.  So let's start with telling us about that putt and then we'll go from there.
LORENA OCHOA: Well, I don't know, I wasn't trying to really make it.  I was just trying to give it a chance but make sure that I get the right speed because I was kind of far with a lot of break.  As soon as I hit it and it starts turning right you knew it was in the hole.  So it was really a good feeling and very excited and I know I am going to sleep much better now with that stroke.  (Laughs).
PAUL ROVNAK:  Questions.
Q.   How did you end up in the bunker to begin with?
LORENA OCHOA: I was probably about 205.  I was on the top side of the fairway and I decided to hit my rescue which I hit it about 200.  Actually I just went, you know, I felt a little bit behind it, went straight right, never took the wind to turn it over.  I ended up in that right short bunker.
Q.   The bunker shot did you think that was going to bite pretty quick or did you just mis-execute it?
LORENA OCHOA: No, actually hit it really good.  It was kind of tough.  I guess because it was so much higher I couldn't get much spin.  But I was surprised it rolled that much.  I thought I really hit it good.  That was the plan just to put it up there and have a chance to putt.  And I did okay.  It was a tough bunker shot.
Q.   When you got up this morning, what were you thinking and saw the wind and knew it was going to be in the 60s today and it wasn't going to be anything like Friday?
LORENA OCHOA: I actually talked to my parents this morning.  I told them, you know, don't get scared because of the scores because they are going to be a lot more higher.  I knew that it was windy, the greens are harder now and as well as quicker, and at the beginning of the round, I hit it on the rough a couple of times and I made par, my caddie says par is going to be really good today, just try to keep making pars, and I putted really good.  I think that was the key.  I did nothing exceptional, actually I missed a lot of fairways, I guess I made like 5 up-and-downs.  Just you know, trying to be very patient, be positive, the course was tough for everybody, I knew that.  Really good putts at a good time.
Q.   Now that you got used to cool and windy we're going to back to hot and calm tomorrow.  It's going to be  -- almost be like Friday.  Do you have to change your mentality in your approach to the course again?
LORENA OCHOA: I don't think so.  I mean.  Obviously Sunday you really need to be careful when you are going to be aggressive and when you need to put the ball in play, especially if I am trying to win the tournament.  But I am just very happy that I am in a good position.  I am very excited about tomorrow.  I don't want to put pressure on myself, just trying to go up there and let things happen and hopefully I have a good day tomorrow.  Hopefully it is my day.
Q.   You were about in the same position last year here.  I was wondering if you realized that and if it feels familiar to you and how you  -- at the end of last year you were very upset that it didn't happen for you.  I am wondering if you thought about that whole thing?
LORENA OCHOA: Well, no, for some reason I feel very comfortable on this course.  I think the course is playing harder this year.  The rough is a lot higher and thicker.  And I just got around really good.  I feel comfortable playing out here.  It's just good thinking, positive thinking.  I think what happened last year was a really good learning experience for me.  I will try take advantage of that and hopefully make good decisions tomorrow and play good.
Q.   You shot under par last year, like a 69 on Sunday, I think.  What made you so upset, just the fact that you got close to it and it didn't happen?
LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think last year was out of my hands.  I wasn't playing in the lead group.  Grace Park had a chance to make the putt and she did it.  So it's not that I  -- I missed the putt to win the tournament or I struggled on the 18 and make a really good putt on 17 an 18 so it was probably not meant to be.  I tried really hard.  Was upset it didn't happen.  Hopefully I have a good chance to do it tomorrow.
Q.   Do you feel you are prepared to win?
LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I am.  Yeah.
Q.   How long have you felt like you are ready win that you will be able to finish the deal?
LORENA OCHOA: This year I feel much comfortable than I did last year.  I think I matured a lot inside and outside of the course but I guess get more used to being around really good players and getting used to the pressure of the last day, the media and how to play a golf tournament the last day, or I don't know, I think I am ready.  I started really good this career.  I have been playing consistent and in the Top-10.  I am just going to try to keep knocking on the door hopefully I do it.
Q.   What parts of your game are better compared to this point last year?
LORENA OCHOA: I think I am tougher in my head, in my mind.  I don't think it's a huge difference in my game.  I know I am hitting the ball farther.  I am.  I am probably hitting around 10 yards farther with the driver and that makes things easier for me.  I am very happy to see that.
Q.   How long does the good feeling of that putt dropping on 18 last?  Is that something that you will carry over to tomorrow or does it just kind of last today and then tomorrow is brand new?
LORENA OCHOA: The one that I just made today?
Q.   Yes.
LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think probably that putt could be key for this tournament.  I am just very happy that I made it.  That one stroke I think is going to make a difference between being in the last group or being closer to the leader.  I just, you know he, instead of going like oh, I make bogey 16, par 17 and 18   -- really good save on 18 and leave with a different attitude.  I think that's going to be also key.  So I come tomorrow all excited and keep going with the good emotions.
Q.   That attitude will carry over 'til tomorrow?
LORENA OCHOA: I think so.  Yeah.
Q.   Is that the longest putt you have made on Tour this year?
LORENA OCHOA: I think so.
Q.   How long was it, about 40 feet?
LORENA OCHOA: I am so bad in feet.  12 meters.

DANA VONLOUDA:  40 feet.
Q.   Do you want to take us over the score card.
LORENA OCHOA: Birdie on the 2nd hole.  I hit a 4-iron and I put it really close.  Maybe three feet.  I made it.

Then I make birdie on the 5th hole, I hit my 5-iron a little bit left and long.  Maybe seven, eight feet.  I make it.

Birdie on No. 7.  Hit the green in two.  I hit the green in two with my 6-iron.  I made 2-putts.  I almost made the eagle.
PAUL ROVNAK:  How long was the 2-putt?
LORENA OCHOA: Maybe 25, 30.  It was on the right side.

And then I make bogey on the 10th.  I hit it in the fairway, hit my 5-iron, I misjudged the wind.  I hit my 5-iron short and right.  Chip okay but didn't make the putt.  I missed maybe seven feet.

13, I make birdie.  I hit my 9-iron maybe 10, twelve feet.  I make it.

No. 14, I hit my 9-iron close, maybe six feet.  I make it.

Then I make bogey on 16.  I hit it, fairway driver, missed the green to the left.  Didn't put it on the green with my chip and then up-and-down for bogey.
Q.   When you were to the right of the fairway what did you try to hit out of that hay over there?
LORENA OCHOA: Actually I had an okay lie.  I was like 124 yards to the front of the green.  I was trying to play it to the front of the green because I knew it would release a lot.  I was in between 8 or 7 because of the light (sic) but I didn't want to go long so I decided to hit it make aggressive swing with 8, the grass grabbed my face club and knocked it down.  I hit it like 15 yards left of the green.
Q.   Did you play that whole hole apprehensively?  Looked like that one  -- that second shot was kind of a questionmark and then the third shot coming uphill was kind of a questionmark as well.  Were you kind of just looking around and going I am in a lot of trouble here I just need to get out of here?
LORENA OCHOA: No, you know what?  I think I should have go with the 7 make an easy swing with Open face and let it fade and I was like I should have hit the 7 iron.  I think it took me too long to decide which club and I just didn't commit in my shot.
Q.   17, did you miss a pretty good birdie putt there?
LORENA OCHOA: Yeah, close.
Q.   What distance?
LORENA OCHOA: From here to there.  Seven feet.
Q.   Pull it or push it?
LORENA OCHOA: It moved.  I didn't go with the po annua.  I thought I made it.  I hit it and it just jumped to the left.
Q.   Nobody likes poa annua?
LORENA OCHOA: I do.  My golf course at home is poa annua.
PAUL ROVNAK:  We all set?
LORENA OCHOA: Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT