KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2004
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Lorena, thanks for coming in and joining us.  It was a 5-under 67.  Right now you're one back, top of the leaderboard again.  Talk about your day, and then we'll take questions from there.
LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  I did play good today.  I didn't start the best way.  I miss my birdie on the 2nd hole, make a bogey on the 3rd hole.  I was just thinking, This is a long tournament, tough tournament, you just need to be patient out there and wait for some opportunity for birdies.  That's pretty much what I did.

I hit my irons really, really good.  I hit really close to the pin pretty much all day.  I was putting for birdie, and that's very nice.  And on the Back 9, I thought at the beginning maybe just make one or two birdies, and I finish the Front 9 okay, then go hard on the Back 9.

But I just keep hitting the ball really straight, straight to the pin, putting the ball close.  I make a lot of birdies out there.

THE MODERATOR:  We'll take some questions.
Q.  Can you tell me how does this golf course set up to your game?
LORENA OCHOA:  I think it's a pretty good golf course for my game, especially because I'm hitting very good my driver.  I think it's key in this golf course, just to hit as many fairways as you can so you don't get in trouble.  That's what I did today.

I just missed probably one fairway.  The other two were on the short grass.  They were fine.  So I played the course easier.  That's what I need to do in the next three days, you know, hit a lot of fairways.
Q.  How was it to play this good in front of Annika Sorenstam?
LORENA OCHOA:  I enjoy playing a lot with Annika.  I always try to learn the most I can when I play with her.  She obviously didn't have her best day.  But at the beginning she start good, and then she start having a hard time.  I just tried to forget that she was there, I was playing with her, just try to play my own goals so I don't get distracted.

It is excited to be paired with her.  I'm very happy that I did good.
Q.  Annika said you putted really well today, rolled the ball really well.  Can you give us some examples of great putts you hit today.  What were your longest birdies?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think the only long putt I made was 16.  That was maybe about 20, 25 feet away.  But the rest, I was really close to the pin, maybe from three feet to 10 feet at the most.  So I was hitting good clubs.  It was an easy day on the greens, I guess.
Q.  You've been here before.  Can you describe what the difference is between the last time you played and today?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think the course was playing a little bit easy today, this morning.  We didn't have wind, and the greens are still kind of soft.  They are not too fast.  So I guess, you know, you really need to take advantage of the opportunities of the good conditions.

I'm happy because I did that, I get a good start.  Hopefully is going to put me in a good position for the weekend.
Q.  Are you feeling more support from the crowds now that more and more people are getting to know who you are?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, this is a special place.  I have relatives and friends coming from Mexico.  It is nice to have them here.  They really like this tournament.  There are a lot of Mexican or Latino people around this area.  I do feel a lot of support.  I appreciate that very much.

Is a lot easier be playing that way.  I like to play under pressure and with a crowd, it's nice.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT