MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 3, 2003
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 PAUL ROVNAK:  Lorena thanks for joining us again.  Can you talk about how the course played differently, how did the weather affect play out there today?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think it was playing a lot harder today.  Especially because it was cold.  And the golf course was playing long, so were very long, you know, irons to the green and they were hard, too.  I hit my driver bad today in some of fairways.  It looked like a roller-coaster today, good, bad, good, bad, very inconsistent with my driver.  It was a tough day for me, and I am very happy the way I finished.
PAUL ROVNAK:  You are going to be in the last couple of groups tomorrow, you have been there before on Sundays, do you do anything different, or do you just go out?  It's supposed to be a high of 59 tomorrow, similar conditions, do you switch anything up or what do you do?
LORENA OCHOA:  I think pretty much I try to really hit good drives, be in a good position and play as aggressive as I can.  I think tomorrow, you know, a good score will do it.  I like coming from behind  -- it's tough to be on the lead, especially throughout the whole week.  As I said, I think today was my bad round and I managed the golf course okay, so hopefully I will have a good round tomorrow and do it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Questions?
Q.  You are 4-under after 13, how much were you struggling after that point after a series of bogeys?
LORENA OCHOA:  I felt frustrated because I made 3 bad club selections and that really gets me mad.  When you are playing beyond the lead, and in the last group it's hard to believe that you do that.  I hit a good shot two times and then just a bad one.  I got frustrated.  I told myself to settle down.  And they are coming birdie holes.  I did better on the par-5 and keep moving with confidence, and I finished with 2 birdies.

Q.  Did you feel as you were coming up to 15 in the par-5, did you feel like that was one that you absolutely had to have to get back in?
LORENA OCHOA:  Absolutely, yes.  I knew it, and I hit a good driver so that brought me up and then I hit a really good second wood which I almost got it on the green.  I got up and down.

Q.  You had been so solid the first two days, no bogeys, I think your greens in regulation were out-of-sight, after you made that first bogey, is that when the frustration set it because you had been so perfect up til then?
LORENA OCHOA:  No, no, I made a really good bogey, I made a long putt for bogey.  It was finally.  I knew that that would make bogey sooner or later.  I knew it would show up.  No, no. 

Q.  Are you proud of the way you kind of brought it back from where you were, does that show a certain maturity and let you know that tomorrow you are ready to win?
LORENA OCHOA:  I think so, I was really close to be out of contention and I just pulled together in the last probably 5 or 6 holes.  I was very motivated, I kept going, kept going, and I did so.  So I finished very happy.  I'm going to bed very, very happy.  I'm having a good time and hopefully tomorrow is my day. 

Q.  You said the golf course played longer today, will you make any adjustments or changes to the clubs in your bag to compensate considering the weather is supposed to be the same tomorrow?
LORENA OCHOA:  It seems like it was hard to get the ball in the air.  The conditions were cold.  I was cold.  I was hitting the ball a little bit shorter, and I was trying to figure out like hitting an extra club, my mistakes.  I made three bad club sections.  I thought hitting a solid iron would get there and I didn't, and I should have hit probably an extra one.  So I learn.  I think tomorrow if it's the same conditions I will be okay.

Q.  Do you do your own yardage and club selection?
LORENA OCHOA:  I do my own club selection.  We both together do the yardage.  We are both walking and do the yardage. 

Q.  You are not going to blame the club selection on your caddy?
LORENA OCHOA:  No, no.  No, no.  This is the first time we are together, he is learning.  He just watches.

Q.  This is your first week?
LORENA OCHOA:  With him, yes.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Any more questions?   Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT