KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2003
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  2-under-par today, 3-under total.  Conditions were probably windy out there.  Talk about today and how you feel this week. 
LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you.  I did play pretty good today, especially at the beginning.  I start with a birdie on No. 2.  I have pretty much all the opportunity for birdies.  I was really close to the hole, many birdie chances. 
At the beginning, it was fine, then the wind pick up probably by the 6th hole.  On the Back  9 it was pretty windy, especially on the last maybe four holes. 
I feel pretty good.  I'm hitting a lot of fairways.  I'm playing really good on the distances with my second shot.  That makes the golf course a little easier. 

Q.  Do you think it's too soon in your career to win a major? 
LORENA OCHOA:  No, no, I don't think (laughter).  I'm trying to enjoy the moment.  I think I'm in a pretty good position for the weekend.  The golf course is really tough.  We'll see how the conditions are on the weekend. 
I think right now I'm in contention.  If I have a good weekend, I go low, I can win this tournament.  So I'm very excited. 

Q.  How much easier is it playing this tournament this year compared to last year when you're still a student, juggling classes? 
LORENA OCHOA:  I remember last year being here, I was in a pretty good position on Sunday.  I was also writing a final paper (laughter). 
Right now it feels better.  I think it's good that I played two times before here as an amateur.  I feel pretty good with the players and the golf course.  I know the golf course very well. 
It's been very good for me.  I'm enjoying a lot. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
LORENA OCHOA:  It was a tough one, I remember I was reading that night.  It was a long one. 

Q.  You like extreme sports, as well?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.

Q.  What's the fascination with that, like mountain climbing, biking? 
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I like very much to push myself, to train really hard and be tough on my mind.  I like very much adrenaline.  I just enjoy. 

Q.  How much did you learn from last year and how much of that did you bring into the tournament this year?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think last year it was a little bit crazy for me.  I was in many (inaudible) with my driver, all over the place.  You try to be aggressive, hit the green.  You end up in the bunker, in a difficult position. 
I think this year I have my mind, you know, a little bit better like, I'm not looking for the (inaudible) fairway, I'm looking for a good position so can I make up and down.  I think I'm playing a lot smarter because all the good experience I got from the last two years. 

Q.  On your website, you have about five sponsors already.  Can you talk about what it's like to be a rookie, have so much corporate sponsorship?  Have they frowned on you doing your extreme sports?
LORENA OCHOA:  I didn't understand.  I'm sorry. 

Q.  With your sponsors, do they frown on your extreme sports?
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I think I know what I want to do, and I know that I need to be careful, when to do the extreme sports.  I'm always really careful.  I'm the only one that finish losing everything.  I always try to be careful. 
I think that's fun.  You need to do something to get out of golf and relax your mind, get more energy to start playing, you know, some tournaments. 
About the sponsors, I'm very happy.  My manager has done a great job.  I'm very happy with him.  He's been very nice.

Q.  Is part of it because you are from Mexico, did the sponsors see this person from Mexico, large Mexican population in the United States, they could grab onto and promote? 
LORENA OCHOA:  I think that's a big part of it.  In my case, I have a really good opportunity to, you know, get a good image here in the United States and all around the world.  I think my name, the way I look, is just a little bit different.  My last name, my name, my language, my culture and everything, I think that gets a little bit more attention. 
Is really positive for me.  I can really do something, you know, for my country.  I like that very much, to be able to do something for my country.

Q.  How often do you go back to Mexico to see family?  When you do, what's the reaction of people?  Do you get recognized a lot?
LORENA OCHOA:  I live in Mexico.  I live in Guadalajara for the first couple years.  I think it's close enough to go there on my weeks off. 
I love to be home.  I enjoy very much.  I think that's the way I am.  My family, they make me who I am right now.  I enjoy just be with them, enjoy be with my sisters and my brothers, eat at home, sleep in my own bed. 
My family and friends are in Mexico, they are doing things very nice, great support.  I feel a lot of support from lots of them.  It's great that when I go there, they are waiting for them.

Q.  Do you get much reaction from the general public when you go out to the store?  Are you becoming more recognized? 
LORENA OCHOA:  Golf is getting very popular in Mexico.  We have a lot of reporters and newspapers from Mexico that come here and follow what I'm doing, and also the TV.  They are showing what I'm doing, which is very nice for me because I can share with them what I'm doing here.  It never happen before.  Golf is growing very much.  I'm just very happy to be part of it.

Q.  Did you feel like you had anybody to idolize from Mexico at all? 
LORENA OCHOA:  No, not really.  I used to play with my coach, with Rafael.  He helped me very much.  We used to have imaginary opponents.  I was trying to beat all the time boys older than me so my game can get better. 
I think right now my opportunity to (inaudible), it's something very special I want to do in the right way. 

Q.  Last year, the Futures Tour, going through that experience, what was that like for you going from college? 
LORENA OCHOA:  Well, I made my decision of playing the Futures Tour, even though was just half the season.  It was tough because in college is so much fun, coach take care of everything.  When you start playing the Futures Tour, you play week by week, golf courses, hotel.  You have to pay everything.  You learn a lot. 
I think that helped me very, very much.  I'm very, very happy that I made that decision, everything work out. 
Right now that I'm here, I'm feeling much better.  I understand and I know how, you know, is playing week by week, how you get tired, especially the time that you need to get rest and the times to practice.  I think that is helping me a lot.  I feel very comfortable here.

Q.  It gave you confidence the way you played there, the competition level?
LORENA OCHOA:  Yes.  I think you learn how important is just one stroke.  Here on the LPGA, it's amazing what one stroke can do. 
MODERATOR:  Let's go over your birdies. 
LORENA OCHOA:  I make birdie on the 2nd hole.  I have a chip maybe for 35 yards.  I leave it right like nine feet, I make it. 
I make birdie on No.  7.  I was 135 yards, and I hit my 7-iron.  I had a long putt, maybe 10 feet, I made it. 
Then I made a birdie on 11.  I almost reached the green in two.  I had a chip like five yards out of the green.  I was like three feet from the hole, and I made it. 
Then I made a double bogey on 15.  My ball was in a divot in the fairway.  I almost shank it.  My second shot just went to the right bunker (laughter).  I missed that bunker shot.  I made a double bogey.  Went over the green, didn't make up and down. 
I hit a good 4-iron, it was like 175 yards on 17.  I leave it like three feet from the pin.  I make birdie. 
That's it. 
MODERATOR:  Thank you. 
LORENA OCHOA:  Thank you very much. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT