U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 1999
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I started like every day. I feel very good in the morning. In the
1st hole, I 3-putted there, and I lose there, 1. And then I -- today I didn't hit my irons
well. I missed a lot of greens, and I don't do, like, up-and-down like I usually do.
Probably was a little out of my control. 
 
Q. Could you pinpoint what was wrong, Lorena? Could you fix it on the course when you
stood over your iron shots and you weren't quite as good as you wanted them to be? Did you
know what to do to make them good?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, yeah. I know that when I play with pressure and in my weak side is
too fast; so, I need to do more easy, my swing. I try to do it. And the last hole, I hit
some pretty good. But today, I missed putts. I missed many greens. I make a lot of
mistakes. 
 
Q. Where were your birdies and your bogeys on the front side and the back side?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Bogey in the 1st there. Then birdie in the 3rd. And bogey on the 9th. And
then bogey on the 10th. And bogey on the 16th. And birdie on the 14th. 
 
Q. When you made that birdie on 14, were you thinking: I could still do? Were you still
trying to be positive and everything?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah. I always try to continue. When I miss my putting at 13, I know that
wasn't a good chance for me. I hit it up really hot and tried to make it, but I couldn't.
And I still have holes where I can do it, and that birdie on the 14th giving me a lot of
confidence. But then in the par 3, I hit my 5-wood really bad. And I still made a good
up-and-down, but -- 
 
Q. Is there anything -- when you say overall this week has been a good experience for
you?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah. I know that I lose, but I make it to be a semifinalist. 
 
Q. This is your first U.S. Women's Amateur?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. 
 
Q. Did you ever think you would get this far?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Not the first day. But when I played the second day, I saw that my game
is very good; so, yeah. I think that I can get far. 
 
Q. You're going to college where?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: I might take six months off. And I'm probably going to Texas A&M in
the spring. But I don't know yet. 
 
Q. What are you going to do for six months?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Just practice and study English. I learn listening with my teachers and
friends, but I'm pretty, pretty bad in grammar. I need to study, because I don't want to
have problems playing golf and studying at the same time. 
 
Q. If you could change anything, would you change anything, or would you do it the
same?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, probably would start with two putts and everything going to be
different. 
 
Q. Even though you're pretty satisfied with getting this close to winning, it was
probably pretty tough?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah. 
 
Q. Did you keep running this week in the mountains? Have you been running in the
morning?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't usually exercise during a tournament. 
 
Q. How high up is Guadalajara? Is that in the mountains?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: No. But I don't know how high. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT