U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 1999
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 LORENA OCHOA: It is good. 
 
Q. Any turning point in the match? You were 2-up, and she came back with two straight
birdies. What were you thinking when she comes back on you there on the back nine? What's
going through your mind?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I played that -- in the first one when she made a putt for birdie,
I was a little bugged at her. She made a really good putt. And on the 2nd hole, I put the
ball close, and I made my putt, and she made a really good putt. So I just think that she
has, I don't know, a good player -- big putts. And I just continue and I don't know. In
16, I hit my driver really good. I was a little farther than her. I wasn't sure if I
should hit my 4-iron or my 5-wood, and I decided to hit my 5-wood. 
 
Q. And it went over?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah, over the green. So she, too, (over the green). So she gave me a big
chance. I made that par. 
 
Q. How many birdies did you have today in this match?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: One in the 6th, 7th and 9th. That's it. 
 
Q. How many did you have in your first match; do you remember?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I made one in the 9th, one on the 10th, 13th. That's it. 
 
Q. You had eight birdies yesterday and six today. You still feel like you're playing
pretty well; right?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: In the first 9, I missed three putts like really close, (indicating five
feet). But that's part of the game. I still feel good. 
 
Q. Is this the best you've played these last couple days in a row? Is this the best?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: I shot in the Junior World 3-under par. Probably yes, because the course
is more tough. The players are more good ones. Probably, yeah. 
 
Q. Did you have a realistic goal of winning this thing when you first came in this
week? What were your goals?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: When I come here, I was really tired, because I've been playing five
tournaments in a row. I know that this tournament is for every player; so I know that I
qualify. And I just come here thinking that I had to play my golf without pressure or
nothing. I enjoy this tournament to be here, because it's my first U.S. Amateur. So when I
was there in the World, the first day I thought I made a really good -- I was in a really
good place. The second day I start to thinking I can be in the top 5 players and win a lot
of matches. So I just have to be aggressive all the time and try to be at the same quality
that the other players. 
 
Q. Do you think you'll feel pressure tomorrow or not?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, no. I still enjoy this tournament, to be here as a semifinalist. I
think the only thing I want to do is to be there and play my golf and enjoy the moment. 
 
Q. You get to sleep in a little bit more. I know you're looking forward to that.
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. 
 
Q. This is a side-bar, but how are you able to finance these trips? How are you able to
come up with the money for these trips? Do your parents do pretty well?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, my parents help. The Golf Association in Mexico helps me and my
coach in Guadalajara. Actually this tournament, the Golf Association. 
 
Q. How did you come up with your head covers? You've got Tony the Tiger as one of your
head covers. Superman is the other. What's the third one?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I love the Tiger. A friend gave it to me a couple weeks ago. And
Superman, I love that cover. 
 
Q. What's your third head cover?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: It's one from the U.S. Open, 95 for Men's and my coach gave it to me. 
 
Q. Do you generally play a lot of Match Play, or is this an unusual format?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: We don't have tournaments in Mexico -- no Match Play. I just played the
U.S. Girls' last week and this tournament. 
 
Q. How do you like it?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: I like more Match Play because I like to be aggressive all the time. And
I know that I don't have enough experience; so, sometimes I make mistakes. So in Match
Play, it doesn't affect me. I prefer Match Play. 
 
Q. Your opponent said that she lost to the eventual winner. She thinks you're the
player to beat.
 
 LORENA OCHOA: (Laughs.) I don't understand.  
 
Q. She thinks that you're the one who is going to win this tournament?
 
 LORENA OCHOA: Super. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT