LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
November 23, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Were just trying to post the lowest score you could or were you checking where Jiyai was during the round?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, for sure I was aware. But at the same time, I just was trying to win the tournament so I didn't have to worry about how she finished or if how I play or the points at the end of the day. 
 It really surprise me on the hole 13 when I look at the leaderboard and Anna already made two, three birdies and she was at 12. So that was not a good feeling.
 I'm just really proud the way that I finish. I think it was important to make those few birdies, especially the bogey on 17. That was a great save. I can go and enjoy my time off.

 Q. So your last stroke as a single woman is a birdie. 
 LORENA OCHOA: I like that. It's a good memory. 

 Q. Fourth straight player of the year. How does that feel to you? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think it's for sure really hard to explain right now, but I just think it's not about breaking records. I always say that I want to stay at the top as long as I continue playing, so this is just a great year for me. 
 It's been tough in many different ways, but the important thing is I'm at the top. 

 Q. What was your mind frame this morning?
 LORENA OCHOA: For sure yesterday it was a weird day, you know, just a different day. I started early with bad swings, out of rhythm. Especially we stop playing for two, three days.
 It was cold in the morning, and then I start missing so many putts. I couldn't get anything going. I was really frustrated and I was really upset, because I had a great opportunity to shoot two or three under and stay in the lead. 
 But at the same time, if you were to ask me earlier this year, Will you take being in second place, you know, for the last round, I would take it always.
 So I just put everything in perspective and say I'm gonna go and rest and get ready for tomorrow.

 Q. When you said to Greg, I had 8 birdies, almost like surprised that you had all those birdies today. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. That's what we're trying to do. You never now how it's gonna happen. This time, luckily, it was my day. But I work so hard. I try so hard. 
 I think for both of us, it was almost fair or not fair, you know losing or winning. 

 Q. By this much?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah. So I'm happy I can make history, and my goal is to continue that. Hopefully I'm gonna get back home and work hard and be ready for next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT