LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
November 19, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Can we go over your card? You started on 10, so birdie 10. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Birdie 10. I hit 9-iron 127 yards, about ten feet, and I made it. 
 Birdie on the par-5. I tried to hit the green in two with a 4-iron, 185 yards. Just leave it short on the fringe, but I two-putted for birdie.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Bogey 17.
 LORENA OCHOA: And then bogey 17. I missed the green with a 7-wood on the right side. Leave it short of the green and I made chip about a couple feet and I made it for bogey.
 Birdie 18. I hit a 5-iron 165 yards about 600 feet, and I made it. 
 Birdie the 2nd hole. I hit the green in two with a 7-iron. I had 165 yards straight downwind, and two-putted from maybe 20 feet. 
 And then 3rd hole I hit a 54-degree wedge. I only had 95 yards to the pin. A little bit short, maybe 15 feet, and I made it. 
 Birdie No. 6. I hit an 8-iron 115 yards maybe seven, eight feet, and I made it. 
 Then bogey on No. 7. I hit a wedge to about 20 feet and I three-putted from there. 
 Birdie No. 8. I hit 4-iron 175 yards about three feet, and I made it. 
 Birdie No. 9. I hit a 7-iron 140 yards about 12, 15 feet, and I made it.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Busy card. Lorena, thanks so much for coming in. Nice way to start off the round in the wind there with a 66. If you would, just talk about coming from your own tournament to here and how you were able to refocus and shoot a really nice round today.
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh. Well, I think, you know, what happened last week was a little bit, you know, tough in many different ways with all the things to do and all the pressure. 
 I think everything is a little bit easier, if you compare to last week. I'm just very happy I could start the tournament. It's very important to get a good start to give myself a good chance. That's all I was trying to do.
 So tomorrow is a new start, and I'm gonna play like I'm a few shots behind and continue being aggressive and to give myself chances to win on Sunday. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions.

 Q. Talk about the playing conditions out there. The wind seemed to pick up by the end of your round. 
 LORENA OCHOA: I think we were lucky maybe getting six, seven holes with not much wind, you know, in the morning. And then took advantage of the downwind holes and made few birdies there. 
 So it was like I said, a good day. It's playing tough. I think if you don't hit a lot of greens it could be tough, because the grass is not easy around the greens. 

 Q. You talked about it a little bit, but could you go into it more specifically? How different is it playing here without the pressure of hosting the tournament like you had last week? 
 LORENA OCHOA: It's not easy this week either. (Laughter.) I'm trying to win a tournament. It's just very different. I think you always learn from tough situations. They make a better player. 
 I learned from last week as much as I could, and this is a new week for me now. So I'm trying just to concentrate on this week. 
 You know, every week is different and very unique. I'm trying to get used to the conditions here, and, you know, put in my 100% for the week.

 Q. But is this week more straight golf, not as many commitments and you're not hosting friends and family?
 LORENA OCHOA: Every week is different. I had yesterday more than one hour of interviews. Tomorrow we have a dinner to attend. It's always -- something is happening. 
 But besides everything, I'm trying to concentrate and play good golf. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT