NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 4, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Lorena Ochoa, congratulations on winning the Navistar LPGA Classic for the second year in a row. How does it feel to successful defend your title, you're the only person to do that this year; win for the third time this season after not winning since April; and just having everything come together.  
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh. Well, thank you. I guess it's hard to describe. It's been not the easiest second part of year for me.   
 But the way I played the last few weeks and winning today, it means a lot. I been working hard, and I guess I'm proud, because it's just a good feeling. I'm gonna try to repeat a few of those this year, and I try hard to win the player of the year.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Can you go over your scorecard really quick?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Bogey No. 2. I hit it with a 6-iron over the green. I chipped that about six feet and I missed that.   
 Then I birdied No. 4. I hit with a 50-degree wedge 100 yards, about 20 feet, and I made it.  
 Double bogey No. 5. I hit my driver to the right on the trees and it was unplayable. I came back and hit my third shot. I was just on the green in three and two-putts for double.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: What did you hit onto the green and how far were your putts?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I hit a 58 degree. It was 100 -- no, no, sorry. It was 65 yards. It was maybe a 30-feet putt for double.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: And 8?   
 LORENA OCHOA: On 8, I hit the green in two with a 7-iron, 160 yards, about 20 feet from the hole, and two-putted for birdie.   
 Birdie No. 11. I hit a 9-iron 133 yards, about ten feet, and I made it.   
 Then 14, I had 100 yards. I hit a 50-degree wedge about three feet.   
 17, I hit the green, tried to hit the green in two with a 7-wood. It was 210 yards to the hole. I just leave it short on the fringe. It was a long putt, maybe 50, 60 feet, and I two-putted for birdie.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Great. Questions for Lorena.   
  
  Q. Yesterday there were a lot people shooting -7s, -5s. Today the best may have been a -5 minus. A lot of -2s. What was the difference between today and yesterday? Why was it more difficult to get a good score today?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh, well, obviously in the morning the wind pick up. The tempo was slower, and also the greens were a little harder. It was hard to get the right club selection and to get the right bounce. It was really hard, so it did change the golf course.  
  
  Q. You've all but conquered this course. Is there any reason why? You play well here.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah, well, you know, I think for all of us, not only in golf but in any other thing, I think there are places where you feel comfortable and you feel a good vibe and how the course is playing.   
 I feel comfortable here. This is really good for me. I have good memories. I try to revive those memories all the time, you know, the way I finish, making birdie on 17, and then those two putts on 18, I will keep them with me.   
 I think it's a great memory, and just something -- I feel comfortable here. And thank you for all the fans, because they support me a lot.  
  
  Q. When you make the double bogey and lose the lead, does that rattle your confidence at all, or not?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I didn't lose my lead. I never lose the lead. (Laughter.) No, of course it was a shame, that driver that I missed. It was early in the day. I just told myself to forget it. You have many holes to go and just be patient.   
 I'm proud that I did that and turned around and played really good the back nine.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised at the beer shower afterwards?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, but it was good. (Laughter.) It's not the best smell, but it was good. Yeah, thank you.   
  
  Q. What now? Do you get a rest? You got something else coming up soon?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I do. I'm gonna fly tomorrow. On Tuesday I have a tournament for my foundation in Guadalajara, and Thursday I have a tournament in Monterrey for one of my sponsors. And Saturday and Sunday another tournament for my sponsor, and Monday too of the following week.  
 So for the first week it's gonna be tough. Next week is gonna be tough. I have a lot of things to do. But it's nice to be home and nice to be in Mexico. The second week I'm gonna rest for sure. Just to enjoy the win and be able to spend time with my fans and to be at home, and then back to work.   
  
  Q. Is this gonna help your school open up a little bit earlier?   
 LORENA OCHOA: No, well, the school is already open. We have more than 300 kids. We already have -- we started this year with the eighth grade. Every year we continue one -- we're under construction for the second part of the school, so it will help for sure.   
 We're planning on raising close to $200,000 at the tournament on Tuesday. And that will be money -- I'm very, very grateful. I always try to share that, how thankful I am for the support. That money will help, you know, many kids happy.   
  
  Q. Who dumped the beer on you and how are you gonna get your revenge?  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: I think she's standing back in that corner. (Laughter.)  
 LORENA OCHOA: A friend from home. Her name is Shanty (ph). I'm gonna get to her on this. I don't know how, but I'm gonna do it.   
  
  Q. It's been a while since you won. How does it feel to have broken the drought, what is for you a drought?  
 LORENA OCHOA: It feels good. Yes, I have nothing to say but it feels good. Right now, a lot of things -- I have a lot have emotions because it's been not easy, like I said.   
 But I'm ready to keep playing good golf, and I would love to finish with a few more wins for the rest of the year.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all very much. Once again, congratulations Lorena.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT