NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 3, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: We'll get started with our leader, Lorena Ochoa. You are the 54-hole leader at the Navistar LPGA Classic. A great 6-under par out there. Talk about your day today.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello everybody. Yes, I mean, for sure it was a good day. I didn't make birdies early. I think my first birdie was on hole No. 7. Once I made that, then I just give myself more of a better feeling and a good rhythm.   
 I birdied No. 8, the par-5, and No. 9, so I think that was a really important part of my round, you know, just to be on the red numbers for the day and to see my name out there on the board.  
 So I'm really pleased. I'm happy I'm in a good position, and tomorrow's gonna be just a new day. I'm gonna try my best to win the tournament.  
 DAN GROSS-RHODE: Questions.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 LORENA OCHOA: All of them. You never rest in golf. All of them. It's a sport that you cannot, you know, not until you finish and make the putt on the 18 you can relax.   
  
  Q. Where were you last year going into the final round? Do you remember? Last year, do you draw upon anything from last year at all?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Everything. Yes, you can always -- that's the best thing you can do in golf is to have good memories, to be positive, and to have all those good shots from last year and the good feelings of walking on the fairways.   
 I'm gonna try to repeat that tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Is there anything you've been working on in particular between your rounds, or are you just doing a normal practice routine?  
 LORENA OCHOA: No, normal. I think today probably I'm gonna go and putt a little bit, short putts and long putts, just get a good feeling to finish the day, and then go to rest and be ready for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Are you playing some of the best golf that you've played all year right now?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you are?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you know, last time I won was in April, so it's been a little bit of a slow -- you know, middle of the year was a little bit slow. I played good the last few weeks and missed some chances.   
 But I would love to win tomorrow. I'm feeling good. This is still a good competition and there are so many good players out there. But like I said, I would love to win, and I'm gonna be there 100% trying to enjoy every moment.  
  
  Q. You're going to approach the final round the same as you approach every other round?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, always do the same: just forget about the leaderboard and just try to post a lower round. Whatever happens, it will be the result. I guess if you thinking other players, you know, you're in trouble. It's out of your hands.   
 Just try to have control of my game, and I should be in good shape.   
  
  Q. What would it mean to you to be back-to-back champions here?  
 LORENA OCHOA: A lot, but I'll tell you tomorrow if it happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT