NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 2, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Great round for you, Lorena. Thanks for joining us. You've now made your way to the top of the leaderboard. How much confidence does that give you for the weekend? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh, hello, everybody. For sure I'm really happy with my round today. It was a little bit of roller coaster. You know, few birdies and also a few bogeys. 
 But I think what's important at the end of the day is I'm in a good position for the weekend. I'm excited to be up there. We don't know how it's gonna finish at the end of the day, but I should be close. 
 So I'm gonna be ready to play good on the weekend. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Questions for Lorena. 

 Q. Could you describe how you played the 17th hole? What are your thoughts on the 17th hole?
 LORENA OCHOA: I hit the driver to the fairway, and I had about 200 yards to the front of the green. I tried to hit a 3-wood to the greens, just trying fade a 3-wood, but I fire a little bit far left and just ended up short. So I'm happy with that birdie. 

 Q. And you like that hole?
 LORENA OCHOA: I like it, yes, very much. All of them, 18 holes. 

 Q. How does the rest of the tournament look? Two days left and you're in the lead right now. How do the next two days look to you?
 LORENA OCHOA: For sure it's not easy to win a tournament out here. Like I said, I'm in a good position right now. We'll see what other players will be around the lead tomorrow. 
 I think I need to be aggressive and I need to continue a good play to mistake a lot of birdies. I think it's gonna be a low score to win this tournament.
 So tomorrow I'm gonna try to do the same: be aggressive and shoot a low round. 

 Q. What would you say the biggest challenge is for this course alone during the tournament heading into the weekend?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think we all know how the course is playing. I think it depends a lot on the conditions. If we get a little bit of rain or just a windy day tomorrow, maybe could change everything.
 So I think you need to get here and be prepared for whatever we have. What is good is that we have the same conditions for all of the players. You just need to be smart out there and try make your decisions and try to save a few bogeys. 
 So I hope tomorrow that, you know, I don't make any bogeys. It should be a lot better. 

 Q. Today is "Passionately Pink" day. What does that mean to you?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I'm very supportive. I think it's something important for the LPGA and for us women. This is the only shirt I have left with a little bit of pink. I wish I had something that shows more, but I'm very supportive. 
 I think it's a good cause that we should all be involved. Hopefully this helps to keep the word out.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you very much, Lorena. Good luck tomorrow.
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT