NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 1, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Lorena, that was the seventh time you shot in the 60s on this golf course out of nine. You have a win here and a third place. What is it about it place that's so right for you?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you know, I don't know. I guess I just have a good feeling. You know, I have good memories. Today I had a lot of birdie chances. I just like it. 

 Q. You had amazing birdie chances today. What was the longest putt you had out therefor birdie?
 LORENA OCHOA: Around 20 feet. For sure it was one of my best days with second shot. A lot of birdie chances, and hopefully I can repeat that tomorrow and for the rest of the week.

 Q. How did you stay patient over the putter? Because you really did have a lot of great chances?
 LORENA OCHOA: The think the greens are tough. They are hilly and a lot break. A lot of ball mark in the afternoon. 
 You just need to be patient, you know. And that's why I'm gonna keep working. Tomorrow is gonna be an earlier round, and that should be a little bit easier to make putts. 

 Q. Well, it's important for to you win, isn't it, because it's been what for you would be considered a slow year. How did you pace yourself getting that to happen on Sunday?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think that's too far ahead. I'm gonna try to get here tomorrow early and be 100% and put myself in a good position. 
 It would be nice to win, but we talk about that on Sunday.

 Q. As always, we look forward to watching you?
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you.

 Q. How did the day go? How do you feel? How do you feel about your game and how do you feel about your first day?
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm feeling good. I'm for sure really happy with my round. It was a good day, an easy day, because I didn't make any bogeys. It was just a lot of birdie chances, and we love to have those days. 
 So I'm glad the first round is over. Now we have three to go, and I'm gonna make sure I get tomorrow here and be a 100% again to play again good golf.

 Q. Was there any particular hole that you liked or was particularly difficult for you today?
 LORENA OCHOA: No. Like I said, I think I just keep giving myself a lot of birdie chances. I think that's gonna be key tomorrow.
 You know, I'm gonna try to continue my roll of hopefully not making bogeys, you know, not making mistakes. That would be nice. I'm gonna try that. 

 Q. Any good luck traditions that you have?
 LORENA OCHOA: (Laughter.) No, no, no. I'm just trying to enjoy. You know, I don't think there's a reason why I should change my golf plan or the strategy. 
 Just I'm gonna be here tomorrow thinking that I'm -- not in a good position, just trying to be aggressive like I always do, and hopefully post another good round. 

 Q. What do you know about 14-year-old Alexis Thompson, and how does it make you feel that a 14 year old can do what she's doing? 
 LORENA OCHOA: No, it's amazing. Congratulations. We were warming up today on the range, and a 14 year old was winning the tournament. It's very impressive. 
 I guess she had a great day just enjoying. I wish her the best for the rest of the week. 

 Q. You've won this before. Does that make it easier, or does to play any role at all? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think it -- well, it helps. It helps because I have the experience and I know how the course plays on Saturday and Sunday with a little bit more difficult conditions. 
 So I feel ready. I think right now it's too far ahead to think of winning the tournament. It's just the first day, so I'm gonna get here tomorrow and put myself in a good position for the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT