CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Making birdies and bogeys out there. Suzann Pettersen made eight birdies and four bogeys, and what is it about the course that makes that happen do you think?
 LORENA OCHOA: You know, the wind, strong wind. And it's hard to make a decision to sometimes to get in the right club selection. And if you are normally in the rough, it's no grace to be up-and-down. 
 So that's why I didn't feel my tee shots today, and I knew I was in trouble, so tomorrow I want to do a little bit better with my driver.

 Q. And I guess the flip side, there are a lot of opportunities out there when you are putting for birdie and making birdies. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah. That's equally important, that you continue that. And I feel if you hit the ball, it's important. I'm just trying to make birdies there and create some rhythm. I'm going to try to do that tomorrow.

 Q. You had more rhythm after 15, you birdied three, looks like you were going to advance. Is it tough when you're trying to get into that rhythm to find it, just continually --
LORENA OCHOA: If you try hard, it won't happen. You just need to stop trying, just to get in the right place. And I'm okay. I always try to do the same because of the whole weekend and weather, so I'm completely happy with my round. Even with the bogey, I'm willing to take the bogey and do better tomorrow. 

 Q. Besides 16 and 2 this morning, are you surprised that someone was going to be able to shoot that low out here?
 LORENA OCHOA: No. I think whoever stays on course, and Alena made eight birdies, or seven. 
 In the morning, you know, you get here and there's nobody in the greens, there's perfect conditions, and I could see that, the really low rounds.

 Q. Are you feeling better? I know you weren't feeling well the other day when we talked to you.
 LORENA OCHOA: I've had this cold for a couple weeks, but I don't feel bad. I'm okay. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT