CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: All right, everyone, welcome to the 2009 CN Canadian Women's Open. We have with us world's ranking No. 1, Lorena Ochoa. You've been out on the course, you've seen the course. You're back in Canada. It's been an interesting year for you, but can you just talk about the year and coming back to Canada? May be ready to win.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. Hello, everybody. Yes, for sure I am happy to be back here in Canada. It's been a great day, and just welcome, everybody seems happy to have us. The hospitality has been very nice so far.   
 I did play the course twice already, yesterday in the practice round and today in the Pro-Am, and the course is in good shape. I think it's going to be a good test for us, it's fun for the fans and good excitement.  
 About my year, it has been a different year. I've been very inconsistent the last few tournaments. But it's okay. I just have to be patient. I'm doing good. I'm happy and positive, and I'm ready to start playing better golf and hopefully win this week.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Questions for Lorena.  
  
  Q. Lorena, how did you find the greens out there?  
 LORENA OCHOA: They're difficult. I think the scoring depends on the pin placements. And you have some really quick ones and just be careful to try to get the speeds of the greens and be patient.   
 Sometimes not just make all the putts. That's what I'm going to do, go out there and try to get good speeds, for tomorrow and work on that.  
  
  Q. Lorena, how tough has it been for you to remain patient given you haven't had the success you've had in previous years?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm okay. Every week is different. It's been many practice this year, but I understand how it goes, and I've seen different players have years, you have that little up-and-down. And I already won two tournaments this year, so it's not the worst year of my life.   
 I'm just trying to hang in there and trying to get a rhythm back, trying to be positive and play better scores, and this will be a great week to start.   
  
  Q. Lorena, can you talk a little bit about your competition and rivalry with Cristie Kerr? You're ranked No. 1 in the world. She's the top money winner on the Tour. So who's better?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't think I can answer that, you know. I think the results shows at events. And Cristie is an American player that can play very good, solid for many years. I'm a different person, a different player.   
 I mean I have nothing to say about that. I mean I think the results shows who is the best player.   
  
  Q. I just want to ask you, when you have the kind of success you have, not to dwell on this year, but is it difficult not to try and be too perfect when things aren't going, you know, as well as you would expect them to? Watching the British Open, one of the commentators said she thought you were trying to compensate for things by cutting it too fine, by being too perfect. Do you think that's a danger, and do you think you've been guilty of that at all this year?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I don't know. That's exactly what I'm trying not to do. I'm just trying to get out there and be easy with myself, just by saying it's a good bounce or a bad bounce and try to be patient, like I said.   
 And it's just not easy. Sometimes when it doesn't go right, it's not easy. But like I said before, I think I'm trying to prepare myself, you know. You gotta be ready for everything to happen.   
 I still have a pretty good chance to finish the year at the top and finish strong. Right now that's what I'm going to try to do, just take one tournament at a time and start building my confidence and better results.  
  
  Q. Lorena, it's fall now and a lot of children are going back to school. Can you talk about your school and the development, what you have going on in Mexico right now?  
 LORENA OCHOA: We have school, it's 300 kids, from first grade to eighth grade this year for the first time. So we're moving one year at a time.   
 We already started construction for elementary. And they've been there already one week, so they have a lot of excitement. And we have some new teachers involved with the program. So we have great motivation, and we have that school is part of the Lorena Ochoa Foundation, and we're trying to grow that little by little and get support, not only in Mexico but in different places.   
 So it's nice to talk about that because it gives me a lot of pride because it's been a fun job trying to help those kids, and it's just very, very nice, special to see them to go there and take their classes and be able to get an education.   
  
  Q. Given your domination over the last three years, do you feel like you go into tournaments and into this year with a target on your back, and if so, do you feel like you're a favorite at this tournament?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I cannot answer that again. I'm just saying I'm happy to be here, and my goal every tournament I play is to win, and I know that there are many players out there trying to win.   
 So competition is not easy, but I like my chances. I'm going to try really hard like I always do, and hopefully it is a good week.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any more questions for Lorena? Thank you all and Lorena, good luck this week.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT