U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you sum up the day as best you can?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello, everybody. Well, right from the start I had a double bogey. I went into the water on the third hole, and it was just hard all the way from the beginning.   
 I had a little bit of everything, just missed with the drivers, very bad with my swing. I was out of rhythm, and I three-putted a few times. It was the whole package, everything bad today.  
  
  Q. What are you going to do to get ready for tomorrow?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Nothing. Just get some rest, and I guess tomorrow I'm going to have an early tee time, so just come here early and have a good day.  
  
  Q. How much of a surprise is it that it went that way for you today? Did you feel good about things when you came out?  
 LORENA OCHOA: You know, it's more than a surprise. It's just a big disappointment.   
 You know, I've been working hard, and I was feeling pretty good last week. And I played good the first day, but when things go wrong, it's hard to come back.  
 Like I said today, just everything, you know, the rhythm, and my head, I got really frustrated, and a few bad breaks, and it wasn't good.   
  
  Q. Was it the conditions, the putter, the greens or both?  
 LORENA OCHOA: No. No. Nothing more than missing shots and a couple of bad breaks and missing that short putt, and hitting to the wrong side of the green. And then you have a 45-footer with a lot of break. And sometimes you have to just make two-putts. So just the combination.   
 You know, I lost control, and that's what happened.   
  
  Q. When you come out of the rough like that, is it just a matter of making, you just have to kind of hope you're going to catch it?  
 LORENA OCHOA: You try to be smart out there, but when you don't get a good lie, it's hard to have control. And today a couple of shots that I was in the rough, I just didn't have anything to do, just kind of like chip out.   
 You know, I guess when you miss here, you have to pray to get a good lie to have a chance.   
  
  Q. Your overall thoughts on the course and the test.   
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't think we could ask for easier. The weather has been beautiful. There's not much wind. I think the pin placements were in good position where you could make a few birdies, so that's why I'm frustrated because it was a beautiful day.   
 Of course, it's playing tough. It's U.S. Open, but I guess now I have nothing to lose and just come tomorrow and hopefully play two good days.  
  
  Q. The test and conditions are so difficult. If you put up a good number, you can make a big move. Is that the way you look at it? How do you approach the weekend?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. I was looking at the scores, and I think I'm tied for 35th or 36th, because I have 79. So that says everything. I think tomorrow with a couple birdies, I could jump up a few places and just feel better for Sunday. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT