U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RHONDA GLENN: Ladies and gentlemen, we're happy to have with us Lorena Ochoa who is certainly one of the outstanding contestants in this 2009 championship. Lorena, I know that before most championships, sometimes during the week, also, that you will contact your professional, Rafael, and he gives you some thoughts for the week, things to carry with you to help you compete at a very high level. What has he told you for this week?
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello, everybody. I talked to him, and I guess, you know, for the week of the U.S. Open, you want to say probably a hundred things, but he just said keep it simple. Just try to go out there and enjoy. You've been practicing good, and just, you know, trust that your game is in a good position right now. 
 So that's what I'm trying to do. I think it's very important for me to get back, to get a rhythm, and I'm feeling good right now. So I can't wait to start playing tomorrow.
 RHONDA GLENN: Questions? 

 Q. Just a basic look at the golf course and how it fits your game and anything you could tell us about yourself and this golf course, what you think you can accomplish here. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh. Well, I think, you know, we all know it's playing really long, and it's a tough golf course. 
 I like the shape of the holes. I think it's good for my driver. I hit a little bit left-to-right, and that's going to help me to hit, you know, a few fairways out there. 
 The rest is just -- you know, the greens are so hilly, they have so many different slopes. You just need to make sure you keep the ball in the right position of the green. 
 And other things, of course, going to be very low. So just try to be patient out there, otherwise you're going to make mistakes, just try to make as many pars as you can, and go from there. 

 Q. What role now do Majors play in your career? Obviously when you first came along, you were just trying to establish yourself on the Tour and win. You've done plenty of winning. What do Majors mean now? Do they mean more to you now than when you were younger?
 LORENA OCHOA: I think always, you know, that they mean a lot. Doesn't matter, you know, if it's your first year or your 20th year. 
 You always have that different feeling, you know, when you go to a major championship golf course. It will mean a lot to me to win this week. You know, that's why I'm happy to be here. I'm going to try my best. 
 I think I don't think it's good to put more pressure than there already is. Just try to think it's like any other week and enjoy. 

 Q. You've seen the reports about Carolyn Bivens and your name being attached to a letter to her. I wonder if you could tell us about that and your feelings about your concerns about women's golf and the LPGA Tour at this point, why you signed the letter.
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think everybody has been talking about it, and, you know, we as players we want to be more involved in what is happening and we want to see the Tour going in a better direction. 
 There's not much we can do. I believe they will do the best for us, and hopefully things will start, you know, moving in a good direction, because we are worried that we're losing tournaments and we want to get back on a good track. 

 Q. Do you think another commissioner could change that?
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm not sure what is the decision and what is going to happen. Like I said, I don't want to comment any on that part. Just believe that the board is taking care of that, and analyzing what will be the best thing for us, and then make a decision from there. 

 Q. When they announced that the 2014 Women's Open will be held right after the men, were you in favor of that? I mean, is that something that you think could be a positive or a negative for women's golf?
 LORENA OCHOA: I think for sure it's positive. I mean, that's why we're all talking about it. I mean, it's something that makes us more excited. I would love to play that tournament. I think it's going to be history, having the two tournaments together at the same place, and it's going to be a great time. 
 We'll have to wait a little bit, but I like the news, and I think it should be something special. 

 Q. Do you have any concerns playing right after the men, you know, the shape of the course and everything like that, what condition it will be in?
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm concerned about playing tomorrow here. It's too far ahead. Like I said, I think it should be a great experience and we'll see when it gets a little bit closer. 

 Q. You didn't really compete -- you weren't competitive in the first two Majors, and I'm wondering what your mindset is going into this U.S. Open, what maybe you want to change up. You've won Majors, so you know how to win them. What about this year, you know, coming into this event, maybe any different approach, something you really wanted to work on?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, everything the same. You know, just sometimes it works, and sometimes it doesn't. 
 I don't think there is a reason why I should change the way I play. Just, you know, like I said before, just don't try to put too much pressure, just go out there and enjoy the week. 

 Q. These business distractions of the LPGA or the business controversies, does this distract you and other players, and if so, how do you cope with this?
 LORENA OCHOA: You know, I think that's why we are not getting involved, we're here in U.S. Open. It's a USGA tournament. Our attention and concentration, talking, from myself, is in the tournament. I want to perform and do my best. Just leave everything else outside. 

 Q. How much of a goal is it for you at this stage of your career to maybe, you know, achieve the career Grand Slam in Majors?
 LORENA OCHOA: Very high. I mean, I don't know from 1 to 10, 10. I think to know that winning Majors is what makes, you know, really a good player, and I never won this tournament before, so I'm going to make sure I give myself a good chance and hopefully it happens for me. I feel good. 

 Q. In terms of other Mexican athletes now and in the past, how do you think you rank up there in terms of celebrity status and what does it mean to you?
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't think it's an answer that I can respond. I could say that I'm very proud to be Mexican and that I'm very proud, you know, to represent my country in my sport. 
 It's nice every time I get back home, you know, that they wait for me and follow what I'm doing. They're learning so much about the LPGA, about golf in general. 
 I'm just trying to be part of, you know, the history in my country as an athlete. We all know soccer is the bigger sport, though. I think we're working to put the name of golf up there in the news, and I'm happy to see that. 

 Q. You hope to inspire athletes to follow in your footsteps?
 LORENA OCHOA: There are right now a lot of players, some of them in college, some of them in the Futures Tour, and they are trying to qualify to have a place here in the LPGA. 
 I mean, I don't think it will happen as soon as the many Koreans, but I'm trying to work a little bit. Every time I get back home I try to spend time with the juniors and try to motivate them and talking to them about how is the professional life and encourage them to try it. 
 So it is -- you know, the number of golfers I've seen in Mexico right now is unusual. When I started it was only few players. Right now it's hundreds and hundreds. We have a good chance we have more professionals in the future. 

 Q. Tiger said last week that when he takes a vacation, he doesn't -- playing golf does not interest him at all. I'm wondering when you take a vacation, does playing golf for fun interest you?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I don't play golf, either. There are too many things that I like to do, and there is never enough time. I just go home and spend time with my friends. I love going to lake house and water-ski. I do play tennis. I like tennis. Just anything I can do outside of the golf course.

 Q. Can you talk about becoming No. 1 and how that changes things, especially the expectations? It's like now that you're on top, if you don't win, it's like what's wrong? How have you had to adjust to that? Does it become annoying sometimes and you're expected to perform all the time?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I think it's -- it's always going to be tough. It's never -- I don't think you ever get 100% adjusted because everything changes so quick and all the time in different places, but it's part of, you know, part of the job, you know. If you want to be No. 1, all of those things come along. 
 So I'm okay, you know. It's never easy. I'm still learning. I think I get better with time. I don't put too much pressure. I just try to enjoy my moment and to be up there. 
 Competition is tough and we all know that, and we know good players are coming and it's getting better and better. I'm just trying to practice, harder and harder. I already won two tournaments, but I'm not at the top this year. I want to make sure I continue playing tournaments and get better, every week be consistent, so at the end of the year I'm at the No. 1 position like I like. 

 Q. I'm just curious if you like the fact that the USGA mixes up the tees during the week, and will you be using driver if they try to drive the green on a couple of the par-4s, 10 and 15 if they move the tees up? 
 LORENA OCHOA: 10? Try to drive the green? 

 Q. Move the tees up to make the drivable par-4s.
 RHONDA GLENN: They're going to move up some of the tees during the week and make some of the holes drivable.
 LORENA OCHOA: Which hole did you mention? 

 Q. I think it's 10 and 15. 
 LORENA OCHOA: 15? I'm going to go play them today. Maybe I should check the tees. (Laughs). I didn't see them yesterday. I'm going to have to tell my caddie, hey, do you see these new tees? 
 We all -- I saw on No. 9, play in front, keeps the pace a little bit easier and they move a little bit. That's the way we do it, and we like it. I think it's always great to have a strategy, to be aggressive when you can. It makes things more interesting. I know that I will reach one of the greens. 
 RHONDA GLENN: But you might use your driver and try to drive the green on some of the par-4s?
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm an aggressive player. Yes, I could do it. If it's reachable, I don't think it's going to be. 
 RHONDA GLENN: Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. We appreciate it so much, Lorena. We wish you lots of luck. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you very much. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT