MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 9, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all for joining us we have the world's ranked No. 1 with us, Lorena Ochoa. Welcome to the 2009 McDonald's LPGA Championship. You won two of the four majors; do you think this week might be your third major championship win?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello, everybody. Yes, I think that this could be my other major. I am just happy to be here. I got here yesterday and played in the Pro-Am today. I think that the course looks in great shape. I think it depends on how the greens play on the week and the weather that we get, but I think it should be a fun week and I can't wait to start playing on Thursday.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about how good it feels to have your caddie back on the bag?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm very happy for that, too. He finished a little bit tired today after the Pro-Am, but we are happy to be back. No, it's a nice feeling, because we know each other very well. It's important to have him next to me in the process of playing with making decisions and supporting each other, and it's nice to see and he's very motivated and we are ready to go.   
 I think we both really want to win the tournament and we want to try to do our best every single day.   
  
  Q. You had a little bit of a break since your last tournament. Did you take time off or did you work really hard?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I took about three, four days off early in my first week, and then I went to Guadalajara to see Rafael, and spent six or seven days with him working on my swing and my putting. The third week, actually spent the week in Mexico City looking at golf courses over there. It was a good time.   
 The government has a new -- it's called Viva Mexico, and it's a promotion the government is trying to do to get tourists going down to Mexico and visit the country. So I did a couple of things for them, also, one in Puerto Vallarta and one in Mexico City, and for my sponsors. It was actually a pretty busy three weeks but it was the right time to be at home and get good practice and to be here 100%.   
  
  Q. How is the state of the country now?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Things look good right now, not only in the resort area, but just in different parts of the country. The President asked us to be a spokesperson and to do different activities. I went and played a tournament Monday in Puerto Vallarta with some soccer players. It was a lot of fun.   
 It attracted a lot of people, a lot of media interest, and I think it will help the country to reactivate where it's been having difficulties in those areas. We are trying to be there for our country and help as much as we can. I think we are all in it together and really support.   
  
  Q. Have you been happy with your year so far?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I think you know, if you compare this year to my last season, it's gone a little bit slow. But I'm happy. I think what happened last year happened for a reason. It was really good. It really helped me to learn.   
 I needed to make some changes in my swing and putting, and it's improving and I'm getting better and better. I want to be 100% in the summertime when we have some big tournaments and I'm getting there. I don't want to say I'm in the best shape ever right now because it's not true, but I'm making improvements and that's keeping me motivated and keeping me happy, and I'm going to continue to do that and work at it.  
 The other thing is it's going to be easier for me to have a better summer, and things are getting in a good place right now. I'm also really positive about that, just to have a better summer and to be clear to see that, and that will help my game, and also the things that I want to achieve at the end of the year.   
  
  Q. This is the last year for the LPGA Championship under the McDonald's sponsorship. Could you talk about your feeling about that, and also the uncertainty about next year and the LPGA Championship?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I guess as a player first I want to say thank you to McDonald's for the support for so many years. I played with the guys in McDonald's and 29 years they have been involved in golf in different activities inside and outside the golf course so, thank you for all of that.   
 We really hope to be in a partnership with them, not necessarily sponsoring the major championship but always to be involved with them. I think it's a great sponsorship and they have done so much for us, and hopefully we continue that. There are many different ways to do it, and it's important for us to help them and all of the players have been involved in different tournaments, not necessarily one big tournament. So, we'll see. We will support the decision, and they also have our support.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all. Lorena, good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT