MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 8, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Do you want to do your score card?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I started on No. 10. I birdied 13, the par-3. I hit a 9-iron, 125 yards, about six feet. I birdied No. 14. I hit the green with a 9-iron, 130 yards, about four feet.   
 I birdied 15, actually my best shot with a 50-degree wedge, 100 yards, about three, four feet. And I birdied 18. I hit again with a 9-iron, 125 yards. That was a long ball, maybe 35 feet. And I made that for birdie.   
 And then I birdied No. 1. I hit the green, 100 yards, with 50-degree wedge, about 10 feet. I birdied No. 12 -- I'm sorry. No. 2, the par-3. I hit the green with a 6-iron, 165 yards. And maybe 15 feet, made it.   
 Birdied hole No. 5, the par-3, I hit a 9-iron again, 125 yards, about 10 feet, and I made it. Bogey No. 6.   
 I missed the green on the left side with a 7-iron, just left it short, made that putt for par. And then No. 8, I hit the green with a 6-iron, 155 yards, about six, seven feet, and I made that for birdie.   
 I bogey No. 9. I made the green with a 5-iron to the right side. And then I was in the bunker and a little short, maybe 10, 12 feet, and I missed that, for par.   
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Lorena, thanks for coming in. You finished at 6-under today, 13-under overall. You have a three-shot lead going into round three tomorrow. If you would, just talk a little bit about today.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. I'm really happy again. I think it was a great day, and I was a little disappointed with the finish. I missed my second shot really bad to the right side, and unfortunately I ended with a bogey, but I want to say the good things.   
 There were a lot of birdies, a lot of good putts. I was much better with my driver today. So hopefully I will continue that with the same direction and keep playing aggressively for the weekend.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. When you started, you obviously knew a lot of players had shot good scores already. How important was it for you to be patient when you started with the three pars in a row?  
 LORENA OCHOA: You are right. I think, you know, I knew I had a lot of holes left, and the conditions were okay. Not very easy, but we didn't have much wind, and it was a blue sky. So I just thought, I need to be patient and take advantage of it, easy holes, the par-5s and just go for it there.   
 And that's what I did. And right away I started making birdies and felt very comfortable. And I think that's important to get those first couple birdies, to get me going. And I was able to have a good round.  
  
  Q. You've had winning streaks of three tournaments in a row three years in a row. When you get into one of those streaks, do you feel different? Do you just feel supremely confident or something?  
 LORENA OCHOA: You know what, I think I've been in that situation in this place, and I think the courses that you play good or you win tournaments is because they suit your game and you feel comfortable on them.   
 So the more you repeat that, the level of comfort is better and better, and it's like making one or two birdies, you seem to make the next two. So that's the way it works. It's a crazy game, and sometimes it's hard to understand, but I do like to be here, and I would love to get my first win.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you could be kind of getting on a roll like that?  
 LORENA OCHOA: It's never good to think that way. You always need to be ready, and you always need to be humble, and tomorrow will be a new day on your side, and I'm going to play like if I'm behind for two or three shots. I never like to think I'm winning. So that's what I'm going to do tomorrow, and hopefully I'll have another good round.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like having not won here, that as well as you have played here at this course, do you feel like that's sort of a hole in your resume?  
 LORENA OCHOA: (Laughs). Why does everybody keep asking me questions like that? I love to be here. That's the way it is. Sometimes we don't understand why things happen, and I'm ready to play good this year, and hopefully it will happen.   
 I don't have nothing else to think about it for a round or two. This has been a great tournament for me, and it would be lovely to win this year.   
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Thanks so much.  
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT