KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 4, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Could you sum up today, your thoughts on today's round?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, it was a better score, better day. A little bit again up-and-down, really good shots and missing putts out there; and then a couple of bad drivers I put in a bad position. So a little bit of everything.   
 The good thing is I made birdie on the last hole and that feels good, and hopefully tomorrow, you know, it's a better day.   
  
  Q. Nobody is really running away with this. Is that a little surprising, or what do you think about that?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, no, it's just tough. I think there's been so many things going on this week, and the greens are really hard, extremely hard. It was hard to put it close to the pin today. There's just not that many birdies out there.  
 For me, better. I feel that I have a chance tomorrow and that's what I will try to do, something special tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How tough was yesterday? Did you think it was too windy to be playing?   
 LORENA OCHOA: It was very windy. In my opinion with my game, I never had an unplayable ball on the green, but I heard that other players did over three hours out there. I'm surprised the LPGA did not pull it off because it seems like there were many cases where it was unplayable, and that's not fair for us, for the Tour, the players that we have to deal with that in the afternoon. That's it.   
  
  Q. Did the tough conditions test the emotions more than normal, and has it been that case for you? Have you found more of a test for your emotions this week?   
 LORENA OCHOA: You always have a headache in the afternoon, you know, so much thinking, especially a day like yesterday.   
 But we have to be strong enough to deal with everything, because that's the way it is. For me, I think it's been a learning experience, and I'm happy that yesterday I managed to play okay.   
  
  Q. You seem like some of your drivers were missing the fairway and you would get in just a little bit of trouble, under a tree or in a position where you could not reach the green. Did it feel like at any time you made a mistake that you had to pay for it today, any time you weren't perfect, you had to pay for it?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I hit my driver better than any other day. I'm happy with my driver. I hit one behind the tree, and that's the way it is here, if you miss, you will get in trouble for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT