HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 8, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You looked like you were a little upset after you missed that shot on the par 5. How do you keep your cool and somehow do you stay focused? Even if you get a shot that is a really great shot by your standards, how do you get back into focus? What do you tell yourself? 
 LORENA OCHOA: You always need to be positive. I've been doing this for a few years now, and I feel more comfortable every time.
 When you make a mistake, you just need to forget about it and keep it going. That's the way I do it. Just really try to forget and move on.

 Q. You make it sound really easy. 
 LORENA OCHOA: You have to do it.

 Q. Is it like, this is it? 
 LORENA OCHOA: No. 

 Q. Just how do you feel about the fact that you made a strong comeback? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I had my opportunity. I think I tried, and I tried to make the birdies early today, but it didn't work for me. I just kept working hard all day. 
 I was happy with my finish. You know, I think it's always good when you get a Top 10. Now I go home a little bit relaxed and continue with my practice to be ready for the next tournament.

 Q. Did the second round actually ruin your chances of defending the title? You got a 73. Do you think that is the day you maybe lost a little bit of ground? 
 LORENA OCHOA: For sure, yes. 

 Q. What went right and what went wrong for you in this tournament? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I think I didn't make as many putts as I made last year. On the greens, I couldn't get the speed right. And I wasn't quite as good with my irons. I kept leaving myself long birdie chances. So it's a combination that is not the best. 
 So like I said, what is important is to be consistent. I'm happy and I'm okay with my Top 10. It was a great week here in Singapore. We enjoyed it a lot and look forward to next year.

 Q. You're hoping the rest of the season will not be like that? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Every week with a Top 10, I'm happy with my finish. You know, you just need to give yourself a chance to win, and that's what I'm going to try to do every week. Play 100%. I'd like to win a few more tournaments, so I'm going to try hard.

 Q. What do you think of youngsters like Shin who won the tournament and Katherine Hull?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, congratulations to them. For sure it's no surprise. The way Shin played last year, and finishing the tournaments she played on the LPGA, she's a great player. So we need to watch out for her. I just want to say congratulations and great success. 

 Q. Should the tournament be back next year, will you be coming back? 
 LORENA OCHOA: For sure. Hopefully, we'll do it. I think we love to be here in Singapore. It's great what they do for us. They do a beautiful job HSBC and great hospitality and we'd love to be back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT