HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2009
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Lorena Ochoa, Rolex Rankings' number one, welcome to the HSBC Women's Champions. After winning last week and defending here, how are you looking forward to the week? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, hello, everybody. It was a great way to start the year with a win last week, and I'm excited to be here. 
 Like you said, I had good memories last year, so I'm glad to be back and really feel comfortable on the course and hope I have a chance to win again this Sunday. 

 Q. Do you think that last year's 11-stroke victory is a tough act to follow for this year? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I'd be happy with one (stroke). What is important is to win. Every week is different. The competition is tough, and so many good players. Sometimes you play great and sometimes they play better than you, and other times, it's just a nice and easy week. Every week is different. 
 I think what is important is to have a chance and if I win, one stroke is okay. 

 Q. Who is going to be your biggest rival in this tournament?
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't like to think in other names. I just like to concentrate on my game. I have a lot of respect for many players, and really, anybody can win any week. 
 So I just concentrate on my game and try to play one round at a time and try to play my best. 

 Q. On the topic of golf in the recession right now, first, I want to get your thoughts, what do you see to help the LPGA attract more sponsors or help the LPGA be more marketable in these times?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, for sure, I am very glad to be a player and it's something that is real and is happening for everybody. 
 Well, what we can do is just get together as professionals and try to support as much as we can and with our sponsors, we have a strong relationship with the media, and I think with that way, we should stay in a good position. 

 Q. But I know how you mentioned last year media and sponsor requirements got you busy the second half of the year and distracted you, and yet now you say you have to try to do more to help the LPGA. So is it hard to find this balance?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, it's quite hard. (Laughing).
 I think I'm human, I'm human, and sometimes we get tired in the world, but as professionals we have to do it in the good times and the bad times. I'm just going to enjoy it as much as I can and I'm going to be really careful so I don't get too tired.

DANA GROSSRHODE: What are your thoughts on the course, Tanah Merah Country Club, this year? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I think it's a beautiful course. The greens are in great shape. I can't believe they are hard; they have had so much rain. The course is playing longer, I think a lot longer than last year. 
 So it's very important to hit the ball far and get an advantage. You know, you should know where the hazard is going to be so that you can prepare for everything, and hopefully tomorrow have a good first round. 

 Q. Now that you are world number one for two years, every tournament you go, you are viewed as the golfer to beat. How do you cope with this pressure? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you know, I'm learning. I'm still learning. But it's okay. You know, I like to be challenged. It took me a lot of hard work and a lot of years to get to the top, and my goal is to stay in that position. 
 I know I need to practice really hard and play good every week, and that's what I'm trying to do because I would like to stay in that number one position. 

 Q. What do you think about the idea of a pay cut for golfers, reduced purses, what do you think about that if you have to play for less money? There were some reports last week saying that golfers now, maybe they should take pay cuts, like reduced prize funds in these times of the recession. What are your thoughts on that? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I'm really happy with what we have, and it's a blessing to be able to play golf for a living. 
 The men, they win a lot more money. If it's going to be tough in two years, we'll be happy with what we have and just try to do our best. No, I can't complain, it's really a great place to be. 

 Q. Is the Superman head cover still the favorite in your bag, and if it is, why? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I have it now for almost 10 years. This is something that I like to see it in my bag. It reminds me of my childhood goals and college goals, and a lot of friend called me "Super Ochoa" and gives me nice memories. 
 It's the last one I have, so hopefully it doesn't break.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT