ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Lorena, thank you for joining us. Welcome to the ADT Championship. You're the defending champion. You've had a successful year, seven wins this year, and right after you won here last year you made the $100,000 donation to the flood victims in Tabasco, Mexico. Can you just talk about everything that's been going on, and you also had your tournament last week as well. So it's a jumbled introduction, I apologize.
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello everybody. Yes, I mean, it's been a really good year in many different ways. Where I finally here the last tournament of the year, we all know this is an exciting week. 
 I would love to defend my title for sure. You know, especially having seven wins, it would be great to get the eight, the same as last year. 
 You know, I think what is important is that we're all here with the opportunity, and this tournament plays different being with the format. But I think I'm ready. You know, being last week in Guadalajara, I think it helped me to be a better player today. 
 I learned a lot. It was a great week. We enjoyed it a lot. It was really a dream come true being able to play in my hometown, and I'm really motivated to play good the last one of the year, and after that go home. 

 Q. Was last week the most emotional week you've ever had in a tournament? I mean, what did it feel like trying to concentrate on golf? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Not about the trying to concentrate. I think that was okay, but it was very emotional. I wanted to cry all the time. Starting on Thursday, you know being on the first tee shot, and making a goal here, making a birdie. I wanted to drive always. And my caddie just, you know, it was impossible not to enjoy it. 
 It was not about golf, it was about everything we've achieved outside the golf course. Having so many fans, and the response from the public, you know, the professionals that were there, they had a great time. Hopefully they pass that, you know, and we'll see them, you know, next year, too. 
 It was just a great week. It was a gift for everybody, you know that I wanted to share with everybody. Like I say, it was very emotional. I wanted to cry all week. Finally on the last day, on 18, you know, with all the emotions, it was done, and I feel like I have nothing left. It was tough. 
 Yesterday I was dying. Yesterday I had no energy. Today I feel a little bit better, and it was good to play the Pro-Am and be relaxed. I think I'll be ready for tomorrow. 

 Q. So did you cry then when it was all done? 
 LORENA OCHOA: You know, I cried every day (laughing). It was something to enjoy with the crowds and the gallery and the support. 

 Q. I think I can guess the answer to this after last year, but do you like the format here? I would think for somebody that makes a lot of birdies like you, this would be fun because every day it's just kind of go for it?
 LORENA OCHOA: You're right. I think I very like it here. I like the format. You can see it both ways, you know. But I think what's important is not that we have the opportunity to do it. We are here. It's the best players and everybody can really win this week. 
 I'm not going to change anything. I'm going to play the same golf. I don't need to have any different strategy. Just, you know, play consistent the first three rounds. I think on Sunday is where you can be more aggressive, because only one round you need to do something special to win. But I'm not going to change anything. Just going to play the same.

 Q. If my math is right, I think Paula still has a chance to catch you for the money title. Are you aware of that? Does that money title mean something to you? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Of course, it means something to me, and of course I'm aware. I think we all know it. It's very simple. We're just going to leave it at that. She will have a chance to win and me, too, and I would like to stay at the top. So I'm going to do my best. 

 Q. Did John Koch help your team today? 
 LORENA OCHOA: He did, yes. He was very knowledgeable about the course, and he made good putts, important putts. He was good to be around. 
 We had a great group. And of course I want to say thank you to all the support for the ADT and the sponsors. It was a nice day. 

 Q. What was the most -- I have two questions, what was the most special moment last week at your tournament if you had one? Can you think of something that really stands out as being like a highlight? 
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I don't have a particular one. All of it, you know. Arriving, the players, there on Monday and seeing the course with the ropes and the stands and starting to play the tournament Thursday. It was really crowded on Thursday. You can feel the whole, the first hole. Everything. 

 Q. The former world No. 1 is now leaving after this event and she won't use the word retiring, but this is her last event. Do you think she's still competitive enough to win out here on a regular basis? And is it surprising to see someone who is, if she is, leaving this early in her career? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I think Annika would be competitive all her life. I think she's ready to win any week. You know, she's the one that knows how to do it. She's very experienced. 
 But I also understand and I'm happy for her that she's moving on and seeing different aspects of her life. I wish her the best. Personally, I hope she can have a great family. I think she'll be a great mom. And sometimes it's just time to move on. You know, she's been here for many years. We'll miss her for sure, but I think she's done us a great job. And number one, say thank you for that. 

 Q. The global economy is in more than a little turmoil, and the commissioner was in here talking about next year's schedule and the reduction in the number of tournaments and prize money. What is your reaction to that and your viewpoint of the future of the tour? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I think you're putting everything together. We are going through hard times, and, of course, it will hurt a few tournaments or sponsors. But I think we're in good shape. We believe that we are in great hands. 
 I feel that it's been a blessing to be an LPGA player, and it looks pretty good. We just need to keep doing the right things and supporting our commissioner and our sponsors, and keep going in the right direction. 
 But I think as far as comparing ourselves to other organizations or professionals, you know, we're in a great position. So, hopefully, we continue that way. 
 It's impossible not to have, you know, I don't know the word in English. 

 Q. Concern? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, or maybe losing a few sponsors or tournaments because of the economy, but we are doing okay. 

 Q. Morgan Pressel's a local here. Is it easy or hard to be at home? Is it hard to be at home and play and try to win? Or is it easier? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I didn't even know she was a local. I guess in a way it's easy, because you have a little bit of an advantage of the course knowledge and with the crowds. You can use them, you know, for your support, you know. It's nice to feel that support and that love. 
 So we all have to learn, you know, to be in that position, and I think it helps you. It motivates you to play better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT