LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 13, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Tell us about your day, how did it go out there for you?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, it wasn't the best of start, it was tough with all of the emotions and adrenaline. I was 1-under right away -- no, sorry, 1-over right away, and then I made another bogey on the par 3, so I made the turn at 2-over. 
 But I was very happy with my birdie on the last hole, and we still have three days to go. So I have to be positive and just try to enjoy every day and play better the next three rounds. 

 Q. How much pressure is there playing around all of these people here in Guadalajara? 
 LORENA OCHOA: It was easier than I thought. It was not hard. I was relaxed and they were very supportive, very happy, and I think it was a great crowd. All of them behaved pretty good, and I was pleased to see that, a lot of respect between them and also all of the players. 
 So I think really it was a great day, and hopefully we get more crowds tomorrow and we enjoy the day with more birdies.

 Q. How did you feel about the greens today? 
 LORENA OCHOA: They were good. I mean, there are three days to go and on the weekend, I think they will be even tougher, but I'm happy with my putting. 

 Q. You're only five shots back and we all know you're great at coming back; just talk about the rest of the week and what your goals are? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, my round today, I'm just going to try to learn from it and not be to hard on myself. Three still have three more days. Tomorrow hopefully we get off to a good start and just keep going from there. I'm going to try to be aggressive and do a little bit of catch up. 

 Q. Were you more nervous than normal today?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I just have a lot of emotions, and it was hard to concentrate with the comments from the crowd and me trying to play good, but I think I was able to control the pressure fine, and hopefully do better the next few days.

 Q. What's the lowest score you've ever shot on this course?
 LORENA OCHOA: 62; hopefully tomorrow. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT