LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 12, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: How do you feel to be here at home with your family staying at your house playing at your course; is there pressure.  
 LORENA OCHOA: No, of course, there is always pressure, but I think it's a good type of pressure. I'm very happy to be here sharing with my friends and my family. It's always nice to stay at home and spend time at home. It's been great so far, so I'm going to enjoy the week.   
  
  Q. How did you enjoy playing with Diego Luna during the Pro-Am today?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Very much. I want to say thank you to him. He was very easy going and very happy to be part of the tournament. He helped me a little bit, gave me a bit of advice with the media and how to handle the pressure, and I think it's always nice to get together with someone like him. He's very proud to be Mexican, and me, too. So it's great and hopefully we'll do something together in the future.   
  
  Q. How do you feel going into tomorrow; are you ready for the week to start, finally?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I am ready. I mean, I'm feeling comfortable. I feel at peace and just happy. It's been a long wait and I'm going to try to enjoy every moment, and whatever happens, it's going to be a great week, just for being here.   
  
  Q. How do you visualize women's golf in the future?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think we are in a growing stage right now. It's very important to really support the LPGA. I'm very proud to be on LPGA member, and I also hope to see more Mexicans in the future.   
  
  Q. You started all of the golf passion in México, and now that this is your tournament, with the best players, how does it feel?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think it's a responsibility that I have, trying to help as much as I can growing golf in México. And this is a great place to do it. To me, it's very special to be on my home course and in my hometown and I hope it's a good example for more golfers to start playing.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Gracias.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT