KAPALUA LPGA CLASSIC
October 15, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Lorena, thanks for coming in and welcome to Kapalua. Is this your first time to Maui?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I was here a few years ago. I was playing in a tournament, the America's Cup, and it was at the Plantation Course, and it's a little bit different now with my golf game, but it's very nice to be back.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: If you would, just talk about the course this week, you've played it now, and also the season. You've obviously had a great season, and you're in the lead for the Rolex Player of the Year points. Just talk about being here and at this course.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think I'm very excited. We heard great things, and so obviously it's always exciting when you have a new tournament. It's been great so far, the hospitality and the attention, and the course is in great shape. The greens are really, really quick, and I think it should be a great week for all of us.   
 I have been having a good year, some up-and-downs and some really great moments and sometimes, you know, a couple hard weeks. But that's the way it is. That's the way life is, in golf, and I'm just trying to finish the year strong. I've been playing very good the last couple of weeks, and it would be very good to do it this week and I'm going to try very hard to get that trophy on Sunday.   
  
  Q. Do you have a goal in mind --  
 LORENA OCHOA: I wanted to improve my record from last year. So I won eight last year. So far I have seven this year, so I need to keep going.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts about -- this is the last event with a full field in the U.S., and for Annika, it's her last, what are your thoughts about that?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Every time I play with Annika, it's very special. You know, I think you can always learn a lot from her. And now that these are her last few tournaments, I think me and all of the people are trying to just enjoy her as much as we can.   
 She has been really an amazing player and gives me a lot of motivation for me to improve and to get to a position where I am today. So I think that I will be able to enjoy and just to have good time with her and really show her appreciation for what she has done.   
  
  Q. She said earlier that this is kind of her farewell tour and she's saying good-bye to everybody. Have you noticed a change in her the last month?   
 LORENA OCHOA: She will always be Annika, just period. We all know that her priorities are changing, and it's very hard to be out playing at that level and for so long, and the only thing that you are doing is golf.   
 I'm very excited about her new step and hopefully starting a family and getting married with Mike, and it seems like she has a lot of things going on outside the golf course with her academy. I think that's the reason why she's doing so many things right now. But it's a natural process and I wish her the best.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit just about, I read somewhere that you said last weekend that you were mentally fatigued; how do you feel going into this week? Do you feel ready to go?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm okay. For sure I was mentally fatigued with Half Moon Bay and last week in the cold weather, having to wear turtlenecks and sweaters and jackets. We knew this week it will be windy in Hawaii but at least we are wearing shorts and it's not too bad.   
 The good news is it's the same conditions for everybody. I am ready for the challenge and I think we should all just try to be positive and enjoy the conditions, because that's the way it's going to be.   
  
  Q. I read awhile ago that you've played the plantation course, but in regards to the Bay Course, anything that you've noticed, any differences?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't remember anything, nothing (laughing). Nothing.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Lorena, thank you for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT