NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 28, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Lorena, congratulations on winning. In a two hole playoff you're the Navistar LPGA Classic presented by MaxxForce Champion. If you would, just talk about your day and how happy you are to get another victory.  
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. Well, I am happy. It wasn't easy. You know, if you look at the leaderboard, a lot of players were up there one and two shots behind. Especially since in the playoff, I'm happy that I won the playoff because I need to improve in my playoff results.   
 So, you know, for sure I had a few chances to win tournaments before, and it's been a little slow in the last few months. I'm glad I did it this week and hopefully get in a good rhythm to keep it going and finish strong here.   
  
  Q. Which hole will you remember if anything sticks out about this week? Any one or two memories that you'll remember for a while about this week?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Uh-huh, a lot of great cooks. They made nice omelettes and the hospitality's been great. And, as far as the course, I like the 18 holes, they were a challenge. Everything was exciting. Trying to get to the green in two, very tough greens.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the 17th hole today? You went for it and just barely cleared the hazard. Was that calculated? Were you planning to land it right where you did or were you going for the green?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I was going to the left side. I didn't have an option. It was too far because of the lie I had, and the pin was playing uphill. I just wanted to go left and play safe and try to make the up-and-down.   
  
  Q. Your approach change at all once you're in a playoff? Do you do the same thing you do in regulation?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I guess I'm always trying to make birdies. In playoffs, for sure, you have more adrenaline and a lot of pressure. You just need to make sure you control that. However, I just wanted to get a birdie chance.  
  
  Q. You're defending champion next week at Samsung. Are you ready for that or are you still going to enjoy this one for a day or two?   
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I'm going to first enjoy this by being ready tomorrow. I fly tomorrow to San Francisco. And I'm going to take early in the afternoon to just relax a little bit and be ready to tee off on Tuesday morning.   
 I would love to defend my title, so I'm going to make sure I'm prepared and ready to go.  
  
  Q. You're 1 and 5 in playoffs coming into today; what put you over the top and gave you the confidence for today?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I just kind of feeling that this was my time. I never got too much pressure, and I was just trying to enjoy it. I had a good feeling that today it was my day, and it was going to happen, you know. I didn't try too hard. Sometimes you need to play and have a good time, and that's what I did.   
  
  Q. Does winning ever get old?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Hmm?   
  
  Q. How does this compare to the first 15 championships?  
 LORENA OCHOA: No. I think especially this one is going to be a good one for me. I had a slow summer, and I'm just trying to come back and come strong and it's an important win for my career. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT