NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 27, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Can we go through your card? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I made a bogey on the first hole. I missed my second shot to the left side. And then tried to get up-and-down and but then leave my shot for ten feet and missed that for par. 
 I made birdie on the second hole. Hit a 7-iron 145 yards, about six feet. 
 And then birdied on the third hole, I hit a sand wedge to 66 yards, not very long, about 15 feet and I made it. 
 Birdied No. 5, the par 5. I hit 9-iron, my third shot, 120 yards, about ten feet and made it. 
 No. 10, I had the same 110 yards with a pitching wedge, six feet and I made it. 
 Bogey 14. I was just short of the green and I tried to putt it and I hit it too hard, about three feet and I missed that. 
 Birdied 16. I hit a 7-iron about seven feet and I made it. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay, Lorena, you finished up at 13-under tied with Louise fry berg for the lead going into tomorrow's final round. If you would, just talk a little about your day. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, well, I'm happy. It was a little bit tougher today for me. I didn't feel a great rhythm with my irons, with my swing. So I was, you know, struggling a little bit, but I was able to finish under par and I think that's always good. 
 And what matters is to be in a good position for tomorrow, to be in the last group and to have a chance to win the tournament. So I'm going to be there tomorrow, 100 percent, it will be great to do it. 

 Q. (Regarding Friberg). 
 LORENA OCHOA: I think it's great that she played that good, and I saw the leaderboard on 18 and it seems like she made a lot of birdies. Hopefully I make them tomorrow myself. 

 Q. What was the difference for you today? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Like I said, I was a little bit out of rhythm and it was a little bit harder to judge my distance of my irons. I struggled a little bit with that. 
 Overall, I think it was a good round. I think as long as you make birdies and give yourself chances, it will be there. There's nothing I need to change. I'm going to try to do the same for tomorrow. 

 Q. How was the course today? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I like it. I think it was playing a little bit easier than yesterday. That's it the reason the scores were a little bit higher for players. 
 A four-day tournament, it's always kind of like up-and-down. Tomorrow is the same conditions for everybody, and I think it should be a good day. 

 Q. How was the atmosphere? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I like it. I think it's a lot of fun. A lot of Mexicans, they came to cheer for me in Spanish, and it's always nice to see them. It gives me extra motivation. 

 Q. Learning to play on Sunday with a lot of pressure --
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think it's just golf. I think if you just put too much pressure on yourself, I think you are there trying to win a tournament, sometimes it's harder to play. You know, be relaxed and try to have a good time together. It's just one more round of golf and it's important to think that way. Nothing is going to happen if you play good or if you play bad. It's just one more day.
 And I think once you get up there, you start feeling more comfortable, just takes a bit of time. And she's going to be in good shape. She won already in Mexico, so I think with the round she finished today, she's for sure playing good. That's the way you learn, by being there. 

 Q. You're awfully gracious signing autographs -- inaudible? 
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I love to do it. I think it's the only way we can say thank you to the fans for being so good and supporting us. I really like to sign little kids, their things, it's a little bit easier for us to spend some time with them, and also it could be somebody that they will dream of turning professional or just playing golf or in the future trying to be one of us. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Hopefully. Hopefully something good. 

 Q. What attitude do you take for Sunday --
LORENA OCHOA: Just to be the way I am. Like I said, I don't change anything, you know. Of course, you have to be 100 percent if you have any distractions and playing one shot at a time and being very patient with the things that you are doing. And it's not really -- you know, that you need to get here and trying to do something extraordinary. Just play your own game and try to have a good time. That's important. 

 Q. Obviously you prefer to be in the last pairing --
 LORENA OCHOA: Either way. You have to learn to do it both ways, and what's important is to be out there on Sunday. So I like it every time I win. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks, Lorena. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT