NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 26, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Can we do your card, please? Bogey on 12, the par 4?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Bogey on 12, I hit it on in two. It was a 7-iron, 130 yards but it came back almost all the way to the front of the green and I 3-putted. I had maybe 35 feet.   
 Birdie on the par 3. I hit a 7-iron 145 yards pin-high about six feet and made it.   
 Bogey on 15. I hit my driver to the right in the high grass and had an unplayable again. So tomorrow I am going to go to the left. It was a good bogey, I went over the green and got up-and-down for bogey.   
 Then birdied 16. I hit the green with a 9-iron, 135 yards, just a little bit short, maybe ten feet, and made that.   
 Birdied 18. I hit a wedge 115 yards to 12 feet and I made that.   
 Birdied No. 1. I hit the green with a 60-degree wedge and I had like 100 yards.   
 Birdie on 9, hit it on with a 9-iron to 12 feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Lorena, another great round today and you're in the lead right now in the clubhouse. If you would, just talk about your round and what went right for you today.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I'm just glad I took advantage of an early round today. It was playing a little bit easier today than yesterday in the morning. I think I just gave myself a lot of birdie chances. I've been very accurate with my irons and good with the distance and hopefully I can continue that. I have no reason to change anything and hope to do the same thing on the weekend and hopefully I can be out there on Sunday.  
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, yesterday and today, I already talked to my caddie and promised him I would play good tomorrow on the back, so hopefully be a little bit more balanced.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, it's never a bad thing to be in the lead and already in the clubhouse. I'm just glad I'm in that position. We still have two days to go, and I need to just take it easy, one day at a time and try to focus 100% every day.   
 But I can't complain. I really played good and I think I am feeling comfortable with my irons. I'm going to get some rest in the afternoon and be ready to play for the weekend.   
  
  Q. On your last hole, it seemed like a perfect read --  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I like these greens. I think that I do feel comfortable reading the greens and I think that's important to have a positive attitude, and like I said, hopefully on the weekend, it's playing similar and I'm going to try to keep making birdies.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, for sure. And I think the speed has been very consistent, yesterday and today, and that's important. For sure, you have to be on the right side of the greens. They are really soft greens out there. You miss sometimes by just a little and end up 30, 35 feet from the hole. So you need to be careful about putting the ball in the right places on the greens.   
  
  Q. What is it about --  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think for all of us, we are lucky with no wind. Usually in the mornings it's a little bit calmer. The greens are a little bit softer and you can go at it and you can get a good spin on the greens. You know, it was playing soft yesterday in the afternoon. I was surprised to see how low the scores were. I'm just glad I took advantage of my opportunity today and that I'm in good position for the weekend.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Lorena, thanks so much for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT