NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 24, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Lorena, thanks so much for coming in. Just finished up the Pro-Am. You had a great finish here last year. Think you finished 3rd. You've had a great year so far. If you would, just talk about being back in Prattville.
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello, everybody. Yes, it's a pleasure to be here. It is a good golf course for my game. I remember from last year, I had a good chance to win. It didn't happen last year, hopefully, we can do it this year.
 I've been having a good year this year. It's been challenging in the last months. That I didn't get any wins. So it would be nice to start that roll again. 
 I've been home for the last few weeks, spent some time with my coach and practicing for rhythm and practiced hard for good hours. There is good competition, and I'm excited to start playing tomorrow. 

 Q. Is there any part of your game that you're working on? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, there's always room to improve. I'm working on my short game, especially 100 yards in. I think I find something important in my putting stroke that will help me. And I'm getting better with this. And I think these greens are in good shape and they are slow. But at the same time it should be a fun week. 

 Q. (Indiscernible)?
 LORENA OCHOA: Like I said, I believe I could improve. But I have no complaints. It's been a fantastic year having six wins. And I did struggle early in the summer. I couldn't find a good rhythm and it was only loss. 
 I'm excited and I'm looking forward to playing now. That's important to me. Everybody participated with me and my caddie every week. It's been a long year for me. A lot of things have happened. I'm going to try to learn as much as I can and be ready for next year.

 Q. This is the third year in a row (Indiscernible)?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I have many goals. I have a lot of motivation. I have only won two majors, and I'd like to win many more. For sure I'm going to try to break other records. I am very motivated. 
 I have six months only of this season. So I'm just making sure I finish strong the season. That's the way I want to finish. But there will always be motivation. There are always things that I would like to achieve. 

 Q. How do you feel about the LPGA officials requiring foreign players to speak English or being suspended?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, my opinion was it was going to be hard for players to speak English. We're here because of what we do inside the golf course. What is important is to have a good communication with the LPGA staff and the players and try to be a little more sociable, and to smile and say hi to the sponsors and be good for the game. We should all be in good shape.

 Q. This is two days after you were quoted on the policy. It went away just like that. How much do you think that was the result of the status and the power you carry on the tour? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't think don't blame it on me. I have nothing to do with that. It's just an opinion like any other player. 
 I'm a foreign player. I really struggle with my English. Like I said, you don't have to speak the language to achieve that better communication. 
 I always support the LPGA. I think as long as we both try to do our best, we should be good. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much for coming in and good luck this week. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT