CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Lorena, thanks for coming in and joining us today, another great round. You're the leader in the clubhouse again. If you would just talk about the way you played today. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, thank you. Hello, everybody. 
 Today was a good day. It was a little bit slow on the front nine, and then I was able to make a few birdies on the back. I started on my 11th hole, the 2nd hole on the course. I made a good long putt for birdie and then just kind of like kept it going from there. 
 You know, it was different. I didn't start making birdies until the back nine, but I really enjoyed it. I think it's important to be in a good position. I'm glad that I'm in the lead right now. You never know how they're going to finish the day, but what is important is that I'm right there and really excited for the weekend. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Do you want to start by going over your scorecard starting with 10 or 1? 
 LORENA OCHOA: You tell me. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's start with 10, where you started today. 
 LORENA OCHOA: I made a birdie on No. 10. I had 220 yards to the green. I hit a 3-wood just short on the right-hand side, and I chipped about a foot and made it.
 Bogey on 15, I hit a 5-iron 180 yards, I hit it to the right in the bunker, got it out, but I left it short about ten feet, and I missed that for par. 
 Birdie on hole No. 2, I hit a 6-iron 155 yards, just a little bit long, probably 20 feet, and I made that for birdie.
 On the 5th hole, the par-3, I hit a 5-iron 175 yards, about 12 feet, made it.
 On the 6th hole, the par-5, I had 90 yards for my third shot. I hit it just a little bit short, five feet, and I made that. I used the 50-degree wedge, gap wedge.
 And then on 8, I hit a 7-iron 155 yards about 12 feet short, and I made that for birdie. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for Lorena? 

 Q. Lorena, obviously this course is setting up to your eye. Can you talk a little bit just about how it is and what's the main feature that you seem to like out there? And number two question, are you going to buy a second home in Canada with all the success you're having here? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I will not be buying a home in Canada. I like it where it's cold but not to play golf. It would be great for vacation. 
 I feel comfortable. I think it's always good to get -- to be out of trouble. I've been hitting good my tee shots, and I only played from the rough a couple times. That helps a lot. 
 I don't know, you know, I just feel good and positive. I like the crowds. They're very supportive. It's a good environment. So far we're doing good. We still have two more days. We need to be patient, but I'm excited for tomorrow. I think we'll take one day at a time to be in a good position for Sunday. 

 Q. You weren't hard to find on the golf course; it's where the crowd was. Did it take you a while to get used to playing in front of a lot of people? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Just like everything else, it's a process. You know, of course when you are a rookie, no one follows you, but then when you start playing good, a lot of people start coming. Just like everything else, you learn to be under pressure, to play with adrenaline, to play with a lot of crowd. I do feel comfortable today. It's always for me a good motivation. I like to play good, make them happy. 
 So I guess right now I like it. It's pressure, but it feels good. It helps me to concentrate more and to play better, so I like to have a big crowd. 

 Q. You talked about being in a good position. Did you know what Katherine Hull was doing out there, and did you at some point say I don't want her to get away from me? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I saw her, yes. I obviously looked at the scoreboard. I was feeling okay because I still had nine holes to go. When I was on my 11th hole, the 2nd hole, I saw the scoreboard and she already finished, so I thought, we're fine, because I'm still here. It was important to make a few birdies to put my name up there, and I'm glad everything went well and I am where I like to be. 

 Q. How much of a factor is the experience of being at the top of the leaderboard going into the weekend? 
 LORENA OCHOA: It helps, but you know, it's bad to feel comfortable. You never should feel too confident. You just need to be there like it's a new experience for you, just try to really be there 100 percent, just try your best. I mean, anybody can win. There are so many good players out here. 
 But like I said before, I like to play in the last group. I like to play on Sundays to give myself a chance to win the tournament because I like to win. 
 This has been a good year so far, and hopefully we can continue with a win. 

 Q. You met yesterday with a gentleman who had cancer. Why do you think a person in your position, why is that important for you to do something like that? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you know, it's just something nice that -- sometimes they tell us thank you and how much they appreciate that we give them our time. But I think it's the opposite way; every time you see something like that or you have the opportunity to share with somebody that is ill or has maybe a disability or something else, it really makes you think how blessed we are, how thankful we should be for what we have. Just to make them smile, it's much better than playing good, making birdies. So it goes both ways, and I'm glad he was happy. I was really happy, too. 

 Q. Could you describe your season so far? How is it for you? 
 LORENA OCHOA: It's been good. It's been a challenge. I started really good, and then for sure you can't win all of them, and it's been a challenge for moments. Also in my personal life outside golf, I've been through rough times, a little bit up and down during the middle part of the year. But it's the way life is and it's the way golf is. I'm in a good position right now. I still have a few tournaments left and I feel very well and very positive and motivated, and like I said, I want to finish strong. I want to win more tournaments and break a few records. 

 Q. I was wondering, you talked about the fans earlier and the support that you're getting out there the last few days. I know that you usually get a pretty good Mexican contingent out there with you. Are there any in the crowd this week?
 LORENA OCHOA: Many, yes. 

 Q. I was also wondering, too, if you could talk about when you won the Kraft Nabisco earlier this year and the traditional jump in the pond around the Kraft, and what that meant to you when you had the entire -- seemed like the whole population of Mexico in there with you. What's that mean to you? Was that a special -- was that a moment that you'll always remember? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I mean, we wanted to do that probably for the last six years, you know? I've been so close to winning that tournament, and they've always said, that lake is going to be full of Mexicans when you win. We planned that. I wanted to share that moment with all my relatives, my family, my friends, so they've been going every year to watch me play the Nabisco, and it was a moment that I wanted to share with them because it was for all of them. I have so much support and love, and it tastes better when you share. It was a great time. I have those pictures in a very nice place in my house, and we will remember that forever. 

 Q. This is a job for you, golf. What would a hobby be? And also, when you're visiting all these cities, do you actually feel that you're able to see anything when you're there? Do you visit around or are you able to go anywhere, or is this sort of it? 
 LORENA OCHOA: This is not a job, I don't see it as a job. I don't think it's work. I really enjoy being here. I do it because I love it and I have a lot of fun. I think if you see it as a job, it would be hard to do it because it's really hard. You have to make a lot of sacrifices with the traveling and being away from home. 
 I see a little bit the city. I like to go to the market and walk around downtown. I like to run; sometimes I look for trails and run by the river. It's not the same in every city, but I like to see around. I make sure I take some time at least to take the afternoon and look around. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Lorena, thanks for your time and congratulations on two great rounds. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT