RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You kind of threw up your hands and looked up in the sky when you made the putt; was it like, finally?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah, I felt good today, it was a good way to finish. It just feels good to finish with a birdie on 18. I'm happy. I really tried my best, and I see how low the scores are, I don't know what happened. I just didn't really make anything. I thought I played good and I'm a few behind. It was just nice to finish with a birdie on 18, and now I'm resting for a week. 

 Q. The leaderboards, do you think this is what the future is going to look like, a lot of Asians on the leaderboard?
 LORENA OCHOA: I think we all knew that, there are so many and they are playing so good, so consistent, and they work so hard. I think it's something that so many of them had a good week again for a few of them. I'm going to really think on that, I think about my game and I need to improve and I learned a lot this week and I'm going to prepare for next part of the season.

 Q. What's your impression of the incredibly young Shin at the top of the leaderboard? 
 LORENA OCHOA: How old is she? 

 Q. Twenty. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you know, she played in the States this year, and she's very good. I actually played with her, and she pretty much dominates, and now we can see that the Asian Tour is becoming very strong, the top players are coming to the States and they can also win in the states, and I think that before that was a different story. 
 So the golf, we just need to prepare and continue working hard with so many good players.  

 Q. Would you like to see a Rest of the World Team in the Solheim Cup now?
 LORENA OCHOA: That would be nice. You know, I would love to play a tournament representing my country, individually or team-wise, but it doesn't look like it's going to happen any time soon. 

 Q. When you win one, does that make your year --
 LORENA OCHOA: I think it could be better. You know, I'm always trying to win more than one, but this is what happened this year, and I'm really disappointed. I think I played pretty good, all of them. The U.S. Open was the one that hurt me the most, but you know, hopefully we win a few more next year. 

 Q. Has the rest of the Tour kind of caught up to you from the beginning of the year; is that what you feel like? Do you feel like you're playing worse and everybody else elevated their game?
 LORENA OCHOA: That's a good question. I think, you know, it just depends on the off-season you have and the way you start the year and how you manage yourself after 12 or 15 weeks of playing, how do you feel about your swing and if you're tired or what's changed around you, how busy you get. A lot of things happen and it's not all about golf. 
 I think it's easier for me and it's been a learning experience, and all of the things that happened besides winning tournaments, you watch just before the Open and after the Open, I was pretty much just drained and very tired and it was hard for me to concentrate and focus. 
 Again, it's a learning experience. I think if you learn to pace yourself -- I'm very focused on my game and I'm excited for the next tournament.

 Q. How is your game right now compared to when you won those four tournaments in a row? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I think hopefully better. You cannot win all of them. I think I always mention that I like to be in contention every week and stay at the top. Nothing wrong having two Top 10's in the last two weeks, and I'm going to be patient, waiting for the right time to win, hopefully next week.  

 Q. How long was your putt on 18? 
 LORENA OCHOA: 12 feet.  







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT