EVIAN MASTERS
July 25, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: World No. 1, Lorena Ochoa. It was a little bit tougher today, but you're still right there in the hunt. You got yourself back into contention. So is there anything more satisfying about fighting back, or do you just like coasting and letting the round go?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, hello everybody. I'm just glad it's just the second round. We still have 36 holes to go. Of course I didn't play the way I wanted to play today.   
 It was a disaster. I missed second shots, I missed drivers and I missed putts. Hopefully, I can go practice now and feel comfortable again and be ready for tomorrow. I'm very positive, and I also think that I can do it. So I'm going to just you know maintain positives and play good tomorrow.   
 THE MODERATOR: Can we go over your scorecard really quick?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I made bogey on the first hole. I hit a pitching wedge, 110 yards over the green. I tried to putt it about three feet, and I missed that for par.   
 On number 3, I missed the green to the right 145 yards with an 8-iron. I chipped just a little short like 8 feet, and I missed that.   
 Then birdied number 5. I hit a pitching wedge 110 yards about five feet, made it for birdie. Then bogey number 6, I hit a 7-iron to the right bunker. And I hit a bad lie and got out to 20 feet, putted for bogey.   
 Birdie number 7, I hit again on 2 with the 3-wood. I had it 225 yards. I two-putted for birdie.  
 THE MODERATOR: From how far?   
 LORENA OCHOA: About 25 feet.  
 THE MODERATOR: Then on number 9, I hit it with the hybrid with the 7-wood 210 yards to the right. That was in the bunker. I got it out about two feet, birdied.   
 Birdied number 10. I hit it with a 9-iron 126 yards about 16 feet. Bogeyed 14, hit it with a 5-iron 190 yards to the left side of the green, and chipped just long about 12 feet, and I missed that.   
 16 I hit it from the rough. I had a bad lie, pitching wedge 100 yards, and I went over the green a little bit and I couldn't make par. I just hit it short about 6 feet and I missed that for par.  
  
  Q. Yesterday you had a game football. It was very tough because it was hot. Do you think that had any influence on the physical side today?   
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I only played for 15 minutes. I didn't do anything. I just went out there and tried to enjoy it, playing with the good players. I had a lot of fun. It was a good time, but I'm okay physically.   
  
  Q. The shot you hit at 13, do you remember the shot out of the rough? That was, I assume, one of your best shots of the day if not the week?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, uh-huh.  
  
  Q. But did you think -- I thought at that point if you holed that putt you were going to go on. Did the fact that you missed that putt, did that get you down a bit or was it just one of those things?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, of course I wanted to make it. But I was still happy with the par. I missed my driver so bad that I thought it was out of bounds. I think what was really frustrating was I bogeyed the next hole.   
 For some reason I don't like that par 3. It was just an easy shot that I missed my 5-iron way less. It was impossible to make par, and that was what really bothers me. That tee shot on the 14.  
  
  Q. You say you didn't like that hole? When you say you don't like that hole, you don't like it in general?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I don't have the right, you know -- it's always in between clubs and hard to judge the wind. I haven't performed good on that hole. So we have two more days, hopefully, I can birdie at least one and that makes me happy.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT