EVIAN MASTERS
July 24, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Thank you for joining us. We have the leader in the house, as well as the Rolex Rankings Number 1, Lorena Ochoa. You had a slow start on the front nine, one birdie. But you still finished the day bogey free and six birdies on the back nine. So you want to talk about your day? It was quite a run on the back nine.
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. Hello, everybody. Yes, that's right. I had a slow start. I make birdie on the first hole and didn't give myself a lot of birdie chances. I couldn't make it. I par and didn't get good momentum. 
 Then on the back, I had a break on 10 and 11. I got a really good confidence, and started feeling good over the ball and the putting. And I finished making six birdies on the back, so I have no complaints. I'm really happy. I didn't make birdie on the last hole, but I made a long putt today, so it's fine. 
 I'm just glad I'm at the top, you know. It was a few players behind, but I'd like to stay there and continue that. 
 We have another three rounds, and I'm going to take it one day at a time and just try to be patient. But I would love to be in a good position on Sunday to win the tournament. 
 THE MODERATOR: Okay, can we go over your scorecard? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I made birdie on the first hole. I hit wedge 110 yards for about six feet and made it. On number 10 I hit wedge 118 yards about five feet. I made it. 11, I hit a 7-iron 145 yards, a little bit long, 15 feet. And I made it. 
 On 13, I hit again a 7-iron little bit short maybe. That was a longer putt, 25 feet. I made that. On 14, the par 5 on 3 with a wedge, 115 yards, again about six feet. Then on 16, I had 88 yards. I hit a gap wedge about ten feet. 
 Then on 17, I hit a pitching wedge 115 yards. About 15 to 20, 15 to 18 feet, and I made it. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Lorena. 

 Q. That gives you how many putts in total? 
 LORENA OCHOA: No idea. I don't count my putts. I'm sorry. I don't know. 

 Q. You said you had three weeks off; what have you been working on in your game? Anything in particular? 
 LORENA OCHOA: It was more about taking some time off. Just to wait a little bit and recharge and be happy. You know, I have my goal for the second part of the season. I'm very motivated to continue playing good, and I'm glad I got a good start today. I would like to go in that direction. 

 Q. Were you doing any more of your triathlons or your extremes? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I will always do outdoor sports, but no competition lately.

 Q. No competition lately? 
 LORENA OCHOA: No, just for fun.

 Q. I know how well you and Alexandra did last year?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, just for fun. 

 Q. So what did you do to chill out during those three weeks? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I spent some time at home, and I came here a little bit earlier to do some things also with my sponsor, with Rolex and Lacoste. So a little bit of both. 

 Q. You've come very close in the past here. Do you think you can actually go the extra step and win this time? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. 

 Q. What will you have to change? Will you have to change your game? What is going to make the difference this time? 
 LORENA OCHOA: No, nothing. I don't think there is reason to change. Just sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. 
 I did lose a few times here. I think it's all about how do you feel on the course. And this is a course I feel very comfortable. I feel a lot of support from the fans, and I'm ready to do it. I'm ready any time. Hopefully, this is my time.

 Q. You're feeling lucky? 
 LORENA OCHOA: No, well, I'm feeling the same way. This is a place where I feel comfortable. Like I said, we're just starting the tournament. This is only the first round. I don't want to talk about winning the tournament and getting too far ahead. 
 I'm going to concentrate and play good my second round. We'll go from there, one step at a time.

 Q. Are you playing in the football match tonight? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I am, yes.

 Q. And how come you're such a good footballer? 
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I'm from Mexico (laughing). We grew up playing football. And I played before going to college, and I play once in a while when I play with my friends. 
 I'm not very good. I'm good running because I run a lot. So I'm no good, I just run all over the place. 

 Q. Who is your footballing hero? 
 LORENA OCHOA: There are a lot of players that I like that I've been close to them in Mexico. For sure now I better support the French team, you know, with all the players that are coming. I'm very, very excited to see them again. They come every year. And especially this year we're all excited to be there. 
 I think there are going to be more than 11 players playing this afternoon, because everybody wants to play. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. Lorena, good luck the rest of the week. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT