EVIAN MASTERS
July 23, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Lorena is the Number 1 player in the Rolex Rankings, and you've had a very successful season this year. You've had a little time off. Are you recharged now? And what have you been working on preparing for the Evian Masters?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello everybody. It's been a lot of fun this year. I had a great start. I didn't play too good the last few weeks. Didn't play the way I wanted to play, but understandable.   
 I've been working now a lot on my game, and I took some time off. That really helped me to recharge and get new goals and be ready for the second part of the year.   
 We all know how important is this week, and I think I'm ready. I feel a hundred percent prepared. Just like any other tournament, I'm going to try to do my best, and I always play to win. So I'm going to try to give myself a good chance and be there on the weekend.   
  
  Q. How does it fit into the year to make this kind of short trip to Europe to get a change of scene? And how does this tournament fit into your plans for the year, and how do you like the course?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I love the course. I think it's a course that we've been here two years, So we know the way it plays. I think it's playing a little bit longer, little tougher. The greens are little better, very quick. It's going to be a good challenge for all of us. Good conditions, so it should be a lot of fun.   
 And I love to play outside the United States. Just playing in different parts of the world, you know? Europe has been so good to us, especially here in Evian. The treatment we get, and as special as they make us feel. Everything is fantastic, the hospitality and the food. I like it a lot.   
 You know me, I'm from Mexico, and I think it's always fun when you do something different and go to different places.   
  
  Q. You often talk of the Evian Masters as a very different tournament with its own personality. Can you tell us a little bit why?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Why the Evian Masters has a different personality?   
  
  Q. Uh-huh.   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, well, I think what I mentioned before is something very important, you know. First of all, the place here is amazing. You know, here in Evian with the golf course, and having this view, and it's such a beautiful hotel that we stay in. Everything just makes me feel extra special. It's almost like an award. You know, playing so hard and trying to be good to be here.   
 I enjoy very much also playing with International players. You know, the European Tour players and players that come. It's a great tournament. You have that extra, you know, in the tournament. We all appreciate very much the support from the sponsors and, of course, here Evian, and all what they do.   
 I think Jack has done a great job. I want to say thank you to him and congratulations for what he achieved.   
  
  Q. The three week break that you had, was it planned or was your performance in the U.S. Open part of the reason to take a break?   
 LORENA OCHOA: It was already planned at the beginning of the year. I wanted to take some time off before I came to Europe for a couple reasons. One, because the way I started the year playing so much I needed to rest. And because I wanted to come here earlier. I did a few things with Lacoste and Rolex to take advantage of being in Paris a few days to play golf and spend time with my sponsors, you know, because they are absolutely very important.   
 I think it was a good time to take some time off, you know, and to recharge, like I said, and get it going for the second part of the year.   
  
  Q. What does it mean for you to know that Annika will step down at the end of this year?   
 LORENA OCHOA: What it means for me?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 LORENA OCHOA: I think just like everybody else, it was a surprise to hear the news. We knew it was coming, but just, you know, this is the year. You know, I can only say to her thank you for the good example.   
 I learned so much from her, and she's always been my motivation to get to the top and improve my game. And I wish her the best. I think we are losing a very big name not only in the LPGA, but in part of golf. I wish her the best.   
 I think it's time to move on. She would love to have a family and I respect that very much. Just thank you for everything.   
  
  Q. This time last year you were in fantastic form, won a lot of tournaments. Do you have the same feeling this year around that you can repeat that?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, thank you. My goal is to continue the pace, you know, and to continue winning tournaments. I know the competition is very tough, and there are so many good players. I'm just trying not to lose my rhythm and to continue with a good play.   
 But I believe I can win more tournaments, and why not starting this week? I'm just not going to think too far ahead. Just take one week at a time, and hopefully I can get a few more wins.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Lorena, good luck.  
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT