U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. How do you feel going into the weekend?
 LORENA OCHOA: I would like to be in better position but I think that it was a tough day for me today. I actually was very glad for the rain delay because after No. 3 I was really frustrated and it seemed like nothing was going my way. I needed some time to relax and just get away a little bit.
 I  
came back strong with finishing 1-under in the afternoon. So I  
feel like I can continue the good momentum and tomorrow I can shoot a  
low round.
 
  
Q. What did you do during the break?
  
LORENA OCHOA: Nothing. Just went to the locker room, sent  
some e-mails and talk on the phone with a couple friends. But  
not much.
 
  
Q. Was your voice loud with your friend or soft with your  
friends?
  
LORENA OCHOA: No, soft. Soft. 
  
(Laughter.) 
 
  
Q. How frustrated are you with putting right now?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I cannot blame everything to the putting. I think that I only have maybe three real birdie chances and I didn't have them very easy. I was high and with a lot of break.
  
You can't really blame everything to the putting. I think that I  
just need to give myself some more birdie chances tomorrow. I  
think that the problems that I started yesterday I was 2, 3-over and  
again today I was 2-over and I was just all day trying to come back  
and trying to finish the round around par. So I hope tomorrow is  
opposite. It would be nice to start a couple under in the first  
two or three holes and just get in a good rhythm and go from there. 
 
  
Q. The par-5s, have you been happy with the way you played those? 
 We all thought you would have a big advantage there because of  
your length?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I haven't took advantage here. Here I missed the fairway and then on No. 2 I missed the fairway too. I thought it was good, my 3-wood, but just kind of like landed and kicked left and just missed the fairway by very little. So it seems like have I nothing going my way. Hopefully I'm saving them for the weekend.
 
  
Q. How did you play the 13th, par-5 when the tees were moved so  
much forward? Did you hit driver and go?
  
LORENA OCHOA: I hit driver and 3-wood. 
 
  
Q. Reach it?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, I was just couple yards short of the green on the right side. And yeah. Didn't even make birdie. I chipped out a little bit too aggressive and went by maybe eight feet and I missed that coming back.
 
  
Q. How did you play 17?
 LORENA OCHOA: I hit driver, thinking that that would be a good play to take advantage of a shorter hole. And I grabbed some tree branches on the left side.
  
Then it dropped right in the rough there and I hit it to the right to  
the bunker. And I made bogey. 
 
  
Q. Does it make you feel a little bit better to know that there  
have been some players shooting 66s and stuff out here and that if you  
get it figured out the course has been giving up low scores? You  
don't see too many 66s at the U.S. Open usually, so you've got that  
possibility?
 LORENA OCHOA: Um-hum. Yes. Yes, I think it's still out there. I think a couple birdies out there tomorrow once I'm in red numbers I'm going to feel a lot better. I think if I get a good start tomorrow I will be smiling and hope I'm getting closer to the leaders and give myself a chance on Sunday.
 
  
Q. Are the scores lower than you thought they would be?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. Not with these conditions. Yes and no. I mean we thought it would be just really dry and just maybe 10 miles of wind and it's been zero wind and very, very soft. So we all know that as players that it's just -- it's just easier to be aggressive and make birdies.
 
  
Q. Was there any time today when you were still over par that  
you were tempted to be more aggressive than you normally would in a  
U.S. Open?
  
LORENA OCHOA: No. No. No. I think I needed to  
be more aggressive. 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT