U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULLAUDIOINTERVIEW

  
BETH MURRISON: Welcome to the 2008 Women's Open  
Championship. Thank you very much for being here. We look  
forward to a great week in Interlachen in Edina, Minnesota.  
Thank you, Lorena, for joining us here today. Lorena will be  
trying to win her third major this year. She claimed the British  
Open last summer for her first victory, and added the Kraft Nabisco  
earlier this year.  
   
Can you talk about your preparations for the Women's Open?  
  LORENA OCHOA: Hello everybody. I feel I'm prepared. I've been working really hard. This has been just a great year so far. I feel like my game, I reach a good level at the U.S. Open, and the competition, and the conditions, especially the course. 
 
   
These greens are something else. I think I really need to be  
patient and smart and low key, and have a good pace to really play  
good all week. But I'm ready. This is going to be a good  
challenge, good fun, and I'm ready to enjoy it.  
   
In the last few weeks have been rough for me. Two members of my  
family pass away and it's been -- I play for a week and I didn't play,  
and then I came and played, it's been on and off and I feel that it's  
important for me to get a rhythm, to get back, and get my  
concentration on the golf course, and I'll be ready to play.  
This is a great situation, to be here in the Women's U.S. Open.  
   
I'm here and I'm a hundred percent and I really want to give myself a  
chance to win the tournament Sunday.  
   
BETH MURRISON: You've come quite close, both at Cherry Hills and  
the last year at Pine Needles, what have you learned at those  
championships that might help you out this week?  
  LORENA OCHOA: What I think -- I think it's all about in your head. You're going to three-putt sometimes, and maybe get a couple of bad breaks. And it's going to be tough for everybody. 
 
   
So sometimes when you're playing a U.S. Open it's hard for you to  
realize that, you start playing, you make many -- a bogey or two, and  
you think -- and then you think, oh, my God.  
   
But it's the same for everybody. I'm just going to keep that in  
mind, and I'm going to just take the bounces, or the mistakes, in a  
positive way, and be confident that I can do it. It's about  
staying together and keep doing the same things that I do every  
week. And then I will be there on Sunday.  
   
   
Q. How do you deal with the fact that as the No. 1 ranked player  
by a wide margin that you're expected to do well, contend or win every  
tournament? 
  LORENA OCHOA: I like it (laughter). Good thing it's me. I like that position. It's a process, it took me a few years to be where I am today. And I feel comfortable. It's always -- I said this before, you never need to feel too comfortable or too happy that you are there because there is always going to be so many good players behind you that are trying to catch you. 
   
And you never get -- you don't need to be that comfortable, but at the  
same time I'm learning. I'd like to stay there. I'd like  
to stay on the top. And I'm going to continue whatever I need to  
do, my motivation to improve every week, and stay at the top. 
   
   
Q. There five par-5s this week, can you talk about each one, how  
many you can reach and do these five par-5s give advantage to a longer  
player or not? 
  LORENA OCHOA: Well, I reached yesterday 18. We didn't have much wind. I hit a driver and had about 213 to the middle of the green. I hit a 3-wood and put the ball in the middle of the green. 
   
So I think 18, if we don't have that much wind into us, we could reach  
that hole, which is -- I got an opportunity and excitement for the  
18th green, I can't wait to finish. 
   
Today I reached the second hole. I hit a driver and then hit a 5- 
wood. I had like 205 to the front of the green. I had an  
eagle chance. 
   
The other three par-5s I think no chance. They're just too  
far. I don't see -- maybe No. 10 if you hit downwind and you  
decide to hit the driver from the tee, just put it in the middle of  
the two bunkers and hit a draw 3-wood.  
   
My personal opinion is that it's not worth it. I'm going to play  
that hole with a 3-wood from the tee and just lay up and then just  
play it like a regular par-5. 
   
I'm going to look at my opportunities on 18 and the second hole. 
   
   
Q. The longer players don't have an advantage or a slight  
advantage? 
  LORENA OCHOA: Hopefully we have an advantage. But not only on the par-5s. The U.S. Open is a course so far, and it helps being able to hit an 8-iron instead of a 6 or 5. I'm not thinking about the par-5, but overall the rest of the course is very important to have that little extra distance. 
   
   
Q. You had a couple of chances to win the U.S. Open, one at  
Cherry Hills and one last year, which of those two bothered you more? 
  LORENA OCHOA: I'm fine. They were fine. Both really hurt me, you know, at the moment, at the time. Cherry Hills, I was too young. It was not meant to be. And my life would be different today if I won the U.S. Open. So I understand the reasons why I didn't win. 
   
Last year I thought, well, maybe God is -- I don't know why, maybe  
I'll win the British Open.  
   
Today I understand both. I did everything I could. I know  
where I made the mistakes and with the adrenaline and the pressure,  
and I did swing a couple of times really fast. I want to make  
sure that doesn't happen. I've been good and the last few months  
and I'm ready for this one. 
   
   
Q. Going back to 18, do you think we'll see the same kind of  
excitement that we saw at Torrey with the men? 
   
LORENA OCHOA: Hopefully, we don't have to play 91 holes  
(Laughter). I need to be home on Monday.  
   
   
Q. As far as it being a par-5 finishing hole, could be an eagle,  
could be a birdie.  
  LORENA OCHOA: Yes, a lot of things are going to happen on 18. I mean, anything can happen. You could be losing by two or three and still have a chance. 18 could be tough. 
  I  
think it's always good to have that, you know, because if you have a  
finish right straight up, par-4 to finish, but on 18 many things can  
happen, starting with the tee shot, if you're in the rough, without  
the lake, with the water, which is very narrow on the left side and  
you have about 220 yards to go over the water. So it's -- I  
think a lot of things are going to happen. 
   
   
Q. With the wind in your face today how did you do? 
  LORENA OCHOA: I hit a driver and instead of having 213 I have like 235, but it's still into the wind. I hit a 3-wood just about 30 yards short of the green. 
   
   
Q. You said you didn't think it was meant to be at Cherry Hills  
and that your career might have been different. Different how? 
 It might have made you lazy because you'd won at such a young  
age or how would it have been different? 
  LORENA OCHOA: I don't think I was ready to control all the things that happen when you win a Major. It's not about making the putt and getting the trophy. All the attention and all the pressure and all the commitments and all the -- how you feel with your game, and if you don't do well the next few months, everybody gets hard on you and you lose control of your confidence. Many, many things. 
  I  
think we've seen that before with a few players. You never know,  
but now I understand. That's probably the reason why I didn't  
win. And I'm thankful what I learned from the experience. 
   
   
Q. You mentioned learning about the pressures and adrenaline of  
a U.S. Open, how would you describe the personality of the week?  
What makes you know it's an Open? 
   
LORENA OCHOA: The personality -- 
   
   
Q. The personality of this week, of the Women's U.S. Open, it's  
considered the highest profile event you have, what are the  
personalities that make it what it is.  
   
LORENA OCHOA: About mine or the course -- 
   
   
Q. Just what do you think about when you think of the U.S.  
Women's Open, what are the things you prepare yourself for? 
  LORENA OCHOA: You have to prepare for everything. I think for sure more mentally. It's one of those tournaments you just take so much out of you that hopefully you can take a week off after the U.S. Open. 
   
Just too much thinking and worrying and trying to save pars, and  
giving yourself some birdie chances that you really want to  
make. Just a lot of up-and-down. You need to be  
prepared. You need to be prepared. And it's the toughest  
challenge just to score. And either way you have to do it, if  
you want to win. There's no excuses. It's mentally the  
greatest challenge that we can have as a golfer. 
   
   
Q. Since winning the British Open last year, have you changed  
the way you prepare for Majors? If so, what have you changed? 
  LORENA OCHOA: No, I haven't changed anything. I'm not a player that really spends too much time in little details or numbers. I just get up there and I ask for a good number, where is the best place to be, but I don't worry if there's a false front, how many yards, or if there's a bunker or if there is rough. 
   
I'm very easy. I think the more you think about it and the more  
you try to find answers it will be fooling with your head. I  
just prefer to play it simple. I'm always prepared and I always  
play to win and I'm always a hundred percent there. But I'm a  
very simple player, and the same with my routine when I practice. 
   
   
Q. You seem so comfortable and relaxed in your skin. How  
did you develop that trait and when did you develop that trait? 
   
LORENA OCHOA: When I play right now?  
   
   
Q. Yes, when you play, just your personality. You seem  
very relaxed.  
  LORENA OCHOA: Well, I don't know. It's just my personality. I just enjoy very much when I play. I always try to have a smile on my face. One of the first things -- every time I go back home, Rafael, instead of saying, you need to work on this, but you need to smile more. You played 9 holes, and every time you hit a bad shot just look up and smile. 
   
So that's just the way I grew up playing and the way I play the  
best. And it's a lot easier, you know, to have a good day when  
you are that way. And I have my up-and-downs, but I try to be  
that way most of the time.  
   
   
Q. The big news last week obviously was Tiger being sidelined  
for the rest of the year, and I was wondering if I could ask you about  
the void that everyone wanted to talk about on the men's side is that  
maybe something that you could feel a little bit of that in terms of  
World Golf and can women's golf in general maybe step up and get a  
little more notice with Tiger on the sidelines? 
  LORENA OCHOA: Yes. You can put it that way. I think it's a good opportunity for us to get more fans, so they can really see what we are all about. They are -- there are still people out there that they don't believe we have -- the game or the shots or the excitement. And they just look at it, turn their TV to women's golf, I think they will find it. And it's the way it is. 
 
  I  
think with Tiger sometimes the ratings go down, and hopefully they  
turn to us and it will help us.  
   
   
Q. You said the greens are really something else. Can you  
talk about what makes them so difficult and are there ones out there  
that are really the scariest? 
  LORENA OCHOA: The scariest one, I think No. 3, No. 5, No. 9, No. 17. And this is one of the courses that sometimes caddies they come and talk to you, hey, we really need to be below the hole. Sometimes they overreact. Like it's okay if you are two or three feet by, you can make a nice birdie putt. Not on these greens. You really need to pay attention to them and just really -- even you have a 25-foot putt, just make sure you have an uphill putt. Really play from below the hole and be smart out there. And when the pins are going to be just on the -- over the false front, then you need to just, you know, really know that you're going to have a 15 feet putt downhill and just really be care!
 ful and do it. But you're going to have to do it. It's going to happen for sure. Just be prepared. 
   
   
Q. Do you feel that recently, especially after your last let's  
say handful of wins, four wins or so, that you've acquired more male  
fans, that more men have maybe started to turn to women's golf because  
of what you've been doing, you, yourself? 
  LORENA OCHOA: Hopefully, yes. (Laughter). I don't really know. But we all know that it is changing, that there is a lot more youngsters and just families and younger couples that come and watch us play. 
   
Especially this week. There are so many kids. The USGA  
does such a great job bringing all those kids. It's great to  
play in front of them and we enjoy it so much, and we give them balls  
and hats.  
   
So, yes, I think all of this is positive for the LPGA. And we  
are seeing that change and it's just nice to be a part of it. 
   
   
Q. I know your focus right now is golf, but I understand your  
popularity in Mexico is kind of through the roof right now. Have  
you considered anything other than golf, like political ambitions? 
  LORENA OCHOA: No. Never say no, but not right now. Golf is my priority. I do have a foundation in Mexico and a golf academy, with my coach Rafael. And I'm playing at the moment. 
   
So you never know. Maybe later when I finish. I'm always  
easy. I'm not controversial, I don't try to discuss too much  
political things. But I support my country and my  
government. I've been asked a few times to do either  
advertisement or help the President on doing different things and I  
always say yes. I think we have to support our leaders.  
But for the moment that's it.  
   
   
Q. It's been a few years ago, but I believe it was your first  
Open at, maybe the Merit Club. And I remember you missed the cut  
that year and you went to your father and you just sobbed in his  
arms. I'm curious, was that just a kid who missed the cut and  
was really disappointed or did you at that point have any  
understanding of what this championship really means? 
  LORENA OCHOA: I think I was so disappointed because I knew I could have made the cut and I could have played over the weekend. And it's nothing I needed to prove, I just knew myself. And I was so sad. I was so disappointed. Actually Shani Waugh she almost won the tournament, and a few years later she said, hey, now I know why you were crying, you really can play. 
   
It's just one of those things, because in Mexico, I never have any  
tournaments, I will just practice for three tournaments in the summer  
all year. I have the U.S. Amateur qualifier, I have the U.S.  
Open qualifier, and those are the only three tournaments I have in my  
head. So when you don't do well the disappointment is deeper.  
   
It was a great experience. I had so many Mexicans follow me that  
week. They don't come anymore -- I mean, my family and  
relatives. I always tell them, why you don't come anymore.  
It was a good experience. 
   
   
Q. You've talked quite a bit about how much you learned from  
mistakes in the past. Can you talk about exactly how you go  
about learning from failure or mistakes? 
  LORENA OCHOA: I think I'm just not too hard on me. I'm good to just making the mistakes and grab them and put them behind. I think there are many players they just regret and are mad and one week and two weeks and three weeks and they get back to a tournament and they cannot do it, they cannot get over it. 
   
I'm just -- that's the way I am. It's not worth it to just let  
that stick on you, have that in your head and back and forth.  
I'm just good at that. It makes everything easier.  
  I  
didn't play good last week, I didn't have the best or play probably  
the best, but I am already here and I'm already with my confidence  
back and I've been practicing and I'm pressure and ready to go. 
   
   
Q. Did you have to learn how to do that? 
   
LORENA OCHOA: Yes.  
   
   
Q. Is there an experience that happened that allowed you to  
learn that, how to let things go? 
  LORENA OCHOA: I worked with the sports psychologist, I did numerous like seminars. And I remember my coach, my psychology, he say just grab the shot and put it in the trash, don't look back, and that's it. 
   
And it's been a process, just like everything else. You don't  
learn anything -- even like I have a perfect example with Sophia  
Sheridan, another Mexican player, she is playing in the Futures Tour  
right now, and she practice with Rafael in the off-season. We  
talked about, how can we help her, how can we maker her just get a  
little ahead and not make so many mistakes. You can't.  
It's just the way life is. It's a process of learning, and you  
just learn through mistakes and pain. 
   
   
Q. You've had a lot obviously going on in your life  
recently. Is it hard for you to block that out or is it easier  
for you to do once you get on the golf course? 
  LORENA OCHOA: I'm doing okay. I think family is the most important thing. It was hard, it is hard still today, but it gives me motivation to play good for them, for my family. Like I said before, I think it's more about the concentration, just the rhythm. It's different when you play two tournaments in a row and you get that practice, that rest, and playing those tournaments and the scoring. 
   
And the last four or five weeks I've been on and off and it doesn't  
feel very good. Last week I got four days of straight  
practicing, and started feeling better on the weekend. I had  
good scoring on the weekend in Rochester. I think I'm ready to  
go.  
   
   
Q. Along those same lines, did you know at McDonald's that your  
grandfather was ill? Did that happen suddenly? Did it play  
on your mind during that week? 
  LORENA OCHOA: Yes, he was ill before I went to McDonald's. I went and spent time with him. But, no, not too bad. And then they took him to the hospital on Wednesday and he die on Saturday afternoon. And they didn't tell me until Sunday when I finished playing. 
   
So I never really said good-bye, because I thought one week will be  
short and then I'll be back and see him again to see how he was  
doing. So that was tough. But at the same time he's helped  
me so much with golf and he was my joy and motivation. My  
relatives would get together at his house and watch me play and he was  
my motivation when he was alive and he watched me play.  
   
BETH MURRISON: Thanks very much for joining us today. It's  
a pleasure to have you, and we wish you well this week.  
  End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT