MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 8, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Lorena, we'll do your card afterwards. If you would, just talk about the emotion that you felt today going up and down the leader board a little bit, and how you feel right now.
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello everybody. I really have not much to say. It was a strange day. Almost like I didn't -- it wasn't my time. I started really good, I make a birdie on the first hole. Hit the ball really good with my irons, gave myself birdie chances and couldn't make any putt. 
 I never give up. I never lose hope. I thought something will happen. Something my way or that I will finish with three birdies on the last 3 holes and it just didn't happen. I am not ashamed. I'm proud of my finish. And I guess, you know, now I move on and continue and try to win the next few tournaments.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?

 Q. Lorena, why is this one harder maybe than some the others? Because you were playing for the third in a row?
 LORENA OCHOA: No. To be honest with you I didn't feel the pressure of winning three in a row. I was very relaxed. All though week I was just, you know, happy and in a good mood and very positive about it. Everybody was talking about three in a row. But me and Dave we were like we don't feel the pressure. We just feel like any other tournament. We enjoy it, we tried -- did our best, and it didn't happen. I think it's because of the golf course. 
 I think what happened, you know, the mistake was yesterday not today. I think today with the conditions and the way the course was playing, you know, it was still a pretty good score. I think the problem was yesterday. You know shooting that round and you know, instead of taking the lead I just came back. 
 So, like I said, you know, I -- now it's done. We don't have that opportunity any more. So I'm going to hopefully start another one at the U.S. Open.

 Q. Can you take us through the shot at 16 that almost went in? Did you see it all the way?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. I was about 10 yards just short the green. I hit a sand wedge with a little bit of a spin on it. And I mean perfect. I mean, it wasn't even going fast. It was really good. Just right on it. I couldn't believe I didn't make it. I was trying to hold myself but after that that shows you know I was just like come on, you know, something good please. But that's it. You know it's golf. And it didn't happen.

 Q. How do you think your emotions will be going into the Open? Will you be deflated because of this or energized to come back?
 LORENA OCHOA: My emotions?

 Q. Going into the Open how do you think you'll feel?
 LORENA OCHOA: No I think the same. You know nothing is changing. My goal is to be number one. And I play every tournament to win. And it first happen in Rochester which is a big tournament and I am defending champion. I'm going to try to win that one first and hopefully keep the momentum for the Open. It's a great tournament I want to win it and just take it easy one at a time and hopefully I'm on 18 with the trophy.

 Q. Do you know anything about the course?
 LORENA OCHOA: No I never been there. My caddie caddied before the Solheim Cup so he has a little knowledge about the course so I think that will help.

 Q. What did you think of your playing partner today -- is out there in the playoff today -- the way she held it together?
 LORENA OCHOA: She is a great player. It's very impressive. She is just a rookie and the way she handles herself. And I really like her. We enjoyed the day today. I played also with her in Orlando and it's been just a great competitor and I wish her the best.

 Q. You birdied the first hole, jumped into the lead again, as the holes wore on, did you feel like I just don't have it today or were you hoping? Sometimes golfers just don't have it?
 LORENA OCHOA: When? Excuse me?

 Q. After you birdied the first hole then you didn't make any more birdies for a while, did you feel like your game just wasn't there today?
 LORENA OCHOA: I think my game was there today for sure. I played really good. One my best rounds. I just couldn't make any putt. So that is just the way it is. You don't even have time to think. You are just trying to make birdie on every hole you get to and unfortunately it was one short.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Should we go through your card? 
 LORENA OCHOA: I birdied the first hole. I hit a 56 degree, 88 yards -- about 6 feet. Then I bogeyed number 12, the Par 3, I hit a 6-iron to the back -- to the rough -- get it out with my sand wedge and leave it short about 12 feet and I miss that for par. I bogeyed 13. I missed my driver to the left, I was in the rough, 188 yards to the front of the green. I hit a sand wedge just leave it short, about 55 yards and I put it on the green about 10 feet and missed that for par. 
 Birdie 16, I hit it short with a driver. I had 40, maybe 35 chip and I give it one foot and made it. Then on 18 I hit a 7-iron, 155 yards. I leave it long about 12 feet and I made that for birdie. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks, Lorena. 

 Q. Lorena, the birdie putt on 8 you shoved it, it looked like you were upset that putt missed on the close side. Did it hit something?
 LORENA OCHOA: It hit a ball mark. I fixed the ball mark but still I went over the ball mark and pushed this ball to the right so I didn't make it. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT