MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 7, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Lorena, a tough round you had a couple bogeys and double bogeys. You said you were all over the place yet you're only two strokes back, So you are still well in the contention going into tomorrow. You have to feel happy about that.
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. Hello. I for sure I am happy. I mean, I had a rough start making that bogey on the first hole. It seemed like all day just overall I couldn't get the speed of the greens. They were really heavy. I guess moisture, and a lot of you know with the sun. I don't know what happened. 
 But, you know, after several holes I was 3-over. It didn't look good. I'm just glad that I came back and I finished with that same number, 10-under, and I'm only 2 shots behind. If they would have asked me on Tuesday or earlier in the week if I would take this position, I would take it, so I am just glad I have a chance tomorrow and that's what I am going to do just give it my best tomorrow.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: We'll take questions for Lorena.

 Q. It looked like you also had difficulty with your distance. A lot of shots were long. 
 LORENA OCHOA: I think -- I mean for sure I was out of rhythm. I don't know, it's just funny. You know, yesterday I didn't hit the ball very good on the range. I was hitting just (inaudible) shots, little clean. On the course they were amazing. 
 Today I was hitting the ball perfect on the range and I was feeling good and I had a good feeling this was going to be a great day and I hit it so bad. Just weak and I keep losing my balance. It was really tough. As well I think because it was so hot I guess -- you know the ball just flies forever. I -- two or three times I went very long. And that's the only thing I can think about it, just make sure that doesn't happen tomorrow. If it's warm and if I feel loose and the way I did today, just to make sure I think about that and, you know, take one less club.

 Q. If you describe yesterday as being very easy, what was today?
 LORENA OCHOA: Very hard. (Laughing) The opposite.

 Q. Can you talk about the seventh hole?
 LORENA OCHOA: I hit it to the left, just -- I was trying to hit a 7-iron, like a fading shot, and just came over the shot and ended up on the rough. I misjudged. You know, I practice a lot from the rough early on in the week but seems like the ball was in a bad lie. 
 It seems that the ball also was high a little bit in the grass. I thought I swinged aggressive enough but the club just went under the ball. And just move it, oh, probably one foot. And then from there, long, and two putt for a double bogey.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: How far was that two putt? 
 LORENA OCHOA: 20 feet.

 Q. Can you describe your initial reaction when the ball just popped up and sat back down?
 LORENA OCHOA: You feel so bad that you can't react. No, just, everything happened so quick, you know. Just okay. Just put the next one on the green, you know. I mean, there's not even time to think, you know. Just kind of like get your club clean and see again where is the hole and hit it again.

 Q. Do you think if you had a lead and did what you did on 7 and made double bogey two years ago you would have shot 72?
 LORENA OCHOA: I mean I won't say yes. I think it would have been very different if this was tomorrow. You know, we're on Saturday. And, you know, I knew I was only one shot out the lead. And we still have 29 holes to go. You know, like just the whole, everything. I knew Par 5s were coming, so I felt fine. I never got too stressed to worry. I just told myself Let's start over, we're here, we're only a couple shots behind and that's what I did. 
 So for sure experience counts, but I'm just glad it happened today and not tomorrow.

 Q. You seem like you got so much better control of your emotions. Not so high and not too low. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. (Laughing) I've been working on that. That helps a lot, yeah. It's a lot less stress just to be more level and it helps a lot.

 Q. Did you go to the movies last night?
 LORENA OCHOA: (Laughing) No I didn't. I went to Baltimore downtown. I went over there with my brother and a friend that he came with and it was nice afternoon. No movie.

 Q. Where does this rank as far as hottest tournaments that you played?
 LORENA OCHOA: I think on tour to me the hottest one. I played some other Junior tournaments, some that were really hot. Long tour. I don't remember.

 Q. How many bottles of water do you think you drank today?
 LORENA OCHOA: A lot. I want to say -- I mean, I have my -- how do you call that?

 Q. Water jug?
 LORENA OCHOA: Probably drink that seven times. At least one every two hole.

 Q. You're top of the leader board, two Swedes, a South Korean and you. Do you think you have an advantage coming from a country where you see more of this kind of weather than they do?
 LORENA OCHOA: No in Guadalajara we don't have this weather. (Laughter) Everybody thinks Mexico is hot but not all the country, no. No in Guadalajara is like Southern California, maybe like San Diego or L. A. We only have three weeks a year that it's hot but it's not humid. I'm not use to this. But if I'm comparing to Swedish and the Koreans...
 But, no, I think we're all in good shape. We're all play in this weather for many years. They live in Florida, it's more like this. But I think it's important just to be in good shape and keep hydrating yourself. And I make and make sure the heat doesn't get you.

 Q. Lorena, if you guys were not sent out in threesomes tomorrow, you would have been paired with Annika. It would have been you and Annika. Do you regret that that will not happen or would you have liked to have seen that or are you fine with threesomes?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well I'm fine with threesomes because that's the way it's going to be. But I would have probably like to have played with Annika. I think it would have been fun, you know, for us and for all of you. But it's okay. It's the way it is. I guess in a way I have a little bit of an advantage. I'm going to try to put it that way, you know, for her to be in the last group. 
 It's better when they know, you know, what I have done, you know, if I'm playing in front of them. And that will be important to get a good start and to put my name up there. And they can stay with the pressure in the last group.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any other questions for Lorena? Thank you very much. Lorena, good luck tomorrow. 
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT