MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 5, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: We'll do your scorecard at the end. Lorena, nice recovery today after your double-bogey on the your front nine. You came back to shoot 3-under and you are right in the hunt. If you would just talk a little about your day and how you feel you played today.  
 LORENA OCHOA: What's up? (Laughter) I'm really happy today. I really, you know, all of a sudden, you double bogey and feel good just to be on the scoreboard 2-over par. Sure to fight hard and do some catch-up, and did it. I played very solidly. Gave myself a lot of great chances, got back to the par 5s, made a lot of positions.   
 I made 3-under and tomorrow I play in the morning, so hopefully I can be more aggressive and shoot lower.  
  
  Q. Can you talk us through the penalty shot, what happened on 13?   
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I hit my driver to the left. I mean, I don't really know how far left. It just -- I don't know what happened, if it landed and kicked left or just -- I mean, I didn't think it was that far left to finish on the high grass, but it was about two clubs in, the high grass, and I couldn't use the penalty, two-club length and come this way, because I was still in the high grass.   
 So I decided to go back with the line of the pin, which it was going to the 11th, to the par 5, that direction, and then I hit a 3-wood that I missed a little bit to the right side and then I give myself maybe a 40-yard chip but it was a bad lie and I had the pin just right on the front. So I just put the ball in the middle of the green and 2-putted for a double-bogey.   
  
  Q. Talk about coming back from the double-bogey.  
 LORENA OCHOA: I think I did okay. You know, it happened just early on the round and I knew I had a lot of holes left, and I still have three par 5s and I was feeling good. I didn't get too stressed. I just thought, you know, it would be fine, make a couple of birdies on front and finish even, and then 3-wood on the back, so I did that.   
  
  Q. Was it playing that much longer out there today?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I think the length is an advantage for us. It was playing long, for sure. I think that they did a couple changes on No. 9 and on No. 18, they put the tees forward.   
 But it was for sure playing very long, and on a day like today, very important to hit fairways, because if you get in trouble with the rough, it's so high and so heavy, that it's twice as bad. So I was just glad that I hit really good, my driver, and I think I only missed that one fairway. So hopefully I continue that tomorrow.   
  
  Q. With the pin back on 18, what did you hit?   
 LORENA OCHOA: I hit 7-iron.   
  
  Q. With the tee back --  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yesterday I hit 7-wood. I think it's like 35 yards back.   
 I hit a 3-wood but I was in the rough in a little bit downhill lie and I had like 210 to the front, about 210.   
  
  Q. How far were you --  
 LORENA OCHOA: A lot, maybe 50,60 yards. Yes, it was kind of like in a bad lie, plus the high grass.   
  
  Q. Last year you started okay, but you never really had too much of a lead -- where you are now --  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, I think that's one of the things I've been working, not only this year, but last year, too, to get a first day and to get a good start so I'm not too far behind and then just really work hard on the next three days, and it's been even for sure better. That makes a big difference, if not leading the tournament, to be one or two shots behind.   
 Today was important to do that, just not to get away too far from the leaders, and that's why I'm so happy that I did 3-under for the first day of a major is good, even though I had the double bogey and hopefully tomorrow I'll have a great round.   
 I made a birdie on -- the par 5, I hit a 3-wood just left of the green about ten yards short and I hit a 50-degree wedge about five feet, and I made it for birdie.   
 On 18, I hit a 7-iron 145 yards. I hit it behind and it ended up very short, just maybe 40 feet and I made it.   
 And then on the third hole, the par 3, I hit an 8-iron 144 yards about 12 feet and I made it.   
 The fourth hole, I'll hit a 9-iron, 125 yards, but same, ten, 12 feet, and made it.   
 And No. 8, I hit a 5-wood 218 yards. I just put it pin-high with the 5-wood and I had like 20 feet for eagle and I 2-putted for birdie.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT