MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 11, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Kind of an odd ending.   
 LORENA OCHOA: I not been in the grandstands for a long time. It was -- you know, not nice in the rope with that lie. I wanted to put something to the green and give myself a chance for par but it didn't happen.  
  
  Q. Did you think after the eagle on 3 that maybe that was going to lead to a great round, you were going to make a charge?  
 LORENA OCHOA: It did happen, yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. Just missed a couple and seems like nothing was going my way this week so it's okay. Just I'm glad it's over. I don't even know where I am but I'll get ready for next week.  
  
  Q. Are these last couple weeks a reminder that it's not that easy to win a golf tournament?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah, you're going to put it that way. I mean, my father said, "What are you doing?" So, I'm playing okay. I'm not worried. I'm hitting the ball really good.   
 I gave myself many birdie chances and up and down. Like I said, I'm not upset. I'm proud about my results. I was still able to finish in a decent position and we'll go on.  
  
  Q. Annika wasn't even a really a factor again a few weeks ago and then she went to Miami and then she obviously came to here.   
 Do you feel like a lot has changed in the last few weeks as far as competition goes?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, yes. It's been a tough year for her. Annika is back and, you know, winning in Hawaii just showed me that she's going to be tough this year and then you know, again, we know she's a great player and wants to win and she wants to become No. 1 again. That will be fine. I'm prepared and we'll see.  
  
  Q. What about the last couple months?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I've been pretty good. I've been taking it easy for a couple weeks. I'm pretty good.  
  
  Q. Do you think she made a statement this week, like Annika made a statement?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, sure. I think Annika did. She won this tournament and I think she had just a good tournament. I'm sure she's getting better on her game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT