MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 9, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: You had a great round today. People are really excited to see that pairing tomorrow. Little bit of a disappointing finish with bogey on 9. 
 Talk about your day and all the rain delays.
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello. It was a long day. I'm glad we finished. But we knew it was going to be that way. We just need to be patient and try to enjoy those delayed at times and it was not too bad.
 I played good today. It was a solid day, especially from the tee. I think I bogeyed the last hole but nothing we can do. It's one of the things. 
 I'm right there so I'm excited and, you know, for the weekend, and give myself a chance.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Questions?

 Q. When you got to the end of your round, Annika started just getting up and down out of trash cans from wherever she was. She was almost knocking balls in the hole.
 Were you just kind of watching and going, "Wow, she's really got it going right now"?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, you know, when she did it, I think the third shot on No. 9 was very impressive. That was a tough from the, you know, the lie that you get over there and also that pin placement is probably the toughest on that hole and I was thinking she must practice a lot on the short game.
 It was a great par save.

 Q. The conditions, almost seemed like they changed every 30, 40 minutes or so, windy one minute, it's not the next, it's raining, it's not.
 Is that hard to adjust to when it's changing like that?
 LORENA OCHOA: You just need to take time, you know, make sure when you are over the ball that your comfortable with your club, you know, and if you feel -- you feel a big gust of wind, just stop and start your routine again.
 But I think, you know, I think we got lucky. It was pretty good. You know, the greens were soft. It was playing the course long because it was all soft. I want to say it was a good day. I'm happy with my finish and I know my score.

 Q. You're 6-under on the six par 5s so far. Do you kind of feel like you ought to be 7-under?
 LORENA OCHOA: No. I'm okay with 6-under. I want to keep it up and chance to make eagles. It's important to be that way and try to put it close instead of just trying to be around the green, you know? I just go at the pins and hopefully we'll make a few more eagles in the weekend.

 Q. You had a pretty good putt for birdie at 15 today. What happened on that one?
 LORENA OCHOA: It just happened. I just missed it. You can't make them all.

 Q. What did you do during the rain delay?
 LORENA OCHOA: What I did? I went to the locker room and had coffee. I was cold. Then I had sandwich in my golf bag, ham sandwich, and that's it (laughter).

 Q. How many times did you end up switching what you were wearing during the course of the day, putting pants or, taking it off, putting on a jacket. 
 A tough day weather-wise just being comfortable, wasn't it?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. We have it all. We have it all in the bag. The caddies, they carry everything that's -- it's bad for them.

 Q. Do you consider yourself a fast player and if so, are you happy with these changes in the slow play rules? 
 Do you feel like they're working? You were waiting a little bit on 7, 8, 9, looked like, but Annika said other than that, you guys played pretty fast.
 LORENA OCHOA: We're playing faster, for sure. I did like the rules. Again, anything we can do to make things faster for the fans, for the TV, for us, it's better. It's a lot better mentally, easier when you also have four and a half, five hour rounds instead of six.
 I think it's working. I'm glad.

 Q. As one of the top players often in contention, does it help you if you're kind of in a groove to not have to stand and wait? 
 Do you prefer that after you make a birdie you can hop up on the tee box and get to the next hole?
 LORENA OCHOA: No. I'm not worried about those things. I kind of go with whatever is happening. You have to wait, you just kind of relax and wait. 
 I don't get upset easily. If I have to wait, I sit down and have a piece of my sandwich. I don't get mad at slow play.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Any other questions? Okay. Thank you all. Lorena, good luck this weekend.
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. See you tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT