MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 8, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Want to do your card first?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Birdied 1.  
 LORENA OCHOA: I hit a wedge, 115 yards, maybe ten feet. I made it.   
 Birdied No. 3. I tried to get there in two with a hybrid club. I had like 207 to the front of the green and pin high on the right side on the fringe and made it for birdie.  
 Then on No. 4, I hit a right rough with my 3-wood from the tee and just punch out. I have 65 yards. I hit it maybe 15 feet and I made that for bogey.  
 I eagled No. 7. Hit it on two with a 5-wood, 218 yards. I was short maybe 18, 20 feet and I made that for eagle.  
 Then No. 10, I hit it over to the left, to the left bunker. I had 166 yards. I hit 5-iron behind and ended up short of the green, maybe 40 yards short of the green and I hit a good sand wedge maybe six feet and missed that for par.   
 I birdied No. 11 and I hit a 50-degree wedge, 95 yards, about maybe 8 feet and I made that.  
 Birdied 14. I hit in the left bunker, in the fairway bunker, 120 yards, and hit a 8-iron just short and about 20 feet and made that.  
 15, a par 5, get there in two with a 3-wood. Just ended up a couple yards short of the green. I chip with a 9-iron about five feet and made that for birdie.  
 And 16, I had 110 yards, I hit a wedge, again, ten feet and made that.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Alright. Thank you.   
 Lorena, thanks for coming in. You said on the way over here you were pretty happy with your round today.  
 It wasn't too bad conditions-wise, little bit of rain. Can you just talk about how you played?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes. It was a good day. You know, I don't know why this course was so low. I was surprised to see that because the course is playing tough but at the same time we're playing in the morning because the wind was never too hard, maybe ten miles at the most and the greens were soft, we were able to be aggressive and do it.   
 That's why we made a few birdies out there. I'm just happy, you know, the red numbers, and in good position and excited to be here tomorrow.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions for Lorena.  
  
  Q. Does it feel at all like a Sunday out there to you?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I love my group. I think it's probably the first time that we played, the three of us together. I enjoyed that very much. It keeps you motivated to play good and make birdies and Annika had a great round. It should be fun tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Especially after the 10th hole and Annika birdied and you made bogey, were you a little bit more motivated moreso than normal?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yeah.  
  
  Q. On No. 7, did you think about laying up because the wind in your face and you had some time before the other group cleared the green.   
 Did you think at all about laying up or did you just decide to go for it in two the whole time?  
 LORENA OCHOA: The whole time. I actually hit a 5-wood. I only had 205 to the front of the green. I knew I could reach the green. The right shape, draw it a little bit and it came out good.   
  
  Q. You like the par-5s out here?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Very much. I think it's always good when you can hit your driver and you feel like you have a chance to get on in two to make a few eagles.   
 As far as 7, the par five on the back 9, I think it's a great par 5 because it really -- you hit a good driver and the second shot is always exciting with a rough and the wind and everything so it's a good challenge.   
  
  Q. Do you normally play well in bad conditions, in rain or do the conditions matter to you much at all?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, no. I always -- I just try not to complain and to be happy with what we have. You know, it's the same for everybody and if anybody -- you have the rain and it's the way it is.   
 I don't waste too much energy on things out of my control. Just be happy with what we have and enjoy as much as you can.  
  
  Q. Not to get too far ahead, but does it mean more to play really well when Annika is playing really well at an event?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, you can say that. You know, now that she's -- the only person -- there's so many good players out here but more when I play with her in her group, she's been always a great -- great motivation for me and I admire her a lot and have a lot of respect for her and for sure it feels good when you are paired with her. It's special. I like that.  
  
  Q. You shot other low rounds out here before.   
 How does today's round rate with other times when you have played well? How does it compare?  
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I don't think I really -- I can answer that. It's great that I have good to start, it's always important to get a good start. It's true that you can't win the first day but you can sure lose or too far behind, and I'm just glad that I'm in a good position for the next few days. What I want to do is give myself a chance on Sunday to win the tournament.  
 You know, with the score today, I'm really happy. I'm pleased with the conditions and hopefully we have three more days like this.  
  
  Q. Because of the rains and the soft surfaces, could you shoot at the flags more or did it lengthen the course much?  
 LORENA OCHOA: I think yes, that's what we did today, be more aggressive because we didn't have that seven, eight, ten yards release. More like two, three yards.  
 So we can just go out and be more aggressive. You got to take advantage of that. It's always important -- we know that the rounds in the morning play is always -- usually it's a little bit easier. I'm glad that I was out in the morning and that I took advantage of that and had a good round.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks Lorena.  
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT