MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 7, 2008
Lorena Ochoa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Alright Lorena. Thanks for coming in.
 Last week was an interesting week for you. You weren't able to get five in a row but still managed to Top-5 finish in very windy conditions.
 If you would, just talk about your week last week and then being here in Williamsburg.
 LORENA OCHOA: Hello, everybody. It was a tough week. It was tough conditions with all the wind and I have a rough -- the first two days, I didn't play too good then I was a little behind, you know, but I still tried and I give myself a chance, I think on Saturday to come back but it didn't happen and I'm happy you know, I lead with a Top-5 finish. I guess my run finished but hopefully we'll start another one this week.
 I'm playing good. I already practiced on Monday and Tuesday. It's been a tournament that always I've been playing good for a few years, close a few times. Hopefully this is my year.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?

 Q. Talk about coming close but not winning here and how much that motivates you the next time you come in.
 LORENA OCHOA: It motivates you a lot. I think, you know, this is one of those tournaments that you just feel good, it feels right. 
 The practice facilities and the course are in beautiful shape and it's really tough. This year they have really high rough. It's going to be fun for all of us. It's going to be very important to be very good from the tee, hit many fairways.
 I just feel good, you know. So I think I'm good with my game. I think the Par 5s, I have the distance to reach a few of them in two, give myself a chance. 
 I like the way I'm playing right now. Hopefully we can do it.

 Q. How disappointed were you not to get the five in a row to tie Annika and Nancy in the record books?
 LORENA OCHOA: No, no. I mean, you know, I'm fine. I think there's nothing to be disappointed. You know, I had the chance. That makes a big difference. 
 I won four in a row and had a chance to break that record and I can only say that hopefully I can do it again. I believe I can do it and I'm going to, you know -- first I got to get the first win and continue.
 So right now I'm going to take it one week at a time. If I don't achieve it this time, hopefully the next time.

 Q. How often do you get yourself in a pairing with Annika and Suzann? Tomorrow's pairing is the three of you guys. How often does that happen?
 LORENA OCHOA: Not very often. I didn't play with Annika probably since Singapore. I played with her the first two rounds, maybe even Saturday and Sunday everyday. No? 
 Three rounds out of the four. I always enjoy playing with her. I think for sure, she's been my motivation and I admire her a lot. It's fun to play next to her.
 I also pay attention, things she does and I'm always trying to improve, you know, myself in different ways and Annika is somebody that gives me a lot of extra motivation, you know, to play good.

 Q. How about the three of you playing together?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, Suzann is good. It's good for the fans and media. So let's go out and enjoy the first two rounds for sure.

 Q. Has that pairing ever taken place before, the three of you?
 LORENA OCHOA: I'm not sure.
 MIKE SCANLAN: I'd have to look it up.

 Q. At what point did you start to feel uncomfortable playing with Annika or were you always comfortable playing with her or was there a point where, you know, you played your own game and weren't maybe watching what she was doing?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think, you know, I can say that I wasn't always comfortable because the way she makes you feel. You know, she always -- she's very polite, very respectful and she talks to you in a nice way.
 In terms of, you know, now my level of golf is different and I could, you know, just get out there and tee it up and feel that I'm going to beat her. You know, it's just -- I think it's been a process, you know, but for sure she's the best player.
 She's always -- she has so much experience and she's been there for so long and I believe in golf experience is everything, so, you know, every time I play with her, like every other player, I respect them a lot and just try to enjoy what I'm doing.

 Q. Last year I think it was the 10th or 11th tournament before there was a repeat winner. This year there's already been three.
 I don't know, is that something that's explainable or just sort of happen that way sometimes?
 LORENA OCHOA: Again, you know, it's just something that happened. I'm glad to be the one that is winning but, yeah, I mean it's just -- every year -- there's so many good players out there and it's a surprise to me because in a way, you know, there are so many players that have the potential to win but it's the way it is.

 Q. Away from golf, what's your reaction to being named to one of Time Magazine's, on Time Magazine's 100 most influential people in the world? 
 What's your reaction to that?
 LORENA OCHOA: It was very special to see that. You know, I think for what I do, I always try to be the best, you know, and you can be a mother, work in politics, whatever.
 As an athlete, I try to represent my country the way it should be and to be the best in what I'm doing. I'm glad that -- it. It feels good that they pay attention on what you're doing and that they -- I think it's a big responsibility because now a lot of people in this case, lot of people are watching me. 
 But I like that. I think that's a special opportunity to give a good -- what is the word in English -- to be a model, like to give back --
MIKE SCANLAN: Making good impression?
 LORENA OCHOA: Impression?

 Q. Role model.
 LORENA OCHOA: I have an opportunity. I want to make sure the thing is right and I want to make sure I take advantage of this opportunity to motivate kids to, you know, play sports and to be healthy and work hard for their dreams in many ways.

 Q. What do you want to accomplish along with golf or outside golf?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, my priority is my foundation and just as I have dreams in the golf course, I also have dreams outside the golf course, and I want to keep getting bigger and bigger in different markets every year and it's been a lot of fun, a good challenge but I enjoy that more than anything else, being able to help.

 Q. This event was voted the best event on Tour by the players. Why? Why from your standpoint and the players' standpoint is this event the best one out there?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think it's because is has everything. It's a beautiful golf course. Like I said, it's one of the top courses we play but not only that, being here at the resort and having a beautiful gym and the hospitality, the food and how hard they try and all the volunteers and just to see a nice face when you get in and register and looks like they're waiting for us and we're excited to be here.
 I think they do a great job on making us feel like we're at home and the course is beautiful. That has a lot to do. It's really an upgrade. It's really a test for the best players.

 Q. Since we talked to you here last year you've become a dominant No. 1 in the world.
 Any advantages or disadvantages to that?
 LORENA OCHOA: For what?

 Q. For being No. 1, as how you go to the golf course in the tournaments, the fact that you're a clear No. 1. How good is that or how bad is that?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think for sure it's good. I've been -- I'm doing what I want to do. It feels right to be in the No. 1 position. I would like to stay there, hopefully, for many years.
 My life is changing and I have sometimes too many things to do or when I come to the course, you know, just being with the clients and signing autographs.
 I'm enjoying myself very much and I'm not saying that it's easy, it's tough but I think I've been blessed and I'm enjoying my moment very much.

 Q. Tiger obviously is a clear No. 1, too. Probably intimidating for the other players. Do you feel like you're intimidating to others out there?
 LORENA OCHOA: I can only say that I think when I'm out there and I make a few birdies, even my name gets up on the leaderboard it means something. That's always good, you know, because I earn that. 
 I've been practicing hard and playing hard and winning tournaments to achieve that so it's just something that comes with good results and, like I say, I'm happy, I'm proud to get to that point.

 Q. What has really clicked over last year that has allowed you to get on this roll that you've been on?
 LORENA OCHOA: It's not only the last year. It's been six years. Nothing happened in a few months or one year. It's just continue the process of feeling more comfortable under pressure and getting better and being -- playing more in the last group and having a chance to win tournaments.
 So this has been for many, many years. It's not only the last year and I still -- everyday I motivate myself to keep improving. There's a lot of room to improve and I'm going to continue that.

 Q. Was there one tournament back a few years ago where it changed for you where you were able to handle the pressure better than you had before and that sort of sent you on your way in terms of where you are now?
 LORENA OCHOA: Well, I think, you know, probably to me was very important to win the first Major, the British Open in St. Andrews just because all the pressure I have on the media saying, "When are you going to win your first Major?"
Besides that, I don't have like one tournament in my head that really change my career. It was more the joy, you know, finally getting that first Major victory and be able to continue the good momentum and keep it going.

 Q. The fact that it happened in St. Andrews, did that make it even more special?
 LORENA OCHOA: For sure. Sometimes you don't understand why things happen and I struggled a lot before and I lost a few Majors and I was close many times, especially the U.S. Open a couple times and then in St. Andrews you understand why things happen for a reason. 
 You just need to wait for the right time, for your time and, you know, that proved to me that God has a special plan for you and you just have to wait for them.

 Q. The fact that Annika is now back to No. 2, does that give you motivation? I know a year ago you said that she'll be back and the fact that she's now back in a position where, she has a few more good tournaments, she could challenge you at least in the money list for No. 1.
 Does that give you motivation seeing her name right behind yours?
 LORENA OCHOA: Yes, for sure. You know, I know this year that Annika was back and now she's a hundred percent healthy and working hard and then I know that that -- I knew that it would be a hard year, tough year, '08. 
 We don't know what's going to happen. We don't know how this is going to be in the next three, four tournaments but I'm proud of her. She motivates me. Like I say, I do want to be No. 1 so I'm going to do whatever it takes to stay in that position.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Lorena, thanks for coming in. I know you got to get over there and warm up. Good luck this week and good luck in the Pro-Am.
 LORENA OCHOA: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT