CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 20, 2020
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. (In progress.)
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, we all three of us had bogey-free rounds.  I can almost put my bank account on it that no other group has done that.
But, no, it was great that everybody was playing well.  I think we had a really good time.  It was pretty tough on some holes.  18 and 9 were an absolute beast today.
I hit 9-iron couple days ago and I was like, man, I've got to hit 5-wood on both holes.  So it was like crazy.
We all three of us finished solid, so it was a great way to end all of our seasons.
Q. When you're out in the middle of that, can you sense it at all between the friendly competition you have?  Can you sense how good you're all doing?
LYDIA KO:   I struggled a bit at the start and I made a few really good up and downs.  But the girls, you know, were having a strip show from the start, and then I was able to join the pack by the middle of the front nine.
I knew that we were doing well, but with the wind direction -- I think our first leaderboard was on like 8 or something -- with the wind direction I didn't know if it was going to play easier or harder.
So it was -- really had to know where we stood.  At one point Hannah was getting pretty close to the leader, so I was like, Oh, like rooting her in.
Obviously Jin Young seems like she has it in her belt, which is great.  She's showing that she is the mighty world No. 1.
Q. You had a pretty solid year, especially in majors.  Just looking back on it, I'm sure you'll take some time to reflect, but looking back, how do you feel the year went for you in what was a pretty crazy year?
LYDIA KO:   It's really been uphill for me since after the restart.  I was able to play really solid.  I think my worst finish was the first tournament back at Inverness.
Overall I played really solid.  I had a few weeks especially at the start where I wasn't finishing off the tournament very well, struggling in the last round, but I think I was able to kind of overcome that and play much better the last few events.
My goal has always been to contend in the majors as much as possible, and I feel like I was there for most times at all four of the majors we played.  So that was a really cool experience.
I'm looking forward to the time off.  Obviously it's been a shorter season, but I feel like it's just been continuing.  And, I mean, it's Christmas in pretty much five days.  It's getting to that holiday mode right now.
Q. Yeah, go listen to some Christmas music.
LYDIA KO:   Exactly.  I'll being quarantining in Korea over Christmas and New Year's.  No, hopefully we'll be -- the tour itself will be back stronger in 2021.  The tour announced the schedule a few days ago and I think it's a strong schedule.
I know that Commish has put in a lot of time and effort into it and maybe crying, tears, to put that out for us.  Hopefully the whole world will be in a better position and people will be healthier and safer and we won't to have face COVID as much as we did this year.
Q. Amen.  You have an idea when you'll start again if 2021?
LYDIA KO:   As of now I'm thinking of starting at Gainbridge.  Obviously location isn't confirmed, but I'm probably going to start around that Florida swing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT