GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 25, 2021
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. All right, Lydia.  Thank you so much for taking the time to talk with us.  What a great first round here at Lake Nona, a home course.  How do you feel now that you've got round one under your belt now?
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, obviously went off to a perfect start, you know, holing out for my second shot on the 1st hole.  I think overall I hit the ball really well today.  To be on the fairways is key, because the superintendent Brandon and his team have just done a great job of growing the rough and making it tough.
 So, yeah, overall pretty solid.  (Wind interference.)
 Q. How did hole 1 start for you?  How did it play out?
 LYDIA KO:   I hit a really good drive and then I only had gap wedge into the green.  I had my sunglasses on and I saw it bounce and kind of go forward and disappear.  But there is a ridge behind, so I wasn't sure if it went over the ridge or went in.  I didn't want to celebrate and then look dumb and the ball is like 30 feet long.
 I was a pleasant surprise to see that the ball was down at the bottom of the cup.
 Q. It was also pleasant to you see make that putt on 18.  Do you think putting was a strong part of the game today?
 LYDIA KO:   I think I holed a few good ones.  With the green speed getting faster it's definitely key to have your speed on pointe.  I think for the most part I was able to do that.  There is always parts where you feel like you could have done better.  I think overall it was solid, and always nice finishing off with a birdie on the last.
 Q. Given this is your home course, how comfortable do you feel out there, and do you think that any conditions will change that comfortability through the week?
 LYDIA KO:   At the end of the day everybody plays the same golf course and pretty similar wind directions.  Most of the time it doesn't change from south to north wind between the morning and afternoon, so it was pretty consistent.
 But just got to play my own game out there obviously because I haven't played.  A little bit kind of getting used to seeing the golf course and visualizing it.  But no matter what golf course you play, whether it's familiar or not, you still need to hit the shot.
 So it's a bit of an advantage because you know, but at the same time I feel like you still need to hit good shots and be committed out there.  I feel like I was able to do that pretty well.
 Hopefully I will be able to continue that over the in next few days.
 Q. Is this the best you've played on this golf course?
 LYDIA KO:   Hands down.  I think this is probably my best score around here.  Normally when I'm playing I don't really count everything.  The last few rounds I played with a few other players just before this week, so I kind of took my score, because you kind of have to get used to making sure that every shot counts.
 I think sometimes when you're out there practicing, and especially by myself, you know that you can hit a second shot if you miss-hit one so you don't focus as much.
 So it was nice with those few rounds coming in and playing with other players just slowly getting back into competitive mode.  But I think it's a pretty tricky golf course and the greens are subtle in some areas.  I think that makes it extra tricky.
 Keeping it in play is going to be a really big key for all of us the next three days.
 Q. Did you catch a sneak peek of Annika every once in a while playing in front of you?
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, you know, obviously so cool seeing Annika and just being in the group behind her, seeing her hit a few shots.  I've always seen her on TV playing, and to play with her last Saturday and to play behind her I think is super cool.
 Hopefully this brings a lot of attention and hype back for us on tour and just into women's golf.  I'm pretty sure it's not easy for her to come back, especially after being retired for so long, but I think this is a pretty big statement.  And, yeah, definitely cool for me to be in the same field as I think the GOAT.
 Q. Just ask one more.  Anything you were working on coming into this event that you felt like you were really satisfied with how it came along today?
 LYDIA KO:   Know, I think I tried to work on my ball striking a little bit.  I obviously didn't have a lot of time coming into this week.  I wish I had like a month plus to make sure that my whole game is there.  I felt like we were moving in the right direction, but I was talking to Sean yesterday, and he said, Just be patient out there.
 I think that's going to be a big key.  Sometimes you feel like everything is going your way and sometimes it's not going to be the same.  So I think patience is just going to be key for me even tomorrow and just throughout the season.  Just be focused on the aspects that I'm working on and do a good job with the things I can control.
 Q. Last question is you were playing really well with Nelly Korda out there.  How is that when the group is playing so well and the momentum is there for you guys?
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, obviously being paired with Brooke and Nelly, very good pairing.  Sometimes I was like, Man, how did I get stuck in this great pairing?
 But, no, it's nice when everyone is playing well, and I think all three of us gave ourselves a lot of opportunities and you kind of take that good momentum.
 But it's always good to see your putts drop, but also same for your partners.  I think just brings a great vibe to the whole group.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT