MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 21, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Did you feel like you were stuck at even par like all day long?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I made really good birdies on 2 and 3 to kind of put myself back into the even Steven, but no, I had actually a lot of good looks for birdie, but then it was like yesterday, not many of them were dropping.  But probably the shot of the day was my 5-wood into 17.  It's definitely not your typical way to hit the green for three.  But no, it was good, and I saw the leaderboard, and I knew I needed to birdie either 17 or 18, so I tried to play that way because bogey or par was probably not going to cut it.   
 Q.  The past four years you've kind of owned this place, you could do no wrong.  What's a little bit different so far halfway through this tournament?  
LYDIA KO: I just didn't start off well yesterday.  I made one birdie or something.  On a course like this where the girls are shooting 8-under and those kind of low scores, if you're not making putts, you're not making birdies, you're not going to have a very good score, and this is kind of the golf course where birdies are important, and you need to make them.  I didn't take advantage of the last two holes.  I played it 1-over on a hole that most people will probably play 1-under or maybe a little less even.  Yeah, I just wasn't taking advantage of the holes that were birdieable, and when I made a mistake I wasn't able to recover from that.   
 Q.  Has this been a continuation?  You've not been playing your best lately.  
LYDIA KO: I feel like I'm hitting it okay and I'm putting it fine, but those things kind of need to come together.  At the end of the day, I know I need to be patient, and sometimes it's just not going to go your way even though you try your best.  At the end, all I've got to do is just try my best, and after that it's really out of my hands.   
 Q.  Are you concerned about just getting better this week?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I think the leader is, what, 11-under, and I know we have two rounds of golf, but it just shows that the girls are playing great, and on a course like this, you're trying to play the best you can so you can make that gap a little less and a little less rather than thinking, hey, I'm going to win this.  Obviously who knows, miracles can happen, but I've just got to be patient and try and limit the mistakes and make a couple more birdies out there the next couple of days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT