MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 20, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LYDIA KO: When you're not hitting the ball fantastic, it's not going to be the greatest score.  But there's always tomorrow.  Hopefully I'll be able to get a few things better for tomorrow's round.   
 Q.  As you look forward to tomorrow, what's the next step?  
LYDIA KO: I feel like it's getting humid, so I don't really want to be out here for a long time, but maybe hit some balls and a couple putts and rest up for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is there any one part of your game that wasn't really helping today?  
LYDIA KO: You know, I shaped my drivers pretty well, but the three times that I missed a fairway, I wasn't able to make up-and-down from there.  It was like when something goes off, it's good that you'd better bounce back or have something that can kind of save those pars.  But I wasn't able to do that.  Yeah, you know, hopefully I'll be able to hit a few more fairways.  I'm going to just give myself a few more looks for birdies.   
 Q.  Is that an engagement ring you have on?  
LYDIA KO: No, no, didn't get engaged, no.  I want to try and fit it on the middle finger, but I've got to interlocking grip.  I try and put it on the finger that's not in my way.   
 Q.  You're not old enough.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, yeah, I guess so.   
 Q.  What do you like about the way this course is set up?  Is there something about the way the course is set up that can work to your advantage tomorrow?  
LYDIA KO: It's in really good condition.  It's pretty firm, so it's important to kind of come in with a high lofted club or on the fairways, and I'm sure as long as we don't have any weather this afternoon, it will probably play a little firmer tomorrow.  You just have to be patient, and those holes that are tougher, try and come up with a par, and where you can be a bit more aggressive, try and make those birdies.  It's always nice to have the two par-5 finishing holes on the back nine, so it'll be my last two holes tomorrow, so try and take advantage of those two.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT