KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 18, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First round 67 for you.  That ties for your low round her at Kingsmill.  Tell us how you feel walking off the golf course.
LYDIA KO: I think this is my best round in the first round, so obviously that's a really good start to the week.  I am just going to try and give myself as many opportunities as I can.
I don't think I was hitting the ball fantastic, so there is a little bit of improvement to do there.
The girls are playing great, so I know that I need to try and keep up, and to be in contention I need to make a lot of birdies out there.
That's what I'm trying to do.  I'm trying to stay positive and cool today because it's so warm.
Q. How do you handle the weather?  I know you're used to it, but does to get in your mind?  How do you work through a rough day like that?
LYDIA KO: I have my cool towel with me.  I get it wet so my body temperature is low.  I have got my Evian bottle to keep me hydrated and stay cool.  You can, I think, never overdrink out here with the temperature right now.
It might not seem like it's super hot, but the humidity and everything, it all adds up.
Q. Only had one bogey today; several birdies.  What was the highlight of the round for you?
LYDIA KO: I nearly holed out on No. 8.  I would say that's one of the tougher holes on the course, so I wish it had gone in.
No, I will take that birdie.  I said, Hey, I'm happy to hit the green.  It was a little tap-in birdie.  I was excited with that.
Obviously making a birdie on the first hole is always a good start to the day.
Q. Started off really strong today.  Do you feel like you missed some opportunities on the back?
LYDIA KO: You know, I wasn't hitting the ball lie great, but, you know, even if I did hit it in the rough with my drives, I tried to give myself as many looks for birdies as I can.
A few of them kind of passed by that I thought was close to going in.  At the end of the day, all I can do is trust my read and put a good stroke on it.  It's out of your hands from there.  So hopefully few more will drop.
But overall I thought I played really solid.  Hopefully I can continue that for the rest of week.
Q. Most of the low scores were in the morning.  Is this courses that much easier to play in the morning?
LYDIA KO: I think the course conditions are the best I've seen it with the new owners.  I got to play with David yesterday.  I think they put in so much work and effort to make the course in such amazing conditions.  I think that's why the greens are great.  They're rolling good.  I think they're a little firmer than the years I played it.  But in saying that, it has rained in the years I've played, too.
So I think just because it's a little firmer, and if the wind gets up it's definitely I guess a little tougher to go in with the second shots.  Really depends on the wind.
Other than that, I don't think it makes a huge difference.  You know, everyone is playing good, whether you're in the morning or in the afternoon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT