KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It's not official that you have missed the cut, but as of now, you know you have.  Obviously very unusual for you.  Only the second time out of I believe 90 starts.  What are your thoughts about possibly missing the cut?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, I kind of was in an okay position after halfway.  Then I had a really bad finish, missed two short putts, 16, 17, and obviously 3-putting the last.
I can't do anything about it.  I tried my best out there to hopefully put myself in better position going forward, but I can't do anything about it.
But, hey, I wish I would've been able to be able to play on the weekend.  I don't know what's going to happen.  But fingers crossed for me right now that I am able to play on the weekend.  It's really out of my hands right now.
Q. Is it mostly the putting?
LYDIA KO: Yeah.  Ball striking wasn't very good today.  I'm hitting my drives really well, but like the birdie opportunities I had I was missing quite a few of them.  I was putting so much better today until the last few holes.
Q. If you do miss the cut, do you head straight to the desert and get ready for the major there?
LYDIA KO: Yeah.  I think if I do miss the cut then I'll have tomorrow off.  I'll have some time off.  Then I think we'll drive to Palm Springs.  It's a good thing it's only like a two-and-a-half, three-hour drive to Palm Springs.
It's a close one.  We don't have to change any flights, which is always a good thing.  Hopefully I'll have my hopes up to play tomorrow, but if not...
Q. Obviously it's part of your job as a golfer, particularly as the world's No. 1 ranked player, but you were patiently going down the autograph line and signing hats, balls, everything.  Do you figure, Hey, look, these people waited around the for an autograph.  I'm just giving back to the game?
LYDIA KO: Yeah.  I mean, no matter if it's raining or it's hailing or super sunny, there are always people out here to support us.  I think us playing in front of a crowd and without anyone it makes a huge difference.
They made the effort, some people to fly or drive over to come and see us.  I think we can spare a little bit of our time to be able to give back.  I think it's great to see a lot of young kids out here.  They're the generations that are going to be on the tour.
It's always nice to spend time with juniors especially, and especially because some of them idolized some of us.  Hopefully we can be great role models like we've had so many great role models.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT