LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 15, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you hit it in the water on two and still shot 8-under?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I mean, I hit a really good drive on 1 and you would think that would be a good momentum going into the next hole.   
Actually I had missed it left the first two days on that hole and hit the fairway yesterday.  I thought, Hey, keep that thought going into that tee shot.  I hit it if in that one place you can't hit it.   
It was pretty calm for a few holes after that.  Making that birdie, close-range birdie on 7 to kind of keep the momentum up, I think it was huge for the round.   
 Q.  Did you get to a point where you thought you may be able to come all the way back and win?  
LYDIA KO: I knew I needed to play amazing and the other girls would need to lose shots.   
Going into the day eight shots behind -- four shots, five shots, there is a huge difference between eight to five.  I knew that it was something -- it was the round of my life verse a mediocre round by everybody else.   
With how the girls are playing, it's just really hard to mend the gap.  Considering where I was after the first day, I'm pleased with where I finished.   
 Q.  Does that still give you hope, that in the future when you're that far back you can have a round like this and be right there?  
LYDIA KO: I hope so.  I've been playing solid, but not a lot has come together last few events.  Even my top 10 finishes I had earlier in the season I was struggling with the putter.   
But it was definitely nice to be able to putt a lot better this week, even though I wasn't hitting the ball as good.  Definitely helps when you know you're able to make the par and birdie putts when you have the opportunities.   
 Q.  What's the big takeaway from to this week?  Putting?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I think you just can never give up until the very end.  Every day is a new day and every hole is a new hole.  You just have to take it that one shot at a time, and progressively my, I think the whole game, kind of got better within this week.   
So it was nice to be able to work on the long game, to hit the ball so much better today, and give myself more opportunities.   
 Q.  What's the plan?  Playing Texas?  
LYDIA KO: Texas, Mexico.  I'll be doing that.  I haven't been -- well, I haven't been to my Orlando home since before Australia, so it's been a couple months.   
It will be nice to be able to go to my own bed and sleep there and get ready for Dallas.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT