ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Even-par start; how do you feel about that?  
LYDIA KO: 2-under, even after I came back.  Hey, don't take away my birdies.  (Laughter.)   
No, ball-striking wasn't great today.  I mean, I hit fairways, but I didn't hit like really solid shots.  But coming down the stretch, you know, I hit some really good drives, so that's kind of good momentum going into officially today's round.  But no, I mean, I can't really say my putting was off because I didn't have that many birdie opportunities, and I think the last hole was the closest putt I had on my back nine.  It was on but a little farther away than I would have liked.  But I know that my contact is there, so it means it's not far off.  Because I've had so many good shots coming down the stretch, I think it's just a good momentum builder to the next round.   
 Q.  You had the three birdies late yesterday; do you feel that the wind break kind of took away some of your rhythm?  
LYDIA KO: No, I think -- I don't know what I would have made on that hole that I bogeyed because my ball was about to -- the wind was about to blow it off the green, and then I could have possibly putted it and come off the green again.  I think we -- I thought, hey, maybe we got unlucky with the draw, but I don't think so.  We're possibly probably able to finish our round today.  I think it ends up being fair for all the players.  I don't think it was like a momentum breaker even though obviously I wished I would have played a little better.   
 Q.  What hole was that?  
LYDIA KO: On 15.  That was the hole -- 15 green.  Brit was able to finish the hole, but my ball was slowly backing away from the hole.   
 Q.  You mentioned that putting isn't quite where you want it.  How much work have you done and how do you feel about it now?  
LYDIA KO: Obviously last week's green is a lot different to here.  Here the greens are so perfect.  If you just put a good stroke on it, good roll on it, it's going to go the way you imagine it to go.  So that's why I said early in the week there's nothing to blame out here because the course is almost flawless apart from the trees flying out and the roots coming out.  But no, I think obviously I tried to put in some time this week, and it is a major, so you're not going to be able to have a really short-range birdie putt every single time.  The par putts are just as important, and those lag putts are important, and I was able to do that well this morning, so hopefully I can continue that and make some more birdies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT