ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  2-under 70 in your second round.  How did it go for you today?  
LYDIA KO: You know, I actually hit the ball much better in my second round, but still a couple shots that I wish were a little better.  You know, there were so many close putts, and actually a few putts that I left short; and, you know, if I'm going to leave it short, why do I read it and all that.  But no, I think it's close and I think hopefully a few more putts will drop on the weekend.   
 Q.  This morning you had to finish your first round and play another 18 for your second round.  How was that mentally and physically for you?  
LYDIA KO: I think towards the end of my second round, I was getting a little tired.  I played 31 holes in Thailand a few weeks ago, so compared to that, this is nothing.  That week was a lot of undulation plus a lot of heat.  So I think I just tried to manage it, and basically being in good company with Brit always makes it a lot more fun.   
 Q.  How will you prepare for tomorrow?  
LYDIA KO: I think I'm going to hit a couple putts, but because it's been such a long day and I'm craving some sleep.  So a couple putts and then go back to the house and rest up.   
 Q.  Not as many birdies this time?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, it was pretty solid.  I was 1-over at one point and then I made two good birdies to finish my front nine and a nice, solid birdie on 11.  I wish there were a few more birdies, but hey, it happens, and hopefully I'm just saving that for the weekend.   
 Q.  What do you think is costing you those birdies right now?  
LYDIA KO: You know, there were some putts that I didn't even reach the hole, and you know, if you leave it short, it's not -- it doesn't have one percent of it going in.  So hopefully I'd better get it to the hole.  But overall, it's not been that bad.  I've been able to make up-and-down in some points, too.  So you know, hopefully a few more shots closer to the pin and a few more putts to drop.   
 Q.  Right now you're only three strokes off the lead.  Solid position for the weekend.  
LYDIA KO: I don't really know how many holes the girls are going to be able to play.  But I guess when they come out tomorrow morning, it should be similar conditions to this.  So it should be pretty calm.  That means that it can be gettable to some points, but there are some pin positions where par is a good score.  So I don't really know how many shots behind I'll be.  But I've just got to focus on my game and go from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT