CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It appeared as though the full-shot miss was a pull today.  Is that something you've been fighting?
LYDIA KO: No, my misses have been more right the past few weeks.  I did tug it a bit, and I almost tugged it on the wrong holes.  You know, when there trouble on the left or when the pin is on the left.
When you're doing that, it's not a great position to be for the next one.  No, it's not far off.  I know that I had the plenty of quality shots that the feel is still there.
Hopefully a couple balls on the range and I'll be able to have that feeling back for tomorrow.
Q. Was it something that you were like, Wow, that feeling that I had yesterday, I'm just not quite getting it again?
LYDIA KO: No.  The funny thing with this game, I always say you think you're doing the same thing but yesterday and today it's different.
So I just got to, I think, stay patient.  I mean, I don't think like I did something horribly or drastically different.  Probably those little things.
If you tug it a bit on a right-to-left wind, for example, on the 18th hole, it's going to look like much more of that draw or pull.
Q. Obviously we keep reminding you of all the things that are out there.  How do you approach that tomorrow?
LYDIA KO: I mean, even going into today, like I said earlier, even though I was the leader, kind of I wasn't the person that was being chased.  I was almost still chasing.
That's still the case until the tournament finishes, until tomorrow.  And especially with the Player of the Year, it's simple:  I got win to get it.  That's why no matter what position I am, I'm the one being -- I'm the chaser.
So I think that almost puts less pressure on me, where I'm not thinking about where I am exactly.  I'm trying to make as many birdies as I can and give myself those opportunities.
Q. Where were you trying to hit it on 18?
LYDIA KO: Maybe like where Ryann was, but I just pulled to a bit.  Then if you're hitting that kind of a shot into a right-to-left green on a right-to-left breeze on a right-to-left slope where there is water on your left, it's not a great combination.
Two negatives they say make a plus, but it wasn't a plus there.
Q. The long bunker shot that you hit fat, was that just the ball position?
LYDIA KO: No, I almost hit it too clean.  The first club in my mind was pitching wedge and try and hit it fat so that it would run up.
Then there was actually quite a bit of distance still between the front edge of the bunker and the green itself.  I didn't want to catch it a bit too heavy with a pitching wedge or especially with that wind being too long.
I almost hit it too clean by the ball where it stopped quickly.  I was trying to go a little bit more forward and more of that professional chunk rather than -- a really good one.  (Laughter.)
Q. Did you consider taking a drop on 13 with the bush?
LYDIA KO: Well, if I took a drop, you know, it was going to be in this stingy stuff.  Because of the slope it would've probably run into the water anyway and I would've been able to place it after the second drop.
But I think with this, it's not hard.  It's sandy.  But then it can be a little bit hard at some places.  It's not the easiest one to go.  If I went straight for the pin I thought the long rough was a bit wider.  If I went right, like I did, I thought if I hit it hard enough I would still be able to advance it out.  I thought that was the best option.
I said it was unlucky that it ended there, but it was lucky that it ended there or would've gone in the water.  So it was a lucky, unlucky shot, yeah.
Q. Did you think Ariya would make the charge she made today?
LYDIA KO: You know what?  She's been playing great coming into this event, so I think we all got to expect that she's going to go low, you know, sooner than later.
I'm not surprised that she's up the leaderboard again.  That's the sort of the confidence she has.  She's long, and if she hits the fairways -- and she's a really good, I guess iron shot player, so I think she really took advantage of her strength and obviously putted great.  So it's no surprise seeing her name up there.
So I think it's going to be a very interesting Sunday.
Q. The shot on 13, we were all watching it going, That's got wrist injury written all over it.  Did Gary mention anything to you about that?  Was it a consideration?
LYDIA KO: No.  I think he thinks I'm strong.  (Laughter.)
Something flew in my eye.
But, no, it's why I tried to hit it -- like practice from a -- I'm not crying.  That would be weird only on my left eye.
I tried on another little long bush and it almost felt like I could get through it enough.  No, it didn't go enough as I thought it would, but it was a perfect layup almost from there.  I thought, you know, because this ground is soft, it's not like British Open where I'm going straight into thick stuff and it's hardpan.
I think because it is soft I almost have the cushioning of that so I could go almost as tight as I could and still not hit it a mile.  Yeah.  And my wrists are fine.
Q. If it's a typical Sunday, high stakes, and your mind shots to wander ahead, do you have a technique to get yourself back in the present?
LYDIA KO: I just try and focus on the shot in front of me.  I mean, there is no advantage of me getting too ahead of myself or caught up in what happened just a hole ago.
It's easier said than done, but then to me, that's why the big goal for me this week was to have a strong finish to my season.
I got to have my lowest scoring round in my season yesterday, too.  I'm happy with that.  I am happy to see some form coming back.  I think that's why I just got to stay positive and just patient and just focused on me.
Like I said, the girls are playing great.  I'm trying to the same.  It's not only me in the field.  There are 71 other players.  It's just I think more on me, focusing on me, and I think that's going to be important for me tomorrow.
Q. As far as the Globe goes, you've been here the last couple years.  Do you think that gives you a little edge?
LYDIA KO: I mean, the check -- the money doesn't say it's for me.  Yet.  Yet.
But it's pretty cool to have been able to win the Globe.  I won it from two different positions.  I was coming in I think seventh the first year, and obviously I was leading the race coming into this week.  So definitely different position than coming in second.
But that's the great thing about this:  It's not all about me.  It's a whole season.  It's not really about this event.  So when it first came out three years ago I thought it was great.  Kind of like the men for the FedExCup, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT