HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  18th, you've birdied every day.  
LYDIA KO: You know, the 18th has been really friendly.  I said earlier in the week, no matter how you're playing, to birdie the last hole is always a good feeling.   
 Q.  And off to an explosive start, as well.  You had four birdies in the first five holes.  You're really getting the ball into the hole and putting well.  
LYDIA KO: I hit it really close on 1, so I had a tap-in there.  Then I hit a good putt on No. 2.  Then I was clumsy on No. 3, and then I was able to recover back on next couple holes.   
I think I was a bit more aggressive on the putting greens.  That's why I actually hit a few a little too far by than I would have liked.  But especially out on this course, the girls are putting great, so that's what I'm trying to do, too.   
 Q.  It's a great-looking leaderboard heading into tomorrow.  
LYDIA KO: It's great with some of the biggest names out there.  Michelle is leading I think and Ariya is just consistently playing well.  I think it's going to be a very exciting finish for the leaders coming in and a very exciting Sunday.   
 Q.  What have you got to do between now and tomorrow?  Are you going to go and hit balls?  
LYDIA KO: I think I need to sit by the air conditioner.  I'm just going to have a couple putts and then go home.  That's what I've been doing the past few days.  I think because it can get a little humid, because of the big week last week, I think it's important, just as important to have the energy levels up for tomorrow.   
 Q.  It's hard to maintain the energy levels when there's so much going on here.  We have the Korean heartthrob playing tonight, Lee Joon-gi, and he's going to be good.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I actually follow him on social media.  I think he's one of the famous actors in Korea, and you know, he's a name that a lot of us know.   
 Q.  Looks like this course is growing on you.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I've been having a really good finish on the 18th hole, so it's always nice to come off with a birdie.  I started off really hot today.  I didn't really continue the momentum after the 10th hole, but I tried to hang in there and it was a clumsy bogey on 17, but it was nice to bounce back with the birdie on the last.   
 Q.  Did the rain disruption alter the momentum you were talking about?  
LYDIA KO: I don't think so.  I just wasn't striking the ball as well as I was earlier in the day.  But I thought it was a perfect lunch break.  I had some Hainanese chicken and some of the sandwiches that my sister made me.  It was fine, and we were close to the clubhouse.  I'm not really complaining about it.   
 Q.  Talking about tomorrow, you could be going out in the last group.  Does it matter whether you go out in the last group or second to last group?  
LYDIA KO: I don't think it matters.  Just depending on how the leaders finish, will I guess make the difference of how many shots behind I am, etc.  I'm just going to try my best out there.  The girls are playing really good and it seems like there's a lot of birdies spread amongst all of us.  I think it's going to be a putting game tomorrow and somebody that putts really consistently well, I think is going to have the best opportunity to hold the trophy at the end of tomorrow.   
 Q.  What about the weather?  Do you prefer playing when it's hot and sunny or overcast and drizzly like we had today?  
LYDIA KO: I don't mind the overcast and drizzly, because I know how hot Singapore can get.  Because of the heat we had last week, sprinkling I little bit, I don't mind at all.  It kind of reminds me of weather back in New Zealand a little bit, so that's never a bad thing.   
Obviously we had the delay but we've been pretty fortunate so far for it not being super hot.   
 Q.  How important was the birdie on the last?  You've birdied it three days in a row now.  
LYDIA KO: The 18th has been really friendly so far.  I've actually had I guess three really good putts for those birdies, and no matter what you shoot, it's always nice to end the round with a birdie.   
 Q.  Did it also keep you in touching distance with Michelle?  What mind-set will that give you tomorrow?  
LYDIA KO: The girls are playing great, and every time I look at the screen, somebody is making another putt.  It just shows how well the girls are playing and you know how many birdies are actually happening.  That's what I've been trying to do the past few days, and that's the mind-set I've got to take on to tomorrow, because the scoring isn't I guess -- because there are birdies out there.  I think I need to just focus on my game.  The holes that I can be aggressive at, be a little aggressive, and the holes where par is a good score, be smart about my play.   
 Q.  Can you give us the length of the 3-putts at the last on each day?  
LYDIA KO: On the first day, it was like just under 20 feet.  Yesterday was like around just under 25 feet.  Today was like around 20 feet again.   
 Q.  The 13th, the par save, that was pretty important?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, it went from a really bad chip to an okay chip to a really good putt.   
I actually landed it not so far from where I guess I was planning on to landing it, but the green was a lot firmer and faster than I thought, and I guess with the pin being so far in the corner, I guess it wasn't really a pin that I should have like been totally aggressive about, because you know, being on the other side wasn't that great.   
But it was nice to hole that putt and especially because it's a par 5.  It not the greatest feeling bogeying it.   
 Q.  How far was that putt?  
LYDIA KO: Like 15 feet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT