CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2016
Lydia Ko
Mike Whan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to the 2016 CME Group Tour Championship.  I am very pleased to be joined by Rolex Rankings No. 1, Lydia Ko, here in the interview room.
Lydia, another great season for, and you come into this week once again with quite a lot on the line, a lot of trophies up for grabs.
How are you feeling heading into this week?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, it's been a pretty surreal season.  I got to compete in the Olympics and I got to have my second major win just playing my third year on the LPGA.  So just a lot of positives.  Just a lot of fun.
Obviously I'm not coming into this week with the greatest form, but I still feel like it's been a season where I'm really proud of it.  You know, obviously this week there always seems like there is something on the line.
For me to be in this position and have the opportunity to go for the Globe again and all the other things, it's a pretty cool position to be in.
At the same time, I'm in a bit of a different position to last year.  I'm not really in the driver's seat.  A lot of things.  For it to happen, I kind of need to win this week.
For me, it's more important to have a strong finish to the season.  That's what I'm mainly thinking about, and just enjoying being here in Naples.
THE MODERATOR: I love when you say, Not in the greatest form and we look and you're No. 2 in the race to the CME Globe; No. 2 for Player of the Year; No. 2 on the Money List.  Got to be pretty good to not be in that great of form.
LYDIA KO: Just the past few weeks.
THE MODERATOR: But one of the races you're having a chance in at really for the first time is the Vare Trophy.  You currently lead in lowest scoring average.  Talked to players in the past, and some view that as one of the greatest accomplishments you can have, having the lowest scoring average on tour, because it takes such consistency.  What would it mean to you to be table walk away with that title for the first time.
LYDIA KO: It would being really cool.  I think I'm in the 60s, and there is not that many players where the scoring average is in the 60s.  Obviously to win the Vare Trophy, and have my name alongside the many other players that have had their names on this trophy, it would be a pretty special Sunday.
I just got to focus out there.  Especially with scoring average, it's not all about me.  If somebody else plays well and overtakes me, I can't do much about it.
To me, that's why I'm trying to more focus on putting myself in a good position and trying to play the best I can and not think about what all the other players are doing.
THE MODERATOR: I've had a lot of players in here with Ariya and Brooke already so far this year asking them about what it would mean to them to walk away with that box of money.
You already know what that feels like because you've done it two straight times.  Have you let yourself think about it once again, as to what you would do with that $1 million.
LYDIA KO: The first year I think I said my mom wanted to buy a purse; she got that purse.
I don't know what I got last year.  I'm kind of a shopper where I buy small things along the way and end up being this big.
I think for me to be in the position where I can go for the money again, it's great.  More than just the money, it's about how consistent you've played throughout the year.  So to be able to have that chance again -- and especially if you're in the top three.  If you win, you know, then you're done kind of.  So it's a really cool position to be in.
At the same time, I'm going to try and more focus on the golf and not think about the awards and the money and the Globe.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. For those of us who have known you for a long time, the swing changes are obvious.  They actually look pretty good.  Wondering what's going on?  Why are you doing this?  Where are you in the process?
LYDIA KO: Well, we actually haven't been doing too much swing changes, especially within the last few weeks, few months.  Especially when I'm in Asia, you know, it's hard to see the coaches and all you're doing is sending swing videos and then they go, Hey, maybe you should just check this or this out.
Even last week we weren't doing anything.  It was trying to keep the mind simple.  I think that's the biggest thing for me.  You don't want overcomplicate things.  I think sometimes when I've hit it a little bit crooked it's because I've been thinking about it too technically.
That's why talking to David and Sean, the big thing is for me to keep the mind clear; not thinking about the swing.  Just be able to go up on the tee of hit that shot without any fear and not worrying about the bad shots, no matter what the outcome is.
Q. So how does it feel different not being in the driver's seat?  Do you feel like you have less pressure this week or more?
LYDIA KO: I'm always in the passenger seat when I am with my mom anyway.  But, no, I mean, Ariya has had such a phenomenal season.  When she won for the first time in Alabama, we kind of knew her win was coming.  We said when it is coming, not is she going to win.
Every since then or since the start of the season she'd played great.  Even in Asia she put herself in position to win majority of the times.  She looks like she is confident.
I think the thing is people think because of her length people think she is winning because she is hitting it so far.  Even if you hit it far and don't hit it straight, it's not the same.
She's been putting herself in good positions and putting great.  I think that's why she's been able to play so good and put herself in such good positions.  Overall, her game is in such great condition.
Q. Do you feel any more pressure than usual?
LYDIA KO: Going into this week?  No, not really.  To me, I'm thinking more personal goals, trying to round up my good season, have a strong finish, rather than think about, Hey I really need to win or do that.  I think that puts my mind in more of a clearer position.
I'm just thinking about me and trying to hit good shots out there.  This course is in such great condition.  I know that if I play good it's just going to kind of match.
I feel like I'm in a good position.  I'm just going to enjoy it.  I'm playing with Ariya and Brooke, so I think it should be a fun day tomorrow.
Q. What is the challenge of playing head-to-head a player that you're battling for so many prizes?  How do you approach that?
LYDIA KO: Normally when we come into this event it's always -- the first day it's always paired like that.  So I was able to play with I think Stacy and Inbee last year.  Even though we were going up against all those awards and everything else, we still enjoyed it.
I think when we're all out there we're not really thinking about, Hey, are you going to get Player of the Year?  Are you going to get the Globe?
We're trying to make as many birdies as we can.  That's the cool thing about it.  And especially with the personalities Brooke and Ariya has, we're all just excited to be here.  It's the final event and we want to finish strong rather than think about all these awards.
I really enjoy playing with them.  I think we recently played together in Malaysia.  We all had a good time.
THE MODERATOR: We've talking a lot about youth this year.  When we really look at it the top three in the Race to the CME Globe, are all youngsters, 18, 19, 20.  Oldest is 20.  Told Ariya yesterday she was the oldest.
LYDIA KO: She's 19; didn't she just turn 19?
THE MODERATOR: Oh, you're right.  She just turned 19.
LYDIA KO: See, everybody thinks I'm way older than Brooke, but I'm only like six months older.
THE MODERATOR: All youngsters.  When you talk about youth, what has been it been like to have two other people kind of around the same age be the ones pushing you to be even better and becoming those rivals for you?
LYDIA KO: I think it's been really cool.  I think we have really been pushing each other.  When I was first out on tour, fortunately because the Commish saying yes, you know, I was always the young one.  They said, Hey, you're the young one out here; you're the youngest this.
Even though it felt great to be out here, I was like Oh, I wonder when there will be girls my age?  Going into this year there is quite a few of us that are born in 1997.  For especially Brooke and Ariya to play great, I think it kind of feels like when I was playing as an amateur or the U.S. Am and those kind of fields.
No, that's the great thing about golf.  Girls in their teens to girls in their 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s, anyone can play.  I think we're fortunate that we are able to play the game we love for so long.
Q. What part of your form are you least satisfied with or most working on?
LYDIA KO: Probably the long game.  You know, even in Asia the days I did strike the ball well when I didn't putt well.
The days I putted well I was trying to make up and downs from everywhere.
There weren't that many rounds where everything kind of clicked.  When those things kind of click then you're able to shoot the 5, 6-under and jump up the leaderboard.
So I think that's what's kind of been lacking, the connection between all parts.  It is important if you're not hitting the ball so well for you to make up and down and get those saves.
At the same time, you need those birdie opportunities, too.  I feel like this is a course where you kind of need to putt well.  I think especially with the new greens there is a bit more undulation than previous years.
I think putting is going to be a huge key around this course.
Q. When things aren't going so great, as they haven't in the last few tournaments, do you get worried about your swing?  Do you start tinkering any?  Able to play through it?  Are you able to say, Don't do anything crazy?
LYDIA KO: Yeah you know, I think even though I haven't hit the ball very well, I don't think we've ripped apart the swing and said, Hey, we've got to do this differently or change the ball flight.  It's more about going back to the basics.
I feel like when you see all the players here, we al have different swings.  Different swings suit different players.  So even if you have the basics down, I think you can play with that.  So we've been doing a lot of the basic stuff.  Checking where the club is in my hands.  Those things are like golf 101, but those things are the important things that can tinker from like a five-yard draw to a little bit of a pull.
Q. You obviously had a lot of different caddies early in your career.
LYDIA KO: I knew it.  I knew it.  When was this question coming?
Q. Got to have a caddie question.  Just curious, going back to a new face when you had somebody that knew your game really well for a long time, I would imagine you're relying on yourself more now to make decisions.  You don't have somebody that knows exactly what you are going to do and your yardages as well as you do.  How different is it these last couple weeks?
LYDIA KO: I have to blame me.  It's quite hard.  No, you know, I worked with Jason for two years.  It had been so much fun.  I was able to do a lot of things alongside him.  He brought a different perspective and I felt like I learned more about my game through him, too.
Obviously Malaysia was my first event without him.  Going to the course it felt really weird to give somebody else my golf bag.  I felt like, Man, I need to write these new yardages of how far my clubs go to this person.  Felt like I was starting three years ago as a rookie.
At the same time, I think it's good to be able to refresh your mind and kind of put your foot to a whole new place and not go through as if, okay, every week, repeat, repeat, repeat.
It's great to see that Jason is doing well with Ha Na, too.  It's definitely different because you're not used to each other as well as you are used to someone that you worked with for a few years.
I think it was a good change.
THE MODERATOR: We do have a little surprise.  In typical Lydia fashion you have some gifts to give to the media.  I know we've got some down here, but can you just kind of let them know what that's gifts are that you're going to pass out.
LYDIA KO: Normally people call me "something" dealer, and that is?
Q. Chocolate.
LYDIA KO: Yes.  So it's chocolate.  I might actually need a hand with this.  Commish?  Is he here?
Come on, Commish.
COMMISSIONER WHAN: Are we really handing out chocolate?
THE MODERATOR: Yeah.  (Applause.)
COMMISSIONER WHAN: When I walked in it somebody was asking Lydia if she felt more pressure this week.  Have you ever felt pressure on the golf course?
LYDIA KO: Oh, yeah.  Hands are shaking.  Can't you see.  (Laughter.)
THE MODERATOR: While we're passing out a little bit of chocolate, we're going to welcome the commissioner back up here to give a special part of this announcement as the media here can look at your chocolate and know we have a little special announcement for 2017.
COMMISSIONER WHAN: We just got to hear a little bit from Uno, who, as you know, is born in Korea but raised in Auckland, New Zealand.
I had made the comment -- we were playing in a Pro-Am about a year ago --  that I had been all over the world but I've never been to New Zealand.  You got to be careful what you say to Lydia because she obviously remembered that.  Starting September 28th next year, the week of September 28th, we're going to New Zealand through the help of McKayson, a company from Korea taking us to Auckland, just like Lydia from Korea taking us to Auckland.
We'll be playing at Windross Farms Golf Club in Auckland.  I'm lucky to have Chairman Kim from McKayson to join Lydia and I.
Chairman Kim, why don't you come up here and talk about McKayson.  Last year was a cheese head.  This year it's just a hat.  I feel a little bit better.
THE MODERATOR: And a little chocolate.  (Applause) Chairman, before we sit everybody down, we actually want to unveil the new logo for our tournament hidden here.  (Applause.)
Chairman, I know you want to say just a couple words about what this event means to you.
CHAIRMAN KIM: I am Mr. Kim with McKayson.  It is quite my honor to participate in this press conference.  I am really happy to take this title sponsorship for McKayson to New Zealand Women's Open.  I hope to make it a successful tournament.
COMMISSIONER WHAN: Lydia, let's give him an LPGA sandwich squeeze.  Come on.  (Laughter.)
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  Lydia, first question we have for you is:  We know you like to give everybody a taste of New Zealand with the chocolate, whether it's players or media.  What's it going to be like to welcome the players and the LPGA in your hometown of Auckland?
LYDIA KO: You know, I am always saying New Zealand is -- I'm sorry, I'm very by biassed -- the most beautiful country in the world.  To be able to know some of those girls -- I hope a lot these girls and top players come and visit, and not only play at such a great golf course, but to experience New Zealand and their culture, I'm very excited about that.
A lot of people, whether it's just golfers or people that have gone on trips or honeymoons have said, Wow, it's such a beautiful place.  They kind of don't want to leave the place.
I hope that's the case.  It's just great.  When I heard that this tournament was going to be official thanks to McKayson, the LPGA, and everybody involved, I was excited.  I think the girls are going to have a great time.
I think New Zealand is a bit different.  We say we're almost like a few years later than even the States.  I think it's a great way to be.  I'm pretty sure the fans and everyone back home are going to be excited to see the girls play some great golf.
THE MODERATOR: Mike, we've all seen Lydia's impact on this tour and what it's meant to have her as the No. 1 player.
What do you think now adding this event will mean for golf in New Zealand and how we continue to grow the game around the world?
MIKE WHAN: We talk a lot about the game of golf being borderless, and Lydia is a great example of being borderless.
We've seen with other players, as they ascend in the Rolex World Rankings, the impact they make not only in their own country, but they make on the LPGA schedule.  Obviously we played in Thailand right about the time Yani was making her ascent on the Rolex World Rankings as well.
I think seeing the crowds that come out to Australia to see Lydia, I'm a little concerned about the security policy when she tees off in New Zealand.
It's a great addition to our tour.  It's a beautiful countryside.  I'm personally excited about a country I've never been to.
From what I hear it's the second prettiest country in the world.
LYDIA KO: It's the best.  It is the best.  Yeah.
COMMISSIONER WHAN: I know a lot of our players on tour have been to New Zealand before, have played in other events.  I think the opportunity to go to Auckland to do it at a time -- I mean, obviously in the fall is a great time for us.  We get to experience a lot of different cultures, a lot of different young fans.
I'm hoping we can leave the same kind of mark in New Zealand that we have left in some other countries with a whole 'nother generation of young golfers watching players like her and say, I want to be her someday.
THE MODERATOR: Lydia, this press conference is being broadcast simultaneously in New Zealand as well, so we got some questions from some media in New Zealand.
In what part do you think your personal rise and prominence in the game has been rewarded by New Zealand getting an LPGA tournament?
LYDIA KO: Hard.  Jeez.  Making me work.  You know, wow.
I mean, I don't get to go back home much.  Whenever I go back or when I went for the previous New Zealand Opens, I would see a lot of people out there that aren't necessarily golfers.  You know, juniors and a lot of kids saying, Hey, I want to take up this sport.
I always say that rugby and cricket are probably the two biggest sports in New Zealand.  Thanks to Sir Bob Charles and Danny Lee and Ryan Fox who are competing right now, I think we've kind of grown golf in New Zealand.
We've kind of grown golf in New Zealand.  I say that our environment is to be able to play at golf courses where -- like my home club, if you pay 100 New Zealand dollars you can play all year-round.  That's the amount you have to pay for one round at some of these course.  That course has hosted the World Cup before.
We have such a great environment to grow the game and for a lot of people to take up the game.  If we can make a little bit more of an impact to get one more junior into it, I think it's a job well done.
Now to know that the world's best female golfers are going to play in my hometown, it's exciting.  I think more girls and more kids are going to take up the sport and say, Hey, I want to play on this tour in a few years and play this event, too.
COMMISSIONER WHAN: When they writers ask their boss if they can get a ticket to Auckland, they may need a letter from you.  You have to sell that back on the home front.
LYDIA KO: Dear boss...
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Looking at the schedule, this is the week Reignwood fell.  Does this event replace an event or fall into a new category?
COMMISSIONER WHAN: Great question.  Reignwood will actually move back a week and this will take the week there.  It doesn't replace an event.
I'm going to send out the schedule the week after Thanksgiving.  We've got one date change and two title sponsors arguing over the same tournament that we're going to let get solved before we send it out.
This is an additional event, if you will.  The good news is I think last year at this time we introduced the Oneida event in Green Bay.
Couple months ago we introduced the Women of Tech and Indy with Guggenheim, and now New Zealand.  We've got a little bit more news for you this week before we leave.
So these are great locations, great sponsors, and great opportunities for us to play.  We'll start our fall swing next year in New Zealand.
THE MODERATOR: Lydia, I had another question from New Zealand.  Have you had a chance to talk to any of the other players about coming to New Zealand, and do you think it will be popular?
LYDIA KO: I've at least bribed one, Danielle Kang.  I said, I'll give you, the whole tour, as many chocolates or whatever you need.
So I think the girls are going to enjoy it.  Like the Commish said, few of the girls have played the New Zealand Open before.  I know it's in a different part of New Zealand, and I've heard a lot of great things about it.  I just got to keep bribing them with chocolate and sweet stuff.  I know there are a lot of sweet tooths out here.  I'll try my best.
But I think it's going to be great.  Especially that time year where we're all going towards Asia and that side of the world, I think it's going to be great visit down there, Down Under.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT