HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by Rolex Rankings No. 1, Lydia Ko.   
Lydia, how does it feel to be back in Thailand?   
LYDIA KO: Yeah, it's definitely nice to be back.  I think it's been a couple years since I was here last.   
The course, there hasn't been much change to it, so it's nice to come back and see that not a lot has changed.   
The heat has definitely not changed.  It's definitely nice to be back here, especially with the Thai girls playing so well.  It's a great time for golf in Thailand.   
THE MODERATOR: First event in the book from Australia.  How do you feel your game is right now?   
LYDIA KO: I actually struck the ball pretty well last week, but, you know, I was struggling to read the greens.  That way I really wasn't making that many birdies out there.   
When you're in that kind of state it's really hard to try and shoot a low one, but hopefully I can keep the ball striking up and hole a few more putts this week.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  How do you see the level of your game right now?  
LYDIA KO: You know, like I said earlier, I hit my drives really well last week.  I gave myself quite a few opportunities for birdies.   
I was just struggling on the greens and around the greens.  You know, that's why it was really hard for me to try and build up on a good round.   
Hopefully I can take the positives from last week and then put a few more putts in the hole, and I think the score will be a lot better compared to last week in Australia.   
THE MODERATOR: Did you do anything with Gary or talk to him at all after Australia leading up to this event?   
LYDIA KO: Gilchrist?   
THE MODERATOR: Yeah.   
LYDIA KO: I actually haven't talked to him since Australia.  I have been learning to try and keep it more simple, especially because my ball striking I felt was all right and I could play from that.   
I just really wanted to focus on the short game and obviously trying to get used to this golf course again.  You know, especially coming in late -- well, on Monday evening -- it's been going really quickly here.   
We're teeing it up tomorrow.  I can't believe it's already been three days since we finished up in Australia.   
THE MODERATOR: What do you particularly like about this event and how have you seen it grow over the past few years?   
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, I think now it's more exciting and I think it'll attract a lot more juniors.  I remember there being quite a few juniors here throughout the week, but I think there will be more now because of how what Ariya has done and how well Moriya has done and the other Thai players have played.   
No matter what country you're from, if the players from that home country are playing well, I think I it automatically attracts more attention.  I think that's why it's a really exciting time for golf in Thailand.   
Hopefully that will bring out more people to come out and watch us play.  This is a really good golf course.  Great finishing holes.  Some tough ones, and then a possible reachable par-4 and a par-5.  I think it's going to be exciting, but it really depends on how the course is set up, too.   
 Q.  Seems like Ariya is trying to catch up with you for the No. 1 ranking.  What are your thoughts?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, she's played impressively well, especially from last season to now.  She's always putting herself in good positions and in contention, and winning quite a few, too.   
It's great to see the level of talent on the LPGA.  What she's done I think is very impressive.  Her game is a lot different to mine.  I think we're all trying to play to our strengths.   
I think especially in the past season or so you kind of don't know who is going to win because there are so many talented players out here.  What Ariya has been doing is great.  I think she has the confidence where I think she is going to continue to keep playing well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT