CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Still smiling.  Sometimes they say you learn as much in defeat as you do in victory.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, I'm really proud of the good form that came back this week.  Coming into this week I really didn't know what was going to happen.   
Definitely great to shoot my, I think it's career low on the LPGA on Friday.  I tried to battle it out on this back nine.  I'm proud of that.   
Obviously I would've loved to be holding the Vare Trophy.  It's still been a very cool season for me.   
I just want to thank my whole team.   
 Q.  It has been a long and successful season.  When you look back, I know you wanted the Vare Trophy, but how proud are you of yourself for the season?  
LYDIA KO: You know, I started with a bang.  You know, played really well and got to have my second major in my career.  Just so many highs.   
Olympics was the biggest goal of mine coming into this year.  I got to compete in that and become a medalist.  So many dreams came true.   
It may hurt about what happened right now, but I still feel like it's been an awesome season.  I'll give myself an A-plus.   
 Q.  And you get some time off.  Enjoy.  
LYDIA KO: I'm so excited for it.  Month off.  Don't touch my clubs.   
 Q.  How would you describe this week?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, I had a really good back nine my first day and kind of carried that momentum into Friday.   
Not the greatest weekend that I would've liked, but still proud of the way I fought back this last back nine.  Still I think a lot of positives.  It was great to put myself back in the top 10 and put myself in contention where I could end up leading or was leading.   
It was great to see some good form come back.  It's been a really fun season.  I'm excited for some time off.   
 Q.  (Regarding back-to-back CME titles.) (Loud applause.)  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I mean, I played (indiscernible) this season, but Ariya played better.  When you play good and somebody plays better, you can't do much about it.  So it's just been fun.  I think there are so many positives.  I know that even though I am not the one holding the trophy, Ariya is such a deserving winner of both the Player of the year and I am pretty sure the Globe.   
 Q.  You made things very interesting on the back nine.  Tell me about the little run before 17.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, got my putter going finally the 10th, 11th, and 12th, so it was great to see some putts go in.   
I thought I almost made a hole-in-one on 16.  Would've been great to get that car with that, but, you know, just a loose shot on the 17th tee kind of put myself in an unfortunate position for the rest of the way.   
Still, I tried to knock that birdie in on the 18th.  Didn't end up falling, but I'm proud of the way I fought back.   
 Q.  Your plans now just being able to have a month off?  
LYDIA KO: I am planning not touch my clubs or look at them for the next month.  I've looked at them for the last 11 months.  I think they're sick of me, too.   
But, no, it's been great.  I say this, but I don't know what I would do without golf.  That's how much I like it.  But I think a little bit of time off is going to be fun.   
Yeah, I'm planning to go back to Korea, so do something that I normally wouldn't do throughout the season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT