MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 4, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you're right there.  Do you feel like you fought all day and gave yourself a chance at it?
LYDIA KO: Yeah.  I mean I started off well, ended up bringing three for the first time.  It was kind of my goal today, for me to birdie three, and I just had three really poor chips the past three days to not make a birdie.  On a hole like that you're almost overpowered for making par there.  So did that.  And I had a couple of bogeys, but fought back well with birdies on 8 and 10.  And yeah, it was overall pretty solid.  I didn't drive it as good.  But I gave myself good looks, and there were a few putts that kind of slipped by, but considering where I was at the end of Friday, I think it was a pretty good job on the weekend.
Q. Do you feel pretty good heading into an off-week and then France in a couple of weeks?
LYDIA KO: Yeah.  I'm excited for the week off.  Olympics is almost like two weeks in one week.  It was just an unbelievable experience.  It's been a long three weeks defending last week and coming here.  But overall I feel like I played really solid.  So it's been a cool three weeks.  I'm going to charge up, work on a few things and be in Evian in a week or so.
Q. How was your experience here all week?
LYDIA KO: It's been great.  I came here last year, so I knew what the course was going to be like.  I think the fans were great, and I think it's more than last year.  But in saying that, I was kind of at the back of the pack last year.  So no, it was great to see a lot of people out here and especially a lot of juniors, and I think when we come to Canada, I think it's probably the most juniors we see on any of our tour schedule, so it's always good to see the future stars.  And yeah, it's been a fun two weeks.
Q. Anything in particular that you're looking to work on before Evian?
LYDIA KO: Nothing is always perfect, so just trying to polish a few things.  Kind of got the putter rolling a little bit better the past three days, so just kind of do that and working on try and hit it solid.  And yeah, it's the last major of the year, so it's going to be a good week.
Q. That was a nice chip on 18.  What was going through your mind?
LYDIA KO: I think I kind of got lucky there.  I got a pretty good lie.  And with this grass there's a huge difference between the grass growing into you or away from you.  So the grain was going towards the hole, so I got lucky with that.  But yeah, no, it's always good to finish off with a par or birdie, but you know, I gave my best effort from there.  So yeah, got lucky and it was a good chip.
Q. When you were 15, I remember you won the Canadian Open and you were like so excited.  Now you're like 19.  You're a seasoned veteran.  What is it like to have these kids here wanting to get your autograph and just looking up to you?
LYDIA KO: It's almost the end of my third year on tour.  I really can't believe it's already been that long.  I mean there are girls out here for 20 years, but just on my perspective, it's been a lot of fun experience, and I think I've been fortunate to be able to come on tour at a younger age than the minimum age.  And to see these kids excited to see us, you know, it's great.  And at the end of the day if we can inspire or make a kid want to play the game a bit more or love it even more, I think it's a job well done.  And that's why we love being able to talk to these kids.  They're excited; we're excited, so it's really a win-win deal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT