CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 26, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lydia, can you just give us your thoughts on your position into the tournament?  You're four back heading into the weekend and right in the mix?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I played pretty solid the last few days.  Hoped for a few more putts to drop, but it's just really tough out there with some pins being tucked and on little slopes.  Three-footers, four or five, they're not easy tap-ins or easy birdies or pars.  So when it's that kind of scenario you really need to take your time and be patient out there.  But there's still a lot of golf to be played.  I feel like I'm playing solid, and it's a good position going into the weekend.   
 Q.  Just with a player with Ariya's pedigree being on top in the lead, does that change your game plans tomorrow?  Do you feel you have to be more aggressive because you know what she can do?  
LYDIA KO: I don't think I'll change my game plan.  Ariya and I have such different games.  I know she hits the ball a mile, and I'm just an average tour length player, so even out there today Sei Young just I know is hitting it further than me, but I can't change what I'm going to do and my tactics because there's a player that's going to hit the ball a long way.   
Because the rough is really thick, and at the end of the day, you just need to keep it on the fairways and give yourself good opportunities.  But there are some holes and some pin positions where if you're making pars, it's a good score.   
 Q.  You had a stretch of four birdies in a row there.  What was going right for you there?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I holed a good putt on 9.  Especially with that pin position, coming off of the birdie was kind of like a little bonus.  I hit it pretty close on 10 and 11, and then because 12 is a reachable par 5, I was a little long and holed for a six, seven-footer for birdie.   
 Q.  I know you can't change your game plan.  But when someone like Ariya is leading, you two are the only ones with four victories so far this season.  Does it change what you think it might take to get there?  Does it change what you think it might take to reel her in?  
LYDIA KO: No, I think just everyone's going to stick to their game plans.  I don't know what the weather's going to be like, and if it's hot, that means the greens and everything is going to get a little firmer, faster, and that itself, you know, you might be changing your game plan because of that.   
But I don't think -- it's no guarantee that it's going to be Ariya or me that's going to be holding the trophy at the end of Sunday.  There are still a lot of great players and a lot of big names still up there.  And especially with two rounds to go, ten shots, you never know, especially because we've seen some lower scores.  Somebody at the end of Sunday could shoot a very low one and put yourself in good position.  There are just so many scenarios on how someone could win.   
But at the end of the day I don't think you can really nail it down to a couple players that are definitely going to win just because they have the experience.  Obviously experience is an important thing, but it just all depends on how solid you're playing and how confident you are too.   
 Q.  What does two looks at this course do for your comfort level?  Has it changed since Thursday?  
LYDIA KO: Especially during Tuesday, which is really windy, and I said, man, if it's windy like this and then the greens stay this firm, this is going to be really tough.  I think with the moisture we had yesterday that's helped it to be a little softer than what it was.  But I mean it's still not soft.   
But, just, yeah -- yeah (laughing).  But, no, it's just you never know.  I think at the end of the day for me I've just got to focus on the shot I have in front of me and just be comfortable.  The fans have been great today.  To see them cheer for me on every hole, and you know the cheer you get on the first tee is pretty special.  I think that's why I love coming to Canada, and when you know the Tour loves coming here because they're so excited to see us play here.   
 Q.  I know you want to win every event, but when you are the defending champion, just how badly do you want to hang on to that title and not let somebody else wrestle it away from you?  
LYDIA KO: You know, I think rather than me wanting to win it again, I think there is a bit more added pressure because you are the defending champion.  Obviously, I would love to win this tournament again, but I think if you scale it up, I think there is more pressure and expectation because you have won this tournament three times, in my case.  But this tournament here just gives me a lot of great memories.  It was my first LPGA win, and especially in 2012 when I really had no idea, and I wouldn't have expected it going into Thursday.   
So just know there are expectations, but I'm not going to think about it.  I'm just going to try to play good golf, and I think that's the important thing.  At the end of the day, if you're playing solid and you're making good birdies, you can give yourself a good chance at it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT