OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How would you rate your day, 2‑under?  
LYDIA KO: I didn't start off very as well. I pretty much scrambled on the first two holes and came off with good pars. I made a careless bogey on 3 and I hit it in probably the worst place on 4. So I'm happy that I ended up 2‑under par. I think it's a solid start to the first round of the Olympics. I tried to enjoy it. At this moment what I'm feeling, it's never going to come back again.   
So just to know that I'm officially an Olympian and finished my first round as an Olympian, I think is great. Overall, I think our group played pretty good, too. Hopefully we can all play better as the rounds goes on.  
   
 Q. How did you feel after that eagle?   
LYDIA KO: It was great. It was my first eagle at the Olympics, so I think it's great. Even seeing the men's last week, I think there were two hole‑in‑ones and a couple eagles, and I put my contribution to golf making an eagle, I think is a really good feeling, and especially I was even par at that point in my round. So kind of go from zero to 2‑under I think was a great turnaround.  
   
 Q. Was it a bit tough having a bit of a logjam there, having to wait at 16?   
LYDIA KO: I think we waited less than the other groups, but because 16 can be a reachable par 4, and for the long hitters, 18 was a reachable par 5. You kind of have to expect that.   
But no, it's the same for everyone. We can't really do much about it. It's not like we can play through different groups. But those three holes, if you position yourself well, you can get birdies. A little disappointed that I couldn't take advantage out of the three, but I don't think the wait necessarily affected me on those holes.  
   
 Q. Inbee Park said that she's won many majors, but she said that she really did have nerves, because she's never really been an Olympian before. Did you feel that in the same way?   
LYDIA KO: Yeah, walking up to the first tee, I was fine. But when you're officially being announced and all those millions or thousands of people were watching worldwide, us tee off, and waving back to them, I think is a very cool feeling.   
The first of anything is the most memorable and they go with you forever. If you're once an Olympian, that goes with you, no matter if you retire or you continue to play. So I think it's definitely a different feeling, and to know that the whole of New Zealand is supporting me, and to see some of the Kiwis out here, I think it makes it extra special.   
   
 Q. What club did you use to hole your second shot?   
LYDIA KO: 9‑iron. I think it was 136 yards, and it was helping a little bit.   
   
 Q. Leaders are 6‑under, four ahead. Where do you think that puts you and what do you think you need to shoot around here?   
LYDIA KO: I think it all depends on the wind and the course conditions. If it gets dryer, firmer and faster, that's obviously going to be tougher to hold the greens. If the wind blows on holes that could have been playing a little shorter, might play a lot longer. You just never know what's going to happen. But I feel like it was pretty fair for the morning and afternoon today. It didn't necessarily blow even more in the afternoon. So we'll just have to see.   
But 6‑under in the first round, I think that's a very impressive round by Ariya.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT