RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A 69 puts you at 3-under but it promised so much more at that time one point on the back nine, didn't it.  
LYDIA KO: I actually wasn't hitting my tee shots very well on the front nine, but I was able to make a lot of up-and-downs.  On the back nine my putter kind of got rolling.  I wasn't putting very well the last two days, so it was good to see some putts falling.  Hit a really wayward tee shot on 18, so it's tough to finish on that, but it's the best score I had during this tournament, so hopefully another low one tomorrow.   
 Q.  The flags were a little bit more tucked today I thought, so how low a score do you think there is out there for the leaders?  
LYDIA KO: You know, I feel like the wind is a little calmer than the last to days, so even though it is tucked a little bit, because the greens aren't super firm, I think if you're far enough up there, it's still approachable.   
But you just never know.  Pressure can get to you.  The 18th got to me.  But you know, it just all depends.  The leaders have been playing great golf.  I've seen some of the highlights and they have been hitting it close and making a lot of putts.  So you just never know.  But I have a good feeling they are still going to shoot a low one today.   
 Q.  I've interviewed a number of players who have finished with a double-bogey and it's probably only five minutes since you holed out, and yet you're incredibly cheerful.  How do you do it?  
LYDIA KO: I just had a toffee.  Sugar always helps the feelings.   
But I know that I still played solid out there.  I mean, it's always -- it's not the greatest finish to finish with a bogey or a double.  It won't feel as bad if I made it on the second hole, for example.   
So I've just got to get over it.  I know I still played a lot of good shots.  I hit another good tee shot -- my second shot was another one.  There are still a lot of positives and I know there's one more day to go and hopefully it's the lowest round I've had so far this week.   
 Q.  Will you go out with a number in mind?  
LYDIA KO: I think I always have a number in mind.  It all depends on the wind and obviously the pin positions, too.  But we all know that during the final round, they like to tuck it even a bit more.  I'm sure it will be a little bit firmer than today.  It going to play tough, but I need to play smart.   
But because I'm coming from way behind, I still need to go for some pins and just give myself a good run for it.  But because I am this far behind, I think I've just got to focus on my game and try to have my best rather than thinking, hey, I need to shoot a miracle number and try and catch up.   
 Q.  You were saying to me that you thought the weather was going to be cooler tomorrow.  What conditions do you think would suit you best?  
LYDIA KO: You know, one of the volunteers mentioned that, and he's a member here.  So I'm sure he knows the weather.  But we've had four seasons in one day during the British Open, so you just never know.   
Hopefully I'm far enough late in the tee times where I don't have to wear like five layers of clothing.  But it's a British Open, and I brought a lot of warm-weather gear.   
 Q.  Tough finish on 18.  How do you grade your performance today?  
LYDIA KO: Not as good as Jason Day yesterday.  But that was a really good stretch.  I wasn't putting that great the first two days, so it was good to see some putts fall in today.  I think that was the difference, those putts that lipped-out.  If they lip in, those are a two-, three-shot swing.  Not the greatest finish but still a lot of positives from today.   
Hopefully my tee shots will be a little bit more accurate so that it puts a little less pressure on the irons and short game for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You have been speaking about your short game so far this week.  Good to see the putting improve?  Would you say that's the most important part of your game on this course?  
LYDIA KO: The greens are super tricky.  You can have a 5-footer but it can end up making a cup or more than a cup.  Just because it's a short putt doesn't necessarily mean it's a tap-in.  I think around this course and when they tuck the pins, it can be super tricky.  Sometimes coming off with a 2-putt is a good job.   
 Q.  Bearing in mind those conditions, we still have the leaders to go out this afternoon, where do you hope to be standing tomorrow?  
LYDIA KO: Hopefully later than ten o'clock, just from my tee time.  I don't know what position I'm going to finish.  I know it's going to be super cold in the morning, but the later, the better.   
The girls have been playing great golf.  I thought the course was tough, and someone shooting 10-under and 7-under, I think it's hard to pick a number right now.  But I'm going to be excited to see some good golf on the coverage.   
 Q.  Best cure for dealing with a double-bogey at the last?  
LYDIA KO: Toffee, sugar, any type of sugar, any type of chocolate.  Mo Martin calls me her chocolate dealer.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you have a better handle on reading the greens?  Is that the difference?  
LYDIA KO: No, I don't know -- I feel like every putt I go out to, I feel like I have a good idea what it's going to do, and sometimes it's about two feet off and sometimes it goes in.   
I think the more time you spend on these greens, the better knowledge you have.  That's what I kind of saw from Charley.  Obviously she knows this course with her eyes closed.  But I think she felt really confident over those putts, no matter if it was a short putt, a mid-range or a long one.  And I think that's the real key.   
I think even though she's a hometown girl, I think there's a big reason why she's one of the favourites coming into this week.   
 Q.  Was there anything specific, like did you do extra work last night on something, or just to go home?  
LYDIA KO: No.  I just had pasta like every other lunch and just did some putting.  I don't really like to hit a lot of balls afterwards.  Only because today the swing might feel great and tomorrow you just never know what's going to happen.   
So I might hit a few shots out there on the range, but you know, I'd just like to do some putting and to see the putts go in the hole, because you can never get enough of that, just seeing the putts drop, and especially when I know that the greens are tough.  Just to see them drop, I think is just a good, positive mind-set just to have and sleep on.   
 Q.  You weren't on the clock today, were you?  
LYDIA KO: No.  It was great.   
 Q.  Do you feel a little bit of relief?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, but I mean, because it's twosomes, we're going much faster than yesterday.  I think we finished on four hours, nine minutes, that's pretty good.  We were finding my ball for maybe a minute or so on the 18th and we had to find Maria's ball on the third for five minutes.  So considering all those, we did really good I think.   
It's always good to be off the clock and don't have to rush all the time.   
 Q.  You had a pretty good crowd out there for an early tee time.  
LYDIA KO: It was really cool.  I thought all the crowds were Charley's crowd yesterday, but it was really cool for people to come out and watch.  There were quite a few New Zealanders who live in London, so I've heard the New Zealand accents and New Zealand flags going around.  One of my other teammates, not the girl who is coming tomorrow, but one of my teammates has been here the last three days, Chantel.  So it's always good to see a few familiar faces.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT