RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You said yesterday when you came in after an opening 74 that you needed to stick to your game plan today and stick to that strategy.  Did that work for today's?  
LYDIA KO: I guess so.  I didn't hit the ball very well today.  But I reduced the 3-putts.  I hit two 3-putts yesterday that just didn't put myself in good position, and when I had birdies, it wasn't falling.  Not many putts are falling today, but it was good to make the birdie on 15 and 16, and I got pretty lucky on 16.  I got a good drop and ended up making a birdie.   
So hopefully will continue to the weekend.  That was my goal coming into today.  I just tried to stay positive until the very end.   
 Q.  The cut line is currently looking around level par.  How aware are you of the cut line as you're playing on a Friday?  
LYDIA KO: Normally they don't say what the cut is, but on the leaderboards here, they say what's going to make it.  So I knew that even was just -- all day, I said, hey, I've got to make two more birdies, two more birdies.  And I would make a birdie and bogey the next one, so I'm back to two more birdies again.   
I just tried to just keep chipping away.  Two good putts on 15, 16, I think that definitely helped.   
 Q.  I know you're used to a big crowd, but what is it like playing with Charley Hull and the hometown crowd she's gathering this week?  
LYDIA KO: It's been great.  We played at 7.14 today.  For it to be this many people coming out to watch, I think it's great.  They love watching her here, especially at a club she's played for such a long time.  For her to play good golf and for there to be a lot of people, I think it's double the fun.   
 Q.  Could you sum up your day for us?  
LYDIA KO: I hit the ball much better yesterday, but today, when I kind of got lucky in a few stages.  On 16, I hit it really right, but I got a good drop that gave me an angle so I could actually go near the pin.   
I just tried to stay patient.  I knew that I needed to shoot under par today to go on to the weekend, and the birdies on 15 and 16, it definitely gave me a little bit of breathing room going down the last two holes.   
Because it is tough finishing holes, I think you just never know until the very end.   
 Q.  Were you conscious of what the cut line was and trying to make sure that you made it or were you just playing about the best you can?  
LYDIA KO: Normally in the States on the leaderboard, it's more about the Top-10 or top five players.  But here on the leaderboards, they have what the cut line is.  So especially being in my position, and knowing that I needed to shoot under par, kind of had a look, and it just said even pars for pretty much majority of my round.   
So I knew it needed to be at least 2-under.  It would be good to be coming home with a couple more than 2-under so it gives me a little bit of room for error, but it ended up being fine.   
 Q.  That's a different sort of pressure for you.  Usually you're looking at the board for other reasons?  
LYDIA KO: I feel like the scores are pretty low, considering what the course setups are like.  I don't feel like it's this easy.  I think around this course, even a couple over par, definitely I would have thought made it on to the weekend.   
But like I said, at the U.S. Open -- I don't know what course Mirim Lee played yesterday, what she's still playing right now, but I think it's all about the putting here.  It's really undulating and if you put yourself on the wrong slope, you could end up having a putt that almost breaks 90 degrees, and if they fall, it's almost like a two-shot swing.   
 Q.  How do you approach it; there's a lot of ground to make up.  We don't know what the leader is going to end up at but there could be a lot of ground to make up.  How do you approach the weekend?  
LYDIA KO: Going into today, my goal is to make it and play all four days.  One of my teammates are coming on Sunday and I would have loved to be playing in front of her, rather than see her in the outside.  So I think goal No. 1 accomplished.   
I've just got to stay positive.  There's still two long 36 holes to go, and you never know at these major championships.  Coming down with the pressure when you're leading, you just never know.  Like in Brooke's case at KPMG, you could be a couple groups behind and end up winning.  We all know that there's a lot of golf to be played.  I think we can't get too ahead of myself.  I'm just going to focus on my game and one shot at a time and hopefully a few more putts drop.   
 Q.  Who is your teammate?  
LYDIA KO: Emily Perry.  She's a New Zealand girl and we played on the New Zealand squad together.  She lives in London now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT