U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great finish to the round, birdie got you to the lead.  Tell us about it.
LYDIA KO: I think today because of the wind was playing a lot different from yesterday, and even different from Thursday only because the course is drying up and the course is getting firmer too.
No matter what position I'm in, always to finish with a birdie on the last hole is a lot of good memories.  I think I tried to stay patient and calm out there today.  I think that's the key around here.  The key around major championships is that sometimes a par is a good score and you have to walk off and forget about the bads and focus about the shot you have in front of you.
Q. Were you aware of your position when you were putting on 18 or are you not a leaderboard watcher or what was the situation there?
LYDIA KO: The leaderboard is too big to miss.  So I did obviously look at it.  I didn't really look at it carefully where I was looking where everybody else was.  But with the 18th being a par-5, you never know what's going to happen.  Our group had all birdies, so I think that was just a cool way to turn around our round.
I'm happy with the way I played the last three days, especially today and yesterday.  I feel fortunate to be in this position going go the final day.  But there's still a lot of golf to be played.  A lot of the big names are out there.  I'm going to focus on my shot and have fun out there with the girls I'm playing.
Q. Is that going to be your mindset going into tomorrow going for the lead in the Women's Open?
LYDIA KO: I think so.  You just never know what's going to happen.  To me, in Seattle, I thought I played great, but there was a very low number that Brooke shot.  Those things can happen.  All I can do is focus on the shot I have in front of me, try my best at what I'm going to do.  What somebody else does is definitely out of my hands.  It's hard enough trying to control where my ball ends up.  I'm just going to enjoy it.
I don't know if they are going to be threesomes or in twos, either way I'm going to really enjoy being there with the other girls and it's going to be an exciting final day.
Q. (Inaudible)?
LYDIA KO: She's one of the calmest players on Tour.  She's had two wins this year.  For her to win at a course like San Francisco and keep playing well, especially on that weekend when it was super windy and really firm shows what kind of player she is.  She's a tough player, but she's also a really nice player.  I enjoy playing alongside her.  She's great.
I think she's definitely shining the Japanese flag high and proud.
Q. What do you think is the key that she could win two wins this year?
LYDIA KO: I think she just played really steady and she's normally a really good ball striker and really good putter and those are great combinations.  I think that final day in Australia, I think I ended up just behind her second.  But she was blitzing the course.  For her to shoot that low in the final group, on the final day is very impressive.  It just shows how well she can play at these tough condition cans.  The Grange in Lake Merced are tough courses, so it shows what kind of top player she is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT