U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Other than the time of day, what was the difference between yesterday and today?
LYDIA KO: I got some putts rolling.  I didn't start off very well, missing the fairway on 1, and then I was struggling down that first hole.  But my birdie on 3 kind of turned the round around and making the string of birdies definitely helped.
Just to know that this is the first time I was under par for the tournament kind of put myself in a positive position.  I just tried to enjoy it out there.  I think the whole group played a little better than yesterday.  So that kind of gave a little bit more of a momentum.
Q. Was there a big difference between playing in the morning and playing yesterday in the afternoon?
LYDIA KO: I guess it's a little softer in the morning.  But because the days are going on and the weather has been really nice, I think it is a lot firmer than what it would have been on a Tuesday morning.  Because it is a little softer, you can be a little bit more aggressive.  But because the wind is picking up, it was definitely getting firmer as the round went on.
Q. How important is it to play from the fairways?
LYDIA KO: It's really important.  I feel like they've been watering the rough a lot.  The rough is getting really lush.  You can get lucky and have a really good lie or you can get really stuck.  Because it is really lush and thick the club can turn over, which isn't easy out here.  With the course getting firmer, it is key to be on the fairway and that way you can be a little bit more smart and have options going into the green.
Q. (Inaudible.)
LYDIA KO: Thank you.  I know, it was a really cool group.  Obviously with the U.S. Open, the tee times come out a little earlier than usual, but I was super excited for this pairing.
Brooke has been playing great and coming off a win in Portland.  And Lexi has been playing great this year, and the highest ranked American player.  So we were expecting, I think, big fans and our fans came out to watch, especially a lot this morning.  So I think it was a great pairing for the group and for the fans and media.
Q. Did you interact a little bit?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, we were talking around, joking around.  We've played together a few times throughout the year, so we're used to each other.  So it was good.  And I think we all enjoyed it.
Q. Where would this rank in tournaments you would like to win?
LYDIA KO: It would be one of the highest tournaments to win.  Every tournament is special, but it is a major and we're -- I'm playing on the Tour that I've always dreamt of playing, and this is probably -- this is the biggest championship in the U.S.  It would be a tournament that I would love to win.  It takes a lot of great golf, a lot of patience to win this championship.  There's a lot of golf to be played.  So I don't really want to get ahead of myself, but it's definitely up there, or at least once in my career.
Q. With so many -- there are so many South Koreans in the top 15 of the Rankings, do you think for them making the Olympic team will be tougher competition than anything they might face at the Olympics?  One of them is bound to end up out on that?
LYDIA KO: I heard it's really close between Amy, So Yeon and Hannah.  So I guess Inbee and Sun Young and In Gee has kind of locked up the position.  So the last position is right there.  But they're all playing great golf.  So it's just really hard to choose which one player deserves to go, because at the end of the day they all deserve to be there and they're representing their country.
I think because it is the first time the Olympics is on for the ladies and for it to be returning in such a long time, it is a huge honor.  I think all the girls are really wanting to be there.  So it's going to be a fight to the end.  But it's just really hard to just choose one player because they all deserve to be there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT