KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








.
MODERATOR: Lydia, coming up a little bit short in the playoff, but you played a pretty good round, 4-under par with no bogeys, what are your thoughts on the day?
LYDIA KO: I played really solid today.  My ball-striking was good.  I made quite a few good 3-footers for par.  I'm happy with the way I played.  I just got outplayed.  And for Brooke to shoot 65 on the final day at a major at a course like this, it's very impressive.  And even just down the playoff hole, for her to go that Tiger line, just right of the left trees, going right for the pin and to have the perfect yardage, she just played great.  I'm proud of the way I played but in this case I just got outplayed.
Q. That usually doesn't happen.  When you play your best, you usually walk away the winner, how does it feel?
LYDIA KO: I'm just proud of the way I played.  This is a tough course and there was a lot of grinding this week, not just today but the last few days.  I'm proud of the way I was patient out there but still confident.  Just to have played well at this event where I didn't play well last year I think gives me confidence.  And even though I'm not the winner at the end of the day I still feel like there's so many positives to take from this week.  And I thought overall I hit the ball pretty solid, especially on the weekend, and at a course like this I think that requires it.
I'm really proud of that.  I'm just going to take the positives.  There's just so many things I've learned.  This is the first playoff hole I've had at a major.  It was a great experience.  And to be alongside Brooke to do that, I think this is great.  And I think this is great for the women's game and for the LPGA.  There was a lot of juniors out there.  So maybe a few of them got inspired by seeing us play out there.
Q. Far be it from me to ask an uncomfortable question, but did you push the putt on 17?
LYDIA KO: I was kind of aiming right center, but it almost broke a little bit.  I'm not really sure if I pushed it.  I didn't feel like it was a bad stroke.  So maybe I misread it a little bit.  But I've been putting really solid in that range all day.  If it wasn't for my putter, especially that second day, I know I wouldn't be in this position, first of all.  So I can't really fault that one as the key.
Brooke, I heard, made a great putt on the 18th for par.  And just for her to do that, you know, you kind of get a feeling, maybe it's her day.  Even though I heard that after.
I can't fault something.  I know that there's so many positives.  If I think about all the negatives and oh, what if I did that better or what if I put myself in that position, I think it's a bit too much.
So I'm just going to take the positives and just be proud of the way I played this week.
Q. It was a pretty spectacular show.  There were a lot of roars in front of you with Brooke making putts and Ariya making putts.  What was it like being out there with all of that going on?
LYDIA KO: I'm not a huge leader board looker, watcher, I don't know what the exact word is, but I'm not really huge on watching the leader board.  I looked at 14 or something.  I saw how the other girls were playing really solid and really great.  And I think more and more as we went on down the back nine we could hear bigger roars and even louder roars.  And because there are groups in front you don't know who made the putt.  It's hard for me to start guessing, maybe Brooke made it or maybe Ana made it, who knows.  I was just trying to focus on my game.
It was great to see all the spectators this week.  There was a huge number out there, especially on the 18th hole around the grandstands watching every group.  I think it was probably one of the biggest crowds we've had this year so far.
Q. I think when you were walking off 10, you play golf enough to know the difference between birdie roars and special roars.  Were you paying attention or how much did you hear the roar coming way down the 11th fairway?  It sounded pretty loud and pretty special.  Did you have any idea or thinking something was happening down there?
LYDIA KO: Did she make an eagle?
MODERATOR: Yes.
LYDIA KO: Oh, okay.  She made an eagle.  You don't know the difference because there's a huge number, even the roar I heard on 17, I said, hey, is it a hole-in-one or is it a putt?  You don't know.  And I didn't want to be guessing out there, oh, maybe I need to do that, too, you know?  I think to me I was more focused on my game.  But I didn't really hear the roars, I'm sure it was huge.  But for her to make a -- shot eagle, was it a shot eagle or a putt eagle, a long putt eagle, is great, especially around a course like this, when all the courses are tough, when you have a reachable par 5, you need to take advantage of that and that's what she did in that case.
Q. You got off to a great start on the first hole.  What did you hit in there and how far was it?
LYDIA KO: It was like 160-something yards -- I think.  And then I gripped a 6-iron.  But the ball was a little below my feet, so I knew that it would come a touch lower, but ended up being perfect.  So it was a great start to the day.
Q. This obviously gives Brooke a major, you've got two.  How would you compare her game to yours right now?
LYDIA KO: You can't really compare one player to another because we have totally different game plans.  Her strength might be different to mine.  She's a really long hitter off the tee and a really good putter.  But I'm not one of the longest hitters out here.  So I know she's got a bit more power and length on me, but she's been playing really solid this year, a bunch of top-10s, so I think we all knew a win was coming.  For her to win at a major, it's even more special.
Q. What did Brooke have to say to you after the playoff and what sort of chitchat did you talk about before the playoff?
LYDIA KO: Well, we just said good playing, as we said good playing before we played, too.  We just said good playing before we teed off and then good luck, obviously, going into the playoffs.  And I said just congratulations.
Q. We've seen men and women in tears after losses that are as tough as that.  Can you share with us your perspective that creates this poise?
LYDIA KO: It wouldn't be pretty if I was crying on this table.  (Laughter.)  And eye liner going everywhere.  I always worry about my makeup (laughter.
But I know at the end of the day I played really solid.  And for a course like this to say I've come off with a bogey-free round.  I had two bogey-free rounds at the ANA.  But especially at a course like that, I'm proud of it.  I'm proud of the way I played all week.  My goal was to play all four days.  I'm played extra holes plus the 72 holes.  I'm just proud of what I did this week.  And just to be even close to winning three majors in a row.  I just know that there are a lot of positives, especially at this case where it's not like I shot over par and I just got beat by a better player.  I still played really great, just Brooke had another great day.  And it was just cool to be in that final group alongside Gerina and Britt, and be alongside all the fans who were super excited to see this solid golf.
Q. You're always one of the first players to congratulate everyone after a victory.  How much do players like Ariya and Brooke push you to work harder?
LYDIA KO: I think we all push each other, even when we're playing against each other -- well, playing in the same group together, when somebody makes a birdie, you kind of feed off of each other.  And I think this is a great thing.  And especially with Ariya and Brooke.  I didn't play much amateur events alongside Brooke, but this year against Ariya or Minjee we played a lot of amateur golf together.  And for us to be out here playing alongside each other, I think we've come this long way, and I think we've kind of made each other work on a few things and try to get better at a few things.  And I think that's the fun challenge about it.
MODERATOR: Great playing this week.  Appreciate your time.
LYDIA KO: Perfect.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT