KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 10, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was it the golf course tonight?  Was it the pin positions?  Was it the weather?  What was it that made it so difficult out there today?
LYDIA KO: Just all of the following.  Without the weather, without the wind, I guess, getting stronger, the course is tough.  And I think all the players realize that.
But as we went to the back nine the wind picked up.  It started getting cooler and then it started raining.  And we were also timed during the middle of our back nine.  Even though it was hard, we were almost trying to fight it off and just try our best.
But it was really tough out there.  I don't know how many putts I had on the back nine.  But the putter definitely saved me this afternoon.  And it was good to see the putts drop, even though I wasn't hitting as many greens and fairways.
Q. If you hit it just a little bit off line, you can get it in the tops of these trees.  It's like hitting it into the catcher's mitt.  How big was the par at 18 and how many of those do you think you have to have on a week like this?
LYDIA KO: The right side miss is a better miss than the left side because you're a little bit more further down.  And I think the good putting I did the holes before definitely helped me.  And making that birdie on 17, I said, hey, you know, even though you make a bogey, you're still even for the day and that's still a really good, solid round.
Here the misses, it needs to be very tight.  And if you have a little bit of a wider miss you could be hitting punch shots out of the trees.  Fortunately for me I had a few where I did miss it, but I was still able to hit a shot from there.  Even the 18th, I couldn't go for the green, I still had a shot where I would still be hitting a shorter iron.
Q. Having seen it now for two competitive rounds, what do you think of the golf course?
LYDIA KO: It's tough.  Even with the rain and moisture today the greens were still firm.  So the balls were running out 12, 13 yards.  And because of the rain it makes it a little bit tougher out of the rough because it's more lush.
But I think we've seen it almost as tough as it gets.  Obviously if there is more wind, and they tuck the pins a little bit more then it will be tougher.  But it's -- I think this course, you need to be patient.  Sometimes if you do miss a fairway or miss a green you need to just say, hey, how can I make up and down?  And when the birdie opportunities come, try and grab it because it's quite hard to find them around here.
Q. Was the key for you on the back nine being patient?  You were working on saving par until you got to 17?
LYDIA KO: The front nine I actually hit the ball really well.  So I thought, hey, today I'm going to be able to put myself in good positions.  I was confident with the driver and the irons.  And after the coolness and as I turned to the back nine I wasn't hitting the ball as good.  So it definitely made me work harder.
But all my putts were almost the same length, like nine feet, 12 feet, within there.  And I think because I started holing a few it gave me a confidence.  And I just said, hey, you've just got to put a good stroke on it, just trust your line, and just putt it, because that's all I can do.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT