ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lydia, what a fantastic performance.  I'm almost speechless.  Did you have any idea what was going on once you were out there making those putts for par?
LYDIA KO: There were some putts where I said, hey, if you hole this you've still got a chance, but I didn't get to see the leaderboard or what the girls behind us were doing until 17, and I saw that Ariya was 4-under for the day through 15, and I said, hey, I need to get my game going and make this up-and-down on 17 and try and go for it on two and try and make a birdie on 18 to give myself a chance.  This has been a long week.  I'm proud that I was able to make those clutch putts, especially on the back nine, but it's a pretty amazing feeling just to see Poppies Pond.  It's pretty surreal.
Q. When you started your LPGA career, did you ever think you'd be in this position?
LYDIA KO: No, I just wanted to enjoy playing on the Tour.  It was always my dream to play on the LPGA, so just being here, being in this position, I knew it was a dream come true.  For these amazing things to be happening, it's unbelievable, but I think it also motivates me to work harder and try and put myself in good position and in contention whenever I can.
Q. What kind of jump are you going to do?
LYDIA KO: I never really imagined it.  I always saw the Poppies Pond and said, man, that's such clear water.  You don't know exactly how, but I don't know, I've got to think of something funny or good, just as long as I don't break anything.
Q. On 18 as you were coming in, did you know exactly your situation there, what you had to do or where Ariya was sitting?
LYDIA KO: I think the scores must have been a little -- loading a little late, so after my chip on 17, I saw that Ariya was 4-under through 15 holes through her round, so I said, hey, I need to make this putt and make a birdie on eagle or something fantastic down the last few, but I think that kind of -- so making that putt on 17 was that kind of quick start, and I hit my drive a little right, further than I wanted to on the tee, and I was luckily on the fairway, and Jason and I were thinking, should I go for it, should I not, and at the back of my mind I knew Ariya was two ahead based on what I was seeing on 17.  You don't know what to think.  You don't want to make the wrong move.  But Jason said, hey, you can make still birdie after laying up, but fortunately that happens.  I'm happy that he persuaded me to do that.
Q. Is there any par save that stuck out to you today?
LYDIA KO: Probably 17 because that's when I first really got to see the scoreboard and where I was positioned, what I needed to do.  Obviously making that putt on 11 and 13 was crucial, too, but just not knowing anything, I wanted to focus on my game and just what I could control, but on 17 I knew what I needed to do.  Something like a miracle needed to happen, so I think 17 was probably the most crucial putt.
Q. First major championship is always special, but where does the second one rank for you?
LYDIA KO: It's amazing.  You know, you can't really rank them.  Every one of them is special, and every event is so different, so unique, and I think obviously winning this event is great, but obviously jumping into the Poppies Pond, that kind of tradition will definitely be one of the highlights of my career.  But I've never really played well at this course before, so just to know that, hey, I can still play well at a course that I haven't really played well before I think gives me the confidence.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT