SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 20, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: All right everyone, I would like to welcome in our two-time defending champion and Rolex World No. 1 Lydia Ko into the interview room.   
Thanks for coming in.  I know this week is very special to you.  Let's talk about first off your relationship with Swinging Skirts.  I know it goes way back.  Talk about your relationship with them, what they do for you, what they've done for this tour, and how special this event is for you.   
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I mean, when I first heard about Swinging Skirts I thought it was a company because they're so passionate about what they do.  Then I realized it was a group of people who love golf and who were so interested in growing the game, and especially growing junior golf in Taiwan.   
They invited me to their event in Taiwan.  Second time I played it was my first pro win.  For them to come here in the stateside and be involved with the LPGA and give opportunities to the Taiwanese juniors to play here with the tour members I think is great.   
What they've given me, the support and the love, I just feel so thankful.  This is definitely one of the best events we have on the tour.  We're just so thankful for what they do for our tour and what they do for growing the game, too.   
THE MODERATOR: Now, I know you love the track here at Lake Merced and everyone says it suits your game so well.  What about this course do you like specifically and what's the game plan coming into this week?   
LYDIA KO: I think Chairman Wong's plan is to have the final score not to be extremely low.  I think I can see that by the last two years, that the scores were under 10-under par.  Not that many events where that kind of happens at the end of Sunday.   
I mean, I've played well here the last few years.  I think the first year coming in I was kind of excited because I played the course for the U.S. Juniors.  Minjee won that event.  For lots of us it went back to our memories, back to 2012.   
I feel like you need to hit a lot of fairways here, especially with the rough growing out a little bit.  I think as the weather gets cooler there is a bit more moisture and that makes it tough.   
If you don't hit the fairways with the firm greens they don't mix very well.  You need to hit the fairways and give yourself a lot of opportunities.  There are a lot of holes out there where you come off with a par and that's still a good score.   
 Q.  You mentioned Minjee and the girls' junior.  You look at the semifinals from that year; it was in 2012.  You, Ariya, Minjee, and Alison Lee.  Here you guys are now on the LPGA Tour winning, kind of dominating.  Did you guys, at that time, think that would even be possible or nearly possible in just four short years?  
LYDIA KO: I hadn't played many events over in the stateside before, so the player that I really knew out of that field was Minjee.   
Then that's when I got to meet Alison and Ariya through the U.S. Juniors and Amateur.  I don't know if I knew at that time I was going to be on the tour right now.  Obviously it was my goal and dream to play on the LPGA, but I don't think I expected myself to be here.   
It was just really cool to be out here with the girls.  Just when you've played alongside them as an amateur.  And even and Jaye Marie Green.  I played with her for the finals for the U.S. Amateur, and we're all out here playing some good golf on the LPGA.   
Just really cool to see some familiar faces out on tour.  I think we're all enjoying it and having fun.   
THE MODERATOR: Four years later, here you are, No. 1 player in the world.  Who would've known?   
LYDIA KO: I didn't.   
THE MODERATOR: I'll open it up for questions if anybody has any.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
LYDIA KO: I think I've become the favorite because I'm currently a world No. 1.  I think that's why people think, Oh, she's the best female ranked player in the world.  She should win every week.   
But I don't think that's the case.  I think I said once before in a press conference that if you come second every single week, you're probably going to be the No. 1 ranked player anyway.  That's why I think with the rankings it's more about consistency and how many times you are able to put yourself in good positions.   
But, for me, I've been getting a lot of support from the fans no matter what tournament I go to.  So it's really cool to be on the tee, out there on the course, and the fans are as excited as I am and they're excited to see me make birdies and play some good golf.   
 Q.  Everybody is wondering about the 3-peat.  How do you keep that out of your consciousness and go round to round?  
LYDIA KO: I just got to think of it as any other week.  Obviously just to say, Hey, you're defending a title is tough enough.  Just to win any event is a tough thing.  I need to play solid golf the next four days to do that.   
If I did end up doing that, it would be extra special.  First year I won this event it was my first win as a tour member, so to have that and know I've won three times would be even cooler.   
Just to have defended my title last year was a really special moment for me.  For me this week, I just got to enjoy it, have fun.  I know the course is tough, so I just got to play to my game and my strengths.  That's all I can do.   
Minjee so many coming off 8-under par, an absolutely fantastic win.  There are just so many girls that are playing so solid.  You can't take any one of the players out.   
Just got to focus on my game.  If it goes my way, great.  If not, you know, I can't do much about it.  I'm just going to enjoy it and just try my best.   
 Q.  If things do go well for you, Sunday is your birthday, Game 4 of the Warriors against their opponent, and a possible 3-peat.  This could be a very magical Sunday for you.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, obviously for San Francisco, too.  The Warriors are doing great breaking the Chicago Bulls' record and doing so well in the playoffs.   
I can't believe it's already my third year on tour.  I'm turning 19, so I said I feel like I'm getting old.   
THE MODERATOR: You're growing up.  Right before our eyes.   
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I'm growing up.  There are girls younger than me.  Brooke is a couple months younger.  Last year and the year before everybody was older than I am.  I feel like everything is changing really quickly.   
If all those things happen on Sunday, it would be pretty exciting.   
THE MODERATOR: Two wins, including your second major this year, two runner-ups, and a tied for third in your seven starts.  Give us a grade on your year so far.  Pretty darn good, but I want to hear it from you.   
LYDIA KO: Yeah, A-plus for me.  I think especially coming into this year, Olympics is a huge goal of mine.  For the majors I said, Hey, I would love to play more consistently and put myself in good positions and give myself a lot of good opportunities.   
To have won the first major of the year, the ANA Championship, it was pretty special two weeks, and coming off the win for the Kia Classic.   
It's been really cool.  Got to defend the New Zealand Open, too.  I've been everywhere travel-wise.  It's been a lot of fun.   
I think that is the key for me, to have fun, no matter if I'm 50th or leading.  I think that's an important key for me.  That's what I've been trying to do the last few weeks and that's what has helped me have a more positive mindset.   
 Q.  Based on your success the last two years, your feeling of nostalgia when you come back here.  I know you love the Bay Area.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, I love California.  I love this west coast swing.  I said I wish I could live around on an west coast.  To me, last few years I been getting immense support from the fans, especially at this event.  I think it was like 25,000 people that came out and watched the whole tournament the first year, and I think it more than doubled the year after.   
I think we're expecting even bigger numbers this year.  I've been getting a lot of support.  When you come back to a place where you have played well and you know that you're feeling the love and they're excited for you to play well, you always love coming back.   
Obviously here having so many great memories I'm excited for tomorrow to start.   
 Q.  You won the last major and going for three in a row at Sahalee.  What are your thoughts of playing there?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I've actually never really been to Seattle.  I've probably flown through there.  There are many states or places I've gone to the airport but never really gone out of the airport.   
Some of my friends play at Washington University, so they're kind of around that Seattle area.  They tell me it's such a beautiful place.  I'm excited to go there.  I haven't played the course yet so I don't really know what the course setup exactly is.  We'll only really get to know the real course setup until the tournament week comes.   
Obviously didn't play well at KPMG last year, so hopefully be able to have a better finish this year.  I'm not going to be thinking about the win.  I think that was a big key for me at ANA a few weeks ago.  I wasn't thinking about, Hey, I really want to win this.  I said, I want to have the best finish at this event.  I think they'll be the same mindset for this year.   
 Q.  You got a tattoo on your wrist to commemorate your first win here.  Can you show us that tattoo on your wrist?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, Roman numerals, 4.27.  2014.   
 Q.  Are you going to get another one if you win again here this week?  
THE MODERATOR: Sleeve.   
LYDIA KO: Probably not because my mom probably won't let me.  But to me, I always wanted to get the date of one of my first wins, and for this one, being my first one as a tour member, I thought it was really memorable.   
I think it was one of the few events that my dad came out to.  The whole family was here.  I think that's why this win was more special.  Not sure if I'm going to get another date tattoo.  I was thinking about the Evian one for a bit, but I'm not really sure yet.   
THE MODERATOR: Go with one of those murals, sculptures.   
LYDIA KO: Dragon down my back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT