ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  2-under, I guess, first off, overall feelings of the day?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I was striking my irons and everything fairly good, but I didn't hit my drive very well especially on the back nines, and I think that's where my bogies kind of came.  I gave myself quite a few looks up the hill for birdie, but I just wasn't able to commit to my speed.  I left quite a few out there that were kind of similar online but just short.  So that's the last thing you want to be doing.   
But in a 2-under start to the first major of the year, I'm pretty pleased with it.   
 Q.  Were there any nerves at all coming in that it's the first major and kind of the first big stage?  
LYDIA KO: On the first tee I just thought, hey, it's just another tournament.  It's a three-week stretch.  I think that's the most comfortable way I can think about it.  If I keep thinking it's a major, it's a major, it's a major, I'm going to think it's a major and there's going to be that pressure.  So I just thought about, hey, it's another event and let's try my best out there and hopefully make a few birdies.   
 Q.  Did you go for shots in the same fashion as you did when you were first coming up on Tour?  Do you think you're as aggressive or as you get older, do you tend to change that a little bit?  
LYDIA KO: I don't know.  I don't think I've ever been a really aggressive player.  In that way I haven't really changed much in my course management and all that.  But I guess when you start playing in an event or tournament a few times, you get used to the golf course a little bit.  Hey, this is the wrong place to be or this is the better miss, so I think that's changed in this tournament compared to the first time I was here.   
My course management or the way I attack pins, I don't think that's different to me from three, four years ago.   
 Q.  Lydia, to play the par-5s in 2-under today, would you take that for every round or would you like to do a little better on those front?  
LYDIA KO: I have no idea what holes I birdied and all that.  Thank you.  But I guess the par-5s are the holes that you try to grab the birdies.  But the par-5s here aren't easy.  If you hit it on the wrong spot, especially out of the rough.  It's tough even advance yourself out and have a short club in.  It doesn't necessarily mean it's going to be the easiest holes out there.   
I think the pin positions are the huge factor around this course where it could make it one of the hardest holes out there, and one day make it one of the easier ones.  So obviously playing the par-5s in under pars is always a good start.   
 Q.  You mentioned putting as it firms up and heats up.  How much is that going to change?  
LYDIA KO: When it gets firm, I think it's more the shots coming into the greens that are the factor, but the greens are pure.  I'm not going to blame hitting a pitch park or hit a spike mark so it missed.  The greens are great.  It's in good conditions, but as it gets hotter and the wind comes up a little bit, I'm sure it will get firmer and faster.   
But the course overall it's in really good condition, and I think everybody will be able to see it with how green and pure it is.   
 Q.  How (Indiscernible) with the size of your gallery and do you engage with fans much?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, there are a few people I know.  We've met some friends here, and it's good to come back to a place and you see them here every year.  We're in a pretty good sized field.  Especially for the start of the day where we're playing in the morning.   
I said if I was a fan of someone, I'm not sure if I'd still come at it at 8:00 o'clock in the morning.  But that's why it's great that a lot of people have come out to support us.  You can see on 18, the grand stands are pretty full and there are people clapping for us, and there are kids and people out there waiting for autographs.  I think there are quite a few people out there.  Even yesterday's Pro-Am, we had a few people following us, so I think the numbers will grow as the day goes on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT