KIA CLASSIC
March 24, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You talk about how much you love Carlsbad.  You get a beautiful day and you took advantage of it.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, I was striking the ball really good, even in my front nine, which was the back nine.  But I just couldn't get any putts rolling, but it was good to see a couple drop on my back nine.   
We know the weather, it's perfect.  Obviously in the morning it's a little cooler, so you've got a couple layers on, but this is as perfect as it gets.  Carlsbad is so beautiful and I said it would be pretty cool to even live here.  So it's always good to be back where you feel very welcomed and you really know it's a beautiful place.   
 Q.  You indicated yesterday when you were talking that playing under par here is an effort.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, it's tough.  I was in the rough I think a few times.  Just being in the rough, it's lush.  The club just turns over, and if you get a good lie, you're getting lucky.   
So if you miss a fairway, it's tough and even if you hit it along the fairway, because how firm and fast the greens are, it's really tough on the greens.  I had a few downhill putts and I thought I just tapped it and it was still three, four, five feet by, and that showed kind of what condition the course is in.   
 Q.  Would you say the rough is as lush as you've seen on any Tour event this year?  
LYDIA KO: Well, I mean, we've only played a few events, especially when we're in Asia, it's a different type of grass and you don't expect much of this.   
I saw the superintendent spraying water on the rough, so they are expecting it to get thicker and longer.  So yeah, that's why I think it's important to hit it along the fairways and that definitely makes it easier for the approach shots going into the greens, too.   
 Q.  That last hole, that's kind of one you see on a putt-putt course, up, over and around.  
LYDIA KO: I tried to hit a 3-wood off a tee and that was to be on the safe side.  I hit it in the rough, so that didn't become safe at all.  I got an okay lie, so I was able to advance out of there on the green.  But up and over is the hard thing.  If it's straight uphill, you can kind of go aggressively at it but when it's up and then down as it goes, as it feeds towards the hole, it's hard.   
I'm happy that I came off with a par there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT