COATES GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY R+L CARRIERS
February 4, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Kind of jinxed yourself on the last hole, didn't you?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, the par-5 we were talking about, you know, when is the rain going to come and all that.  I said, Hey, I've never been suspended, never been suspended where I have got one putt to go or I'm on the green.
Then the girls were saying, Ah, now that we said it it'll probably happen.  And guess what?  It did.
No, but, I mean, what can we did about is it?  Not like we can play in really dangerous conditions either.  Hopefully when we're back we'll be able to put a few good strokes on it and try and get out there with one putt, which would be good for us.
Q. You hit just about every green.  How do you like where your game is at right now?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, I hit the ball really well today.  I struggled a little bit with my driver yesterday, but today I hit all fairways so I was super happy with that.
Obviously I left a few putts out there where I did have good looks for birdies, but what can you do about it?  I still got one more good look for birdie.  No, I just got to stay patient out there.  Just really pleased that my driver is of going really well.
Q. Started out a little better today first few holes.
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, normally when I make a birdie on one hole the day before, you go, Oh, I hope I can make it again.  I kind of pulled my drive just a little bit but it stayed on the fairway.  Almost seems like if you hit it down the left it bounces a little bit further down.  I only had like 8-iron into the green, which definitely makes it a lot easier.
But I put myself in good positions on 10, 11, and 12, but just missed a putt on 12.
Q. You like the back nine better here?
LYDIA KO: I don't really mind, but obviously score-wise I've played better on the back nine.  The back nine saved me yesterday.
So, yeah, you know, just I think really depends on the pin positions and where the tees are.  Depending on that, it could go from, you know, just in the nice, easy short iron to a long iron.  Where even like today on No. 1 I hit hybrid -- 4 hybrid yesterday and I hit 9-iron today.
That's the big differences depending on where I hit it and what the pin positions are.
Q. Inbee said last week that she is not good early in the year.  Why do you think you've been so sharp the last two years early in in the season?
LYDIA KO: I'm not really sure.  I think when you go back to a course you've played well at you kind of have the confidence going in.
Yesterday on the front nine I wasn't sure what was going to happen, to be honest.  But, you know, I'm just trying to put myself into good positions.  It is the first week back.  I just have to be patient out there and just enjoy it.
Q. You have a big start.  Two title defenses early in the year.  How important is it to you to get off to a good start?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I think it's really important to start the season on a high note.  If you don't have that great of a start, obviously you can try and build up on that.
I think for me, it was a really good rhythm going into the first major like last year where I was playing solid golf.  When you're playing solid golf you know that you've got a lot of chances.  If you hit it pretty good and you're able to putt a few in, then you're able to give yourself good looks to be at the top of the leaderboard.
Q. What are you going to do during the rain delay?  What do you like to do?
LYDIA KO: Everyone probably knows that I like to eat, so probably going to go and eat.  Most of the time when it's a delay I don't like to eat a lot because you probably have to swing a club or something.
But we don't have to warmup or anything.  For me it's like a 15-footer uphill.  Just have a couple putts and go out there.  Just rest up and have some food for now.
Q. When the weather is coming and you know it's coming, how do you block that out and stay focused?
LYDIA KO: You know, I think it was pretty good until really right now.  You know, I thought there might be rain around 10:00 today, but ended up being pretty good.  We got pretty fortunate about that.
We just have to do what it is.  Everybody is playing the same course, playing in the same weather.  What can you do about it?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT