JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 19, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We thought the course might be a little tougher this year because of the rough.  Why isn't it?  We're seeing 63s and 64s all over the place.  
LYDIA KO: I'm guessing -- I think, especially when I saw some of the highlights of the leaders, they seem like they were holing a lot of putts, and that's what I wasn't doing the first two days, and I was a lot better today.   
But no, I think when you're a leader and you know you're already shooting 5-under through, what, like six, seven holes, you've got the confidence; and every fairway it looks like you're going to hit it, and every putt it almost seems like it's going to go in the hole.  So I guess that's why the rough didn't pay as much as I thought it would do at the start of the week.   
But it's tough around the greens, also with the rough if you miss it on the wrong side.  And the greens are getting firmer and faster as the week goes on, because the sun is beating so hard on it, and if you're in the rough, it's going to be hard to stop it, but just by seeing the leaders, they seem like they're not hitting it in the rough very often, making a lot of putts, they're able to score quite well.   
 Q.  Is a little breeze out here even enough to get your attention?  
LYDIA KO: You know, I mean the breeze obviously plays a little bit yardage wise, but because of the altitude here, we're taking away like 3 percent almost.  I think if the wind is entered, it almost kind of just balances out.  So the much you're taking off, you're adding that much on, so you're kind of playing with similar numbers.   
And here it's not like we're hitting many greens with long hybrids or long irons.  We're coming in with mid irons and shorter irons and obviously hybrids at some holes.  But I think because we're not coming in with such long clubs, it doesn't pay as much -- it doesn't matter as much, and it's not like it's galing out here like a British Open.   
 Q.  And it feels good when it's hot out, too.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah.  You know, the breeze feels good.  It makes it a little cooler, but the weather has been great.  I've come here and it's been really hot and I've had to drink a lot of water, which I still do right now, but the weather has been great.  I think the last few days it was in the 80s, and for us to some to Phoenix and to be in the 80s and beautiful and not a lot of breeze, I think we'll take it.   
 Q.  How much have you gotten to know about the Founders, and what would it mean to win their event?  
LYDIA KO: You know, I think during our players' meeting we got to see the Founders film, too.   
 Q.  Oh, you did?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah.  Unfortunately we couldn't finish it all.  But we got to see half of it.  It's just seeing that and seeing at that time, I mean golf was very dominant men's game.  It was that kind of men's golf, and a lot of wealthy people kind of was taking up the game.  So for what the Founders did to just bring out women's golf, and for them to get interest from the fans, I think that's just amazing, and especially in that generation where women's golf wasn't one of the most popular things to do.   
So for them to do that and bring the tour to what it is today.  And even I think since the first hole Marilynn Smith was riding out and watching me the whole 18.  So it's just kind of an honor to have somebody like her who has made the tour what it is today and made the women's game what it is, and for her to come out and watch me the whole 18 holes, it was pretty special.   
Also to meet Marlene, it was the first time I've ever met her.  And obviously Shirley earlier in the week and the years before.  It's just what they've done to make my dreams come through.  If it wasn't for them, who knows, I might not be a golfer.  I might be a chef or whatever.  But it's hard to even imagine that, you know.  So just what they've done to bring what the tour is and make my dreams come true and give me this opportunity to play on this awesome tour with these girls worldwide.  I think we're just so thankful to them, and it's so great to see them out there.  And especially this event really recognizing the Founders.  It just thanks them, and it's such a special event, and I think it's so great that we're able to interact with the Founders and just thank them for what they've done.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT