HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 3, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know you picked up a little bug, but how are you feeling now?  
LYDIA KO: I had a cold the first few days.  Actually I had a lot of fun back at home.  It was actually perfect weather.  I think I was kind of under the air conditioner a little bit too much.   
I'm feeling fine now.  It's tournament time, so you don't want a bug hanging around, but body condition-wise, I'm all right.   
 Q.  You finished 1-under and just four shots off the lead.  Puts you in a relatively comfortable position.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I made a lot of pars out there.  I made a lot of good up-and-downs.  I didn't really have that many birdie opportunities today, so it was almost a day where I really couldn't shoot low unless my putter was really hot.   
I finished pretty solidly and I made a birdie on 16 and a birdie on 18.  I've just got to put the positives from today and go into tomorrow and try to improve the things that needs a little bit of work.   
 Q.  Talk to us about the conditions.  It looked as if the wind seemed to pick up some speed towards the end.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, it was a little breezy but I think it was actually windier the days before.  It was calmer in some areas but it still wasn't calm.  I heard the rain was coming and we had it for I think one tee shot.  It was good that it was only one shot.  But when it gets breezier, it's tough.  Even without the breeze, the course plays pretty tough, and with the wind it's even tougher.   
But at the same time, it kind of drops the temperature a little bit so they are kind of getting the positive and negative out of it.  So everything kind of balances out.   
 Q.  Do you wish it was windier considering how hot it is?  
LYDIA KO: Right now, yeah, maybe because I'm finished and everybody else is finished, too.  But I think everyone is playing in similar conditions, so I think there's no advantage being first off or last off.  You've just got to play your own game around this course, and get a few putts rolling and I think you'll be in good position.   
 Q.  A very solid day, I know you said a little frustrating, but a birdie at the last has to feel pretty good?  
LYDIA KO: I finished pretty solidly.  I made a lot of good up-and-downs, made a lot of good par putts.  All balances out.  I didn't have that many birdie opportunities today, so unless my long putts were going to be hot, I wasn't going to shoot extremely low.   
But I still scrambled my way, and I still got myself to red figures, which is an important part.  There's still a lot of positives from today's round.  So hopefully I'll continue that tomorrow and hit a few shots closer to the pin and give myself a couple more opportunities.   
 Q.  So you had two birdies towards the end there, did you finally get the hang of the course?  
LYDIA KO: I don't know, the ball just went in the hole.  I thought it was the kind of day, I didn't even know if I was going to make a birdie out there.  I hit it just past the pin, and we were actually being timed at that time.  I was just rushing, so maybe I should rush a little bit more often.   
It was a good putt.  When I was coming towards the end, the last few holes, I said, hey, 16 and 18 are the holes that if you make a birdie, it should be good to kind of balance out the day, and that's what I was able to do.  So that's important.   
But even for each hole, the pin position makes one hole much easier and then sometimes they tuck the pin position and it can get a whole lot harder.  So I think every hole, it just depends on where the pin is and what the wind direction is.   
 Q.  How were the conditions out there today?  
LYDIA KO: The greens were really pure.  That's what it normally is around this course.  The last few years I've played here, the course has been in really good condition, so that's kind of the same this year.  So I've just got to play a little bit better the next few days.   
 Q.  You mentioned that you still have some positives to take from today's performance.  How does this set you up for the rest of the tournament?  
LYDIA KO: I still feel like I'm striking the ball well.  My club selection wasn't that great today.  So I've just got to get a hang of the wind and with how breezy it is sometimes and with the elevation when you're out there, it feels more or less and then it's a little different when it's down there.   
I've just got to get used to it, be confident in the club that I've chosen and if I've got a good look for birdie, put a good stroke on it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT