COATES GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY R+L CARRIERS
February 5, 2016
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you talk about the early morning 15-footer?  Probably one of the tougher putts given how cold it was.  Can you tell us about that?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I did some 15-footer practice on the putting green before I went, but almost when I hit it on the course, No. 9, the green was a touch faster than what I thought it would be, so I kind of rammed it by, and then it lipped out, and I made a pretty good next third putt for bogey.  But obviously it's not the best start of the day, but I had a nap and kind of got over it with my nap, and it definitely got much better.  But it is what it is.   
Who knows, it might have happened yesterday, but sometimes, because it happened right first thing in the morning, it might feel worse.   
 Q.  How long was the bogey putt?  
LYDIA KO: It was like from three feet to four feet.   
 Q.  Where was your ball when play was suspended?  Where did you stop?  
LYDIA KO: We stopped on the par-5, 6th.   
 Q.  You just finished 6?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, we finished 6, so we couldn't get to the tee box on 7.   
 Q.  Do you have to prepare differently with it being cold and the early start tomorrow?  
LYDIA KO: I need a lot of layers, first of all, and just try and keep warm, and I think that's one of the most important things here, when you're cold and especially because we've got a cart ride over there, that means that we've still got another 10, 15 minutes where we're not really doing anything and we're just on our way there.  We just have to keep warm, and that's all you can do, and try and stay loose.  But everybody is playing in this.  Obviously I didn't get to play many holes today, but when you've got delays, these are part of the things that come with it.  The sun goes down pretty quickly and it comes a little later, so we're trying to fit it in.  I think the most important thing for us is trying to get that four rounds in.   
 Q.  You're right there tied for the lead.  How do you feel about your position and where your game is at right now?  
LYDIA KO: I feel like I've been hitting it pretty solidly, so I think that way if I keep continuing to do that tomorrow, then obviously I've got to set up a few more birdie opportunities.  I've just got to stay positive with the putter.  I wish a few more had dropped the last few rounds, but sometimes you just have to take what's going, and it's not like every single one of them is not dropping.  Some of them are dropping along the way.  I just have to stay patient, and I think because I was hitting it really good, especially yesterday, when you see a lot of birdie opportunities you try and push, and it almost seems like you're having a bad putting day, but you're not.  I'm just trying to stay positive out there.  I know that the other girls are going to make a lot of birdies out there, so I've just got to focus on my game and we'll have to see how it goes at the end of tomorrow.   
 Q.  Talk about playing with Ha Na.  She's so easy going.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, she's got a lot of positive vibes, great energy.  You can see by her fist pumps.  I know she's a really confident player.  I played with her in the final round here last year, so almost knew we were going to do that again this year.  It's fun playing alongside her.  I haven't played a lot with Ha Na, but she's also a fun player to play with.  I'm excited about this pairing, and I think we're going to have some fun, and I think we're going to play some good golf.   
 Q.  On the 6th green you thought your ball moved?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I wasn't sure because it's obviously getting a little dark, and with the steepness of the greens, you never know if it does move or not, and I kind of was hovering over it going back and forth, so I don't know if that action was making it look like it moved or not.  The rules, we cleared everything, so now I can just go to bed and have a good dinner and come out here early, but this happened to me last year at this tournament, the second round or something, and it happened at KPMG, too, so I just wanted to clarify it so it wouldn't be a problem tomorrow.  Like I said, I'd rather be penalized now than DQ'd later.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT