FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How comfortable do you feel with a four-shot lead going into tomorrow?
LYDIA KO: You know, on this course, anything can happen.  There's some large numbers out there.  I made a double myself.  Eun-Hee made two doubles out there.
But also, if you're putting good and you're striking the ball good, you can shoot a couple low ones, too.  Especially with how packed it is up top, and you know so many top players there, it's hard to say, hey, I've got the trophy today.  I've still got to play a lot of good golf tomorrow and there's still 18 holes to go.
Q. You putted beautifully on the back nine.  What was going through your mind lining up the putts?  It seemed like the ball had a radar into the hole.
LYDIA KO: I chipped in on 11 and I think that gave me some momentum.  I was playing good at the first couple of holes, made a double and then made a bogey.  I think I kind of got a little frustrated about that.  But after that chip-in, I kind of loosened up and tried to smile a little bit more.  The putts started dropping.
Q. You were having a good time out there with your playing partners, Charley Hull and Eun-Hee Ji.
LYDIA KO: Yeah, they are two awesome players.  They are super nice to play with.  They are great players.  So I think we are kind of all feeding off each other; if somebody was making a birdie, somebody else wanted to make one, too.  It was a great pairing and I think it might stay the same tomorrow.  I think we'll have fun tomorrow.
Q. You've played well to earn yourself a very late start tomorrow which means maybe you can stay up tonight and watch your team in the Rugby World Cup.  Is there a chance of that?
LYDIA KO: I heard it's 11:00 kickoff.  I should be in bed maybe two hours before that.  I like my ten hours beauty sleep.  But I'll be looking at Twitter, that's the first thing I'll be doing when I wake up.  Good luck to the All Blacks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT