FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You are making a habit of easy walks down the 18th hole these days.  
LYDIA KO: It's never easy, especially with the kind of lie I had with my chip on 18.  But it's obviously a lot easier when you've got a couple shots leeway.   
 Q.  Nine.  
LYDIA KO: Nine, okay.  (Laughing).  But it was a lot of fun.  We had the same group the last two days, and we had a lot of fun out there.  It's great to see all the volunteers and all the fans behind the green.   
 Q.  It was a terrific win.  I'd like to ask, if you're going to think about getting a little more Inc. -- Lydia has a tattoo, and this was to mark your first win.  Tell us about that.  
LYDIA KO: This is my win from San Francisco, Swinging Skirts.  That was my first win as an LPGA member on the LPGA.  I got that tatted up.  And then obviously getting a lot of tattoos, not being the greatest role model; I don't know how much the Commissioner will like that.  But no, you kind of get one and you want to get another one.  But I don't know if I'm going to get another one or not.   
 Q.  It is a specific win and you are the youngest ever winner to win ten times on the LPGA and you've eclipsed that record from Nancy Lopez.  I wonder if you'll be hearing from the great Nancy Lopez; you've beaten her record by 3 1/2 years.  
LYDIA KO: I actually met her in Cleveland for an outing a couple months ago.  She's such an amazing person and an amazing golfer.  To have beaten her record, it's an honor.   
 Q.  You played beautiful golf the last few weeks and been knocking on the door and you're back to being world No. 1.  How does that feel?  
LYDIA KO: In Ocala, I was disappointed in the way I finished.  Coming tied second and being world No. 1, I think it's a little different right now.   
But no, I think I played really consistently well the last couple weeks, so I think it's something we can all celebrate and I want to share this with my whole team.   
 Q.  And your Mum has been here, of course, this week; lovely having her?  
LYDIA KO: She's great.  I always say she does everything apart from play golf.  She's a coach and she's a laundry lady and she's a chef.  Yeah, not a driver this week but most of the time she is, so it's great having her here and it's always great when your family is part of your win and here to celebrate with you.   
 Q.  Let's talk about some of the magical golf you played over the weekend, and in particular the shot you played on 12 to set up an eagle on the par 5.  Tell us about that chip-in.  
LYDIA KO: I miss-hit it a little bit.  But I was looking at it and thought it was flying enough and then I saw it kind of landed a yard or two short of the green.  You know, when I walked up, I felt like it was a little on the firmer side, so I kind of thought it would bounce up anyway.  But I didn't imagine it to go in maybe I would have done a crazier celebration if I had already known.   
 Q.  I'm sure you'd like to thank Fubon for a terrific week, as well.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, just want to thank Richard and Danielle.  I heard Danielle is in Hawai'i.  Just thank you for your great support.  We are at such a great location and we are so happy and honored that you can be part of the LPGA, and hopefully this relationship will go for a long time.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT