FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: It is my pleasure to welcome in the 2015 Fubon LPGA Taiwan Champion, Lydia Ko, into the interview room.   
Lydia, another week, another win for you, this time in very, very impressive fashion:  20-under par, nine-shot victory.  What did you have for breakfast?  Let's start off with that, because what a performance.  And also, what did you tell yourself on the tee this morning?  What was your self-talk before going into that performance?   
LYDIA KO: I just ate at the Ambassador Hotel.  Nothing different than the other days.  I don't know why, but last night, I couldn't sleep as well as the other times.  Normally I could just sleep well and doesn't matter if I have a one-shot lead or two shots behind or whatever.   
But last night, I woke up during the middle of the night, and I'm a pretty heavy sleeper.  So yeah, I was kind of surprised at that.   
But I started the day quite good, making birdies on 2 and 3 and I then I made birdie on 5 which is a three-shot swing for me.  Made a double there yesterday.  But no, it was very exciting.   
And I think I was really playing for Patsy this week.  I think just hearing that on Friday morning broke my heart.  She was such a huge factor into my life in my junior golf.  To hear that she had passed away was very hard to hear that before you're entering a round.   
But kind of just played for her the last three days, and I'm so happy that I can bring this win to her and her family.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: Your 10th career victory.  Your first professional win came here 2012.  In your widest dreams could you have thought of No. 10 in just your second year on Tour?  Is that something you would even fathom?   
LYDIA KO: No, I mean last year has been the most amazing rookie year for me.  I think the transition was a lot easier for me because I was able to play like 11 or so events as a non-member the year before.   
But it was so much better than what I could have imagined; won the season finale event.  After such a great year, you kind of don't know what you're coming into the year after.  But this year has been so awesome, so many great memories and so many things I've learned along that journey.   
To become world No. 1 during the season, it's been great.  And to have won my first professional event as a professional here in Taiwan and then had my 10th LPGA win here, it's pretty cool.  It's an exciting time.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: Now I know you took No. 1 today with the win.  That was your goal and you wanted to play well and win and get No. 1.  Inbee will be in China next week and you will be, too.  You two are just too nice, too mild-mannered.  I need some smack talk to start.  Is that going to start?  Can we please get some.   
LYDIA KO: I think she's nicer than me, first of all and she's never going to give me any crap or talk behind my back.   
No, it's going to be exciting.  I think she was playing really good in Korea, too.  I think it's great that there are players that are so close.  It makes the galleries really exciting and makes it exciting for the media and just for the whole tour.  I'm pretty sure she's going to play great next week, so I've got to have my A Game, too.   
 Q.  You won today, and now you're the youngest player to get ten wins and you're back to world No. 1.  What makes you the most excited?  
LYDIA KO: I think winning this event for sure.  Like I talked about the other days, I think winning and playing well at an event is the top priority.  And then, you know, if you get the extra bonus with it, it's even better.  But for me to be able to play well here in Taiwan, especially where I've played so many great memories, it's I think a very special win for me in that the fans have been really supportive.   
The winning part is probably the most memorable.  I haven't really thought about being world No. 1 again.  I don't know how long it's going to last.  But no, I mean, just to have won this event and for it being the 10th one, I think that's the most important thing.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: Has to be pretty special to just kind of finish it off in style with the tough lie you had.  Take us through that hole and just how cool that was to give the fans one last birdie, one last nice shot.   
LYDIA KO: Yeah, it's I think my fourth year playing at this course, and this year was the first time I birdied it (laughing).   
So after birdieing it on the first day, I was so happy that I could actually make a birdie.  I hit it to three feet last year and missed it.  I was disappointed.  I've always loved par 5s being a finishing hole.  It makes it really exciting.  I see there's been an eagle and lots of birdies.  That's what the fans want to see is some great golf.   
I hit a good tee shot.  Pulled my 3-wood a little bit, but then I looked up and I told Jason, "I can't even see the ball properly."  So it wasn't the greatest lie.  And I was actually worried I was going to double-hit it, so I kind of recoiled back.  But no, it ended up being good.  Yeah, I don't mind one-footers to win the event.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: I know you came up a little short last week on Sunday and being right in the hunt; did that give you any fire coming here, just keeping the pedal down coming here.  Did you feel that way.   
LYDIA KO: I was close in Malaysia, but Jessica played amazing.  Last week Lexi played great, also.   
But like in Malaysia, I felt like I still played solid golf on the final day.  In Korea, I just wasn't doing anything on Sunday.  So yeah, I was disappointed with the way I kind of finished the event because I was playing very solid the last -- well, the first three days.  So that's why I think I was kind of losing my sleep a little bit overnight, because I was getting worried, and you know, obviously finishing tied second and tied fourth is still a great result.   
But you know, if you kind of have those experiences, you kind of feel like, hey, maybe it isn't the time.  I felt like I played solid.  Yesterday I had kind of a roller coaster front nine but I was able to fight through the back nine.   
After that, I kind of felt like, hey, you've just got to go with your game plan.  David Leadbetter and Sean texted me saying, "I know you have a four-shot lead, but that doesn't mean you're going to play it safe.  Just going with your game plan and just kind of go with it."   
I think that's what I tried to do today, and I think it worked out good.  Because I was aggressive on some holes, I was able to give myself a couple more birdie opportunities.   
 Q.  Inbee won last year with a total score of 22-under par and you came very close, but you won this tournament and she's absent this year.  Will you come back next year to defend your title?  
LYDIA KO: Yes, of course.  I mean, Inbee obviously had good reason why she wasn't here this week.  I think sponsor commitments, also.  I'm sure she was disappointed that it was on the same week and she would have loved to have been here.  I'm sure her spirit was here.   
But no, I'm sure I think all of the top players will be returning next year.  Fubon has been such a great sponsor, and I think it's on a great golf course where I know it can be tough, but you can still have fun out here.  The weather god was nice enough to us this year.  The typhoon went away and we saw some sun today.   
Yeah, I'll definitely be returning unless I have a broken arm or a broken foot or something.   
 Q.  Do you set any goals for the next tour?  
LYDIA KO: For Blue Bay?  I get in quite late because I have sponsor commitments the next couple days.  So I get in Tuesday midnight; so Wednesday.  So I won't be having much time to practice, but I'll be playing the Pro-Am and I know getting a good look at the course.   
Last year it rained buckets, a lot of rain.  So hopefully there won't be rain this year.  It's a very nice part of Hainan, so hopefully we can see more of it rather than rain.  It's going to be a fun week.  Inbee is coming and a lot of the top girls are continuing to play next week.   
So, yeah, I'm pretty sure I will need to have my A Game and play well to compete there.  Yeah, just enjoy it.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: How cool is it to be at the best of the women's game and do it in front of fans all over the world, not only on TV, but to actually play in front of them, and showcase your game all over the world.   
LYDIA KO: It's pretty exciting.  I think my first win of the year was in Australia.  I told Jason, hey, I can't win only on your home soil.  I have to win on my home soil, too, you know.   
It was great I was able to win back at home in front of my friends and then just local fans.   
And then San Francisco, I was on my birthday week there, so there was lots to celebrate.  Especially with Swinging Skirts being part of that event, it always feels like you're kind of winning in front of family.   
Vancouver is pretty much like my second home; fourth home -- I don't know how many homes I have.  The area is spelled Co but maybe they will change it Ko, but I don't mind.  But the fans there were huge.  There were so many people, just packed.   
I think my next event after was Evian, and to have my first major win at such a beautiful place; and with Rolex being a huge part of that event, I was so happy that I could win in front of my sponsors, too.  Evian, Rolex, it was a very special moment.   
To have my next win here in Asia in Taiwan, it's very exciting.  I think just everywhere, especially all those events, the fans have been great.  That's I think one of the events where the fans get just as excited as us and they just love us being here.   
Yeah, every one of them is special, so it's always hard to choose which one was your favorite.  But I think that's what makes every event so special because they are all so different.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT