FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 23, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today in the second round of the few been LPGA Championship, 5-under 67, seven birdies today.  What was working for you?  
LYDIA KO: It was kind of a slow start.  I gave myself quite a few opportunities the first couple holes, and I didn't make any.  And then on the fifth hole, I holed a putt that I didn't expect to make and then I hit a good shot into 6 and another good shot into 9.  I had a couple that were like two feet, three or four of them.  So that makes it a whole lot easier, and again, not reading the putt as much.   
 Q.  Yesterday, decently low scores, a packed leaderboard and you're starting to separate yourself.  Were you looking at the leaderboard at all?  
LYDIA KO: A little bit.  I knew that it was windy and a little rainy at the start of the day.  The girls were making birdies, and I guess in a way it was playable.   
But especially coming down the stretch with the water and the wind, it's a hard combination, so I guess the course kind of balances out a little bit.  But girls of making a lot of birdies out there, but I think it all depends on the pin positions, too.  If the wind is going the other way to where the pin is, it's definitely much trickier.   
 Q.  A lot of rain earlier today.  Was it making it play any differently?  
LYDIA KO: Maybe if you were in the rough it was a little stickier.  But the first couple holes, I tried to get myself out of the rough, and the time I did go in the rough, I got fortunate and made a birdie on 6.  I think the rough makes a huge difference.  It's already pretty thick, but when you add water to it, it becomes thicker.   
 Q.  A birdie on the last hole has to feel pretty good going into the weekend.  How do you feel about your position going into the last two rounds?  
LYDIA KO: I hit two good shots and I hit a decent chip and hit a good putt.  It's always good to finish on a birdie.  That's why I love courses that finish on a par 5, and especially for the galleries, too.  Most of the time, there are big tents around and you have the grandstands, and they want to see birdies.  They don't want people struggling to make pars.  So I think it's a good finishing hole.  It doesn't mean it's easy.   
 Q.  Now you're going for your 10th victory here this week.  What's going to be the difference here on the weekend?  
LYDIA KO: I had a mediocre day the last day at Honda.  But I just got my energy levels up.  In the middle of my round, I think I needed to push harder and get away from that bogey kind of streak.  I kind of went down with myself but even if I do make a couple birdies, I just kind of hope to fight back.  Like it was a good example where I did kind of fight back and if I holed the chip on 18, I could have maybe gotten in a playoff.   
I've just got to keep my head high, and especially with the weather conditions, anything can happen.  You can have high number, low numbers.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT