FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A very solid opening round.  Obviously the wind was a factor.  How did you cope with it?  
LYDIA KO: I was hitting the ball pretty good, so that made it a whole lot easier to play out there.  If you're striking the ball good, you can kind of trust your ball flight and kind of use the wind from there.  It wasn't easy, especially the last couple holes; the wind was getting stronger.   
Every time I come here, there's always been a little rain and a lot of wind, so I think I should be used to it by now.   
 Q.  Well, we know that you've around this golf course before, but you're just 18 years old, so how do you know how to play in the wind so well?  
LYDIA KO: My home club, it's quite a wide open course, Gulf Harbour.  There's not many trees around and it's right by the ocean, so we get a lot of breeze there.  I think that's the biggest thing that really helps me.   
I think I kind of reference myself to the British Open; I know the course is totally different, but to kind of use shots and hit shots in the wind, I think the British Open is definitely the biggest help.   
 Q.  This is certainly going to be a test this weekend.  3-under today looking good.  When you think of the scores last year, Inbee won with a score of 22-under; do you think we'll see some great scores over the next few days?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I said the course wasn't easy before, but when somebody shoots 22-under, they are going to make the course harder.  I know that's what they have done this year.  They have cut the rough a lot closer, so the fairways are definitely a little narrower, and because of this type of grass, when you're in the rough, you don't really know how the ball is going to come out.   
You know, there's a 66 out there today.  I think it's a great score.  If I made a couple more putts, I think I may have been able to shoot that score.  But 66 in this breeze, I think it's a great score that Eun-Hee shot today.   
 Q.  Big question this week:  There is a big rugby match taking place on Saturday night.  Your team against South Africa.  Are you still talking to Lee-Anne Pace?  Are you going to watch it together?  
LYDIA KO: The wall was kind of half last week and then we both won and advanced into the semis and now the wall is fully up.  But no, I mean, I think it's going to be a great match.  She says she's going to stay up and watch the match.  I think I'm going to enjoy my sleep.  I think it's going to be great.  South Africa I heard is playing great and I think the All Blacks is the same.  I think it's exciting and also for the other side, too, for the Aussies.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT