FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 21, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So a year from here this week, your second Asian swing, what's the biggest difference remembering back to the Asian Swing last year?  
LYDIA KO: Not really a huge difference.  I think Taiwan was my last tournament of the Asian Swing last year.  But here I have another event coming up in China next week.  Apart from the weather that might hit us, not much of a difference.  It's good to be back to a place where you've got great memories and you know that you've played well.   
I thought the really cool thing about this week last year was how the first, second and third, it ended up being like the World Ranking.  The first was Inbee and second Stacy and third me.  I thought that turned out pretty cool.   
 Q.  You played well here last year.  What about this course and setup and event that suits you?  
LYDIA KO: I had my first professional win as a pro here for the Swinging Skirts.  This golf course I think brought up a lot of great memories.   
They changed up the course a little bit, kind of narrowed the fairways, put the will you have in a little closer.  ^  so I think that's definitely going to make it a lot tougher.  But I've just got to have fun out here and I know that it can blow here, so you've got to be I think very creative and in some ways you have to play aggressive and then vice versa.   
 Q.  What do you remember about that week, your win?  
LYDIA KO: I don't know, it kind of came down to the stretch between So-Yeon and I.  I made a good birdie on 16 or 17.  I kind of came in strong the last couple holes.  It's what I was really proud of.  My aunt and uncle was here last week and my aunt was the one that got me into golf.  It was cool to have my first pro win as a pro with her there.   
 Q.  Really good stretch recently:  Win, win, tie for second, tie for fourth.  How good has this stretch been technically, results-wise?  
LYDIA KO: It's been really good.  I had two weeks off after my Vancouver win and three weeks after my Evian win going into the Asian Swing.  I didn't know how things would work out because to have a break is good, but when you're good -- you go, oh, maybe what if I like played another event, would I play good there again.  But I don't think so.   
I like having the breaks because I can work on some things in my game and have some time off where I can shop and do all that.  It's been a really fun stretch of events.  Last week didn't end up the way I would have loved it to but Lexi played great golf and I had a lot of fun playing in front of the Korean fans, too.   
 Q.  Inbee isn't here, but good opportunity for you this week just to make some moves?  
LYDIA KO: I think Inbee is playing another event in Korea.  But yeah, it's kind of weird to not have the defending champion here.  But you know, I'm going to just try and have fun out here.  The big thing is I just hope the weather stays good, fingers crossed, double-crossed, so that it is playable out here.  We've got the top players here, so we want to make it exciting and showcase what the LPGA has.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT