CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You probably didn't get everything you would have liked out of that round, did you?
LYDIA KO: No, I left a couple putts out there.  But then I holed some breaking putts, too.  Everything just balances out.  Overall I played really solid today, so I'm happy with the way I'm hitting it and the way I'm putting it.
I think every round, unless I shoot 18-under par, I'm probably going to say, hey, I knew it could have been better.  But no, I'm playing solid, and that's the mind-set I've got to have and just have fun out there tomorrow.
Q. Were you between clubs on your approach shot on 18 there?
LYDIA KO: No, I just kind of left it out there a little bit, so it ended up being in the bunker.  But I had a pretty good bunker shot in there.  Just under-read it a little bit.  That's it.
Q. Is there a different feeling going into the final round tied with somebody than if you're ahead or behind?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I'm not exactly sure what kind of position I was the last time I was here.  But there's been cases where I've been a couple shots leading and then end up winning and a couple shots behind or co-leader.
I think at the end of the day, it all depends on how focused I am out there.  If some other player shoots 10-under, 6-under, it's really out of my hands.
I'm just going to focus on my game.  It's hard enough that way (laughs).
Q. Again you had a large gallery following you most of the way around.  Do you feel the support, obviously, that you're getting here?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, last year -- not last year; 2012 when we were here, both left and right on the 18th, it was packed full of people.  If I was in the gallery, I don't think I would have been able to move around.  There's been a lot of people out here, even on the practice days and Pro-Ams.
It's been a great crowd, lots of Korean fans out here, Canadian, New Zealanders and I'm sure from everywhere.  So it's great to see a lot of people out here and I think they get really excited when we play well, too.
Q. I think when you won here in 2012, if I remember correctly, it was 13-under; you're 12 now.  Probably going to take better than 13 to win?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I think so.  With the leading score being 12-under, I think somebody will shoot a score better than 13 but you just never know.  The greens are getting firm.  It's not easy out there.  I guess there are scores like 6-under, 5-under, 4, 3; that's why it may seem easy, but the players are playing really solid golf to shoot those scores.
Q. You didn't miss many fairways, did you?
LYDIA KO: No, I didn't miss many, which is good, because I think they are growing the rough a little bit.  It's a tough shot when you're in it.
Q. Having won here before, does that make you any more comfortable going out there tomorrow?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I mean, I guess a little bit.  But I think the big difference is there's a lot of people out there to support you, and that's the cool thing about it.  You're on the first tee and they call your name, and there's a lot of people cheering for you.  So maybe it makes it a little bit more comfortable but it all depends tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT