THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another great round, good position for tomorrow.  I know that was a little stinker of a finish, but overall great round.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I mean, it wasn't the easiest of up-and-downs on 18, but you know I have not played the 18th hole well this week.  First day missed the fairway, and then you're not going to get on for two when you're in the rough.  The last two days I just did not hit a good second shot in there.  It is what it is.  Overall I played really solid.  Got in some positions off the green.  I was able to make up-and-down, and I just gave myself a lot of opportunities today, and that's what you've got to do.  They pulled a couple holes tee forward, so the majority of the par-5s you could reach it for two.  Couple of them I didn't take advantage of that, but it's a pretty solid round.   
Obviously I would love to be leading by five, six shots, but I still think it's a good position.  I played solid this week, so I've just got to take this to tomorrow.   
 Q.  How long was your putt on that last hole?  
LYDIA KO: I think like five, six feet.  I must have misread it because I stroked it well, but I kind of aimed left center and ended up going left edge.   
 Q.  You said you'd rather be leading than chasing?  Has that always been your MO?  
LYDIA KO: I mean, leading by five, six, ten shots (laughing).  You know what kind of a lead Paula had when she won here.  I mean, that's obviously the most perfect day and you could cruise out there tomorrow.  But it's a pretty packed leaderboard.  I don't know how the course set-up's going to be tomorrow, but I think the course set-up will play a huge factor because personally with them putting some tees forward, it doesn't mean that only the long hitters are going to get on for two.  Average distance players like me is reaching the par-5s as well.   
 Q.  Can you talk about how this course handled the rain and what your thoughts are for tomorrow which is forecast to be really bad?  
LYDIA KO: I think because it's slopy it will definitely drain right towards the lake.  But I think the lucky thing is I only played the last four or five holes in this rain.  It's getting pretty heavy.  I thought it would be later today that the rain would be coming.   
But I think with the slopes in some way it's good, because it makes it a little softer and you can be a little more aggressive and go for the pins.  Then it's not easy playing in the rain.  I kind of felt like I was playing at the British Open without the wind.   
 Q.  Do you think at all about the fact that this is your last chance to become the youngest ever to win a major?  
LYDIA KO: No, not at all.  Morgan's record is pretty amazing, and for her to do it at 18 years, I don't know exactly how old, but it's really hard to do.  Winning a major at any age is pretty hard, and for her to do that at the ANA, I think is pretty amazing.  So, yeah, obviously this is my last chance.  I think it was Brook's and I's last chance.  But, yeah, I think I'm just going to take it as a good experience and just give myself a good chance tomorrow.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
LYDIA KO: No, not really.  No, I thought it was fine.  I was getting a little wet during that par-5 because I didn't have my rain gear on, but no.  I mean, it was perfect weather today.  It was nice and warm.  Pretty much no wind and ended up being like this.   
 Q.  Did you have your rain gear in your bag?  
LYDIA KO: No, I didn't.   
 Q.  Mom brought it?  
LYDIA KO: Lucky it's a long enough hole where mom brought it over.   
 Q.  Did you have an umbrella?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I had that.  If I didn't have that, I might be complaining.   
 Q.  How was your approach with the water?  
LYDIA KO: Just over here after 15.   
 Q.  With a packed leaderboard like this, do you go into a final day with a different mentality or do you think you have to be super aggressive tomorrow?  
LYDIA KO: I don't know what the leader is going to finish.  But I think there are holes where you can make some good birdies out there, so I've just got to play my own game.  You can see by everybody else that everybody's making a lot of birdies.  Sometimes you just miss the fairway and you can get some stingy lies in the rough too.   
So, yeah, I think it all depends.  But all I've got to do is concentrate on my game.  That's all I can do.   
 Q.  When I pulled in here today and saw your face plastered everywhere I thought did Lydia win this last year?  I had to go back in my guide.  
LYDIA KO: I said I think I'm on that poster not because it's me.  I think it's because of the pink I'm wearing.   
 Q.  Oh, you match the logo?  
LYDIA KO: Last year it was the pink hat and the pink shirt.  It's perfect Evian colors.  Today I tried a little bit of that, even my drink is this color too.   
 Q.  You're working it.  
LYDIA KO: I'm trying to blend in here, but I think it's more the color than me.  Especially because it doesn't look like me anymore without the glasses.   
 Q.  I know, the glasses pictures, it's like who is that?  
LYDIA KO: So it's always leading towards the color.   
 Q.  Your watch is sparkling.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I know.  I love my watch, it's beautiful.  And obviously Rolex is a huge part of this event, so it's great that I can play in front of sponsors and to be able to play well is another bonus.   
 Q.  How many Rolexes have you won?  
LYDIA KO: I have this one, and I had the Rookie of the Year which I gave to my granddad, and I got another one for my dad within the deal.   
 Q.  So you had another one?  
LYDIA KO: That was for my dad, but that was with my contract one.   
 Q.  And that one was from?  
LYDIA KO: My first win.   
 Q.  Rolex first-time winners get a Rolex as a member, as a member.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, they were nice enough to make it --   
 Q.  Spice it up?  
LYDIA KO: Yes.   
 Q.  Bling it out?  
LYDIA KO: Yes, it was great because I actually went into the Singapore Rolex office and they showed me a couple of the faces and how I could mix and match.  I thought this face was cool because it is a little green and then purple.   
 Q.  Yeah, what is that?  
LYDIA KO: It's like opal and green and then purple and gray.   
 Q.  Did your mother purchase any designer handbags?  
LYDIA KO: Well, she did get two bags during the off-season.  But her and I we're not that fussy.  I normally don't like wearing -- like for Pro-Am dresses, I don't like wearing the same dress over and over again.  I did during the Asia swing last year.   
 Q.  You have to.  
LYDIA KO: But I'd rather get something cheaper, more affordable, and get a couple of those rather than get one of the expensive ones, yeah.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT