RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So a day which went up‑and‑down and you've ended up in the same place, but really well placed for tomorrow. Talk about your round?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, I didn't start off well. I doubled straight off the bat. But I tried my best to kind of scramble away, make some birdies. I made two silly bogeys on 12 and 13 which kind of got to me a little bit. But I finished making two birdies out of the last four holes, and I've just got to continue that positive attitude to tomorrow. 

Q. How did you handle the really heavy downpour in the middle? 
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I think it was actually lucky that we got it on like hole 5 and 4, because I think it's a better hole to get than like 10,11, 12, 13. So in a way we are lucky but it wasn't easy out there. From the first hole, we had strong winds and we could see black clouds and black clouds equals not good weather.

Q. You still managed to look like you were keeping quite an even keel and smile it out. Are you still relishing the challenge, or are you finding it a bit frustrating now with all these different elements? 
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I was pretty smiley and all that for most of my day. The only time I got really frustrated was after the 3‑putt. I had been putting good all day and then made a 3‑putt, missed my par putt. That was the only part that I got frustrated. Other than that, I tried to stay calm and after that, I said, hey, there are some birdies out there, so I just tried to keep my head high. That's all you can do. At the end of the day, all I've got to do is play my game and I can't worry about what everyone else does.

Q. Is there any shot or save that you're particularly proud of in tough conditions that kept your score going?
LYDIA KO: I think my birdie on 15. It was straight across, I hit a good low shot in there and made the putt. 

Q. How long was the putt? 
LYDIA KO: I think maybe just under 15 feet. 
On 16, I hit a blocky 3‑wood off the tee and kind of got a good lie and hit a low hybrid on to the green. It's one that's not a long hole but it's a very tough hole. So I was so pleased to come off with a par on that hole. 

Q. It's been playing really hard that hole. 
LYDIA KO: At the start of the week, David said it may look short and you might come in with pitching wedge, 8‑irons, but it's not as simple as it looks.

Q. Is there anything else that David's given you that you've used tip‑wise? 
LYDIA KO: No, we just tried to work on hitting low shots. I think that's really key, not only when it's into the wind but crosswinds. Because of how strong the cross wind, you don't want your ball being affected a lot. We've been working on trying to be a little bit more creative. I've been saying all week, we don't get this every day in the States. Yeah, got to keep the mind going.

Q. Do you relish the challenge for tomorrow?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I don't know what the weather is going to be like but I'll try my best. 








END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT