CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seemed like a pretty tidy round, no bogeys. Pretty stress-free?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I got maybe in trouble a couple times but then I was able to recover well from there.  But no, I didn't really have that many really, really tough positions.  But, you know, it's good, and it's definitely good to finish well on the 18th today.   
 Q.  You're scripting a rather familiar story here at this golf course.  You seem to have a lot of support from the fans.  Can you feel that?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, there's a lot of people out here.  I kind of noticed it a lot on the Pro-Am day because I was signing pretty much nearly five minutes after every green.  It adds up to be a lot of people.   
But there's a lot of people supporting us.  So it's just great to play in front of a crowd where they cheer for you.   
 Q.  Does this golf course fit your eye?  
LYDIA KO: I hope so.  Definitely I've won here before, so there's a lot of good memories, and there are some tough holes, tough greens.  So it's not easy out there, but I hope it likes me back.   
 Q.  Why do you play well here?  
LYDIA KO: Why?  If I knew I would be playing well here every time.  But I don't know, I think the fans have been great.  I think when you are playing in front of a big crowd and they are just as excited as you are, it gives you a little bit of a boost.  I love playing in front of a crowd.  It does make me a little nervous.  But I don't know if there's a secret recipe or secret there.   
 Q.  We were talking to Karine Icher and she's tied with you at 9-under.  We reminded her of two years ago when you won in Edmonton, she ended up getting the first place money there when you won; and she's right there with you at 9-under.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, she's obviously played very solid the last two days.  Shooting 7-under yesterday especially; I think that was an amazing score around the conditions.   
We've still got two more days and there are a lot of girls up there.  Especially five, six shots in two days, anything can happen.  So I have to really concentrate on my game.  I played with Karine last week and she played well when I played alongside her.  So obviously her game is in great condition.   
 Q.  There's a lot of talk about the greens here and the forecast is for it to be a bit warmer on the weekend and you're playing later in the day.  They are sort of firm now; do you think that will be the story on the weekend, controlling your golf shots on the greens?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I've heard it's been a really warm summer.  So you can only expect it to be dry.  There are some drier patches even in the rough.  But it's going to be firm, so I think we are all playing for it to run and take a big hop on the first bounce.  But, you know, I guess it's only going to get firmer from now.  But yeah, you know, it's part of this course.  You just have to play along with it.   
 Q.  When we talked to Karine earlier, she said she doubt you would share the check with her this time (laughter).  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I don't know who is going to be the winner -- yeah.  My first goal is to just play well.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT