RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. It was an interesting round. You came to grief at the 12 and it was a very unfortunate lie you had in the bunker and you responded so beautifully a couple holes later. How do you reflect on that fourth round today?   
LYDIA KO: Whenever I went in the bunker this week, I didn't have much of a chance. And when that happens, you really don't know how to think of it. But yeah, I've played really solid today and I felt really confident with my long game. I've been putting good all week.   
I just tried to think positively, and yeah, you know, 3‑under out there was I think a good score. I know it could have been better. But I'm sure I'll say that any time.   
   
 Q. You know, it's worth reminding ourselves, you've only just turned 18 years of age and you're right in the hunt for a major title. There's no suggestion that you're getting frustrated about this. How much time do you feel you have, and how much experience do you feel this major has given you once again?   
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, this is my best finish at the British Open. I think it's one of the toughest majors with all the elements outside the golf course. So, yeah, I'm super proud of my finish this week. I don't know when or if I'm going to have a major win. I hope so, some time in my career. Just doesn't need to be now.   
But because of the records, there's a lot of say about it, but I've just got to try my best and that's all I can do.   
   
 Q. Do you walk away disappointed or encouraged?   
LYDIA KO: This is the best finish I've had at the British Open, so I'm going to take the positive out of it. I played solid all week and started the week great, and yesterday and the day before it wasn't working as well. I managed to make my mistakes a little less. But I had a lot of fun and tried my best today. My mind‑set was only to be aggressive, and that might have cost me a double, but everything balances out.   
I had so much fun here this week and I'm going to take the positives.  
   
 Q. You said at the beginning of the week, David showed you the bunkers. What did you learn from playing this week at Turnberry?   
LYDIA KO: Yeah, because the bunkers are wet because of the rain and they are quite small, the ball doesn't necessarily kind of I guess rest right in the middle of the bunker. That cost me two doubles today and one yesterday. It is part of it. It's not going to be a dead flat bunker where you can just hit it out every time:obviously a little bit of unluck. It's part of it. I learnt my lesson so maybe not be that aggressive sometimes.  
   
 Q. One more major left this year. A few more tournaments in the meantime. What are your plans over the next month or so? Are you going to play the full schedule or will you pick and choose?   
LYDIA KO: I think I'm going to play everything apart from one. I'll have a good week off next week after four weeks. I'm going to enjoy my rest and hopefully prepare well and play well the next couple of events. Yeah, I'll be looking forward to Evian.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT