MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking up the last?   
LYDIA KO:   You know, birdie.   That's it.   Birdie or better really.   I hit a great 3‑wood off the tee and miss‑hit it on the second shot.   I guess it's not the worst place to be, but it's not the best place to be either.  
No, I played really solid the front nine, and that's all I could really do.   I know it would have been great if I could continue that on the back nine, but it just wasn't going.  
4‑under is I think a good score at the end of the day.   Seeing how average my first day score was, to be top 5 or whatever, I think it's a good finish for the week.  
I'm happy that I could give it a run for it to defend the title.   
   
 Q.   Were you watching the leaderboard?   Did you know what was going on around you?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   Normally I'm not a huge leaderboard looker, watcher, whatever.   Like today I knew that I was having a good run at it so I was having a peek now and then.   
But a lot of the girls are playing so solid.   It's not a course where there is going to be a lot of bogeys made, so it's about the person who makes a lot of putts and birdies.  
   
 Q.   Seems to be scoring a lot better today than earlier in the week.   Has it changed?   
LYDIA KO:   I don't think it has changed much.   To me, I just made a couple more putts the last couple days compared to the first day.   I don't know how the other girls feel about the course or whatever.  
I think every day we've had a little bit of rain, so the softness and firmness has really been similar all four days.   
   
 Q.   What was your four‑day experience as the defending champion like?  
LYDIA KO:   It was great.   It was unfortunate we got to go out a little earlier today because of the forecasted storm, you know, later on.   A lot of people came out to watch you us play, so it was great to play in front of a crowd that cheers you on.   
It's always fun to come back to a course you played well at.   
   
 Q.   Did the delays the last couple of days and the early tee times and whatnot, did that throw you off at all as far as a routine or anything like that?  
LYDIA KO:   I warmed up three times yesterday, and I think by the end of the second one I was getting tired.   End of yesterday I was really tired, and I could see that with my ball striking the back nine.   I wasn't hitting it as good.  
It's something you can't control.   Most years‑‑ last two years I played it was pretty hot, so I guess it was different to get the storms this year.   But that's what it is.   Everybody pretty much plays in the same weather, so there is no disadvantages or advantages.  
   
 Q.   What will you take away from this week?   Did it give you any momentum heading to the British?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   I've been playing pretty good the last couple weeks.   Played pretty solid at the U.S. Open last week, too.   So I'm really happy that my form is coming back a little bit.   
Six weeks ago I just wasn't getting anything going, so it's great to kind of bring a little bit of the momentum, go out, have fun at the Scottish Open next week.  
I think it'll be a lot of fun at the British.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT