ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible.) Were you aware of that coming in?LYDIA KO: No.  Thanks, guys.  It's always some statistic that's going to get in my tail.  But yeah, I didn't know that.  Lucky thing that I birdied the 18th.  It happened to me last year, too.  I hadn't birdied all day and then made a birdie on 18 to kind of get that going.  It's good that I'm at least counting a couple strokes off the scorecard today.Q. How would you just assess overall the three rounds, and what's happening in your game overall here?LYDIA KO: I mean, the last two days were a lot of grind.  Thursday, Friday I didn't hit that many fairways, and to try and punch something out there and make up-and-down, that was tough, but those were two better scores than today.  I had, I think, a couple more fairways and I felt like my swing was closer to what it had been last week.  Yeah, I didn't feel like it was that bad today, just couldn't get putts to drop.  I said, let's just have one drop, one, and it just happened on 18.  It's a couple holes later than I would have liked, but you get those days where something might be good and then the other thing just doesn't happen.Q. You were saying that your driver was disappointing you yesterday.  Do you feel that that's actually coming around now?LYDIA KO: Yeah.  I hit a great drive on 1 today, and that kind of just -- I mean, yesterday I was nowhere near the fairways.  Today to start off on a good note, kind of getting that confidence was really good because next hole I hit a fairway, the next hole after that, too.  Definitely hit more fairways today, so I definitely felt more comfortable.  We worked on a little bit post-round yesterday, and I think that did help.Q. Started on a good note, ended on a good note.  How do you carry the birdie into tomorrow?LYDIA KO: Hopefully for more putts to drop tomorrow.  I think obviously I would love to hit it closer and hit more fairways and all that, but it's not going to be perfect.  Even if I just carry on my long game and just hope for a couple more putts to drop, I know that I'll be reducing a couple shots from today.Q. First birdie kind of set the table?LYDIA KO: I think so.  To me I felt like the practice green was much faster.  Before going, I said, okay, because of how hot it's been I think the greens are going to be drier and firmer and faster, and I just went out there and left a lot of my putts short.  It was definitely -- I thought it was a little slower on the course, but it doesn't mean the course isn't playing slow, it's still playing fast.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT