ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Were you thinking about us and our stories as you were out there?LYDIA KO: No.  I believe that the story now has a full stop to it.Q. Was there any point you felt you were sort of tired out there?  There were times when it looked like you were just exhausted.LYDIA KO: No, I wasn't really tired.  It is warm out here, but I think it was warmer the first couple days of this week.  I wasn't tired.  I just wasn't hitting fairways, and then it just kind of becomes no fun.  It's fun because you're trying to hit hook shots and low shots out of the trees.  In that way it's fun, but no, I just really couldn't get my driver going, and when you're in that kind of position, it's not easy around this course.Q. What was your lay-up number, and then just what happened there?LYDIA KO: It was like 160 something to the end of the fairway, and then there was like 20 yards of rough, so I'd say it was 190 approximately.  I just hit a three-quarter 6-iron, and I would have never guessed that I was going to hit a 6-iron 190, not even if I was Lexi.  Yeah, so obviously that was the wrong club at the end of the day, but I thought it was 6-iron even if it flew out of there, it would have at least stopped.Q. You were trying to hit it how far then?LYDIA KO: Just maybe like 10 short, so hitting approximately like 80 yards or something.Q. Could you tell from where you were standing that it was in, or did you not know until you walked up all the way?LYDIA KO: No, I knew it took a big bounce, but then I saw that there was still a long amount of rough there, and I knew that it took a big bounce, but I said, hey, is my 6-iron going to go 190, I thought, no, but yesterday I hit my 7-iron like 180, so maybe I should have learnt from that.  But I didn't know until -- that's when I asked some of the spectators.Q. And did you hit a good putt on 17 or did you pull that a little?LYDIA KO: No, I thought I hit it good.  I thought the last section it wouldn't break as much, so I didn't play my aim point 1 percent, I just kind of went a little less, so there's a lesson.  But I didn't really pull it but just kind of dove a little left, that first putt where there was the most amount of break, and it just kept going on that line.Q. You got on a little bit of a streak on the front side, you birdied three of four and then had a bogey in between there, but it appeared as though after a while you sort of got a little spring in your step.  Did you think, hey, I think I've turned this thing around?LYDIA KO: Yeah, you know, I made a couple early bogeys, and then made good birdies on 6 and 7, and I think I kind of shanked it on 8.  Then I hit a good lob shot in there.  No, I was scrambling that front nine, but then after I made the turn I was being a little bit more consistent hitting a couple of fairways, so I gave myself more opportunities, but I think after that 360 horseshoe, everything kind of turned around.Q. The putt on 13, how shocked were you that that didn't stay in?LYDIA KO: I mean, I've had lip-outs before, and okay, if it's a lip-out, I'm still pretty angry that it lipped out.  But I would have never thought it would do a whole circle around the hole.  That's harder to do than holing that putt.Q. How important did the streak become to you as it got bigger and bigger?LYDIA KO: I mean, it was pretty awesome that I was near Annika's record last week and even yesterday, and then I tied it.  It was so cool that I'm tying with someone amazing and as great as her.  I was like, man, I would love to reach 30 in a way.  But as I said before, I'm relieved that this question is not going to be asked, but I think 29 -- I wasn't counting, and 29 under-par rounds is pretty good in my book.Q. You get mad once in a while and you say it can be good for you.  Was that one of those times when you got mad?LYDIA KO: I mean, you don't want -- well, I normally go okay on the next hole, but there's no 19th hole.  That's apparently the bar.Q. Which you're too young --LYDIA KO: Yeah, I'm not hitting the bar.Q. Maybe on the weekend.LYDIA KO: Yeah, hopefully I'll get my tee shot together.  It's just with the rough here, it can get really catchy, so you really don't want to be in the rough that often, and I was in there quite often the last two days.  Try and get my driver together and hopefully for a couple putts to drop instead of lipping out.Q. Were you able to do a good job keeping the streak out of your mind while you're on the course?LYDIA KO: Yeah, probably if I was playing good golf, that would have been more in my mind, but because I was scrambling, I think that was the last thing I needed to think about.Q. You were preoccupied?LYDIA KO: Yeah, I was busy with trying to make a three-footer or trying to make up-and-down from the rough and et cetera.  I think in a way, because I wasn't hitting the ball great, I had less things to think about outside the course.Q. Having a pairing like Lexi, did it help in any way, just being able to laugh a few times with her?LYDIA KO: Yeah, I got paired with her last week, too, and she's a really great player to play with.  Obviously we have two different games, two different ball flights and all that, but yeah, it's always fun playing alongside her.  She's a great golfer, and because she's the defending champion there's a lot of fan support for her, too.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT