VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 1, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Lydia, were you getting nervous there on the back nine?   Looks like you're going to make the cut right on the number.  
LYDIA KO:   You know, I hope so, but especially this side where there are a couple birdie opportunities, so yeah, hopefully I make it.   But all day I was thinking, you know, make some birdies for the kids in Nepal, that's my big goal.   I think if I was just missing the cut, yes, I would be disappointed.   But no, I was going to cry after my putt, it's so sad, but hopefully I make it, yeah.  
   
 Q.   So you were thinking more about helping the kids, more about basically the donation and helping the kids rather than making the cut for the streak of never having missed a cut here?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, if I miss it, then nobody will talk about it for a while, so it might be a good thing.   But yeah, the word is out, so I kind of wanted to contribute.   And like I said, it was kind of relating back to what happened in New Zealand, so unfortunate, and you kind of go in survival mode.   I've been in an earthquake, too, and it was a small one where I thought somebody was running upstairs and it was just rumbling on the floor.   I was thinking a lot about Nepal today, but luckily I'm on the number for now.  
   
 Q.   When was that, when was the earthquake you felt, where was that?  
LYDIA KO:   It was a couple years ago in Christchurch.   It was just after the big one.   I mean, it's always after something like that happens, it's still not stable, and we had one I think not long ago, within a month.   So hopefully there are no more big disasters.  
   
 Q.   So were you not in Christchurch when they had the big one?  
LYDIA KO:   No, I had just left.   It was kind of just after the New Zealand Open, I left.   I came back like a year later to see the damage and it's quite heartbreaking when you see something like a church that was really one of the big things about Christchurch, and for it to be down, yeah, it's really sad.  
   
 Q.   Well, it looks like you're going to get to make that donation now.  
LYDIA KO:   I hope so.   And hopefully I'll be able to try and get my stuff together again tomorrow and try to make that second cut.   But yeah, you know, just if I make the cut today I will be able to make some sort of donation, it's good.  
   
 Q.   It's very rare to see you have a big number.   Have you ever had a two-hole stretch like that yesterday?  
LYDIA KO:   Probably not.   The worst is probably that triple n Ocala.   Why is everything relating back to Ocala these days?   That was a really bad moment yesterday.   I think I could have just stopped it with that one, but just shot after shot I wasn't positioning myself, and really, I only two bad holes and it's still five shots.  
   
 Q.   Even after seeing you shot 75 yesterday, Stacy said she still wouldn't be surprised if you were right there on Sunday.  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I hope she's right.   Yeah, thank you, Stacy.   Yeah, this course, I think it really depends on how dry the course is going to get.   From yesterday to today, it's different.   So yeah, I haven't seen this course when it's in a dry state, so I don't really know what to relate to that.   But yeah, I guess it's part of the experience, and especially when it's the first time you're playing a course, you're going to get those kind of situations.  
   
 Q.   Lydia, did you ever think you would see someone in the lead that's younger than you are this year?  
LYDIA KO:   I knew Brooke was a very talented golfer.   I feel like she's quite aggressive and she's holing a lot of putts, she's striking the ball very well.   Yeah, especially seeing how well she played under the pressure last week, I wasn't surprised that she's still on top of the leaderboard today.   Shows how talented and what kind of great golfer she is.   She slept at the airport that Monday, Sunday night, and then to shoot an under par round is pretty awesome.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember your first final group in an LPGA event and what did you learn from that going forward?  
LYDIA KO:   Probably the Canadian, that first one.   Yeah, I think because I was 15, at the time I didn't really know what to expect, so I think I shot 5-under, 6-under that final day.   That time I just remember I was just kind of going, oh, my God, I'm playing with Stacy Lewis and Jiyai Shin, this is so awesome, because I was concentrating on my game and trying to feed off them.   It kind of made the day much easier.   But nowadays I'm like, oh, my God, every shot counts and all that.   Yeah, I feel like there's a bit more pressure now.   That's why I guess some people say when you're younger, you're fearless, so you can kind of relate to that.  
   
 Q.   When you were in the final group and you were trying to win the Canadian, did it help knowing that Lexi had done so at a similar age and had actually won?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, you know, definitely Lexi and Michelle, they were out on the tour at a really young age, like Paula and Morgan, and they were so successful.   So if I was one of them and I was the first ever, you know, 15, 16-year old that was out here and that had an opportunity to win, I think it would have been a different situation.   So lucky for me I had so many great role models that I could look up to, and if I had questions, I could always ask for advice.  
   
 Q.   You don't like the streaks, do you?  
LYDIA KO:   No, I don't know, like come on, when you're out there trying to make a good streak of birdies, not think about how many times you're making the cut or how many rounds under par you're having.   So yeah, I guess those are all statistics, and at the end of the day that depends on what you've done on the course, but when you're out there trying to make a lot of putts, trying to hit some good shots.  
   
 Q.   I think I know the answer to this, but you didn't know what the cut line was, did you?  
LYDIA KO:   I did.   I saw that I was like tied 66th and I was one over total at that time.   I kind of lipped out for birdie on 7 and I said if I miss the cut, that's going to suck, you know?   Yeah, especially on 9, I mean, I didn't position myself well off the tee and I was like, you need to make this putt for Nepal, for Nepal.   That's the only thing I was thinking about.   So yeah, you know, luckily it dropped and hopefully I'm still okay.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT