AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2020
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Q. 72.  How do you reflect on that third round score?
 LYDIA KO:   I played pretty solid on my front nine.  Back nine, I hit actually the ball really well.  I had one missed shot on 10.  But outside of that, I was really struggling with the putter.  I was telling Dave as I was walking down the line, my putting speed control has gone out the window.  I was leaving it short and long.  When you've got 6- to 9-footers for par, you can't obviously you would like it to roll in every time but it's just not an easy distance to be knocking them in.  So hopefully I'll dial that in for tomorrow and just keep hitting it solid which I've been doing the last few days.
 Q. Do you put that down to an adjustment to conditions?
 LYDIA KO:   Maybe on the putts I left short, I was thinking the wind helping from behind would be a little bit of a factor and then on 17, I thought of that putt and the wind coming into, so I completely smashed that putt, so I knew that was going to be a little long.  But those are all the factors that you have to think about, anyway.  I'm not the only one that has to think about all this.  I think it's just a little miss on my part.
 Q. How well are you swinging the club?  Where would you say that ball-striking is?
 LYDIA KO:   I feel like it's getting to where I feel like I'm hitting it at my best -- I can't even remember when at my best was, but now I think I feel like I've been hitting it pretty aggressively and even though I missed it on 10, on the next hole I was able to not think about it and hit a good one down there, as well.
 Yeah, it's a good place for not only physically but for the mind to be at because you're the out there thinking about how to create the shot or how to hit the shot rather than thinking about where the ball is going to go.
 Q. A few shots to make up.  Weather is supposed to be quieter.  You talk about the aggressive mind-set.  Will that help you, knowing you've got to go out with that at the forefront of your mind?
 LYDIA KO:   I think this is a tricky golf course anyway.  Obviously with the wind, I think it's meant to be a little bit different direction tomorrow.  So that means the whole golf course is going to play very differently.  On the first day, the back nine played a little easier because it was most of the time straight down, but if it's the other way around, you never know how it's going to play.  This is a major championship, so there's going to be pressure at the top of the leaderboard, as well.  Hopefully I'll just be able to focus on my game and put my share of birdies out there, and all I can do is post the best score I can and see where that leaves me.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT