VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 30, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LYDIA KO:   Those two holes I was 5‑over par, so what can you do?   
   
 Q.   Which two holes?   
LYDIA KO:   14 and 15.  
   
 Q.   What happened on 14?   It looked like you were trying to hook it into the‑‑  
LYDIA KO:   No, I was going to hit it over the tree, but even when you look at that tree, I would have never imagined for it to be stuck up there.   Yeah, you just get those days where the things that you least expect happens.   Can't do much.   On the next hole I didn't really hit a good tee shot, and then it's kind of tough when you're hitting out of the rough trying to get over water, and I put myself in the worst position for there.   
Yeah, just those two holes, it was tough.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   So your feeling about the course, was the course okay?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I mean, the course, a couple holes are still wet, but they've dried up pretty quick.   The only areas that are wet are really where there's a little bit of a dip, so all the water kind of falls into there.   But other than that, like 18, it's drying up, so I'm pretty sure this afternoon and tomorrow morning the course will be a little different when we play tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Did you think about withdrawing this week after winning last week?  
LYDIA KO:   No.   I mean, no.   This week and last week is totally different.   You just never know what's going to happen.   But like I said, I played pretty solid.   I left a couple putts out there, but it was just like two shots that cost me.   
   
 Q.   What do you see going forward as far as making the cut and continuing on?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, all I can do tomorrow is try to make a couple birdies and put myself in hopefully position to try and make the cut, but yeah, you know, hopefully I'll be able to pull something amazing off tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Were you pretty impressed with Jason's agility to get up that tree?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I didn't know he was that good at climbing trees and monkey bars, so he must have done that when he was in elementary school, but that's a while ago, too.   Yeah, it's good to kind of know that my caddie is always there to support me and to do what's best for me.   At the end of the day he didn't really need to go up the tree.  
   
 Q.   It's a valuable life skill.   Have you ever had that happen?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Because that was really firm up there.   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I've done it on the tee shot where it kind of nestled in there, but like I said, it's kind of a pine tree, and it's very spacey, and the last thing I expected was it to stay up.   When it was going kind of at the tree, I thought it would fall down, but it didn't.  
   
 Q.   So you talked earlier about maybe Tex‑Mex, maybe barbecue.   Have you done any of that yet?  
LYDIA KO:   No, that was just yesterday, so no, I had Korean food last night.  
   
 Q.   So tonight?  
LYDIA KO:   Maybe, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT