SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 25, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome Lydia Ko into the media center.   You're 4 back right now heading into tomorrow.   How do you feel about that in your bid to defend?   
LYDIA KO:   Obviously I would love to be a little closer, but it was tough out there.   Even when you've got two‑footer, you're still thinking about it because of the wind.  
I just need to make a couple birdies tomorrow and give myself a good chance.   
MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   With only three players ahead of you, does the number of shots you're back matter more or the number of players that are ahead of you?   
LYDIA KO:   I would say shots, because you may be two shots behind, but then there are ten people that are one‑shot behind.  
No, I think it just depends on how many shots back I am from the leader.   Brooke still has a couple holes to play, so you never know if I'm going to be five or six or how many shots behind.  
Yeah, you know, I just got to play the holes that are birdieable, give myself a good chance, and then try and put some pressure.  
But it's not easy because of the wind.   Every hole is playing so tough.  
   
 Q.   About a decade ago Morgan Pressel was in a similar position to you and Brooke Henderson.   Now she's near the top the leaderboard and hasn't won in a long time.   What has she meant to you?   How close are you?   Has she imparted any wisdom of having gone through something that you and Brooke are going through now?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, you know, Morgan, I think I first met and played alongside her in the 2012 Australian Open practice round.   
I was just going to tee off, and then she came and she said, Can I join you?   I was like, Oh, my God, yes.   We played a couple holes and I got her autograph.  
Yeah, I mean, she won her first major at 18.   Every tournament it's hard to do, and to win a major, it's pretty amazing.   She's an amazing person and definitely an amazing player.   
   
 Q.   Now that you're 18, does Brooke make you feel old?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   No, I'm not the 17 year old that they're talking about right now.   We're a similar in age and we played some tournaments together as amateurs.   We're all really friends out here.   
   
 Q.   Morgan says that when you're young, as she was a million years ago and stuff, that you're kind of naive to the pressure and bigness of the moments.   Do you think that's true, and do you think the hard part is staying naive, fun?  
LYDIA KO:   I'm feeling the pressure.   I feel the nerves when it's there.   I think that's why I feel like I've aged so much in like three years.  
When I won the first Canadian Open, I was like, Oh, really?   Did that just happen?   And then now I'm like, Oh, my God.   I just won or I just played well.   I feel like, yeah, in that time, you know, things have changed.  
But, I mean, people say when you're younger you're not afraid.   You're kind of fearless.   Maybe I'm not the case.   
   
 Q.   A lot of comparisons have been made between and you Brooke this week, particularly being unflappable under pressure; at least so far.   Do you see that?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, Brooke is playing pretty consistent, and playing consistently well.  
I saw the leaderboard, and every time it's there, even though we played a couple tough holes, she wasn't losing shots.   She was gaining shots and making some birdies.   To play so consistent on a course like this with the conditions like today, it's tough.  
Shows how strong she is in her mental game, too.   
   
 Q.   You say that you feel the pressure a little bit.   How do you keep that in check, especially during a round?  
LYDIA KO:   I just like to take deep breaths, just think about that shot I'm about to hit and just try and focus on something that's right in front of you rather than think about what's going to happen or what just happened.  
I think that definitely makes it a lot easier for the mental side.  
   
 Q.   What was the biggest difference in the course today between clubs you had to hit into the green that you hit differently?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, like straight off the bat on No. 1 I hit my hybrid 20, which is pretty much like a 3‑iron.   To hit a 3‑iron, driver 3‑iron on the first hole, just shows how much wind there is going to be.  
Yeah, like that par‑3, 15, that's another tough hole.   It's already a long hole, and with the wind straight into you, I hit my 3‑hybrid in there again.  
Holes like 16, it's short, but the wind is straight into and everything is going away from the pin.   That was tough.  
I think really the wind was so tough.   It was a different direction to the last couple days.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
LYDIA KO:   5‑iron, and then the day before I hit 8‑iron.   I don't really have another club higher than the hybrid 20, so I really hope I'm not hitting a driver, 3‑wood tomorrow.   Yeah.   
MODERATOR:   Any more questions?   Perfect.   Thanks for coming in.  
LYDIA KO:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT