HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 8, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   World No. 1, coming to Singapore seeking a third tournament victory; sole second, missed out on your third tournament victory in a row.   What are you feeling now, mixed feelings? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I started out well on my front nine, shooting 3‑under through my first seven holes.   Just things were not going from No. 8 to 13.   I just lost three shots. 
On this course, it's not that hard to lose shots.   There are some lip‑outs and there are so many close ones.   But I finished well with a birdie on 18, and I had a great stretch of three weeks, and I would have never imagined to have one second place and two wins. 
So, yeah, it's great.   This is my best finish here in Singapore, so, yeah, I'm really looking forward to coming back next year.

Q.   Just going back to that back nine, did you feel you had to play a little bit more aggressively seeing how consistent Inbee was? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think she had finished this tournament with no bogeys, and that's pretty impressive.   Here, like I said before, you just lose shots in the blink of an eye.   She was playing consistently and she was going to, but to me, I just hit a couple loose shots and missed a couple short ones.   That just cost me a couple.   But I'm pretty pleased with the way I finished.

Q.   You talk about the fun factor whenever you play tournaments.   Did you have fun out there? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, it was a little hotter today compared to yesterday.   But no, I tried to stay cool.   And it's going to be hot here every single time we come, unless it rains.   Yeah, this is I guess part of playing in Asia. 

Q.   17 years old and I'm sure you take lessons wherever you play; are there any lessons you'll take back from playing Serapong? 
LYDIA KO:   Just I had a couple loose drives, and then it's definitely hard to make it up‑and‑down from everywhere.   So I'm going to work a little bit moreover the next week to get a little bit more consistent in my long game.   I think that will give me a little room, so my putter doesn't have to work so hard. 

Q.   Your first time on the Serapong course.   What did you think of your performance? 
LYDIA KO:   Well, actually I played last year, so this is my second time.   I didn't have as good of a finish last year here, so it's great that I played much better golf this week. 

Q.   Playing with No. 1, 2 and 3 in the world, was that a special pairing?   How did you feel about that?
LYDIA KO:   I think it was a great pairing.   I don't think it can get any better than that.   I remember last year at Fubon LPGA Championship, we finished and it came down to Inbee, Stacy and me.   It's great that we are all going for it, trying to become the winner at the end of the day. 
Yeah, I think it was all of us tried to make birdies and then push each other out there.

Q.   How did you feel?   Inbee played so well today. 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, she played great all week.   No bogeys around here and on a course where you can hit a good shot and you can get bad luck.   She made no bogeys.   That's pretty phenomenal. 

Q.   Looking forward to the next time you get paired together so you can see who comes on top then?
LYDIA KO:   It's always fun playing with Inbee and Stacy.   They are such consistent players and I always play well when I play alongside them, so it's great, and I don't know when we'll be paired up next or when the three of us will ever be, but I think it will always be exciting, not for us, but also for the fans. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT