AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2020
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Q. How would you compare yesterday to today conditions-wise, and also how your game was?
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think for our front nine we had a little less wind than yesterday but we had another factor of rain.  So it was pretty tough.  It was getting lighter, yes, it's going to stop raining and another hole later, it was raining again.
 It was super tough trying to make sure that your clubhead is dry and grip is dry and yardage book everything and, so there were a lot of things to think about.  I feel like I played really solid.  Nice to kind of have a birdie coming down on the back nine to finish level par but it's super tough out there.
 So patience is going to be very important for me even on the weekend.
 Q. Just that one dropped shot came right at the beginning.  How important to keep the big numbers off the card and try and maintain that equilibrium on the scorecard as it's playing so difficult?
 LYDIA KO:   I think when you're at a position, even on the weekend, if I don't know what the wind or weather is going to be like, but when you're out of position, you just have to play smart.  Sometimes being a little aggressive is going to be the factor that can give you an extra couple shots.
 Like I was out of position on 16 with my tee shot, and I had a little hill, so I knew that if I hit a 7- or 6-iron, I could get further down, but I didn't want to risk hitting the hill in front.
 I think that you have to know that sometimes bogey is not going to be the end of the world.  There's hopefully a birdie out there to kind of manage it and you know it's tough without wind, so you just have to be patient and just do your best.
 Q. You talked yesterday about confidence, so important for golfers week-in and week-out.  We know you've been playing well.  What's your level of confidence playing into the weekend, also the work you've been doing with Sean Foley, just where you are with your game and in this great position on the leaderboard?
 LYDIA KO:   I feel like every competitive round I get in, there's a bit more confidence that builds in.  It's like the saying where, you know, just even like an 18-handicapper, you know, that one shot brings me back up for tomorrow; and I really think it's the same for me, too; that one good shot that you feel, that that's the shot I want to emulate on the next hole or tomorrow.
 The more times I put myself in contention or in a good position it gives me confidence about my game.  Sean has been trying to get me to swing aggressively and freely and I feel like I hit it better that way.  Sometimes it's easier said than done, but you know, I've just got to go out there and not worry about it and just believe in myself.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT