KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Slightly different to yesterday.   You actually really hit your irons great, those last three holes aside.   What do you think you were doing differently?  
LYDIA KO:   I mean, overall the last couple days, I felt like my irons were really solid.   I was kind of on and off with the long clubs, but I felt like I hit the ball well, and that means I could be a little bit more positive about it.   The only really loose shot was that tee shot on 16 and my second shot on 18.   But it's good that I'm confident enough that I can go for these tough pin positions.  
   
 Q.   Outwardly to everyone watching you seem so cool, calm and collected.   Do you get angry once in a while or are you cool, calm and collected?  
LYDIA KO:   I was a little angry with 16.   I thought, just hit it out right, and the worst score I imagined was a par.   When you come off with a bogey, it's kind of losing at least two, three shots to the field.   That way I was a little mad, threw my ball in the water, but I tried to stay calm and I knew 17 was another birdie opportunity.   You've just got to be patient around here.   It's not easy, and some putts you think they're going to go in and then the next second it's not.   
   
 Q.   You extended your under‑par streak today.   What was your strategy headed into the third round?  
LYDIA KO:   You know, I never seem to go so well the first couple holes and then kind of get my way as we hit those par‑5s, and that's kind of what happened today.   My irons were really good today, and that meant I could be a little bit more aggressive.   I think some holes played a little shorter with the tee boxes being forward on some of the par‑4s.   I think I just tried to take the advantage of it.   I mean, I lost a shot on 16 on a hole that I didn't expect to lose a shot, but overall I felt pretty confident with my game today.   
   
 Q.   So there are currently, I think, 11 players within three shots of the lead heading into tomorrow.   What does that mean in terms of your strategy going into the final round?  
LYDIA KO:   I'm just going to take it like the last couple days, just play my own game, and yeah, I mean, I played with Katie today and we both made a good share of birdies, and that's what I'm going to try and do tomorrow with the other girl that I'm going to play with.   It's a tough course.   You can get really lucky and make a lot of great putts, and I think the person that is going to hole a lot of putts tomorrow is going to be the winner.   Just being packed up towards the leaderboard, you never know who's going to be the winner.   
   
 Q.   You were saying over there on Golf Channel that the worst you expect is par on 16.   Were you aimed to the right and just really hooked it quite a bit on the drive?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, the right side, I think I should have aimed a bit more right, but it wasn't a really good shot.   I didn't really draw my drive at all today, and then that one just came out, so it was really out of expectation.   I started them all a little right than I kind of aimed, so I thought, okay, that would be okay, but it just went to the wrong side, and that left side gets so firm, and just coming in hot with a driver, it's really not the place to go.  
   
 Q.   I saw you kind of do an "mm" after the drive.   Is that getting easier to try and forget the bad shots?   Have you been doing a better job at just forgetting the bad shots?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I played really good today, and even that hole luckily that even if I go there and the worst comes that I'm in the water and I can drop it, I can still make a good up‑and‑down for par.   So that's what I kind of tried to think about.   Then I wasn't able to make that up‑and‑down.   What can I do?   Sometimes there's one loose shot that you don't expect, and it came on the right hole, which was the wrong hole for me.   
   
 Q.   So were you just as disappointed with the chip because the chip was kind of so‑so?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, the grass there was a little fluffy and it was different to this kind of grass.   I think it was the grass that was overseeded.   It was tough, and especially in my mindset saying, okay, you need to make up‑and‑down, make up‑and‑down, I just didn't get the job done.  
   
 Q.   Is it frustrating, you have a great round going, 7‑under, and then to kind of have those two, or have you already let it go, the fact that you know you're one shot off the lead?  
LYDIA KO:   It's definitely a little frustrating, and especially finishing off with a bogey, but I had an 18‑yard putt, and you just don't want to be in that position in the first place.   It's just, I think, everything balances out.   I chipped in for eagle and all that, and who knows.   It could have been a worser day, could have been better.   But I know that I'm hitting the ball well, so hopefully I can take this to tomorrow and just give myself a lot of opportunities.  
   
 Q.   How far was your chip, the one you chipped in?  
LYDIA KO:   It was only like 10 yards.   Yeah, it was just off the green because the pin was front left.  
   
 Q.   And with so many, a packed leaderboard, you know you're going to have to go deep with so many girls right at the leaderboard.   To win those you're probably going to have to go deep.   Yeah, I needed to shoot a really low score like what Anna did last year shooting a 64, and that's tough to do on the final round.   I think similar, maybe not as slow but a similar score, will have to be done to win, I think, tomorrow.   Definitely the winner is going to be the one that holes a lot of putts out there for both birdies and pars?  
   
 Q.   What's the plan for tonight?   You've been in contention a lot going into the final round recently.   Is there a special routine?   What do you do on nights of the last round?  
LYDIA KO:   Not much.   Nothing different.   Obviously there's a lot of people here waiting, so I'll do this, get treatment, and yeah, just have a chill day, have some dinner.   I don't like to do much anyway.   I kind of sometimes try and help my mom get packed, but I don't.  
   
 Q.   You cheer her on?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I go, my stuff is there.  
   
 Q.   Are you much of a TV watcher?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, it's getting addicting.  
   
 Q.   What do you like?  
LYDIA KO:   I like something‑‑ I like Criminal Minds and all that, but then I get totally freaked out, so it's really not the genre to watch.   But HBO has been having some really good movie selections.   I got really excited for Red 2 yesterday.   Anything funny with a little bit of action.   No romance for me.   
   
 Q.   People say that I think one of the biggest advantages for you is that you don't have a lot of bad memories in golf‑‑ it's easy for us to say that, because I'm sure you've had final rounds where you thought you could play better and all that, but in some sense do you think that your youth is an advantage in that aspect, that you don't have what we call scar tissue on your brain?  
LYDIA KO:   I don't know.   I mean, probably the most disappointing final round was probably in Ocala.   I played great until the last two holes.   But I think there was a big lesson learnt.   I know I was a little bit aggressive and then just kind of a little bit soft, and the worst that could happen happened.   At the same time I holed a couple good putt for a double on 17, and that kind of made me the world No.1 at that stage.   So everything, I guess, balances it out.   All lessons learnt.   I'm just trying to learn that not every shot, not every round is going to go exactly as planned.   Sometimes I'm just going to have good days and sometimes it's going to be a good day that doesn't turn out as great as you want it to.   
No, it's just, I think, part of it.   I know that hopefully my career, hopefully there are a lot of hip hip hoorays and a lot of happy memories, but I know that there will be a couple ones where I wished it could have been better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT