CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I hope that's alcohol‑free or I'm going to have to take it from you.   What I can't take from you is what you've accomplished this year and the biggest prize in the history of women's professional golf.   You said earlier this year you didn't consider yourself a teen sensation; you are certainly a teen sensation.   Did you ever think something like this would be possible so early in your career? 
LYDIA KO:   I really didn't think about it.   Even playing today when I was out there, I just set myself a goal to make as many birdies and just go out there and have fun.
At the end of the day it's been like this.   I thought I would be playing 72 holes but I played around 76.   I'm excited the season is over, but it's been great.

Q.   You started this week talking about‑ everybody talked about the money on the line this week.   You said your mother liked some expensive stuff.   What are you going to buy her now? 
LYDIA KO:   Maybe that bag that she wanted, that four digit.   I would've got it for her anyway, but she really deserves it.   I wouldn't be out here without her.

Q.   Coming out here your first full year as a professional with all kinds of expectations on you, what do you think it says about you to live up to them?
LYDIA KO:   I don't know.   This has been a big year.   A rollercoaster ride.   I've learned so much this year. 
These kind of playoffs, it's my first time as a professional.   I've been learning a lot.   I think next year is going to be another fun year.

Q.   Were you surprised to see your dad here today, and how special is this moment to share with both your parents?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, he said he would come this weekend with his friend.   He came at the right time and maybe gave me some good luck. 
I mean, I shot a 4‑under round, and then finished it well in the playoff.

Q.   Bogey‑free round.   Just talk about your play today understand so much pressure. 
LYDIA KO:   You know, I started off well giving myself many opportunities.   I think I putted well this week and that really helped.   Around the greens it's really tough, and I was able to make some good putts. 
I tried to stay patient in the playoff because you really never know what's going to happen.
It's been a great.

Q.   Can you put into words what this season has meant to you?
LYDIA KO:   When I saw that $1 million in the box, I was like, Wow, I wonder who the winner of that will be?   It's amazing.   I've never seen that much cash in one place before.   This year has been awesome.   Three wins, Rookie of the Year, it's a huge honor for me to be here in this position.
I'm looking forward to what's coming up next year.

Q.   Biggest payday ever in LPGA Tour history.   You said in your press conference earlier in the week your mom had been eyeing a bag.   You going to buy her that bag now?
LYDIA KO:   I think she really deserved it before all this, but I think she'll say yes to it for sure. 
Thank you. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT