JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 19, 2015
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY SCHULTZ:   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings Lydia Ko who just shot a great 6‑under 66,21 consecutive round now under par.   Does it ever get old when you keep shooting rounds like you did today?   
LYDIA KO:   No, I guess not.   But yeah, I just try and take one shot at a time, one round at a time and every course is different.   But yeah, it's good to know that I'm playing solid golf and I can be confident when I'm playing out there.   
   
 Q.   So I know we sat through a four‑hour delay earlier.   What time did you get up this morning and how long has this day seemed to you?   
LYDIA KO:   I woke up at 4:50 and I got to the tee and it had been seven hours since I woke up.   I had a little nap after the first delay, and then had a second breakfast in the second delay.   Yeah, hasn't been too bad.   But it's going to be an early night to night.   
   
 Q.   Looking at the golf course with so much rain, everybody was talking earlier in the week about how much softer it was playing.   How was it out there today?   Were they pretty easy scoring conditions, did you feel?   
LYDIA KO:   I mean, they weren't really easy but even if we were hitting a long club into the greens, because it was soft; it was more receptive.   Like hole No. 12, you really had to stop it in that front section, but I hit my 3‑hybrid and I was still pin‑high.   I guess you might lose some distance with the drives but then you can be a bit more aggressive on the greens.   
   
 Q.   A couple of your fellow players were in here and said they were amazed what you do round after round after round.   You make it seem so simple.   Is it just a matter for you to put it in the fairway, put it on the green and putt?   You don't seem caught up on everything going on, No. 1 player in the world or any of that.  
LYDIA KO:   Like I said before, I like to take it one shot at a time.   I think that makes it much easier rather than saying I have 72 holes for the whole week.   
But I think if I try and put it into portions, it makes it a little bit more simple.   I always say there's not much going in my head, so I would like to keep it simple?  
   
 Q.   You don't ever take a private moment and say, I'm 17, I'm the No. 1 ranked player in the world, that's wild.   
LYDIA KO:   It's pretty cool to hear it on the tee when you're teeing off, and at announcer says, "Rolex Rankings world No. 1."   But I'm probably still not used to it.   I never will be.   
   
 Q.   You made a tremendous up‑and‑down on 18, looked like the green was sloping away from you, and had that pitch shot that was short there, fantastic.   Then you go off and birdie 1; do you get into the rhythm of a round and do you get excited when you make a great up‑and‑down and say, okay, now I've got things going?   Or is it just, oh, well, hit another good shot?  
LYDIA KO:   I recommend everybody is going to play that hole to not be there where I was.   
It was pretty slopey and I could see that the grain was going away from me.   I made a good up‑and‑down and then made that good birdie.   
But I think I kind of got an assist from Michelle's put on the first hole but I guess when you're playing good, you kind of get in that zone and you're not worrying about the missed shots or what ifs.   
After my 3‑putt on the seventh hole, which is my 16th, that's when like what ifs kind of happened and that's why I think I kind of left my putt on 9 short.   But I guess when you're playing good, you automatically could go into the rhythm without thinking about it.   
   
 Q.   Lydia, Patty was just walking out of the clubhouse earlier when you were playing, and after you won in Australia, she had Tweeted that, Lydia, you know who Kathy Whitworth is, don't you, or something like that.   Did you see that Tweet and do you ever think about Kathy's record of 88 LPGA victories.   Is that something you would pursue?   What are your thoughts on that?   
LYDIA KO:   For somebody like her to Tweet at me and then to compare to another amazing person, player.   Yeah, it's pretty cool to be compared in that way, and it's only‑‑ I shouldn't say it's only my sixth.   I've had six victories.   But it's pretty cool.   I've got 82 more to reach there but it's a long way and I say I would like to retire when I'm 30, and I don't know how it all divides and how many I need to do.   
But yeah, they have got such amazing records and they feel so far away.   I'm trying to concentrate on one tournament at a time and that's all I can do.   It's just hard to be those kind of people.   I've still got a lot to work on my game to get even halfway near their record.  
   
 Q.   You're intent on retiring at 30?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, still 13 years, I think it's a long time.   I played golf 12 years, so I think 25 years is a long time to devote to one sport.   But I don't know, my thought my change when I get closer to that age.   But right now, I'm going to enjoy myself being a 17‑year‑old.   
   
 Q.   Have you thought about what you would do beyond 30?   
LYDIA KO:   I don't know, I always found like media, broadcasting very interesting, and I'm starting psychology in uni.   There's so many different things.   I love watching the Food Channel, so I might go that direction.   But you don't know what's going to happen.   But yeah, I'm pretty sure it's going to be exciting.   It's definitely going to be different to golf I think.   
   
 Q.   I notice you've got your thumb wrapped.   Anything going on with that?   
LYDIA KO:   How do I explain it, it's like I say this every week.   I've been putting too much pressure on my left thumb because I've been pushing on it too hard with my right hand.   So it's kind of hyper extended, and so it was hurting a little bit but it's gotten much better in the last couple weeks.   I had a longer strip but it's getting smaller and smaller.   So we're going the right direction.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you left some strokes out there today at the end with the 3‑putt and the couple of putts that came up that were on line and came up short?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think I had like three that was perfectly on line but I left it short, and that 3‑putt on 7, but I guess everything balances out.   I hit the pin with my chip on 18 that could have been a much further par putt.   So no, I think 6‑under is a good start and I just have got to take the positives out of it.  
KELLY SCHULTZ:   Thank you very much.   Best of luck the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT