AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 20, 2020
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Q. Well played; tell me how nice it was to see that one drop on 18 to close out a good solid day.
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I was kind of getting a little frustrated leaving 16 with a par.  I hit a great drive, probably leaked a 6-iron just a little bit, so to come off that one with a par, and then on 17 I hit a really good 8-iron, but it just -- when you've got like 60 feet of putt, you can't be expecting to make a two-putt on all the times you go there.  Definitely nice to be able to finish off with a birdie.  It's just incredibly tough, but I felt like I played really solid, and I kept it in play, which is going to be important all week, not only just in the wind.
 Q. You always have a very even sort of keel to me, a massive positive.  How much is that a key this week when you are going to be challenged and tested to the max given the conditions?
 LYDIA KO:   I think especially around links golf you have to be super patient.  When it stays like this, bogey is sometimes not the worst thing that can happen to you.  I feel like last week really helped a lot.  I didn't make a lot of birdies, and I didn't make a lot of bogeys, either, so when you kind of go on a streak of pars, sometimes you get impatient because you're coming off from a tournament especially where there were a lot of birdies, but I think you've just got to focus.  There's probably not a single shot out there where if you don't have your 100 percent focus there you're probably not going to hit a good shot.  I just tried to stay pretty patient and positive, and I think the big key is especially with the fescue and the bunkers, just keep it in play, and if you are out of position, take your medicine and kind of work your way from there.
 Q. I know Marathon was disappointing for you but you had a great week last week at the Scottish.  How well do you feel you're playing right now?
 LYDIA KO:   I feel like every tournament I play I'm getting more and more confident, and to me, confidence is such a big key, and I think even starting at Inverness, I felt like I've been playing pretty solid.  That's what I'm continuing to -- trying to continue to do, and a lot of the shots especially the last couple weeks aren't like full shots, so trying to be creative and keeping it in play.  But definitely I think Marathon it was disappointing just the way it finished, but I think it was the best finish I've had in a really long time, so there was a lot of positives to take from that.  Playing solid last week kind of gives me good momentum coming into this week, as well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT