FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY TAIWAN MOBILE
October 28, 2014
Sandra Gal
Lydia Ko
Beatriz Recari
Michelle Wie West
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Sandra, you've been here many times, and you have a huge, huge following, how does it feel to be back here at the LPGA Championship in Taiwan? 
SANDRA GAL:   Yeah, I really love the support I get from Taiwanese fans and the hospitality I get here.   I love being here in Taiwan.   It's definitely one of our favorite stops and we look forward to this week. 

Q.   When you come to Taiwan, do you get a chance to go out or is it just golf, golf, golf every day? 
SANDRA GAL:   No, we go party every night. 

Q.   Hopefully every time you come back, you get to see a little bit more of Taiwan, not just the golf.   We know we have the gala dinners and we have a very, very loaded schedule and we know you don't have much time but hopefully one day you get to go out and maybe see some more people, go to the night markets, go do some shopping.   Has Yani taken you anywhere to eat? 
SANDRA GAL:   No. 
THE MODERATOR:   Next, we have Lydia.   You've had a great first professional year, 2014, and you started last year here with a big win starting your professional career with a big win in Taiwan.   Talk about last year's win and how do you feel going into this weekend's event? 
LYDIA KO:   It was only my second week playing tournament, so I was very nervous coming here.   I had a great experience the year before.   It was rainy and windy, but being able to play amongst the professionals was great. 
There are obviously a lot of good memories from last year and I can't believe it's been a year and ten months since that time when I won.   So I'm very excited to be back and now just prepare for Thursday to come and hopefully have a good result. 
THE MODERATOR:   We changed the conditions this year.   Last year it was wind and rain and we turned it off and this year it will be just sunshine. 
LYDIA KO:   Two years ago in the rain and last year was the wind, so we are reducing it.
THE MODERATOR:   Our forecast for this weekend is bright and sun see, should be no rain, no wind. 
LYDIA KO:   That's great.
THE MODERATOR:   Beatriz, this is your third LPGA Taiwan Championship.   You've been here each year and etch year you have a better result, and especially for 2014 you've had a very good year.   Talk about the extra preparations you made or differences in your game or things you've tweaked for this week, any special strategies for this weekend? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Just really excited to be here this year, it's been a slow progress and just very grateful to be back.   I'm very excited to come to Asia.   I love Asia, especially being here in Taiwan.   Definitely one of my top events, and I seem to do well in the last three years, my results have been better and better, so obviously I feel very comfortable here.   I can't wait to start on Thursday and improve my result.
THE MODERATOR:   Michelle, welcome to Taiwan.   So you've been here before, and you've had a great year this year, of course, with the highlight being the U.S.Open Championship, and now being in Taiwan, how do you feel about being here and what are you expectations for this weekend? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Yeah, I'm having a lot of fun this year.   I always look forward to coming to Taiwan.   I think just this being Yani's hometown, you see they are all here and she gets so excited to come back.   Every time I come back, it's just always great to see Yani's hometown, and I love‑‑ hello kitty, so when we come back, I get really excited. 
Yani is a great tour guide.   She brings us to all the great spots and I look forward to it.   It's the first time I've gotten to stay in the city, usually by the golf course, so it's pretty awesome.   We landed yesterday and walked around for a little bit.   I located a few spots around town‑‑ yeah, I'm really excited to be here.   Unfortunately I was out for a little bit with my injury and I'm just so excited to be back and I just want to finish the year strong.
THE MODERATOR: Talking about your injury, were you a hundred percent? 
MICHELLE WIE:   Everything is pretty good.   My first couple weeks back, I forgot how hard golf was, I was so sore everywhere.   But it's great to be back with no pain.   At the end of the day I'm just so grateful to be out here playing golf and I think my injury made me realize that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT