SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   (Regarding Yani and Jason.)     You two are just starting out.   How is it working?
LYDIA KO:   I think it's been good.   We worked together at Manulife LPGA Championship, so that was about two months ago.
It was kind of good to get back into that good teamwork.   I think we've been doing pretty good the last three days.   Hopefully it will be a long teamwork for a long time.
MODERATOR:   Now, I know there was a number caddies trying out for your bag.   What was the defining thing that made you go with Jason? 
LYDIA KO:   I think he's obviously very good at what he does, but I think we have good chemistry working with each other.   I feel very comfortable, even though this is my first week with him.
MODERATOR:   You're 17 years of age.   A lot of time spent with golf.   What do you like to do when you're not playing golf?   Let's take it in two parts.   When you take a holiday, what type of things do you do? 
LYDIA KO:   The normal teenager stuff, I guess.   Watching TV, talking to your friends.   Lucky there are lots of good social media networks that I can connect with my friends even though they not at the same place as me.
Yeah, I like to watch a lot of TV.   That's probably why my eyesight is this bad.   I like to have some fun, but since we spend so much time outside, I actually like to spend time in the room just chilling out.
MODERATOR:   When you're at a tournament like this, so many different cultures, so many fantastic cities.   You do spend a lot of time on the golf course, but what do you liked to at days' end after you finish practicing?   Because you do go and practice after you finish your round. 
LYDIA KO:   I'm actually quite interested in food, so I like to taste different foods.   Obviously different countries have their own style of cooking and everything. 
Because I don't have much time to go out and shop and do tourism stuff, I like it taste different food, like Malaysian food out here.   I've been loving it so far.
MODERATOR:   Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, you do all that sort of stuff?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I try to do it.   I don't do it all the time.   When I post a few photos on Instagram there will be like five straightaway, and then I won't do it for a couple weeks again.

Q.   When you go home New Zealand, lifestyle for you and the Ko family? 
LYDIA KO:   Probably not be spending the entire time with my family.   I'll be out with my friends going to the beach, the mall, and being that normal teenager and not having to think about what happens on the golf course.
Yeah, I'm really excited to go back.   Not really sure when that's going to be.   I am ready to go back home.
MODERATOR:   You are still in the mix.   Just a few behind.   Big day tomorrow.   Game plan?   Going to go for it?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I'm going to be aggressive in places I need to be.   I've been hitting the ball pretty well and stroking it well with the putter. All I got to do is give myself a lot of opportunities, and hopefully the balls will drop in the hole.
MODERATOR:   Well you always blow us away with your maturity beyond your years when you go out and play.   So looking forward to seeing you play tomorrow.
Thanks for joining us.   Ladies and gentlemen, Lydia Ko. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT