SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You did very well today compared to yesterday.   A bit better.   Describe how you felt. 
LYDIA KO:   I think my ball‑striking was pretty similar.   I had a lot of good shots, but I left a lot out there.   Today I definitely holed a couple more putts.
Yeah, I feel like I'm playing solid enough.   There are a couple of low scores out there and still two more days to go so I just got to concentrate on my game and really just hope for the best.

Q.   Has the weather had a bad affect on you?
LYDIA KO:   No.   I guess playing at 8:00 in the morning it is okay, but as the day goes on it gets warmer.   The last holes are kind of crucial because you kind of lose concentration because it's getting hotter.   I tried to stay cool with the umbrella and the cool towel.

Q.   You had an injury on your wrist. 
LYDIA KO:   My wrist is totally fine now.   I don't have a problem with it.   I've been getting some treatment when I had the three weeks off, so it feels good right now.

Q.   What's the key to getting going on this course, do you think?
LYDIA KO:   You just need to give yourself a lot of opportunities.   The greens aren't particularly easy to read.   When you give yourself opportunities, you kind of just have to stroke it on the line you want it to.   It goes in and it doesn't. 
But, yeah, just try to make as many opportunities as possible.   I've had a couple where it was like a three‑footer for birdie, so I think that's definitely helped.

Q.   Where did you feel like momentum picked up for you? 
LYDIA KO:   I made birdie on 1.   Fairway bunker with my tee shot and hit a good shot out there.   I put pretty solid strokes in the first couple holes, and so that's what I tried to concentrate on. 
Yeah, birdie gives me a lot of confidence on the course.

Q.   You're still very young.   How do you deal with the pressure on tour playing?
LYDIA KO:   I try and not concentrate about the pressure and everything and just focus on my game and that one shot I need. 

Q.   What do you do in your free time on tour? 
LYDIA KO:   Because we spend so much time outside, I just try and watch TV or hang around in the room.   I personally don't like to go out and do things.

Q.   You're still 17, still a teenager.   Is there anything that you miss from a regular teenage kind of life?
LYDIA KO:   I guess most of my friends are in New Zealand, so not being able to hang around with them is a big thing.
But I really enjoy playing on the tour.   The tour players are so nice.   We all I guess mingle around with each other. 
Yeah, I am really enjoying playing on the tour this year.

Q.   Who are you closest to on the tour?
LYDIA KO:   I would say Danielle Kang.

Q.   You guys go out a lot?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, we try and go out and have dinner and go to the pro‑am parties together.   She's such a cool person to hang around.   I feel kind of fortunate to have kind of a big sister like her. 

Q.   (Question regarding records.)   Which one are hungriest to actually achieve first? 
LYDIA KO:   I don't know.   I don't really try and concentrate about the rankings.   To me it's more important trying to win tournaments. 
Yeah, what was I talking about? 

Q.   Records. 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, to me it's more important trying my best and getting good results at tournaments than being the No. 1 in the world.
I guess when you play consistently well you're going to be up there in the world rankings anyway.

Q.   Would you rather have an Olympic medal or win a major? 
LYDIA KO:   To me, I think I would love to win a major, but to get a medal in the Olympics, that would be‑‑

Q.   Not any medal, a gold medal. 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, a gold medal in the Olympics that would be very special to represent your country and have the word's best players out there representing their country.
It would be a pretty awesome moment.   I really wish I can participate in the Brazil Rio Olympics in 2016. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT