BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2019
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LYDIA KO: I'm moving in the right direction. Definitely a little bit of a disappointing year for me but I've still got four events including this one to go. I would like to finish my season on a high.
I think it's a year for me to learn more about my game. I think a lot of the times, I've had to be patient and I think a big thing for me was when I wasn't hitting the ball as good. I was losing confidence.
But I feel like I'm hitting the ball much better now. With that confidence, it puts less stress on your short game, and it just feeds off into each other and not like completely separate parts of the game.
We've been working really hard with my team to be more consistent and for me to be out there and hit it aggressively and not worry about where the ball is going to go or if the putt is going to fall or not.
Q. Do you have any history with Busan?
LYDIA KO: No. I mean, I'm born in Seoul. My parents are from Jeju. We're far away from Busan.
This is actually my first time in Busan. I've heard a lot of great things about Busan being so beautiful, especially when we wake up in the mornings at the hotel, we're right by the ocean. So we've got a really nice view to wake up to.
I'm a really big foodie. I wish I -- I was telling my sister, I wish we were playing here two weeks so I could try all the different foods. I think it's so fresh and amazing. And whether we are playing in Busan or Incheon or anywhere else in Korea, I love coming back here.
This is obviously a place that I was born in, and you know, grew up for the first six, seven years of my life. I think just to play in front of all the Korean fans, I love it. So yeah, I'm -- whether my golf is good or not, that's secondary, and just having a great experience here again in Korea.
Q. What are your takeaways from your round today?
LYDIA KO: I started off really well, shooting 4-under my first eight holes. Like my putt on 18 and 1, I thought they were both putts that I putted really well, and at the end of the day, even if they are short putts, all you can do is put a good stroke on it and trust it. That's what I did, and you know, obviously didn't go in, but to finish off again with a birdie on the last hole is definitely a nice like cherry on top of the cake.
It's a tough golf course, though. It's just not going to produce like very low numbers. But I think our group got pretty lucky with the weather today, not being as rainy as it could have been, so I think that's something that you've got to take away from.
Q. What is the battle with the conditions, back and forth, wind, rain?
LYDIA KO: I took off my rain jacket three times on one hole and put it on. So yeah, it's very on and off, but I think we're getting pretty lucky. I'm not really sure what it's going to be like for the last nine holes for the final groups, but I think when it's forecasted for rain and wind, it's not going to be an easy day. You just have to be patient, even if it is taking off or putting on your rain jacket and rain pants off. I think for most of it, we've got pretty lucky there, and when it was pretty rough, I was able to make two birdies. Yeah, I'll take it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT