CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined in the media center by Lydia Ko, who sits at 6‑under or the tournament after a 4‑under round today.   
Lydia, what's been working for you this week?   
LYDIA KO:   My putting has been pretty good.   It's tough around the greens here.   If you miss the green you can be having yourself like an into‑green chip or run off into these fluffy areas.  
I think I've been putting pretty good, and that's definitely helped.   Hopefully I can hit a couple more good shots tomorrow and roll the putt like I did the last couple days.   
MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   How much is the race to the one million on your mind?  
LYDIA KO:   I'm not going to really think about it.   I'm just going to go out there tomorrow like did today and not think about the big money that comes at the end of tomorrow.  
Everybody is playing pretty good in this condition.   All I can do is really try my best out there, because I know it's going to be tough again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Has it been more challenging this week not to think about those things because there are so many numbers and points and all that?   
LYDIA KO:   I actually haven't really thought about it much.   I come to the press room or get asked by the media and that's when I go, Oh, there is $1 million on the line.  
When I'm out there I'm trying to make as many birdies as I can.   The wind, to figure out how much the wind is, if it's left or right or if it's into, that's hard enough.   I think that's actually keeping me a little distracted.   
   
 Q.   Lydia, given what you just said, do you think you were more nervous at the prospect of having to give that speech on Thursday than you were of $1 million that's at stake this weekend?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I was thinking about my speech all day.   My mom promised me that I would have enough time to practice it after my round.   
We ended up finishing close to 5:00, and I was in a hurrying to get dressed and be on time to the award ceremony.  
Yeah, I'm so glad that's over.   I really meant it about the vodka.   Yeah.   (Laughter.)   
   
 Q.   What made that such a scary thing?   You did a marvelous job.   
LYDIA KO:   I'm not really good at speaking in public and in front of a big crowd.   It's not, you know, my cup of tea‑‑ or vodka, whatever.  
Yeah, you know, it's not something that I enjoy.   Like when I'm out there having some fun making jokes, that makes the whole situation better.   
Everybody was nice enough that they laughed at what I was saying.   I think that really made the night much better.   
   
 Q.   Was it on 18 where you had the approach where you got a real favorable bounce to the green?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think it bounced a little right and then ended up being like two and a half, three feet.  
It was kind of the most perfect shot I could ever hit.   I don't think I'll be able to repeat that shot again.   
I kind of aimed at the pin so it would go right with the wind, but it decided to stay straight.   It ended up being a pretty nice shot.  
   
 Q.   I saw your caddie gave you a push.   Did he say anything in particular to you?  
LYDIA KO:   I don't think we're allowed to say this.   Yeah, couple swear words.  
   
 Q.   Like, You lucky...   
LYDIA KO:   No, no.   I don't think‑‑ we'll need to be censored.  
   
 Q.   What club?   
LYDIA KO:   It was a 6‑iron.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT