WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about where you are and how you're in pretty good shape?
LYDIA KO:   I think I'm in a good position.   The overnight leaders are just getting started.   I know that I've put myself in a good position for the weekend.

Q.   Everybody's talking about conditions, but everybody's talking about the wind.   Can you talk about how you dealt with it today? 
LYDIA KO:   You think when you play in the morning you might not get the wind, but we had win from hole one and it kind of continued that way.   I think that's what the forecast is.   I think we didn't have a tournament where there was no wind, so it would be stranger if there wasn't.   I guess wind is just part of playing.

Q.   Does it feel different this year to last year in Rochester being an amateur and now a professional?   Is there more pressure this year? 
LYDIA KO:   Not really.   I'm just trying to take the game as it is.   I'm still playing the same sport and just enjoying it.   I've put myself in a good position compared to last year.   I kind of just made the cut and tried to go from there.

Q.   We look at you as a professional, but at the same time a 17‑year‑old.   Do you still feel like a teenager or do you feel like you're a grown up? 
LYDIA KO:   When I'm on the course, I don't know what age I am.   I know I make some dumb, clumsy mistakes and then I go, there you go.   That 17‑year‑old is coming out.   But when I'm off course watching TV and I just feel like a normal teenager just doing the teenage things.

Q.   You're so new at this as a pro.   Does a major championship feel different to you?   You've been in them, but does it feel any different this week where you are now going into the weekend? 
LYDIA KO:   Like this year I didn't really have an opportunity where I put myself in a good position for the weekend, but I think this week I'm playing pretty good, I'm pretty confident.   It's good to be in this position, but I got the opportunity to play in some majors last year, and that's definitely helping me with the pressure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT