MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Obviously that helped a lot on 18.   Talk about the position you're in.   Feel like you put yourself with a chance to win tomorrow? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, you know, I'm pretty close.   I think I'm only two or three shots off the lead.   Yeah, I think I'm in a good position.
Yeah, looking forward to tomorrow. 

Q.   Is there an idea of what it's going to take tomorrow, a number of what it's going to take to win?
LYDIA KO:   I think it was around 12 last year.   Definitely you can see by now maybe it's playing a little easier and the score seems is a little better. 
Like today some people shot 7‑, 8‑under.   That may be the scenario tomorrow.   I don't know what the final winning score may be, but definitely need to make lots of birdies.

Q.   You didn't play your best but still trimmed one shot off the lead. 
LYDIA KO:   I didn't have a great day.   I only made two bogeys, but felt like I made much more.   I made two bogeys on the first day; the only difference was I wasn't making as many birdies.
I definitely know that the birdies are out there.   Hopefully I'll be able to get them tomorrow.

Q.   It was only three months ago you got your win.   Then you see Michelle, Stacy, Inbee get a win.   Does that make you think about getting your own win again? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, definitely.   I try and put myself in a good position every week to I guess go and be close to win.   Stacy and Michelle and Inbee, everybody else, they've been playing really good.
Like Mo last week, she had an incredible win at the British.   You never know he's going to win out here.   It's not always the top three that's winning.   There are a wide variety of players that are playing well. 

Q.   How big were the two birdies to finish?
LYDIA KO:   I think my last couple holes were pretty good.   I had to hit my shot close on 15 to make a hard bogey.
I would've never expected myself to hit a lost ball and make a bogey.   I was hitting my driver pretty well today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT