WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Lydia, it looks like you're in pretty good spirits.   Take us through today's final round.  
LYDIA KO:   You know, I obviously didn't really‑‑ it was kind of disappointing finishing with two bogeys, but overall I played pretty solid today, and I tried to give myself opportunities, and made a lot of good putts.   
So yeah, I'm pretty happy with how the major has finished.  
   
 Q.   Round one you didn't have your ball markers and you had to borrow a quarter.   Did you have that today in round four?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   I actually had it in my bag, but I didn't realize it.   But I had it the next three.   I had to remember to put it on my hat before the next day.  
   
 Q.   We've been talking about this all week.   17 years old.   You're right at the top of this leaderboard as a 17‑year‑old in a major.   Just build on this going forward?  
LYDIA KO:   This gives me a lot of confidence.   You know, majors are I guess where we try and perform our best, and to have a Top 5 finish, I think that's really good.   Yeah, so I'm excited for next week, and yeah, you know, just I think I've got a lot of confidence from this week.  
   
 Q.   A lot of people would expect a 17‑year‑old maybe to be a little tight heading into something like this.   You seemed loose all week, smiling.   Is that kind of your approach throughout?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   Obviously I do get nervous at some points, but you know, I just try and go out and have some fun, and if it goes my way, great.   If it doesn't, I can't do much about it.  
   
 Q.   Can you give people an idea of how difficult those last three holes were?  
LYDIA KO:   Um, I mean, no.   I think 16, 17 and 18, they're pretty tough holes, you know, especially on 16 you've got a long hybrid in, and also the next couple.   But for me, you know, I didn't really hit the fairway on 17 and that was kind of the crucial point.   I kind of was in the side of the rough and it's not an easy chip there.  
But no, I try my best and that's all I can do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT