WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Take us through your round a little bit.   
LYDIA KO:   I mean it was‑‑ I didn't start off very well.   I made a bogey on the second hole, and then I came back with a good birdie on 3, but then made a bogey on 8 and I was suddenly at one over par for the Front 9.   Bogeyed 10.  
But I kind of grinded it out, made two birdies in a row and then made another bogey, then made another birdie.   So it was kind of a birdie‑bogey day, but I'm pretty happy that I finished 1‑under.  
   
 Q.   The shot on 17, what did you hit into there?  
LYDIA KO:   I hit an 8‑iron.  
   
 Q.   About 140?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, 143.  
   
 Q.   Do you get the sense that people are getting to know you now with each tournament, each day that you play?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, some people out there today, one of the guys were wearing a "go Lydia" shirt, and I would have never expected that, so I'm so thankful for all the people that have come out here.   I mean, you know, we've been getting great support this week.  
   
 Q.   How cool is it for you personally when you see stuff like that?   Last year a lot of people didn't know you.   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   I guess kind of people know me more and more as I play more tournaments, and I guess the better I play, they'll know me more.  
This is really cool that a lot of people recognize me and clap for me.   And I think getting the support has been tremendous.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you can win this tournament?   Can you get low enough do you think tomorrow?  
LYDIA KO:   It all depends tomorrow.   I mean the leaders and the girls that are out there are still playing well, and definitely the girls that are four or five shots, you never know.   A lot of the par‑5s you can kind of get on for two and someone might make an eagle and that's a two stroke right there.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it'll take for you to get there?   Is it going to be 65, 66?  
LYDIA KO:   It's definitely going to be a low one.   I'm already four or five shots behind right now.   I just need to play my own game.   If I play well and somebody plays better, I can't do much about it.  
   
 Q.   How is the wrist?  
LYDIA KO:   My wrist is feeling better.   I can still feel it, but I mean as long as it doesn't get worse, you know, I gotta just kind of ice it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT