KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 17, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Even better day.   All pars and then you had four birdies, right?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I mean, I started well with birdie on the first hole, and then kind of made pars and‑‑ 10 pars, and then I guessmade a birdie ‑‑ well, nine pars and made a birdie on 11. 
Then, you know, birdied 14, 15. 

Q.   So it was a good run. 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I birdied 14 when I was finishing yesterday's round this morning.   I chipped in that one, too. 
So I was happy with that hole.   I gave myself an opportunity, and I guess it kind of went well.
Yeah, overall I'm really happy.   I mean, I guess improving every day is a really good sign.

Q.   How many holes did you have to play this morning and what do you do between rounds?
LYDIA KO:   I played six holes.   I started on 13 this morning.   We don't get to start on a par‑3 as our first hole.
Luckily I birdied that and birdied the next hole.   After that, I just kind of went back to my hotel and had some rest. 

Q.   Your birdies on 14 and 15 in this round, what happened there?   How long were the putts? 
LYDIA KO:   On 14 I hit driver, pitching wedge, and I had like a nine‑foot putt; I got that in.
Next hole I hit driver and I pulled my 3‑wood left.   I had rough chip shot, and that was about seven, eight feet also. 

Q.   That was your first Golf Channel interview; is that correct? 
LYDIA KO:   Oh, no, that wasn't my first, but it was great doing with it somebody like Juli. 

Q.   Did you see the leaders not doing a whole lot and did you start to think on the back, Maybe I can make some noise and really get in contention here?
LYDIA KO:   I really didn't think about the other players.   I just wanted to keep to my game and just do as I planned.   If it goes to my plan, that's great.
I just try to concentrate on my game.   It's hard enough trying to concentrate and get things done by yourself.   But there are some really good scores out there, so I'm just going to try my best tomorrow.

Q.   Would you like to be in the last group with Lizette? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, that would be great.   I played with her a lot of times in the practice rounds.   I was surprised that our first official round together was in Hawaii.
Yeah, I mean, it's always fun playing with her.   She's a very great player.   Yeah, she's going to go out there and try and get that big W.

Q.   What if she has this 4‑stroke lead on you; what would the mindset be? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, like I said, I'm just going to keep my mind blank and just try and play my own game.
If she shoots another great round like the last couple days, it's great.

Q.   Were the par‑5s playing hard today? 
LYDIA KO:   I mean, there is only three par‑5s. 

Q.   You birdied one of them? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I birdied one.   Yeah, the other one, I mean, on 3 it's quite a tough pin position.   Definitely need to be on the right side if you're not on the green to chip out, because the pin was tucked front left.
So I was on the left side having to hit kind of a high shot, which is not the easiest shot to hit.

Q.   What about 7?
LYDIA KO:   That hole, it was straight into the wind.   Yesterday it was helping and we could get close to the front of the green.   We were down in the gully hitting pitching wedges and sand wedges, so definitely a different hole to what it was yesterday.

Q.   What time did you have to get up this morning?
LYDIA KO:   I got up at 5:00, which is really not a nice time to wake up.

Q.   The chip on 14 in the morning, was that just right off the green?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, the pin was on the right side and I kind of short‑side myself.   There was kind of like a little hump and then the pin, so I thought I hit it to where I wanted to.
It ran out, so, yeah...

Q.   You said you birdied 13 before that? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah. 

Q.   How long a putt?
LYDIA KO:   Like nearly a 40‑footer.

Q.   Really?   So that was your first hole today?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah. 

Q.   So you completed 12 yesterday?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, we did.   Yeah, the thing went off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT