CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 1, 2019
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're playing great the last couple weeks. You played great today and you played well last week. It's got to be good to see your game in a good position right now.
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I mean even the first day last week, I played really well on the front nine and just couldn't get my stuff together on the back. But I've been trying to keep it simple. I've been fighting kind of a two-way miss, and it's not really an easy place to be.
But, you know, I was trying to feel like I was kind of eliminating one side of the golf course. That just makes it a whole lot easier to play, and I feel like we're trending in the right direction, and you know, I mean, I had probably one of the best ball-striking days on the second day here, and I just wasn't able to, you know, hole many putts.
But, you know, when you're hitting your ball -- when your ball-striking is good, I think it just gives you more opportunities and I think it's a way for the confidence to build, and I feel like we're moving in the right direction for that.
Q. How do you work on something like that?
LYDIA KO: For like ball-striking? We've been trying to simply things, just to make sure to know what exactly I want to feel on the golf course.
Obviously you don't want to get too technical, so you just need to know what keys are good, and sometimes the keys that you think about on the range is different to the swing keys on the golf course. Just to stay positive and committed, and I feel like the more aggressively I hit -- I swing at it, the better. Which is better than feeling like, oh, you have to be really tentative.
Yeah, I think simplifying and just knowing what are the right feels that I'm trying to feel in my swing.
Q. It's really coming out today. I know the unfortunate on the last, but you put together four good rounds of golf this week?
LYDIA KO: I played really solid. The weekend was really hard on the back nine. The greens were so firm. I mean, on the first hole, I hit a gap wedge and it ran out 12 yards. It was fun, though. It's tough, challenging. I think if it was more like this, I think it would be great, and, you know, it just makes the courses play a little different.
The last time I was here, I didn't think my golf was as good, so I didn't enjoy my experience as much. But this is such a beautiful golf course and they always set it up in pristine condition, so it's nice to be able to play where you get true results.
Yeah, I kind of hit everything possible on the last hole, but still kind of salvaged a good bogey and sometimes that's kind of what it is. Better a 5 than a 6, obviously.
I think a lot of positives and definitely nice to have a couple three weeks off to kind of recharge and get ready for pretty much our last swing before we head over to Asia.
Q. When was the last time you had three weeks off?
LYDIA KO: You know what, I've actually like scheduled myself pretty well this year where I wasn't, where I didn't really play many events like in a row. So probably the last time was around the U.S. Open time where I kind of got to go home.
Yeah, it's nice when you have that break, but at the same time, when you're playing better, you kind of want to go and feed on that momentum. I think that, you know, the more time I have to get used to things, the more comfortable and more confident, the better.
But it was definitely nice to play without worrying about where is the ball going to go or am I going to miss the cut or make the cut.
I think that at times, you just need to go back to the basics and I'm very grateful that I've had an amazing team to kind of help me build up and build up the confidence, as well.
Q. How do you plan to spend your three weeks?
LYDIA KO: I'm going -- obviously Hurricane Dorian is coming home for me in Florida. I decided to -- I think I'm going to go to New York for a few days and work on some things, and also watch the tennis because obviously the US Open is there. I'm super excited, and my favorite tennis player is Federer. I hope the day I go watch he'll be playing that day, or I'll watch hill on TV.
Q. Have you been to Flushing before, to the stadium?
LYDIA KO: I have never been. Tennis is -- I love watching basketball and tennis, and so being able to watch one of your favorite sports I think live is going to be surreal. Kind of like how different it is watching golf live and through TV.
So I'm excited for it. The speed where on TV it says they are 100-something-mile-per-hour with how hard they hit it, and you don't really see that, engage that, just to see how quick they are I think is going to be super impressive. Maybe some things I can learn from that, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT