RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So close on 18.   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, that kind of explained my day.   I had a couple lip‑outs and a couple mistakes along the way.   If I take my two bad holes out, then I shot 1‑under for the rest and I think that's a pretty good score.   Hopefully I can calm those triples and doubles down and play like I did for the other holes and I should be fine for the weekend.   
   
 Q.   Talk me through what happened on 16 and 17.   
LYDIA KO:   16, kind of blocked my driver and I had to play an unplayable and made a bogey from there and then just that one‑stroke penalty makes it a double straightaway.  
17, I thought I hit a good short putt and I pretty much did a 360‑lipout.   It was pretty nasty to have that.   I had a lipout again on 18 and I told my caddie, that's my luck today right there.   
   
 Q.   On the front nine you were going well and then you had a triple.   What happened?   
LYDIA KO:   I was next to the lip and I hit my shaft‑‑ didn't come out.   I hit my shaft again and ended up being in the bunker and the next shot wasn't exactly playable to get really close either.   
No, it wasn't that great.   When I was in the bunker today, I was losing shots.   So I need to practise those bunker shots because I can't just be getting away from them all the time.   
   
 Q.   Are you getting so many bad lies?   
LYDIA KO:   That one, it was pretty close to the lip, so it was tough to get out.   For the one on 16, I had the downhill lie and it was even hard to enter towards the ball.   So it's tough, but the bunkers are so small, and kind of like pot bunkers.   The majority of the time you're going to get a downhill lie or right next to the lip.  
   
 Q.   Everyone thought it would be the rough that would trip them up but for you it's been the bunkers.   
LYDIA KO:   I've been hitting it pretty well.   That drive, it's kind of hard to get in the rhythm of hitting my drive because the last drive I hit I think was on No.2.   So it's really been over ten holes since I hit my drive and to kind of get into hitting it again, it wasn't as comfortable as I would like.  
So maybe I can change a little bit of club selection and that will make it a little better for tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT