SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC
April 24, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did it feel like a good round out there?
LYDIA KO:   Definitely.   You know, I didn't really know what to think after bogey on the first hole, and especially three putting.   I definitely had a chance of making a par there.
Yeah, you know, I guess I backed it up well with a birdie on 2.
I kind of took confidence from that.

Q.   With the greens that firm, was there more thinking on the approach shots than normal?
LYDIA KO:   I think so, especially when you get some downhill lies.   They're really tough to, you know, spin.   Even though you're on a flat lie, it's tough to spin there, too.
It's tough.   I played good today, so hopefully good memories and positive thinking for tomorrow.

Q.   I know you look up to Michelle.   What were you thinking when you putted out on 17 and she is telling you to go hit that tee shot?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I wanted to finish today.   I was not going to come out here at 6:   30 in the morning and play one hole.   I definitely knew where she was coming from.
And there you go.   There is the horn.   So thank God we're not coming tomorrow.   Yeah, you know, it was just get it in the hole.   I was thinking just hit the fairway.   I don't know where it goes. 

Q.   Good playing.   Thanks for your time as always. 
LYDIA KO:   Thank you. 

Q.   What was that like when everyone was singing you happy birthday as you were walking out to the tee? 
LYDIA KO:   Kind of embarrassing, but then so happy that a lot of people knew about my birthday.   I was happy and thanked all the people there who were singing.

Q.   And today not only is your birthday, but they announced that you're one of Time's influential people in the world.   What is that honor like at 17? 
LYDIA KO:   It's huge.   You know, I just do what I love to do:   play good golf.   That's where my confidence builds up.   Kind of be named in that top 100 of the most influential people in the world is huge. 
Top 100 in the country is big, but in the whole world, you know, it's a huge honor, especially amongst the big names there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT