KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 15, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Looked like you had a lot of birdie putts that you narrowly missed.   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   I mean, I had a lot of lip‑outs.   When you say lip‑out, it like smaller than a millimeter from going in the hole.   I was kind of gutted that I did have those opportunities and I wasn't able to execute them.   
I finished well with a birdie.   It was kind of like a grinding out.  
   
 Q.   Were all the lip‑outs and missed birdies, they were like 10 feet and in, right?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think I had a lot of 15‑foot‑and‑in putts today.   My par putt lipped out on 2 and birdie putts starting to lip out.  
I think it was kind of one of those days where it just didn't want to fall in.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you were hitting the approach pretty well, though.   You were consistent.   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think I'm hitting the ball really well, which is a really good sign.   Some shots here (indiscernible), so just giving yourself opportunities is first stage done.  
So hopefully I can hit like this the next couple days and get some putts going in.  
   
 Q.   When you play of course for the first time in competition, do you almost expect to maybe just go even and just sort of feel with you way around a little bit?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   I mean, I played like three rounds, including the pro‑am round prior to this.   It would have been great if I played this tournament before, but it's what it is.   I just have to play with that kind of condition.  
Hopefully I'm going to get more used to the course.   I am really liking that it's bentgrass here, which is actually one of my favorite grasses to play on.  
   
 Q.   All of this is still so new:   new courses, new things.   Do you take a lot of notes mentally, write things down?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I have my yardage book on me pretty much the whole time.   I always write what I missed so maybe next year I might have a similar putt to that.   Yeah, I kind of try and reference it from the days before.  
   
 Q.   What's it's like managing what it's like to be out here?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, it's just over time hopefully I'll be more experienced.   Yeah, that's what experience is all about.   So I'm just trying to enjoy myself out here and hopefully have a long career.  
   
 Q.   Do you usually use an umbrella when you're out there?  
LYDIA KO:   It's getting pretty sticky and humid out here, so you really don't want to be burnt out because of the sun.   Energy is a huge factor.   Luckily we had the wind today to kind of cool it off a bit.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a regular caddie?  
LYDIA KO:   I've got Steve for the next couple of tournaments.   
   
 Q.   And you had himin...   
LYDIA KO:   I had him in Hawaii, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT