KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2019
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You hit so many putts the right speed today, even the ones that didn't go in.
LYDIA KO: I've been trying to work with Garrett on trying to not stand over the ball as long and, you know, kind of getting the tempo of it right, and I think that has really helped me to not get stuck with any shot.
I think it's important that you feel relaxed and you're committed and in my head I've been just kind of -- in my head as I look back I'm the best putter in the world.  Whether it goes in or not, that's another thing.
I think that kind of helps me get my mind away from, hey, is this going to go in or not.  At the end of the day all I can do is put a good stroke on it.
Hopefully the distance control and all that will continue because especially when it's windy and you get on the sides of different hills it can be a little tricky.  Hopefully I can continue that on the weekend.
Q. Do you find that when you believe that you're the best putter in the world it frees up the rest of your game because you don't feel as much pressure to hit a club?
LYDIA KO: I think so.  When your ball-striking is not as good and you're putting well you're confident and you're hitting long game in full shots with authority, too, you believe you can make up and down.
It's same way around, if you're not putting as well but you're hitting the ball good and giving yourself many opportunities, you know, that sooner or later one of them will fall in and I think golf is so much about momentum and, you know, when you get things rolling and see putts go in, I think it just puts you in a different mood and I think that's really big for me.
Q. This is supposed to be a bomber's paradise.
LYDIA KO: Like I said yesterday, you know, this might suit a person that hits the ball a long way but, at the same time, you know, there are bunkers and rough everywhere you go, so no matter if you hit it 200 or 300, you know, you've got trouble on either side.
So, I don't think this necessarily this is one type of person.  I think the person that can be really consistent off the tee and give yourself good opportunities and be patient I think is going to be a big key around this golf course.
Q. We heard Dustin Johnson talk about going back to old footage of his swing when he felt it was his best.  I was wondering about something you've been doing as you're kind of working on your swing.
Do you try and look back at a time where it felt great or more of trying to move forward to something new?
LYDIA KO: I've had such a vast variety of swings.  When I was an amateur I had a really strong grip, closed cup face, body at the top and then, you know, in my first few years as a professional I was more across the line, and last year we've been working towards being more on one plane so that there's less manipulation in the downswing.
I feel like we're heading in the right direction.  To me if I was ever to look back at footage it's just to see how I played a certain golf course, if it's a golf course we've been to or just to get the confidence of seeing how I played that golf course.
I look back at swings more recently when I know I've been hitting it good.  I know the check points.  Sometimes I think -- you know, currently when I hit a missed shot it's because I'm in between swings and got some older habits and some of the good things -- it takes time to get used to anything but I think we're heading in the right direction.
Q. What are your overall thoughts about Michelle after 36 holes?
LYDIA KO: I think she's a fighter.  Golf is hard enough, you know, the way it is and especially with the wind and the rough being thick, it's not easy and sometimes it hurts even when you've got no pain in your wrist and forearms.
So, I think it just shows what kind of fighter she is and, you know, even up until the very end she's wanting to make that putt and wanting to shoot the lowest score she can, and I think it shows what kind of player, what kind of person she is and you know, yeah, I guess I can't just say golf -- golf is hard and she's playing in a really difficult situation but she's never giving up until the very end and I think, you know, like motivated by her.
Q. You expect her to be back?
LYDIA KO: Hopefully the next time we see her which is, hopefully, next week, she'll be a little healthier and moving in the right direction with her recovery and treatments.
But, no, I think she's great for the Tour and great for the women's game.  Yeah, I think the fans and all of us on the Tour would love to see her more often and see her get more healthy and just be her.
Q. Are you feeling pain in your wrist?
LYDIA KO: No.  This is precautionary.  I used to have it with a Band-Aid but I get kind of sweaty and it fell off and at one point I had like five Band-Aids.  Forget it, I got to find a different opening.
Just a precautionary thing and I know with this I don't have pain so no pain.  Nothing compared to what Michelle is going through.
Q. Lydia, as much as you love to have Michelle out here, if she has to choose between a pain-free life and playing golf, what would you like to see her do?
LYDIA KO: I think, you know, as friends and fellow Tour players, we just say whatever decision she makes we're pulling for her and backing her all the way.
You know, at the end of the day she's the one that knows what's best for her so all we can do is really support her decision.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT