PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 24, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I kind of tried to think back to Swinging Skirts where I posted two good rounds there, and yeah, just continue that.   I was putting well, especially the three birdies in a row helped my day.

Q.   That always helps. 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, birdies, and especially today‑‑ I don't like making birdies on the first hole.   Well, I don't mind if I have it, but it doesn't end up being the most nicest day.   I try to say in the wind like this, I'll take any birdie I can get.

Q.   Did you pay attention to the board when you teed off, all the birdies that Creamer and Korda put up?
LYDIA KO:   I didn't see it on the first hole, but then I came like halfway through and I saw they shot like 8‑under.   I was like, it wasn't that easy to shoot that kind of a low score, but obviously it was.   Yeah, a lot of the pins were at the front, which kind of gave more opportunities.   Yeah, I think the wind was slightly calmer in the morning, so that kind of made it easier. 

Q.   Was the course shorter, too?
LYDIA KO:   No, I don't think so.   I quite like this wind because the longer holes, most of them are actually a helping wind.   Yeah, I like this wind direction, which kind of made like a 3‑wood going in to like a 9.

Q.   I want to ask you, working with Sean, has there been anything that you've been thinking about?   Did he give you any thoughts when he assessed your swing? 
LYDIA KO:   Sean and David, they said don't think it too technical, and I was texting David, and I said, I'm just going to keep it simple, and he said, yeah, that's good.   I tried to only go in‑depth with this thing until like Tuesday and then just kind of let it go from the pro‑am days and go with how it feels.   I noticed when I got too technical I wasn't hitting it as good anyway.   I can't think about every little move on the course.   Yeah, I think that made me feel like kind of similar to how I did before.   It wasn't a huge change, just a little bit better.

Q.   Was it setup or your swing or‑‑
LYDIA KO:   A little bit of the setup, looking more comfortable.   I used to be more stretched out, so more, I guess, closer to the ball.   Yeah, Sean and David suggest keep it to the rhythm that you've been hitting, and I think that definitely helps. 

Q.   You said you were five back going into the weekend at Swinging Skirts.   Were those windy rounds?
LYDIA KO:   They were like really windy.   There was wind and rain two years ago, so luckily we only had the wind.   Yeah, the wind was like really, really strong, like 30 or 40 wind you had to add or minus.   Yeah, that's not easy, so I kind of wanted to put that into play.   No, I played a lot of golf in the wind when I was home, so I was disappointed at the British Open where I didn't perform as well.   But I played good at Swinging Skirts, so I kind of thought of that only.

Q.   Because you like wind; is that what you're saying? 
LYDIA KO:   I obviously did at Swinging Skirts, and I did today. 

Q.   So it varies?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, depends if I play good or not. 

Q.   Do you have any school going on at this point?
LYDIA KO:   It hasn't started yet.

Q.   When does it start?
LYDIA KO:   It starts like at the end of this month, so it's very soon.   Yeah, I'm not even sure what subjects I'm taking.   I've got the New Zealand Open the next week and I'm home the week after, so I'll definitely go to school and see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT