KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   It's a great pleasure to welcome into the media center Lydia Ko, the number four ranked player in the world in women's golf.   Lydia, congratulations on that.   Thanks for being here.   When you see that in front of your name, number four in the world, that's really remarkable.   What do you think about that?   
    LYDIA KO:   It's pretty ridiculous.   I don't really consider myself world number four.   I've obviously played well to get there.   But, yeah, no, I've just taken it week by week.   I guess I've just come to that point.   
    There's still a lot of things I got to learn, but I'm enjoying being out here.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Name one thing that you still have to learn that you feel like is really going to help you.   
    LYDIA KO:   I think the mental aspect of the game.   I try and enjoy it the most I can.   But it's really hard I guess week by week.   Taking everything in, sometimes you got to make those bogeys or you're going to have those bad rounds, but just kind of getting over it, ready to start the next one.   
    THE MODERATOR:   You have top 10s in three of your first six events as a professional.   Impressive.   What is the thing you're striving for the most?   Is it consistency?   Trophies?   Where are you with that?   
    LYDIA KO:   I think it's consistency, playing good every week.   I guess that's like a dream.   But playing consistently well.   Sometimes, like I said, there are going to be those bad days, but there's going to be those good days to mend it all up.   
    It would be nice to have those kind of trophies, but for now it's more consistent playing.   
    THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for Lydia.   
   
 Q.   You played here last year.   What did you learn about this golf course last year that you think will help you this year?   
    LYDIA KO:   You know, a lot of the courses like this year, I wouldn't have played before.   To me it's an advantage just knowing that I played here before.   The course is really great.   I think the hardest aspect will be the wind, definitely, when it gets up.   
    I'm going to enjoy it out here.   I know how fast the greens can get and how thick the rough can get.   
   
 Q.   With a few months under your belt now, what has been the biggest transition and the biggest surprise going from amateur to professional?   Is it a different mindset entering a major championship as a professional as opposed to an amateur?   
    LYDIA KO:   You know, comparing professional and amateur stuff, I thought it would be a huge difference.   At the end of the day I notice I'm just doing the same thing, hitting that white ball, getting it into the hole in the least shots as possible.   Yeah, no, I think I overcomplicated stuff that it is going to be different.   I don't think it is a lot.   
    Yeah, no, without thinking about it, I was thinking, It's a major, I need to play well.   I think that was my downfall last year.   I kind of took it more relaxing at Evian.   I played much better.   I'm going to try to think that this week.   
   
 Q.   Was the plan always to break away from Guy when you turned pro?   What was the process by which you decided to change coaches?   
    LYDIA KO:   I didn't really know what was going to happen.   My petition will be accepted, there were a lot of things that happened between then.   
    Yeah, we knew, like, if I was going to play here full‑time, it was going to be hard to see him, especially him being based in NewZealand.   That's why we were looking for some options.   Those options needed to match up with the path I was going to go on.   
    Yeah, it's working well with me with Sean and David right now.   I'm enjoying a little bit.   
    THE MODERATOR:   A business question.   You have the logos on the shirt, the hat.   Turning professional brings a whole lot of different things than just playing golf.   How much day‑to‑day are you involved in the business of Lydia Ko the golfer or do you just focus on teeing off and hitting fairways?   
    LYDIA KO:   I try and concentrate on my game.   If they send me clothes with logos, I'll wear them.   I'm wearing what I need to be wearing.   Those business aspects, that's what my parents does and IMG does.   It's kind of really good that I don't need that to think about.   It's hard enough just being able to get that ball in the hole.   
   
 Q.   David Leadbetter told me yesterday you look like you're walking on air.   I know you worked with a sports psychologist for a long time.   How did you get your mindset to get so even‑keeled?   
    LYDIA KO:   People say I look like I'm walking on air, that I'm having fun all the time, I'm smiling.   Things are really different inside in the head.   Sometimes it is hard to play, especially with the expectations and stuff.   I kind of put self‑pressure in there, which is not ideal.   
    I try and calm myself down, especially making lots of birdies in a row, that's great.   You can also get overexcited and I guess that's where the adrenaline comes in.   It could be a good thing and a bad thing at the same time.   
   
 Q.   Wondering how you're planning to bounce back from the 78 the other day?   Any technical aspects of your game you've been working on since the Kia Classic?  
    LYDIA KO:   It was a really tough final round there.   But, you know, seeing my score, I didn't feel like I played that bad compared to my 78.   I came off the course, I was a little upset with that.   But I didn't feel like I shot that much, things weren't really going that well.   
    I didn't give up until the end.   I made a bogey on the last hole, too.   That was not a great day overall.   It was a whole new experience where nothing is going your way, nothing is going in, nothing was going where you want to hit it.   
    But I hit the ball really well.   I was really confident with that.   That was one of the reasons why I didn't feel like I had that kind of a bad round.   
    THE MODERATOR:   How about the fun?   Who has been the most enjoyable for you to spend time with as a professional out on the tour?   What players have really come up and helped you out?   
    LYDIA KO:   I think pretty much nearly every time or every day you play with a different set of people.   It's been good really kind of getting to know all the international players, all the American players.   I've been learning about other players, as well, their games.   
    I hang around a lot with Danielle Kang.   Whenever I'm with her, I'm smiling, laughing.   Like a big sister on tour for me.   
    THE MODERATOR:   We introduced the International Crown a year ago, today we introduced eight players.   What would it mean for you to compete in that competition at some point?   
    LYDIA KO:   It would be great.   I would obviously be still representing NewZealand.   Hopefully there is an opportunity where NewZealand is part of the International Crown.   Even just for now to look at it, it's really exciting.   There are a lot of great players in those 32.   They're all great players.   
    Yeah, I'm going to be excited just to watch how that week goes on.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Do you feel like you have a responsibility to carry that torch, to try to bring NewZealand into the forefront of women's golf?   
    LYDIA KO:   I heard that I inspire a lot of little kids, which is really cool to hear.   It kind of makes me feel like I want to play better and become a better person.   
    Yeah, if I'm doing that, I'm sure there will be a lot of youngsters going out there to enjoy and play some good golf.   
   
 Q.   What sort of result would you term a success in this tournament?   
    LYDIA KO:   I don't know.   I don't really have like a specific number or placing.   Especially coming off the final round last week, I just want to have a really good start.   I've been struggling with that good start the last couple weeks.   
    Starting off well I think will really help the whole week like it happened in Phoenix.   
    THE MODERATOR:   I want you to fill in the blank to answer this.   You're ranked first in the Louise Suggs Rolex Rookie of the Year standings.   This will be a great year for Lydia Ko on the LPGA if what?   
    LYDIA KO:   If I get to jump in that water (laughter).   
    No, you know, I've only had one top 10 in a major, which was at Evian.   It would be great to have a top 10.   It would definitely boost my confidence.   
    I'm just really excited for this week.   I know it's a really great golf course.   I know I'm going to have to play some really good golf out here.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much for being here.   
    LYDIA KO:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT