JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:     We are joined by Lydia Ko here in the interview room here at the JCB Founders Cup.   Lydia turned in a 67 today in the third round, very solid in a day that saw a lot of low numbers.   Tell us about your solid round today.  
LYDIA KO:   Before I went out, I looked at the scores and I noticed that there were way more birdies on the front nine than the other days.   The pin positions were out and I treat them‑‑ it's not like it's gotten a whole lot easier, maybe everyone is getting used to the course or something.   But yeah, I personally played much better on the front nine so I was really happy with that.   
THE MODERATOR:   Going into tomorrow with a one‑shot lead, is that something you're starting to feel much more comfortable with, do you feel nervous when you're going into final rounds anymore, or is that something that you say, I've got this now.  
LYDIA KO:   Obviously there's going to be some nerves.   Of course, it's always there any time.   But it's great that you've got a one‑shot lead.   
I've just got to take the positive out of it and I'm just going to play my own game, if somebody goes crazy low like shooting 10‑under, 9‑under or whatever, it's not something I can control.   So I'm going to control to the most what I can do.   
THE MODERATOR:     You might be paired with Jessica again tomorrow.   How much does that play a role in being comfortable and having a good time?   She was just in saying you have an awesome time on the course and she treats you like a little sister; does that come into play at all playing in a final round in a high‑pressure situation?   
LYDIA KO:   It's great.   When I saw her, she was next, and she's obviously a great player and it's always cool to play with her and I played with her the last two days.   So it's going to be cool to play with her and I guess against her.   It was also really good to kind of play with Mirim today.   It's the first time I met her so I kind of got to know her.   So I know more of her right now than I did on the first tee.   
THE MODERATOR:     Tell us one thing about Mirim that we might not have known before today.   
LYDIA KO:   We like this Korean actor and she's like, he's my guy.   So I was like, oh, okay.   So we like the same guy (laughing).  
THE MODERATOR:   You take Adam Scott and she takes the Korean actor, does that work?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, if Adam Scott says okay.   
THE MODERATOR:     What's his name?   
LYDIA KO:   Suji‑so (ph).  
THE MODERATOR:   You guys spoke in Korean on the course?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I said English is more comfortable for me, but we're both, our backgrounds are Korean so probably better to speak Korean.   
   
 Q.   There are 11 golfers within four shots of the lead, and as you saw today, the course gave up a lot of low scores.   What do you think it's going to take score‑wise tomorrow, given how accessible the course seems to be?  
LYDIA KO:   I'm not sure.   I didn't play the years before, so I can't really compare the scores.   It was crazy low scores last year I noticed, and Stacy, she was three shots behind and she won three shots.   
So you really don't know.   There are obviously going to be some really low scores, like Paula shooting 8‑under, and I think Cristie did, also.   So I think there are going to be some low scores up there, and that's why you just got to concentrate the whole way, and you never know until the last hole, last putt.   
THE MODERATOR:   Take us through the details on your eagle on the front nine.  
LYDIA KO:   I hit my driver really nice and I hit a 5‑wood and I thought it was going a little left of where I wanted to go.   But it obviously ended up really well, nearly made an albatross, and that would be the first.   
But I really wanted to make that putt, not because it's great for my scoreboard, but obviously for the Wounded Warriors project.   I said, oh my God, I'm going to do this for them, and luckily I did.   
THE MODERATOR:     Get to sign another flag.  
LYDIA KO:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   You've obviously won before, but how special would it be to win your first tournament as an LPGA pro?   
LYDIA KO:   It would be pretty special, and especially at the Founders Cup.   The founders‑‑ without the Founders, there would be no LPGA, and this has been my dream tour.   
So it would be very special to have my first win here, and like I said, I'm just going to have to play my own game, and wait for it tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR:     You took a selfie with Marilynn Smith, and I'm sure she would be the first one to congratulate you.  
LYDIA KO:   Selfie with Marilynn and Shirley, it's always a good sign.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT