THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2013
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome runner‑up Lydia Ko to the interview room at the inaugural Evian Championship.   If you would, walk us through your day.   You gave it a good run and fell just a couple shots short of another LPGA win. 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, you know, I was pretty happy with my round today.   Like yesterday I gave myself a lot of the chances to make birdies, so I hit it much closer to the pins.   I probably did half of that today. 
So I don't expect myself to make everything, but it was really good to know that I could come so close to the winner at a major.   Second is my best finish at a major tournament. 
Yeah, hopefully next year will be a 72‑hole event.   Other than that, I was pretty happy with the way I played this week. 
MODERATOR:   You have now played in 15 LPGA events in your young career and made the cut at all 15. 
Talk about your future.   You're going back New Zealand, is it tomorrow, to think about what's next?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, you know, I'm going back home tomorrow, so I'm thanking God that we finished today.   I didn't want to delay my flights.   I miss home.
Yeah, obviously my coaching staff, well, my dad is back at home, so they're definitely going to help me with the decision of when I'm going to turn pro. 
MODERATOR:   Questions for Lydia.
LYDIA KO:   The next time you see me I may be a pro.
MODERATOR:   Wow.   Breaking news. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
LYDIA KO:   I would have no idea.   Definitely next year. 
MODERATOR:   Do you plan to play the season‑ending event that you qualified for, the CME Group Titleholders, with your win in Canada? 
LYDIA KO:   That's a question mark.   I've got exams, and they're meant to finish about a week before the tournament.   Personally, I don't want to go there with like five days of practice and just rock up at the tournament, because I don't really practice during exam time. 
Yeah, hopefully I will be able to play because I missed out last year as well, at CME.
MODERATOR:   The CME Group Titleholders, which is the season‑ending event on the LPGA.   She qualified for that via her win at the CN Canadian Women's Open.   Before the U.S. Thanksgiving, so mid‑November. 
Questions. 

Q.   How were the greens today? 
LYDIA KO:   I think the greens were pretty nice.   The greenskeepers did a really good job by keeping the plastics on the greens. 
Fortunately there wasn't much rain.   There was like little showers like on the 3rd or 4th hole.   The weather was really good to us. 
The course was definitely wetter than yesterday and the day before, but it was definitely playable.
Yeah, I think the greens did get a little bumpy now and then, but it was in really good condition for how the weather was.

Q.   Was it fair, because we saw...
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I misread some putts.   I wouldn't blame the greens that were bumpy, blah, blah, blah.   I try not to blame others.
Some were challenging putts where I thought it was right to left and it was the other way.   I had a couple putts like that.   Obviously not everything is going to be right where I see it.

Q.   When you saw Suzann Pettersen miss her shot on 17, did you believe you could have an opportunity to come back to minus nine and that maybe you can be tied at this moment?
LYDIA KO:   You know, she was putting really great.   After I saw her hit it that close, I knew that today was her day.   I knew she was going to make the putt.   I guess the last two holes really depended on what I did.
You know, I didn't feel that confident with my putting today.   I left a couple putts short.   I was really happy with my up and down, my chip on 18.   It was a good finish. 
MODERATOR:   Anything else for Lydia? 

Q.   Were you aware of the sort of history and expectations on your shoulders?   What were you thinking all the way round to try and distract yourself? 
LYDIA KO:   I knew it was a very tight leaderboard coming into today.   Everybody was playing great.   The weather was pretty good. 
No, I tried to play my own game, set my own goals.   If somebody else played better, like Suzann did today, I can't do anything about it. 
MODERATOR:   Other questions? 

Q.   Was there any point where you started to feel nervous that maybe you were closing in on something enormous? 
LYDIA KO:   No, like apart from the first hole, I felt pretty good.   I had a really good start, so that made it much better.
I don't think I felt that nervous today, especially coming down the last couple holes.   I personally thought that Suzann had it in her bag today.   She was playing very solid.   If I stuck it close, she stuck it close.   It was that kind of thing today. 
No, I didn't feel as nervous as I probably would be normally. 

Q.   We saw a match between you and Suzann.   Could you describe your match with her, your fight? 
LYDIA KO:   Today, yeah, you know, I know I made birdie on the 1st and made bogey and then birdie.   Then she went par, birdie, birdie. 
I think from there it started to go from who is gonna get that shot lead.   After the third hole, she already had a couple shot lead and she was making more birdies than me. 
So, yeah, I guess, yeah, it was tight.   Two shots can happen anywhere.   But, yeah, I don't feel like I was too far off. 
MODERATOR:   Can we confirm you're expecting to turn pro? 
LYDIA KO:   Maybe.   (Laughter.)   You know, it's very soon.   But like I said, it's not only what I'm saying.   It's my parents and everything.   They have a big say in it as well.
Obviously people all around the world have their say.   I'm seeing some articles saying, Oh, no you shouldn't.   You should wait.   I guess at the end of the day, it's my support crew that's going to help me make the correct decision. 
Yeah, it's secret.   I got to get my mom's permission to say anything else.
MODERATOR:   Thank you so much for coming.   Great week. 
LYDIA KO:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT