JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2014
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A little stumble on 18.   You had to take a drop?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I was in the hazard, and it wasn't really a playable lie out of the hazard, even though there is no water in it.   So I took a drop, and then I was going to drop on the path, so I took another drop from there, and I was under the tree still and I had to punch a shot out there, and it was a really good shot, giving myself a 15‑foot putt for par was good in that kind of situation.  
   
 Q.   I followed you on the back.   You didn't miss a shot until then.   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   I normally eat more than I did today, and I normally eat a lot.   That's saying something.   And I forgot to bring like my food and my protein bars.  
   
 Q.   Ran out of gas?  
LYDIA KO:   Let's say that.   That's my excuse, so I'll bring food tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   This is your first time on this course this week; right?  
LYDIA KO:   This is my first time here, and it's my first time playing this tournament and first time in Phoenix and Arizona.   So first time everything.  
   
 Q.   There will be a lot of first times for you this year.   How big of an adjustment is that week to week, learning the course, where do I stay, how do I get places?   A lot of these women have already done that for years and years now.   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   Even though I played like 11 tournaments last year, the majority of the tournaments sometimes they change the courses and stuff.   So I'm taking the advantage and playing those tournaments that I did play, I'm going to play it again this year.  
And there is going to be a lot of first times.   I guess that's what the rookie year is all about, and it's the first year on tour.   There's going to be a lot of firsts.  
   
 Q.   What about playing with Inbee?   Do you enjoy that and what do you enjoy about it, if you do?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   I really have fun.   I've been paired with Jess the last couple of times, so I'm more used to Jess than Inbee.   But no, I played with her at swinging skirt, so lucky it wasn't my first.   I was really nervous when I was playing with her for the first time, but she's such a great player and there are so many things to learn from her.   She's just cruising her way through and making birdies there and again and 6‑under it is.  
   
 Q.   What stands out about her game when you watch her?  
LYDIA KO:   You know, I think like her short game is really good.   She kind of like‑‑ feels like she's just doing it without much thought, but it's always next to the pin or it goes in.   So I mean I hope one day I'll have that kind of feeling.   
   
 Q.   When you petitioned the tour last year to ask the tour to waive the age requirement, you were convinced in every way you were ready to be professionally tour ready?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   I didn't really know how the petition would go.   I admit I had not been accepted, but still then I could maybe hopefully get into some other tournaments and play a little bit of kind of each tour and I guess build up.   But I was lucky enough to have that accepted, and I'm now playing here.   And yeah, I guess you kind of need to be sure, because there is no going back.  
(Audio missing)   
LYDIA KO:   Having kind of like a partner with you there all the time rather than just being there by yourself and playing week by week.   Then I would feel like it's a longer week.  
   
 Q.   You said you were really nervous when you played with Inbee the first time.   You always look so calm.   How do you manage your nervousness?  
LYDIA KO:   Well, even though I'm nervous, people think I don't look nervous.   I don't know why.   I'm like trembling inside.  
But yeah, I think the most nervous I've been was at the U. S. Open when it was at Blackwolf Run in 2012, and I couldn't line the line on my ball on the first hole.   I was getting really shaky hands, but luckily it's not that kind of huge nerves kind of thing.   It's controllable.  
   
 Q.   So how do you do that?  
LYDIA KO:   I don't know.   (Laughs).   Yeah.   I don't really have like a secret way of controlling it.  
   
 Q.   Inbee said you don't act at all 16 on golf courses.   Is there anywhere you go or anywhere where you do act 16, girl friends?   I mean just‑‑  
LYDIA KO:   Off the course.  
   
 Q.   Do you?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, off the course, I get into any hotel and I'm ready for like TV.   My mom's like get in the shower.   But first thing I do is like turn on TV, look at my phone, and technology, it's good.   It's helping me out, but sometimes I think I need kind of that to kind of get away from everything.   But it's good to kind of see that there is like nobody there and you can do anything and nobody will care.  
   
 Q.   What are you watching?  
LYDIA KO:   I watch a lot of like "CSI," "Criminal Minds," and then I get like freaked out and, oh, my God, if this happens to me.   And then I keep watching it anyways.  
   
 Q.   Are you worried that's going to happen to you at some point on the golf course?  
LYDIA KO:   Well, obviously I won't be stabbed or anything on the course.   That will be way out of my imagination.  
   
 Q.   Stay close to mom; right?  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What's your new putter?  
LYDIA KO:   It's a V line, Odyssey V line.   It's like face balance.   So apparently that's good.   
   
 Q.   Pardon me for not knowing, do you go to school or do you take home schooling or some sort?  
LYDIA KO:   I go to school when I'm in New Zealand, but a lot of it I did kind of‑‑ I take English and photography, and English, I did a lot of pass papers to kind of study it, and photography just take the opportunities to take really nice photos and kind of building a portfolio at the end.  
   
 Q.   Cool.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT