CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2013
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome our defending champion, Lydia Ko, into the interview room.   Another solid day out there for you, 3‑under par, 9‑under overall for this tournament, and just one shot off the lead.   How are you feeling so far through the week and how was the round out there today? 
LYDIA KO:   You know, I was three shots back from the leader yesterday, and I'm one shot back at the moment, so I'm getting much closer to the leader.   Yeah, you know, I played pretty well out there.   I made five birdies and two bogeys.   You know, I was overall really happy, and I was 8‑under coming into the final round last year, so one shot better, which leaves me in a good place.
THE MODERATOR:   I saw 4‑under par on the front nine and then hit a little bit of a hiccup on 12 and 13.   What happened on those two holes when you went back‑to‑back bogeys? 
LYDIA KO:   You know, on 12 I hit it straight left, but I hit a shot‑‑ well, my second shot was definitely playable, but I think I kind of pushed it out right.   I smashed my chip then, and then my putt kind of slightly lipped out. 
It was a pretty bad hole, to be honest. 
And then 13 I hit my drive in the bunker and then smashed my hybrid out of the bunker, and then I hit my chip short.   It wasn't the best two holes, but then I kind of backed it up with a birdie on the next hole, so that was helpful.
THE MODERATOR:   Mentally how big is the challenge sometimes when you go bogey‑bogey to be able to turn it around quickly on 14 and get that birdie.
LYDIA KO:   I saw the tee box was way up for today, 48 yards or something up, so I was like, this is definitely playable, and if you get it on the right area you can even go for it in two.   I was kind of caught up in the left rough, and then I chipped it out and then made a birdie. 
I was quite‑‑ I was a bit disappointed in myself for making two bogeys in a row after playing so well, but then the birdie kind of got me confident again. 

Q.   Talk about the comfort level that you had playing with Charley for the third day in a row.   Looked like you guys were talking about a lot of things between shots there. 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, you know, on the first day we kind of got to know each other a little bit and then I guess we get to know each other a little bit better as the day goes on.   No, I was really happy to play with her again today because she's a really solid player and also a very nice person.   Yeah, I was extremely happy that I got paired with her. 
THE MODERATOR:   I was going to ask you, I've talked to a lot of players about what it's like to come in as the defending champion and feeling a little bit of pressure.   How pleased are you with the fact that you've been able to play so well at the start of this week and you've put yourself contention to be able to defend, possibly defend your title? 
LYDIA KO:   You know, it feels really good.   I've been liking Canada so far.   You never know what's going to happen tomorrow, but up until now I'm pleased with where I am, just one shot back, and you never know what's going to happen. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much for joining us, and best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT