RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2013
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Overall thoughts? 
LYDIA KO:   I think it was pretty good.   I had a birdie on the first hole and kind of makes me nervous because whenever I've hit a birdie on the first hole, and kind of makes me nervous, because most of the time when I make a birdie at the first, it hasn't really gone my way.   But I finished really strong on the back nine, and to me I think the back nine is the harder nine. 
So I was pretty happy about that.   I made a double today and that kind of put me off‑track.   But I think because of that, I kind of got angrier and it made me want to playbetter.   So it was kind of bad, but it was kind of a good influence.

Q.   I wasn't sure if it was mist or the steam coming out of your ears, but it seemed to spur you onand you got plenty of birdies after that; was that a turning point?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, after the double, I felt really, really mad inside, kind of boiling away.   I think birdie on the next hole was good after the double.   But I think it just put me on the right steps. 

Q.   On 17 and 18, tough holes, especially 18, great way to finish?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I made birdie on 17, and one of the birdies earlier on on the back nine, I think that's one of the harder holes, and to make birdie, it was pretty good.   You know, it's always good when you're finishing with birdies. 

Q.   Your driving seems to be really accurate today, or straight, up until that one‑‑
LYDIA KO:   My bogeys and doubles, they were because of my driver, left on 2, right on 16 or 15, whatever, and left on the other hole, as well.   It was good when I hit it well, but I kind of went left for most of the holes, so I think I blocked it right on 15, you know, thinking I was going to hit it left, which wasn't a good thought. 

Q.   You were quite lucky with the weather. 
LYDIA KO:   I think we had really good weather.   I was taking my clothes off during the middle of the round, and, yeah, I think it's going to be pretty good for the rest of the day.   We had good weather, hopefully the people in the afternoon have it, as well. 

Q.   Talk about using a local caddie here and how much it helped, was it a useful element? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think so.   The course is pretty flat, but the greens are pretty undulated.   So it's good getting help when I'm in pressure positions, and it's good, because it's quite hard to see the bunkers and the dangers.   It was good having a local caddie line me up to the proper target. 

Q.   Are you happy where you're sitting going forward into the second round?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think so.   I definitely think that double wasn't really necessary, but then, you know, saying that, things like that happen.   After a double, finishing 3‑under, I think I'm pretty happy with that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT