THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2013
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Lydia Ko into the interview room at the Evian Championship.   A second round 67 with four birdies and no bogeys.   But more importantly, you say you left a few birdies out there.   Are you happy or are you frustrated?   
LYDIA KO:   Like when I look back, yesterday seemed like a better day.   Yeah, it seemed like a better day yesterday, but it's probably because I was off the green a lot and I putted the par putts in.  
But, you know, I didn't make any bogeys today and I made a chip‑in for par.   Yeah, of course really happy in that kind of area.   
But I definitely gave myself a lot of opportunities.   I missed a lot of putts.   I made two birdies in a row on 3 and 4, and then on 5 was probably furtherest [sic] away.   
On 6 I hit to 1.5 meters, the next 2 meters and then like three meters, so I was pretty angry and it was really building up.   When I putted my birdie putt on 17, I said, Oh, come on, please.   It's time to go in.   I know I don't expect myself to hole everything, but getting 2‑putts isn't real.  
MODERATOR:   Sure.   Do you expect to be in this type of position, especially now at a major championship, given the success you've had on the LPGA as an amateur?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I mean, I played some really good golf and I was really happy about that.   I came off a really good week in Canada.   Like I said, that was a couple weeks ago.   I've never been really in kind of contention with the leaders at a major before.  
And because it's a 54‑hole event now, it's only one round to get the work done.   Hopefully it will be a good day tomorrow.   But, you know, I can't hit it as good as I did today every single day.  
MODERATOR:   Questions for Lydia.   Please use the microphone.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel any pressure going into tomorrow, or what's your mindset?   Obviously you're in contention.   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I was one shot behind the leader, Caroline, at the Canadian Open.   I'm the same I think behind Mika.   But there are so many other people that are close.   It's not like me and her playing.   I just got to play my own game.   
I don't know how the weather and the pin positions are going to be tomorrow.   But, yeah, I heard it's meant to rain, and definitely low scores are going to be the big thing.  
   
 Q.   What time do you go bed?   
LYDIA KO:   Um, on the day that it got canceled, Thursday, because I was meant to tee off at 8:07, I went to bed a little like 8:00 the day before.   That night I went to bed at 7:30.   I need at least nine hours of sleep.   People say beauty asleep, but I don't think so.  
Yeah, you know, I had plenty of sleep.   I think I slept for 11 hours.   As I'm getting older I'm sleeping more and more.   Like before I used to only sleep until 6:00 a.m. and it was just immediate wake‑up call.   Now I can sleep until 3:00 p.m. if the alarm is off.  
   
 Q.   You look very calm and in control on the golf course.   Do you get nervous?   Will you be nervous tomorrow?   
LYDIA KO:   To me, like the most important hole is the first and the last hole.   Like in the past, if I've missed a short putt on the first hole, then it becomes a whole bad putting day.  
So really the first hole is where I get the most nervous, and the same with the 18th.   
MODERATOR:   Other questions for Lydia?   Well, I hope you get a great night of sleep tonight.  
LYDIA KO:   Thank you.   I will sleep really well.  
   
 Q.   (Question regarding glasses.)  
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I really want to get contacts.   Like in the cars they've got wipers.   I said they should design one for glasses.   I would one myself if I could.   
It is pretty uncomfortable because I'm having to clean all the time.   If I have a hood or umbrella, doesn't really bother me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT