RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 16, 2012
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very many congratulations, leading amateur.
LYDIA KO:   It was playing really tough and I made a triple and kind of went down there and I thought I'm not leading, but I'm happy to be the leading amateur.

Q.   And of course we know about your amazing exploits this year with two professional wins at 15 and you're still an amateur.   What are your plans now going forward in golf?
LYDIA KO:   I want to graduate high school first back in New Zealand and I want to play amateur for a couple of years.   And you can only turn pro when you're 18, anyways.   I'm not trying to go there so quickly and I think there's so much to do as an amateur.   Hopefully when I turn pro, I'll be able to play on the LPGA.

I got leading amateur and that's what I wanted after yesterday, so yeah, I guess I have to be happy about that, and this is my first experience at the British Open and I did much better than the U.S. Open.   So yeah, I can't say it was a bad day, and yeah, I had lots of fun playing. 

Q.   You had basically four seasons in one day today, didn't you. 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, definitely, it was tough for me.   The greens were flooding‑‑ it because really tough today.   I mean, this is one of the hardest golf courses I've ever played, and for the weather to be really bad, it didn't help. 

Q.   What's the plan for now?   Where do you go from here?
LYDIA KO:   I'm going to the World Amateur Team Championships, I think in two weeks in Turkey.   So I'll be in London for a couple of days just chilling and hopefully I'll be able to do good there.

Q.   Presumably you need a break after this?
LYDIA KO:   I think so.   Playing 36 holes isn't that easy, so I may need a small break.

Q.   With this being your first British Open, what did you do at the start of the week to prepare yourself? 
LYDIA KO:   I didn't do too much.   My home club, Gulf Harbour, is quite windy but the difference is it's quite wide fairway‑wise.   It's much tougher out here and I did do a lot of practise before I left but it was awhile ago to be honest. 
My first goal was to make the cut, and if you don't make the cut, you don't get anything, anyway.   So I thought leading amateur would be pretty good after making the cut yesterday, and I guess goal achieved.

Q.   Did you have that on your mind on the way around today, looking at the scores? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, the scores are pretty high, except Jiyai Shin.   But after my triple on 14, I'm like, forget leading amateur. 

Q.   Do you reckon a score of whatever it is now, 11‑under par, is possible in these conditions?   That's an incredible score, isn't it?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I shot 13‑under at the Canadian Open and it was pure there, and the course is much tougher here.   You can see that it doesn't matter what the weather is doing; if you're just in there, you can do it. 

Q.   What have you made of the reaction of the professionals to your success in Canada?   Have they been congratulating you a lot?
LYDIA KO:   Definitely, especially this week, a few of them I didn't see after the Canadian, and yeah, they congratulated me and it's really awesome to see people congratulate me.   Yeah, there were a few and there were also a few Tweets on Twitter, even like Gary Player and stuff.   So it was really awesome. 

Q.   Looking forward to St. Andrews next year?
LYDIA KO:   Holy Cow, going to be tough again.   But I'll prepare myself to go there.

Q.   What did you think of the course overall, having played it for a few days in all the different conditions?
LYDIA KO:   I think of the two Majors I've played, those are the two hardest golf courses I've ever played.   Blackwolf Run and here are completely different golf courses, but they are very hard, and the bunkers are nearly the same height as me. 

Q.   Do you like it? 
LYDIA KO:   It's very tough.   I can't say I exactly like it, (laughing).   I had fun, it was quite hard today, but I mean, I had fun and goal achieved, anyway.   So I guess I like it a little bit. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT