RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 15, 2012
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about today.
LYDIA KO:   You know, after really tough start, bogey, bogey‑‑ I mean, 1‑under is not too bad.   It was a lot more windy.   Pretty happy. 

Q.   What were you sitting knowing you had 16 holes on one of the toughest golf courses to come and you struggled? 
LYDIA KO:   To me the first hole was‑‑ 3‑wood off the tee and then wood into the green.   Tough hole really.   I mean, I bogeyed No. 2, two days ago, also, so wasn't the best hole.   But just got to get over it.   It's not like I'm going to play any better. 

Q.   Where are you playing in terms of how good you can play?   Maybe in terms of how you played in Canada? 
LYDIA KO:   I think a little worse than Canada, but I mean, I'm still playing good.   It's not like I'm playing really bad.   I played pretty much the best that I could in Canada, and that's how I won.   I mean, I'm playing pretty good golf and it's a pretty tough golf course, so I'm pleased.

Q.   Does it suit you, playing 36 holes tomorrow? 
LYDIA KO:   I'll definitely be tired after all that, but I played the U.S. Amateur, which was like 35 holes in match play.   So I guess I'm a little used to it.

Q.   And do you realise the significance of what you could do tomorrow?   You would re‑write the records. 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I could, but you know, all I've got to do is just play my best and take it one shot at a time.

Q.   And what is your plan long term?   Do you want to turn professional?   I know you talked about going to Stanford; tell us what you have planned for the next few years. 
LYDIA KO:   I want to graduate high school and then hopefully go to college in the States.   I'm missing a lot of school at the moment and I should be at school at the moment. 
Yeah, Stanford is a goal very up there, and it's a very academic school at the same time.   I want to go to a college in California at least. 

Q.   Difficult start for you but you finished nice?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, bogeys on 1 and 2, and I'm like, wow, but there's been worse scores before after the first two holes, anyway, so can't be too disappointed and 16 more holes to go.   I was okay.   And then a birdie on 5 got me up there, and then at even par, I'm like, I don't owe anything. 

Q.   Going to try to get the Smith Medal? 
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, the leading amateur medal, that would be really nice.   All in all I just have to try my best; it's the world's best out here, so I can't expect something amazing.   You know, I've done good, so all I've got to do is just stay confident.

Q.   I heard you also saying that you've got various medals so far, and won the U.S. Open one, were there other ones, as well?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I got the U.S. Open Leading Amateur Medal and semifinal U.S. Juniors.   And I won the U.S. Amateur and I won the Canadian Open, and they are all the tournaments I've played so far. 

Q.   So you need another medal?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I'd like to get another medal.

Q.   Why do you wear the Pink Panther badge on the hat? 
LYDIA KO:   I have a Pink Panther head cover, but it kind of got old.   And I ordered that two years ago and this was in the package but it was left at my uncle's place.   Yeah, when we went there this year, she said, oh, I forgot to give this to you two years ago.

Q.   So you're a big fan of the TV programme or something to do with Paula Creamer, as well? 
LYDIA KO:   I've always liked Paula Creamer and I mean, I really like the character, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT