RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 13, 2012
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your impressions of Royal Liverpool and of this championship? 
LYDIA KO:   This is definitely a tough golf course.   I think this is one of the hardest golf courses I've ever played.   I would kind of expect that because it is a major.   I mean, it was really tough but shooting even par, it's not a bad round and I think it's a pretty good start.   I could have reduced a few bogeys, but I mean, save them up for tomorrow. 

Q.   You had a remarkable year and it's extraordinary what you've achieved, two professional titles and you come here as a 15‑year‑old amateur and the reigning Canadian Open Champion.   What sort of expectations do you think people put upon you know as a result of all of this? 
LYDIA KO:   I think some people say that I should be able to win again, but I mean, you never know.   You could be playing good the day before and not so good the day after, and I think that's all about golf, you play every shot and every round. 
Yeah, they are probably expecting a big thing from me and yeah, but I'm not going to take that much interest.   Just got to play my own game.   It's not like I'm going to play any better by thinking that they want me to play really good.

Q.   Tell me about growing up in New Zealand and how you first got involved in golf.   What was it that lit the torch for your interest in golf?
LYDIA KO:   Well, I started golf in Korea, so because of golf, we moved to New Zealand, and it's a comfortable place to play golf and pretty much a good golf course somewhere nearby.   So I guess that's why my parents chose New Zealand and it's been pretty good from the start and there has not been any up‑and‑downs really.   So yeah, it's been really good. 

Q.   And of course, you and Lexi Thompson are out in the same grouping this morning, the star pairing, the under‑18 teen sensations?
LYDIA KO:   It was really good.   I got to play with her in Australia in the RACV Masters, and it was good to play with her again, and it had been a while, a couple of months.   I enjoyed it and I think she's a very talented player.   I always enjoy it when I play with her. 

Q.   I remember reading that you were very, very nervous playing in your first major and you didn't really get to perform well; how was it playing today, did you feel a little less nervous?
LYDIA KO:   I definitely feel a little less nervous, and I was still nervous and I'm pretty much nervous for any tournament, doesn't matter how big it is. 
Yeah, it's quite natural to be nervous and I think if I'm not playing good at some point, I would have been nervous.   You know, I think it's a good reason to be nervous, but it's not the best thing that could happen. 

Q.   Feels better this time?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, definitely I feel a lot more comfortable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT