U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you sum up your day and how it went for you?   
LYDIA KO:   I started off with a bogey and ended up with a bogey.   So other than that, it was a pretty good day.   Yeah, you know, I think when I was off the green, and even though I was putting, that's when I made my bogeys.   But I made some really good birdies.   And it's not an easy golf course, so even par is a pretty good start to the open.  
   
 Q.   I saw you play a few holes.   You looked like you were really throwing your irons right at the flag.   Was that a strategy this week or something you just thought hit the ball?   
LYDIA KO:   It depends on every hole.   There are some holes where you can go for it and some holes you just can't because the greens are so elevated here.   It's definitely one of the toughest greens I've putted on.   But, yeah, you know, it depends on every hole and what the condition is at that time.  
   
 Q.   What is it about the golf course that a lot of scores bunched up, minus 1, minus 2 in there, and yet we have two players minus 5?   What is the difference?   What do you think it takes to separate yourself like that?   Is it making long putts?   
LYDIA KO:   You know, I guess, like Inbee ‑‑ and they went low, and I think 5‑under is a really, really good score out here.   You know, it's quite good to have that really good start.   
But like I said before, it's not an easy golf course where you can shoot 6‑under or 7‑under.   And I'm sure people go, oh, if I putt that, I may have shot 6‑under and stuff.   
But at the end of the day, I don't think it's that kind of golf course where like 20‑something under is going to win it.   So, yeah, I think a couple under par every day would be a pretty good score.  
   
 Q.   Do you have your driver's license yet?   
LYDIA KO:   No, I don't.  
   
 Q.   Do you plan on getting it soon?   
LYDIA KO:   No, I'm a crazy driver.  
   
 Q.   You're what?   
LYDIA KO:   A crazy driver.  
   
 Q.   How do you know you're a crazy driver if you don't have your driver's license?   Do you have your temporary license?   
LYDIA KO:   No, just the carts I've driven, and it's not good.  
   
 Q.   Everybody drives a golf cart kind of fast.   They're fun to drive.   But you're not a crazy driver with your driver, right?   
LYDIA KO:   Hopefully I'm a good driver with my club driver, yeah.  
   
 Q.   But is that really a key this week with the fairways so wide?   Is it more short game putting here?   
LYDIA KO:   I think it's more, you know, going on the green, and then some putts you just kind of go for it.   A two‑putt is good, so, yeah, I think around the green is the most important putt.   But in saying that, it's not the easiest.   It's not really open wide.   But I guess it's open wide compared to Wegmans, if you say.  
   
 Q.   Did you have fun today?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, it was my first time playing with Na Yeon Choi, and I always said that I want to play with her.   So, yeah, I was pretty excited.   And I played with Brittany a couple of times, and she's a great player to play with.   So it was a really good group.   I think we'll have some fun tomorrow as well.  
   
 Q.   This whole year there have been a lot of new experiences for you.   I mean, you talk to us, you come to these kind of events and stand up on the podium, that sort of thing.   What is it that has surprised you the most about not just what's happened on the golf course but what's happened off the golf course this year?   
LYDIA KO:   I don't think it's much like here, but back at home, more public don't know much about golf know me so that's the only really big difference.   But other than that I don't even know why I'm sometimes doing media.   I play average and they want to talk to me.  
   
 Q.   You are 16?   
LYDIA KO:   Yes, I'm 16.   I'm having fun.  
   
 Q.   Are you recognized in airports that sort of thing?   
LYDIA KO:   No, maybe in New Zealand, yes, but not outside, not internationally.  
   
 Q.   Have you been home this year to New Zealand?   
LYDIA KO:   I came over for the Wegmans for the LPGA Championship, and that's when I flew in, and I haven't had time to go back.  
   
 Q.   What is your school situation?   Do you go to school?   
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I go to school.   I go to Pioneer School, which is a private school in New Zealand.   Yeah, they've been really helpful in helping me out.   I don't do that many subjects, anyways, so it's not a huge deal.   One of my subjects is photography, so that's easy.   I get to go around the world and take some really good photos and do it on the computer.  
   
 Q.   So advanced calculus, you're not into that?   
LYDIA KO:   No, no, that's not even an option.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT