U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2012
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tough finish out there.   You were 3‑under through 15.   Just a couple of bad swings coming in?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah.   It's a few pulls.   I pulled my third shot on 16 and then pulled my first shot, my drive on 18, and then pulled my third shot. 
So yeah, maybe energy, but yes.   It's not going everywhere.   Just a few pulls.

Q.   Obviously happy, you were thinking about low amateurs when it came down to 18.   Did you know what you needed to do to get in the house to get in?
LYDIA KO:   No.   My head was pretty full already then, and yeah, it was kind of disappointing the last three holes.
Yeah, I wasn't thinking too much about it, and trying to concentrate.

Q.   Lydia, your round yesterday was the highest you had had in the tournament.   How much did you want to come back today and then finish the tournament on a better note?
LYDIA KO:   Today my goal was to shoot under par, and I definitely thought it was possible, especially until 15. 
Yeah, it was just a couple of bad holes and a couple of bad shots.   Not a whole bad round. 
Yeah, yesterday was a bit disappointing, too, but most of my round today was pretty good.

Q.   Being low amateur is an honor.   I know you struggled at the finish, but you did it.   What sort of satisfaction do you have out of having accomplished that?
LYDIA KO:   You know, I guess only three amateurs did make it to the weekend, but everyone out here, they deserve to be out here, and they earned their way here.   So I'm honored to get the low winner prize.

Q.   Do you feel like you were justified‑‑ you're the top ranked amateur in the world right now.   You come here as a 15‑year‑old.   You obviously proved yourself that you're deserving of that lofty status.   Do you feel like you've proved that this week?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think so.   Definitely there were a few points where I could have improved, but there were good putts in the way, and I got good experience out here, and I was able to play with Stacy Lewis, Hee Young Park, and so it was really good, and I just enjoyed being out here and being able to play the tournament itself was really good.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit more about that?   You said coming in you weren't thinking about winning.   You just wanted to have fun and enjoy the experience.   How much did that help you this week as you played?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, like if I play a national amateur or like the U.S. Amateur, you know, that's where all the amateurs are, and I think that's where I get a bit more pressure, and that's where I really want to win.   And obviously if I did win, I wouldn't say no to it.   But I mean, yes, I think it took a bit of pressure off me, and one of my goals was to become low amateur, and I accomplished that. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about how you worked with and if you've stayed in touch with them all week or if they've been here with you?
LYDIA KO:   You know, just my mom is here, and before I came here, I trained a lot with my coach, Guy Wilson, who is here, and also with my dad and the team back at Institute of Golf, and also NZ Zone Golf as well for the Srixon Academy.

Q.   Where do you plan to play after this tournament?
LYDIA KO:   I was thinking maybe the U. S. juniors or something.   I'll be around the U. S. for a while.   And hopefully playing a few more events. 

Q.   What will you take away from this week?
LYDIA KO:   I think, you know, like playing different kind of shots, and managing like stress and coping with stress. 
I think it's in probably pretty good condition out here and it's hard to get these every single round you play.   Yeah, and also just the experience playing with a purse.

Q.   This is your second go around here.   Do you feel like you're getting comfortable playing over here, the conditions are a little different, the depth of the fields are a little different?
LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I think so.   Definitely there's more competition in the States than New Zealand.   There are great players in New Zealand, but there are many more here. 
And yeah, it's always fun to play here, but it's quite hard because it's the winter season back in New Zealand and we're coming straight here where it's dry, hot and humid, so it's the exact opposite, but I guess I have to cope with that and manage that to play well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT