BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 23, 2019
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under par.  Bogey-free round.  Tell us about that shot on 18 to save par.
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I don't even want to talk about the second shot.  It was probably the worst shot of my whole time here in Phoenix.
But with the bunkers here you're not entirely sure how firm it is underneath.  I was hoping that I had enough sand that I could hit a little higher one because I have a lot of room to work with.
But, yeah, no, to make up and down from a place where could have been a lot worse, I'll take it.  Good finish to today's round.
Q. How much confidence does that give you going into the final round tomorrow?
LYDIA KO: Hopefully a lot.  I feel like I've been pretty solid.  Hit a few loose shots coming down the stretch.  If I tidy it up and keep playing with confidence and with belief, I think that's going to be a big thing.
Obviously you can see the scores are still pretty low, so you're just going out there and trying to make your share of it.
You really can't get worried about everybody else is doing.  Then you kind of lose on the patience factor.  I'm just focusing on my game, and I feel like there are a lot of birdies out there.
Q. How do you approach a birdiefest like it can be out here sometimes, especially in a final round?
LYDIA KO: You know, we've seen Karrie Webb who has won from quite a few shots behind, and we've seen a leader that has just run away with it.  You just ist never know until tomorrow.
Where it's getting firmer and with the winds not being super strong I feel like some holes can be very attackable and you just have to take advantage of them.  There are still a few holes out there where it's quite difficult to get to; making a par at those kind of holes is a good thing to finish with.
You just have to play smart.  Just because the course is giving you 8-under doesn't mean you carelessly go out there and play aggressive.  You still need to be pretty strategic about it and really focused on how you're going to play the golf course and not what the other players are doing.
Q. You've had a number of memorable wins.  What would a win here in front of the Founders mean to you?
LYDIA KO: It would mean a lot, especially with all three of the Founders that are here present with us.  They've always been super supportive and given me advice even since I was a rookie.  Getting those kind of words from them, Marilynn coming out and watching me play seven, eight holes, it's pretty special.
I think this tournament obviously celebrates the Founders, but with the DriveOn initiative going on this week and girls' golf being a huge part of this event, I think this is one that celebrates all generations of golfers.
As a current tour player you're trying to be part of the impact.  I think it would mean a lot in many ways than one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT