DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 18, 2019
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just sum up your day for us.
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I think overall today wasn't as sharp as yesterday.  I thought my ball striking was a little better yesterday, but overall pretty consistent.  I still thought I gave myself quite a few good looks at birdies, though I left a few out there that I thought I could have held.
I had another great time with Chad and Josh.  Been 2 for 2 for awesome pairings.  It's such a unique setup here this week.  I've just been trying to embrace that.  It's just been so cool to play alongside these celebrities that I probably would have never met if it wasn't for this event.
Q. It sounds like it has been a lot of fun.  Do you sense, though, as it gets closer to the end, it will get more serious?
LYDIA KO: I honestly think it's not going to change much, just about the vibe.  Obviously, the celebrities are playing for their part too, but everyone is just having a good time.  Obviously, it is early in the year, so maybe that's why everyone's having a better time.
No, I don't really think it's going to change much just because it is going to get close or it's getting close to the leaderboard on that Sunday.  No, I think that's the cool thing about this event is, even though everyone is playing seriously, at the same time, they're really enjoying it and trying to make the most of it.
Q. What about just -- you know, it's the first event out -- seeing your name on the leaderboard in early contention?  How meaningful is that?
LYDIA KO: It's definitely nice.  I think shooting 5 under yesterday was a good confidence booster to kind of say, hey, I did some good work during the off-season.  When you come back from a few weeks off, you don't really know what it's going to be like.  But I've been playing pretty solid, so I'm going to try and continue that the next couple days.
I think this tournament is a great start-up to our season.  Even though at first I was a little worried because it is quite early in the year, but, no, after playing this event, I would love every opportunity to play this event again.
Q. 66 on day one, 68 today.  How are you feeling about your start today here first event of the year?
LYDIA KO: It's been pretty slow so far.  It's been great playing with these celebrities.  I think it's almost made it a little easier coming into the first event of the year.  It's definitely nice to shoot a few good low numbers just to start and go, hey, the work I've done in the off-season has kind of paid off.
Two more long days to go, but to me I've just been embracing this unique format here.  Been absolutely loving it playing with all four of the celebrities that I've got to play with.  If it was like this every week, I would play like 30-something events.  No, it's been so much fun.  I feel like, even when I make bogeys, I'm like, oh, that's okay.  I'm not stressing too much about it, and it's just been a lot of fun for me.
Q. You were raving about your playing partners yesterday.  Who were you with today, and what was kind of the vibe like with them?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I played with Josh and Chad.  So impressive.  One hole, Josh just drove it, and I was like, oh, no, that's not going to be reachable, and he just went straight in.  I said, wow, yeah, it is reachable.  It's like a totally different game.
Chad, obviously, with his leg amputee, it's so impressive.  He's a right-handed player, and you're always loading into that left leg.  I complained that I have a zit on my face, and there's him without one leg, and he loves his life, and he's so happy, and he's so talented.  So I really had a great time.  He even cracked a joke.  He left one putt a little short, and he's like, oh, man, I'm one leg short.  Just for him to say things like that just shows how amazing these celebrities are.
I think that's been what I've been very fortunate about is to have four amazing celebrities that are amazing at what they do but just unbelievable people.
Q. Yeah, incredible perspective from that, I'm sure.  You're just a few back heading into the weekend.  What will you focus on?
LYDIA KO: Two long days.  I think we've got some nice weather planned ahead, so I'm really looking forward to that.  Just going to enjoy it like I have the last couple days and have a great time with the celebrities out there.  If I get to play some good golf alongside that, that would be great.  So far it's been a blast.  I'm so glad that I decided to play this event.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT