DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 17, 2019
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'm here with Lydia Ko, off to a great start here.  The first event of the year with a 66.  How did it feel out there?
LYDIA KO: It was pretty consistent.  I feel like I'm giving myself a lot of good opportunities.  The greens are rolling really well, especially with the new rule of being able to tap down spike marks, I feel like, if you had a good 15 feet for the putt, you had a really good look for birdie.
I think it's hands down my favorite, the best pairing I've ever been in.  Ever since No. 1, Ivan and A.J. were so amazing.  They were like, I don't want to get in your way, and I'm like, no, I don't want to get in your way.  It was just so much fun, just with the whole setup here, it's definitely a really unique event for us.
Q. So I guess you answered part of this question.  You obviously liked the element of having celebrities involved.  They clearly weren't a distraction.  What kind of things did you talk about?  Were they asking for advice?  What kind of things did you chat about?
LYDIA KO: Ivan and his caddie were like, oh, my God, we need lessons afterwards.  I'm like, I can't even hit a stationary ball, I'm definitely not going to be able to hit a ball that gets thrown that quickly.  No, it's a lot of fun.  A.J. lives in Orlando, so he said, maybe I can play a game with him again at Bay Hill.  No, they love their golf.  They're super passionate, and they're super good too.  I could definitely say my baseball skills are not as good as their golf skills.
Q. Good to know.  This being your first event out, what were kind of your expectations?  Did you exceed those today with getting off to such a great start?
LYDIA KO: You don't really know what's going to happen.  Even though it's been a pretty short off-season, after an off-season, you don't really know what's going to happen.  But, no, I felt like I played with confidence and played with a lot of positivity.
I actually think, even though it's the first event, playing with the two guys really helped the nerves a little bit and kind of took my mind off the results of the leaderboard watching, and I just went out there and focused on my game.
Q. Good luck the rest of the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT