THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VOLVIK
March 7, 2021
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Lydia, solid 1-under finish today to earn another top 10 at Golden Ocala.  Start with this week first.  How did your game feel overall this week?
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I hit the ball really well all week.  Obviously couple miss shots here and there, but in general I felt like I hit the ball good.
 To be honest, the last couple days was probably the worst score I could shoot.  I just wasn't putting up to par so I shot par.  (Laughter.)
 But, no, it's, I mean, the greens, I thought I was having a hard time reading them but it seems like everybody is having a really hard time.  So when it's like that you just got to stay patient, do a good job at the shot you have coming up next.
 Overall I think it's a pretty solid start to my season and looking forward to a couple weeks off.
 Q. Yeah, absolutely.  You had a pair of top 5 finishes at Golden Ocala back when you played in the Coach Championship in 2015 and '16.  And you had a top 10.  What is it about this course?  I know you mentioned the greens are different from when you played last.  What is it about the course that has your eye?
 LYDIA KO:   No clue.  (Laughter.)  Obviously, you know, the signature thing about this golf course is it has a few mix of different signature holes from other golf courses here.  We get a taste of Baltusrol, Augusta, Troon.
 So, yeah, that's the kind of cool thing about it, and especially being at the postage stamp hole last year at the British, coming here you try and like reflect on that hole to come in here.
 But, no, yeah, three good finishes.  The last couple times I was here I didn't really have a good Sunday, so it was much better today.  It's a good way to I think round up my time here in Ocala.
 Q. Did you do better on the real postage stamp or the replica?
 LYDIA KO:   I think better on the replica.  I don't know what that means, but I think I made four pars at the postage stamp last year at the British.  Obviously the weather was a lot more difficult.  But I think I had one birdie and three pars and I actually should have made more like three birdies and one par.
 But, no, it's pretty cool like kind of putting those holes that you seen on TV or where the guys have played or where we have played and kind of seeing that hole and go, Oh, it is like a pretty good replica of that.
 And I know that KPMG is at Baltusrol in a few years, so hopefully I'll be able to play that hole a little bit better than did I on this one here.
 Q. Two weeks off.  What's the plan as far as just a little rest, relaxation, and practice?
 LYDIA KO:   Have a couple days off, I think, just regroup.  You know, I had a pretty short off -- well, just short period of time working into these two weeks, so I want to work on my game a fair bit and work out.  There is a bunch of us out at Lake Nona, so looking forward to bothering especially Lindy the two weeks.
 Then we got our stretch of west coast swing, so looking forward to that.  Yeah, you know, rest up and regroup and hopefully have another fun time over at Kia and ANA.
 Q. Yeah, you've won at Kia before.  Game is in a good spot.  How nice is it to be able to look forward to an event you've won which runs right into a major week?  How nice does that line up for you?
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, super exciting.  I think it was a great stretch of events for us obviously starting at the Founders, but now with it being pushed back and different part of the country.  But, no, I personally love the west coast so getting me over there is pretty easy.
 And always going back to golf courses where you played well brings back a lot of the good memories.  But, no, obviously with these times we're not able to experience the normal way we experience those areas and cities, but super looking forward to it, and hopefully I'll be able to remember some of the good shots that I hit there when I won or over the years and kind of do my best version was that for 2021.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT