BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 21, 2019
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That second shot on 18, that was one heck of a shot.  19-degree hybrid up against the lip.  How do you do that?  
LYDIA KO: Kind of good thing is I was in that bunker couple years ago and I remembered hitting a hybrid and I was able to get it the green.  I was trying to do the same thing.  I thought worse case it will flip the lip and be just short of the green and I could make up and down.   
Yeah, no, I hit it really solid and was kind of bummed that it didn't cut a little bit for me.  It could have been a lot higher.  I'll take it for sure.   
 Q.  When a player of your stature has had so much success, any swing change you make is going to be scrutinized.  The swing changes you've made with Ted Oh look like they're paying off.  The backswing looks to be the most (indiscernible) it's ever been.  Does it feel to you like it's becoming more instinctive and natural?  
LYDIA KO: We're trying to simplify things, and I think the more competitive rounds I have, the more comfortable I get.  I feel like whatever we're working on, it's just make it more and more consistent, and when I'm under pressure for that swing to kind of work.   
I think the great thing about working with Ted is he knows what's it's like to play inside the ropes.  He has that great experience factor.  So we're always trying to simplify things and I feel like we're moving in the right next for sure.   
 Q.  This week is about so much more than golf, especially with the Founders and everything they did to lay the framework, and then of course the new ad campaign, DriveOn, that has been ridiculously received, so positively.  What do you feel is your responsibility to the next generation?  
LYDIA KO: You know, like you said, we are so lucky that we have these Founders and three of them to be present with us here today; the pioneers.  They have been such a great role model for us.  Without them, there would be no us and no LPGA.   
As current players we're trying to make the tour a little better than we found it.  If we can make one junior, one girl, get into golf or love it even more, it's a pat on the back for us.   
Obviously playing well is good, but I think to make a difference for the future generations, seeing a lot of kids out here, I think inspiring them feels like an eagle or hole-in-one or even better than that.   
Yeah, no, if I could make a difference in one girl's life I would be very happy with that.  One of my goals is to be a people's player.  That's what I'm trying to work on.  I try and spend a little bit more time with the kids.  I love that, because you know that they're going to be the future superstars.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT