HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2019
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another great round today.  You had some family watching, was that quite inspiring?  
LYDIA KO: My uncle used to live here, so my cousin, she started studying and she graduated and now she's working here.   
So she was able to come out these last few years.  I remember the first time she came out and watched, we were still playing at Serapong and she didn't know what it was like walking the golf course.   
She brought her like laptop and the things she could study because she thought she could study while watching me, but now she knows that there's no time in between to study.  Yeah, so it's always nice to see family because we don't really get to see them very often.   
 Q.  That's two really strong rounds in a row.  What's the sort of secret of the scoring?  
LYDIA KO: I've been hitting the ball like pretty solid.  Much better than the first day.  It is tough out there, so you just have to be patient and sometimes par is not the worst score.   
You know, trying to give myself good opportunities and I was in a really good group with Jin Young and Eun-Hee Ji, so I really enjoyed being alongside good company and everyone was playing really well.  You get into I think a good rhythm of things.   
 Q.  Were you sort of feeding off each other as you go around?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I haven't played with Jin Young very much, but I know she's one of the nicest players.   
Eun-Hee, we play alongside each other quite often these last couple years.  She's kind of become like this big sister to me and so it was fun.   
 Q.  Really nice day when you see pairings like that?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, we were joking, us three, our last names combined is shorter than Ariya Jutanugarn because Ariya's is like nine letters.  Ours are two, two, two (laughing).   
 Q.  Thank God you don't have to combine your scores.  
LYDIA KO: We might be up there then.   
 Q.  Everyone is staying you have to be quite, not defensive on the course but very strategic in what you go for and what you don't go for.  Does that suit you or do you hold yourself back or are you feeling comfortable with what you have to do on this course?  
LYDIA KO: I think if you position yourself well with your drives, you can be somewhat aggressive.  The greens as you play throughout the day, it gets firmer because we've had such nice weather these past few days.   
You know, sometimes having a 30-feet putt is not the end of the world and you just have to make sure to not put yourself completely out of it.  But no, I think definitely with how the course is set up this week is probably the most strategic and most thoughtful we had to be around this golf course, which is, you know, a pretty good change.   
I think it's always nice to play a golf course where you need to think your way around and you're not just hitting another shot after another.   
 Q.  Gives you something else to focus on other than yourself, quite freeing up, in a way?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, you're just focused on your targets, and like they say, the smaller the target, the smaller your misses.   
So I'm trying to think of it that way but you just have to play with what you have and how the course is set up.  Obviously it's different from the past few years, but I think this is a great way of playing this golf course.  It could be more straightforward if it was a lot, you know, softer.  So it definitely makes you think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT