LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 13, 2018
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It looked great and actually looked like it could have been better.  Is that a good assessment?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I obviously -- I didn't think my ball-striking was as good on the front nine.  So I holed some really good ones that probably maybe I shouldn't have holed.  Then I had some really good up-and-downs.   
I had kind of a -- I was in an iffy spot on 11 when it wasn't really the spot to be for that pin position.  I think I missed like four 6-footers on the back nine or something.  That's why, you hole half of that, you're shooting 66.   
But overall, it was a good round, but just going to try to hole the 6-footers tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you like the fact that you've been a little under the radar this week, especially everybody's been out with Sung Hyun and you've sort of crept up the leaderboard every day.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I mean, I think on the first day, I tried to go in and put myself under par and I think that was really important for those conditions.   
Yesterday I said, hey, I think just by seeing the pin positions, 4-under is probably a really good score.  I kind of did that, goal achieved.   
I went out today thinking 4-under, and maybe I should have done like 6 or 7, because I keep goal achieving but it could have been better.  It's nice because I wasn't really the leader.  I was kind of above average on the leaderboard on the first day.  I definitely think I've been playing under the radar and then just kind of work my way up the tee times.   
Obviously with so many big names and Sung Hyun being probably a crowd favorite and being in the final pairing, it's I think a lot of attention is on her.  In some ways, it's good, but when I'm out there, I'm just trying to play the best I can and I feel like a lot of things are good.  So I think if I'm able to putt those together, I'm able to putt a pretty decent score.   
That's what I'm going to try to do tomorrow.  It's meant to be the best weather tomorrow, touch wood.  There might be some lower scores.  The greens are getting drier and all the moisture is coming out.  It's definitely making it tougher to putt and get the speed, so yeah, just got to try to make my share of birdies.   
 Q.  Not sure it's showing up on the statistics yet, but you've gotten longer.  What's happened?  
LYDIA KO: I think it's more because I keep seeing the ball -- the more times you see your ball going on the fairway, I feel like the more confident you are, and then the more speed you can create.   
I've hit -- like the shot on 15, where I've ripped it and it's probably one of the straightest drives I hit all day.  I think the good thing is, I know that even if I try and have that second gear, I'm able to hit it still straight enough, and I think that's where I'm able to sometimes go and rip it maybe a little bit more than what I used to.   
But I think at the end of the day, it's more of that confidence where you just see your ball go in the fairway and then you're just able to let it go and not be so tentative through the ball.   
Yeah, I think the thing I realize that I'm still going to miss it if I hit it slowly and be tentative.  So I might as well be confident and give a good rip at it and just kind of see the shots going on the fairway.   
So it's kind of like a visualization factor.  I've been trying to work hard with obviously my trainer and physio to try and create more speed.  I feel like everyone's hitting it longer these days, so you definitely don't want to be the one that's consistently on your distance.   
You try and control it, but try and create more speed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT