CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2018
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another good day in Canada?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, it was a really solid round.  It was kind of a bit of an up-and-down start to my day on the front nine, but I was able to have two good birdies in a row, and I think that really turned my day around.  And yeah, it was pretty windy out there.  Obviously not as windy as yesterday, but I tried to stay patient and give myself good opportunities.   
 Q.  Tough side of the draw perhaps to start, but do you feel --  
LYDIA KO: Perhaps?   
 Q.  Definitely, sorry.  Do you think that maybe now you can sort of post a score and get in there and just see how it goes?  
LYDIA KO: I mean, obviously I wasn't the only one that was stuck on that side of the wave, but when that happens, you really can't do anything about it.  I'm just pretty surprised that we were even able to finish yesterday with how strong the winds are.  But yeah, obviously it was a long day and it was a tough day, but I said, hey, I'm glad that I've got that round under my belt.  After seeing what it's like playing in probably the most wind conditions that we kind of have to play this golf course, you kind of can feed off that, and I think that really helped me today after seeing how the course was playing yesterday.   
 Q.  You've won this tournament three times before; can you comment on how the crowds here in Saskatchewan are different than the crowds of the tournaments you've been to?  
LYDIA KO: I mean, the crowds are pretty insane.  I mean, for people to be out here, even this morning in that cold, I don't think I could do it if I was in their shoes.  No, I was just saying to Jodi as I was walking up the hole, the crowds love their golf and love seeing the LPGA here, and obviously with Brooke being at the top of the leaderboard, I think that really helps to draw a lot of people in.  A lot of people, I think for them it might be their first time watching a golf tournament, and I think it's great the best female golfers are here, and hopefully we'll be able to showcase some good golf these past few days and tomorrow.   
 Q.  You always want to play well and win, but would it maybe be even more special to go low tomorrow and win here, given the fact it would be your fourth and Brooke is playing so well?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I mean, I don't really know what the weather is going to be like tomorrow --   
 Q.  Rain.  
LYDIA KO: Oh.  So we've been having a few different types of weather these past few days, and when it's tough conditions, it really can be a grind.  Just to go out there and post your number and try your best, and obviously even in the tougher conditions, we got a few under-par rounds yesterday, too.  You just can't give up, and it's never over until the very end.  I'm trying to try my very best out there, but the leaders still have over half of the back nine to go, so I don't know where I'm going to be positioned after today.  All you can really do is focus on your game and go from there.   
 Q.  I know it's been four months since you've won, but do you feel like something is coming together for you?  
LYDIA KO: My ball-striking has been pretty good these past few days.  It's been definitely nice, especially when the greens can be a little trickier, to give myself good looks at birdies.  My ball-striking was not good the first few holes today, but I was able to bring that around and play pretty solid.  Yeah, I think especially when the greens are getting pretty firm and it's fast, it's really important that you're not having too many tricky putts, so I think that's definitely been some of the highlights.  In the first round I putted pretty good.   
Yeah, it's sometimes hard to bring it all together, and when those things all come together, obviously you're able to post a low one.   
 Q.  Did you get some hot chocolate yesterday after your round?  
LYDIA KO: You know, I've never been so cold that my knuckles were purple.   
 Q.  When you were coming in here off 18?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I thought I needed to call a rules official because I thought I was going to get like --   
 Q.  Hypothermia?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, because I didn't have any rain pants and I didn't have a sweater yesterday, and my mom had to like run to the car and get it for these last two holes.  I was like biting the inside of my mouth and my tongue because I was just like shivering so bad.   
 Q.  It was like 32 Celsius when you teed off, and then it dropped 10 degrees Celsius by the time you finished.  
LYDIA KO: And with the wind, it's not like it was desert wind.   
 Q.  A couple bogeys early but managed to turn it around.  How would you assess your day out there today?  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I think my birdies on 6 and 7 were definitely the turning point of my round today.  After that -- in the first few holes I was struggling a little bit with my ball-striking and I was trying to scramble my way to make pars, and actually making those birdies on 6 and 7, I was able to bring that good feel together and give myself a few good looks at birdies, even on the back nine, which I wasn't able to hole.  But definitely nice to give myself good chances for birdies, and because of the nice conditions, the greens are getting firmer and faster.  Yeah, even if it's a 15-footer, it's not the easiest putt in the world, but yeah, to shoot a lower number today to put myself in better position for tomorrow is solid work on a Saturday.   
 Q.  Given the weather yesterday and the side of the draw you had, how important was it to get in with an even-par score?  
LYDIA KO: I thought I played pretty well.  It's so windy that it's even tricky to putt, and it was definitely probably one of the toughest wind conditions I've ever played in in my whole career.  But it was actually a good thing, playing what it's like, in that kind of heavy wind conditions, you kind of get a good feel of it.  Even though it wasn't as windy today, I was able to kind of look back at yesterday's shots and go from there.  In some ways, it was helpful, but it was definitely tough.  I said, hey, going into tomorrow, it's going to be a long day, and I definitely need to be patient out there.   
 Q.  How about the fan support this week even here on 18 the last couple days?  There seems to be a particular crowd who are very excited when you come through.  
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I think it's that back right grandstand.  Even for people to be staying around yesterday at 7:00 in that cold, I don't know -- they're crazy to stay behind and cheer for us.  But no, I think it's great to see all these people here, obviously, and there's a lot of kids out, which is another cool aspect.  And with Brooke playing well, I think it's really an exciting few days for golf in Canada.  Whether it's going to be snowing, raining or windy, sunny, I feel like the fans are going to come out and cheer us on, so it's always great to play in front of the great crowds here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT