SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 26, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 64 today, 7-under par, fantastic round.  You were a steady start but you really picked up towards the end and you were charging?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I had a good birdie on my first hole.  You know, tried to get as many birdie opportunities as I can.  Made a string of birdies late in my front nine and I was able to keep that momentum going into the back nine.  Yeah, I'll take my 64 today.
Q. How close is this to your very best golf?
LYDIA KO: It was really solid.  I know when I missed a green, I made up-and-down all the time -- well, all the time that I was off the green.  I wish it was all the time in general.  And then tried to give myself good looks at birdies.
Today I think I tried to be as positive and as confident as I can.  I think playing well last week really gave me good momentum going into today.
Q. You've always said that the short game really is crucial to your performance.  How good is your short game this week?
LYDIA KO: I think short game is always important, and especially with the putter.  Sometimes you're going to hit those missed shots and for you to make those crucial par putts there, sometimes they are more important than the birdies.  When you do get the birdie opportunities, try and grab them.
At the end of the day for me, it's all about committing to my lines and just trusting it.  After that, I can't do much about it.
Q. Last year you were not very happy with your game and you were doing a lot of practicing.  What's your plan for post-round?  Will you take a break or hitting putting green again?
LYDIA KO: Well, we're in suspension play right now, so I can't be practicing.  So I might go in, and if they call it soon, I think I'm doing to do some putting and hit a couple balls, but take it easy.
Q. First round leader, a 7-under 64 today.  Just squeaked in before these storms rolled in.  Had to be a great feeling for you walking off the golf course?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, after nine holes, I wasn't really sure how many holes we were going to get done because it was getting a little dark out.  You know, we finished in perfect timing.
So yeah, it was good to play solid out there, and I think my birdie on 17 was a little lucky but I tried to just commit to my putts and shots.  Just play positive and have fun out there.
Q. Tell me about that lucky birdie on 17.  I think anyone will take luck on the golf course but especially maybe to cap off a round like that.
LYDIA KO: Yeah, exactly.  Any time you make a putt or make a birdie, you're excited.  But there, I actually hit a really good tee shot but had the wrong club.  I was like 17 yards away from the hole, and I said, hey, I just want to cruise it up there, make 2-putt and get out with a par.  I had the right line and I thought I hit it a bit too hard, but luckily it hit the hole.  The hole got in the way, and you know, any time you make a really long putt like that, you kind of feel lucky, but you take them any point in the day.
Q. Over the last few tournaments, looks like you've been rounding into form, a great showing last week, final round 65 there in Chinese Taipei.  Has anything changed in your game, or are you maybe just having a little renaissance right here in your young career?
LYDIA KO: I think golf is such a confidence and mental game, I'm struggling a little bit during the middle of my season this year.  I played great in Indianapolis.  Obviously didn't end up winning, but actually my second place finish gave me confidence going forward.
You know, with golf, and all the players out here, everybody's super talented.  Week-in, week-out, the talent level doesn't change that much.  But the person that's more confident and more comfortable and positive, they are the players that are going to keep consistently playing well.  I think the more I see the putts go in, or the more under par rounds I have, the more confident I get going into the next round or the next tournament.
It's just about confidence.  So hopefully I'm going to play with confidence the next few days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT