SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 21, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Other than 17, a little hiccup, looks like you had a great round out there today.
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I made a really good putt for birdie on 1, and it was like the longest putt I had holed since actually the first hole the day before.
Q. How long was that?
LYDIA KO: It was like, I think like 25 feet.  It was a good birdie to start off, and then made another good birdie on 2.
I started off really well.  Made a bogey on 5 but then I was able to come back with a couple birdies on the holes coming in on my front nine.
So yeah, it was really solid.  I guess it's a little unlucky that I got plugged in the bunker on 17 and then it just really -- it was a tough shot and I didn't really hit a good third shot again.
So no, it was interesting there on 17, but it was nice to finish with a birdie on the last.
Q. You picked it right up on 18.
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I hit a good drive on the fairway.  Hitting fairways are great here.  It doesn't matter; anywhere on the fairway, I'll take it.  I hit a good shot up, and I've had pretty much similar numbers the last few days because it's been similar wind directions.
Then I had like a 64-yard shot and it was a perfect kind of full 58-degree wedge for me.  Hit it just below the hole and was able to make a putt.  It was like kind of bouncing a little bit, so it was going good, then bounced, and then going good, and then bounced.  The greens have been rolling really good so it was really -- I was kind of nervous a little bit, but it went in, so I'll take it.
Q. How far do you think the birdie putt was?
LYDIA KO: Probably maximum 12 feet, ten-ish.
Q. We still have a fair amount of golf to play today, but right now you're only five strokes back of the lead, so you're right in contention moving into the last day.  How do you feel going into -- we're going to get 72 holes in, and we're going to get a good, full tournament.  How do you feel?
LYDIA KO: Yeah, I mean, I think it's awesome that we were -- well, I'm done today.  It looks like the girls are going to be able to finish because it didn't look that pretty.  We saw the sun at some stage today.
Yeah, we've been lucky that we've been able to play 54 holes.  Obviously the weather isn't meant to be super crazy tomorrow, and so yeah, I think it's great for the sponsors, and obviously Swinging Skirts, bringing this tournament back to Taiwan.  I think they deserve to have a nice, 72-hole finish with a crowned champion tomorrow.
The girls are still playing but it's pretty cool and amazing that they are playing great in these windy conditions.  It just shows the amount of talent on our tour.
It is exciting.  If it is windy, you never know what's going to happen.  I'm going to try to give myself lot of opportunities and go from there.
Q. What are your thoughts on today and heading into tomorrow's round?
LYDIA KO: It was pretty tough out there with the wind being pretty strong and starting from the first hole.  It kind of progressively picked up.  I played solid and made a few good putts.  A little careless plus little mistakes on 17, but it's always nice to be able to finish with a birdie on the last.
Q. You've won twice around this golf course.  It's brutal; it's windy; it's been raining, but how much does the experience of playing this golf course so often help?
LYDIA KO: I think with any golf course the more you play it, you get to know the course a bit better.  The course I won, they were quite different conditions and I played it two different times of the year.
It was tough, but I think that really helps me out here, and when it is this windy, coming off some holes with par is a great score and you could be winning a couple shots from other players.
So you just have to be positive.  I feel like I'm playing solid enough.  Hopefully I'll be able to give myself a good opportunity tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT