U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2018
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you find the golf course?  
LYDIA KO: It was a lot dryer than yesterday.  There wasn't that many weird mud balls, which was really good and, overall, the putting green, the greens are rolling pretty good so, yeah, just get the odd few sections where it gets a little bumpy because there's been a lot of players, you know, walking through there.   
But, overall, the course is looking pretty good for how much water it's taken.   
 Q.  You played all 18.  Can you talk about how a lot of players (inaudible)  
LYDIA KO: To me, I just wanted to play 18 only to see the golf course but, you know, I feel like my -- you know, my game is really good to be able to hit shots on the golf course and not just, you know, hit shots on the range where I've hit it really good on the range and just not be able to bring it on the golf course.   
I think even if my off weeks -- I've been trying to play a little bit more in my previous events.  Probably playing more than what I usually do and it's just a good way to be confident of the tee shots and shots going into the green and I thought it was just, you know, yesterday was probably the most wet it was going to play.  Just good to get a good idea of how the course is going to play in the longest length for this tournament.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your physical training of late Lydia?  You seem like you've trimmed down just a little bit.  
LYDIA KO: Like I've -- yeah.  I haven't lost more weight in the last month or so.  I go in the gym more.  I used to go to the gym because I needed to workout but I'm trying to enjoy it a little bit more and I think that makes the hour, hour and a half less stressful and just do the things that I enjoy doing and kind of work in the areas of my body that I feel like needs to get stronger.   
Yeah, trying to enjoy it.  Not as strong as this girl over here but, yeah, I think working out is a big aspect in the game itself, either stamina or just getting stronger so you're able to be stronger and more consistent on the golf course.   
 Q.  Are you doing different types of routines, different -- using different machines that you like more than you did previously?  
LYDIA KO: No.  I started doing a little bit more cardio than usual.  That's why I think I lost a little bit of weight since like a year ago.  Trying to do body weights.  I don't normally go to crazy with weights.  Kind of work on the areas that I feel like needs to get better.   
Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT