ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 28, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LYDIA KO: It blew way stronger than this when we teed off at 6.45.  I missed like three one-yard putts in a row.  I just couldn't stroke the putt.  It was like all over the show.
Q. Did the ball move at all?
LYDIA KO: I think it was trying to.  So you know, 1, the wind pushed it and then the next one, I tried to think the wind is will push it a little bit more but the wind didn't move it, and the next one, my stroke was all over the show.  But it's so difficult.  You think, keeping it to the ground, putting would be easy.  But when it's this windy it's not.
When you're playing the Scottish or the British Open, it's something that you have to take account to, and I think there's a lot to learn from this week.  I hit 13 fairways yesterday, just missed one and shot 2-over and I think I only missed like three or four today and shot seven.  You don't get many birdie opportunities and when I did, I'm not holing it.
Q. So not much wrong with your game then?
LYDIA KO: I actually hit my drives really well.  Just shows by that 13 fairways yesterday.  If I did miss a fairway today, they were just in that cut line, only one pot bunker the last two days.  I was driving it really well and hopefully I can bring that into next week.  It's difficult but you just have to be patient.  It's hard to be patient for that long.
Q. Is this as tough as you've experienced over here?
LYDIA KO: I think this is one of the windiest conditions I've played in.  Especially because it is so wide open from like 10 to 13, there's no trees covering it, and normally when I played the British Opens, or even here a couple years ago, there was rain and that kind of softens up everything.  It just makes it a touch easier than what it could be playing.
But I think today was probably one of the most difficult rounds I've played in my career, and I think just physically, mentally.  You've just got to put a confident swing on it, and the ball, whatever the wind is doing, but just have to be stable.  I think it's so important to be very grounded in the setup with the long game.
I don't know when we'll be driving to Kingsbarns.  It's nice we don't have to book another flight.  We can drive.  This is actually a really nice golf course.  I think no matter what happens, it's a great lead-up towards next week.
Q. Will you try to keep this on the schedule if the British Open is the week after?
LYDIA KO: I think so.  It's nice to be able to see some of the fans here.  I think they love their golf and you can see it by them coming out.  Even when it's pouring with the rain and gailing with the wind, they are still out to cheer.  Hopefully I'll be able to come back here next year and have a better performance.
Q. Any spare ribs?
LYDIA KO: I didn't get to try it.  I asked one of the players and they didn't see it on the menu.  Maybe they took it off.  But that was my favourite thing on the menu.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT