GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 26, 2021
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Lydia, what a great second round here at Lake Nona.  How do you feel after today's round?  I heard the pin locations were a little tougher today.
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I saw the pin positions last night, and I feel like the course was going to play a little longer, especially my front nine which is the back nine, because there was a lot of back pins.
 But overall I thought I played pretty solid.  There was a stretch of a few holes where I couldn't really hit any tee shot on the fairways, but I think it was pretty solid and I'm happy to have shot 3-under.
 I think it's a lot of like positive things going into the weekend.
 Q. After yesterday's great round have you set any goals or numbers that you would really like to shoot this weekend?
 LYDIA KO:   I personally don't shoot like scoring goals because sometimes it could be really windy and even par could be a great, great score.  Obviously a round like yesterday would be nice, but sometimes just putting numbers is just a number and all I can do is just try my best and be committed.
 I think in general my goal is to just make sure I hit every shot with commitment and be aggressive with that, and I think I've been able to do that pretty well.  So hoping to continue that over the weekend.
 Q. I think you said in a press conference before where sometimes you're having the best round and then you just have one bad shot.  Then you asked your coach what happened there and he says that it's just a bad shot.  What happened on hole No. 2 when you pulled it kind of?
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, you know, sometimes I hit these left low ones, but that one was just a straight pull.  When I pull them I don't think I get as affected by it.  And, no, I think with the help of my coach, Sean, and also my mental coach, I think they've got me to realize that I can't worry about every single shot.  At the end of the day I just got to move on and hit the next shot in front of me.
 After I did that I was lucky it was still in bounds.  I was just trying to figure out how to play that hole from my position.
 Q. Can I just take me through the scenario there on 2.  You and your caddie were going back and forth with a few clubs there on that second shot by the fence.
 LYDIA KO:   Believe yeah, I know the owners of that house, so I don't know how much they like me being right up at their fence.  I was hoping they didn't have a fence at one point.
 No, we were just trying to see the best options and trying to be smart.  I don't want to be too greedy and end up having a bigger number than it should be.
 So ended up working good.  We both agreed on hitting a choppy whatever club, and I thought pitching wedge was it.  I hit a really good 5-wood on to the greens.  Yeah, came out of there relieved that I didn't lose any shots.
 I think I got pretty fortunate that it wasn't closer to the fence.
 Q. How are you feeling just being in this position again at the top of the leaderboard?
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, definitely nice to be in contention at the top of leaderboard.  No matter what happens over the weekend, I think it's good to just keep putting myself in these positions.  I think you get more comfortable with it and the more times you're there I think the higher chance that at the end it will all happen for you.
 So I'm trying to not think about what may happen on Sunday.  I'm just trying to take one shot at a time, and if I'm able to do it pretty well and be in contention going into Sunday the last few holes, that's great.
 I think result needs to be more secondary for me.  I just need to be more comfortable and have belief in my own game.
 Q. Final question for me:  Speaking on comfortability the only thing I can think that changed really changed since I last saw you is that you signed on with Renoma, your new brand.  How do you feel confidence-wise with that brand?
 LYDIA KO:   Yeah, I love their gear.  The material is nice.  That company, the umbrella company of it is the same company as the clothes I used to wear my first years on tour.
 It's nice to be back to the OG roots.  I think I'm very fortunate that I still have the relationship with Lululemon as well when I'm working out or doing yoga.  I kind of have the best of both worlds.
 So I know it's not easy times right now with COVID and everything, so pretty lucky that I have these amazing sponsors who support me and many other athletes as well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT