U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 14, 2017
Lydia Ko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How is the course playing at this point?
LYDIA KO: The course was obviously a little bit wet compared to yesterday but I think it drained really well considering how much rain that was there yesterday afternoon and pretty much all day today.
So, I think the superintendents and the LPGA has done a great job to make it in great possible conditions for us.  I don't think we had that much problem with the rain even though it is tough to have the umbrella and trying to hit shots.
Q. You had the bad streak, you had the good streak there in the round.  How do you find the middle ground and go forward?
LYDIA KO: I was really just hitting good shots for the first two holes and then I hit really average shot on No. 3 and after that I just kind of kept hitting bad shot, one after another, and when you kind of get in those kind of streak it's not very good but I think making that good bogey putt on 6, was it, I think that really helped with the momentum where mentally I wasn't just getting dragged too much down because of that and I'm happy with the way I fought back in the back-9.
Q. You say you played a practice round with Choi?
LYDIA KO: I played with Hye-Jin in the practice round I think on Tuesday, yeah, Tuesday, and I actually never played with her.  I've got to know her because she played the New Zealand Open last year and finished 2nd.  I knew she was a great player.
But, you, know when I got to play long along side her she was an amazing player and good ball-striking and hits it out there.  She's obviously proving to be playing well and, yeah, obviously, there's a lot of golf to be played but, you know, when I looked at her she's very steady.
Q. She asked to play the practice round with you?
LYDIA KO: Our dads kind of got to know each other pretty good so her dad asked what time I'm playing and there was a couple spots so I played with Hey-Jin and Robin Choi.  We had a good time.
We're all like born in 1997, 1998, 1999.  It's the first time I've been in a group with three people and I'm the oldest one.  They're super nice girls.  I'm happy that she's playing great.
Q. 3-under on the tournament.  8 is the lead at the moment.  You have the full week.  What do you expect in?
LYDIA KO: I got to focus on my game and not get too carried away with what's happening with the other girls.  I don't exactly know how the course is going to play and obviously we've seen so far the weather plays a huge factor at this golf course.  I just got to grind it out.  It's the U.S. Women's Open.  Sometimes you'll make the bogies but you just have to fight back and move on to the next one.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT