OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 6, 2010
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GORDON SIMPSON: Miguel Angel, another great day at the Emirates. You've nearly won here twice before, I heard you say to TV, maybe this is my time has come.  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Maybe this is my time; it's coming. Well, I'm playing well, I'm hitting very well, you see on TV, the stats, and another day tomorrow like that.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Good position for Spain; you've got Alvaro and you close to the top.  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Yes, Alvaro has done very well the last two weeks, too, and he looks like he's going to win very soon. I hope I do tomorrow, that will be nice, but if not me, of course I am hoping he wins. I have finished a few times in the Top-10 here and a chance to win in the last few years, and it would be great if I can get a victory.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: What do you think was your closest, what was your best chance, was it against Els or Monty?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Both, both because the last hole, the one with Ernie, you know, he has an advantage hitting from the tee, and I think I hit 3-wood to the middle of the green. And the other was with Monty, I made 3-putts there. Probably that tournament is the closest one.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: And I think you were saying, as well, that you didn't touch a golf club for one month, so you feel fresh.  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: I feel like you want to practise, like you want to get back again. The last tournament I played last season was the Dubai World Championship, and then I played a couple of Pro-Ams around my area, and then just put the clubs away, going to ski, enjoy my kids.   
  
  Q. Do you do any skiing here?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: No. Here, no, you come to the desert, you have to come into these high mountain things, they have the dancing and then you go to the mountain to ski. Do the things in the right place to do it.   
  
  Q. You needed to stay patient and focused out there, because Jaidee had opened up a three-shot lead on you at one stage, hadn't he?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, I make a bogey at the 10th hole, I made two bogeys today. One on the 6 I missed the fairway and one on the 10th, I missed the fairway, also. It's very tough, my irons, I fly this little pit in the middle of the 10th, again, my ball is in the rough. I put it over the bunker and from there, I tried to put it too close and then I don't hit it enough, and stay again in the rough. It looks like a lamp eating grass there.   
  
  Q. So you must be pleased with the way you are holding back.   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, I keep concentration, like I told to my caddie, just keep concentrating, focus on things we are hitting well, just wait for the birdies coming, they are coming, maybe the next, maybe the par 5 and the next hole after, four feet and birdied the 17. That puts me in contention with all of these new young guys for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What will be your approach for tomorrow?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Same thing I do in the last nine holes, keep focused, keep playing good golf and enjoy yourself on the golf course.  
  
  Q. I saw you playing on the first day because you were playing with Rory, and I noticed you were swinging the club very well on the first day, but you didn't sink a lot of putts, but that suddenly seemed to come right for you on Friday. Has that been the key difference; that the putts are starting to go in?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Always the putts makes most the difference. It's important to be long, it's very important, and the same importance or more is putting well. You can miss a green but you have to chip-and-putt every time, and any time you have a chance for birdie, you hole it, you are always going to need to make the putts. But if you don't hit the middle of the green, miss, chip, putt, two putts for bogey, that's the difference, that's the real difference between the players that win.   
  
  Q. Where did it come right for you on Friday?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, well, it's getting there. Just try to not hit, try to not get the ball in the hole. Just make a nice stroke.   
  
  Q. And wait for it to come?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Exactly. Just the only compromise is make a good stroke, that's it. And some days, I'm happy when I do that. It's the mind club, this one, when you go into that thing -- it's very important that you have to feel happy.  
  
  Q. Did you feel coming in this week that your game was right on it to compete or is this a surprise?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: What?   
  
  Q. Your game. Is your form spot-on?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: I've been hitting it very well. Sometimes the results sometimes don't show the way you are playing. I've been inconsistent on the greens the last couple of weeks, and hitting the golf ball very well, but sometimes a little inconsistent, I miss the fairway a little bit, and then you don't have the chance to attack the flag.   
 But I don't feel like I hit bad. Probably it's off the rhythm and the rhythm is coming slowly. That's it. It's about the rhythm, building to give you time and things, and everything is coming more together. And that's the way it's coming, slowly it's coming, it's coming, it's coming, everything is coming more together, and that's what happened.   
  
  Q. Looking at you, it looks this way, but do you feel you are getting better and better and better as a player?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Like in the good wines, yes (big smile).   
 I just turned 46 the 5th of January, and I feel good. Yeah, I played the first two rounds with the two kids that between both of them, is younger than me, with Rory and Pablo Martin. They are 23 and 23. I'm 46.   
 For me, I am playing my 22 year and when I come it's Nick Faldo, Seve Ballesteros, Bernhard Langer, Woosie, Faldo, all of these top players, and they are from the top of the wave, you know, and big explosion; and you get there, oh, my idols. You play for a time with them, get with them, play with them, having fun with them. Now they are doing all different things now, and now I am here with the new kids. Now I saw Darren Clarke coming in, Westwood coming in, they are here, and Thomas Björn, all of these guys. And now coming the new era again, another new era. When I played this tournament here my first time when I played here, and these kids at that time, it's in the mind of his fathers. (Laughter)   
 And for me, it's a great honour to be part of the future of golf, you know, and you know, it's going to be two, three, four more years on the main tour, five years, I don't know, but of course I'm going to enjoy myself of this new experience in the it game. This is wonderful.   
  
  Q. And playing as well as anybody?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: I feel fortunate to be part of that.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Is it great to beat some of the young boys?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: To compete with them, sometimes the results, sometimes -- we are not machines. We are humans. But it's not about beat or not beat; it's about to be part of that history, some days you are going to win and play better than them and hole more putts and some days they are going to play better than you and beat you and hole more putts.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Well, let's see what tomorrow brings. Best of luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT