OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2010
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Just start us off telling us about an excellent round today.   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, I played very well today. I hit the ball very solid. I holed a few putts, which you need, and that's it. I started on the back nine, the 10th this morning at 7.45 and then got a first birdie on No. 11. I hit a 7-iron and five-metre putt for birdie.   
 12, driver, 6-iron and another four metres for birdie.   
 13, driver, missed the fairway, laid up, sand wedge to three metres.  
 14, 3-wood, missed the fairway a little bit, and from there, hit a nice shot for three metres to the hole; this is four birdies in a row.   
 Bogeyed 17, just missed the fairway and just carried the green over, two putts.   
 18, just hit a driver, 3-wood to just that side of the green there and chip to one metre.   
 The first, I missed the fairway with my driver there, put the ball in the bunker a little bit, bogey.   
 7, I hit a 6-iron, seven-metres putt.   
 And at the 8th, driver, soft 5-iron for three-metres putt.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Muy bien.  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yes, muy bien. I played very solid, very well.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Feeling good on the course?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yes, nice and relaxing.  
  
  Q. Sounds as though your putter was very hot, lots of putts from three, five metres?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Today, yes. Today, yes. Always when you make little runs, you need to hole putts and yesterday was under par in the wind. And that was the other side of the coin yesterday with my putter, until the end when I holed a couple of putts from a metre and a half on the 17th and three metres on the 18th hole yesterday. That's the game.   
  
  Q. You were playing with Rory today, and he was three ahead of you with three to play. Did you feel as though you were going to go in tonight with a deficit on him, rather than a one-shot advantage?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: I don't think it's going to happen. We are just playing golf, it's a single round and still tomorrow and Sunday to go. Rory is playing very well and he has been holding some good five, six, seven metres putts. He makes all of these, and he birdied -- four or five birdies in a row and he started holing putts.  
  
  Q. Did you think he was going to go away from you?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: No. I know he's going to make a good round. He made a bogey at the end, he hit a 3-wood there on the rough on the right and put a ball in the water. It happens. He's human.   
  
  Q. You changed your caddie last week?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, I feel like I need to change from Henrik, the caddie, to him. He was a very, very nice guy but I feel a little lonely on the golf course.   
 Now I have this friend, he's from South Africa, who is living here. He has a business here and he caddies for me here and he caddied before and he knows very well the game, and we are very close friends. And that's what you need on the golf course; then you feel happy and so that he can understand you and know you.  
  
  Q. Will he continue to caddie for you?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, he has got his family here, his business here. I make the offer to him but his wife say, no (laughing).  
  
  Q. What's his name?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Mark.   
  
  Q. Conditions were exceptionally tough yesterday; how much easier, if at all, were they today?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's different compared to yesterday, easier to choose the clubs and you don't have to hit with percentage of the wind. Today just a little bit cloudy.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT