BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE TODD: 2-under today, fantastic finish for yourself there. Do you want to start by telling us about the last hole there?   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Last hole, it's playing tricky, same wind direction, just try to get it in the bunker with a driver.   
 Today I hit a 3-wood. The ground is very hard, very hard ground, and I hit it through the fairway. I hit it through today and it bounced into the bunker. I had 197 metres to the front of the green. It was flat, and yesterday I hit a 5-wood, and same today; I'm pulling a little bit left, but today just a little more right and it was perfect line to the middle of the green. Nice shot, finished with an eagle. But holed the putt, eight metres put. It was good to finish with the putt today.  
 My game today is not as good as yesterday, the scoring result can tell you that, but I played decent. I saved a couple of holes, the 13th and the 15th, I saved a par, hitting from into the bunkers, and I hit a nice third shot and left it close on both, two metres on the 13th and three metres on the 15th for par, both of them.   
 On the other hand, I missed a birdie from three metres on the 14th and from a meter on the 17th. Overall, under par, 2-under par is the right score for the way I played today.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised 6-under is leading at this point?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Normally after two rounds on in golf course, I would say it's a little higher, 7-under par, 8-under par, but we will see. There are people still on the golf course. They are just starting now. We see the golf course, it is in great condition, and you need to hit it very good from the tee; and sensible.   
  
  Q. This course seems to agree with you very much. Can you put your finger on why that would suit you so well?   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, I have been playing here very well the last few years, and still am doing that.   
 No, I think this golf course suits me because you need to play with the ball. You need to control the ball. It's not only about to hit it and chip and putt. And I think this kind of golf course is going to help the people that more play the game, play with the ball. It's doesn't have a difference for the long hitters, it doesn't have -- it always has benefit but it doesn't have that much difference on this golf course where you have to putt the ball and place the ball on the right place to hit a simple shot.   
  
  Q. How is your game shaping up this week compared to the way you were playing here last year?   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's very similar, very similar. Hitting well, playing well, and the more important thing now is the head. You know, keep concentrating and keep doing the same thing, just focus and be yourself on the golf course.   
  
  Q. What's your sort of motivation these days? I mean, you've been on the Tour for a good --  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: This is my 23rd year.  
  
  Q. Exactly. What is it that keeps you going and keeps you getting on airplanes?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I hate flying, you know that. (Chuckling).  
  
  Q. So you hate flying, you've been doing it for 23 years, you have all the money you need, what is it that you love to it do?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I love the competition. I still feel inside the stomach, these butterflies in my stomach. I love competing. You know, it's what I do in my life, and what I want to keep doing.   
 When I come in and they have 24, 25-year-olds, I come here and everything is new, and I want to get in there, you know, and kick the ass of all the top players and try to take my space there. Now I feel the people kicking in my ass, trying to put me away, but I am still solid like a bull here. (Laughter).  
 And I'm happy for me. It's nice to still be competitive. I still enjoy myself with this new era that's coming, and it's still a big part with the new era with the new champions and the new era that's coming for The European Tour in the next few years, it's nice to be here.   
  
  Q. What ambitions do you still have for yourself? At start of the season will you have a goal for the season?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Enjoy myself every single time what I'm doing. Any time I can do that, the game is always there. Forget the result and just be yourself and enjoy yourself.  
 The goals, okay, we have different goals. Of course you always try to play and set yourself strong and everything for the majors, because everything is moving around. The more important thing, you go to see what is possible and where you want to be, and now you're trying to get the best to yourself for the majors. Then you play around that.  
 And of course you also want to play on the final tournament on The European Tour, and everything. That is very important, but all of the things, all of the long-term goals and everything, it happens when you concentrate in this moment. That's what I'm trying to say. It doesn't matter if it's Ryder Cup year; okay, it's very important, I would like to be on the team; yes, I would like to be in the Dubai World Championship; I would like to win this, that, okay. But if you don't enjoy yourself today, it's like a dream.   
  
  Q. You mentioned you don't like flying. How bad is it? Has it become worse or is it something you dread?   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, I never like flying.   
  
  Q. You just never liked it?   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: No.   
  
  Q. Is it fear? Are you scared to fly?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Sometimes. Like the first time, you see me (indicating nervous, perspiring). Sometimes, but it's not before, the first time you see myself, looks like I put a basket of water over my head, you know.   
  
  Q. Have you tried treatments?   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, no. Now, it's a little better now. The shorter the flight, the nervous I feel. But the long ones, well, you relax, you are on the airplane, it doesn't disturb me that much. But when you have one, two, three hours' flight, you go up, you go down, you never get to relax.   
  
  
  Q. On the question of keeping you going, does it keep you going when you see the young ones coming through, and you relish the challenge of taking them on?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I see the new era of guys coming and I still feel competitive, and I want to compete with them, also. So when I finish, I finish. Then as far as I can play, I would like to go to compete with all of the new players. Also, it's proof to me, I am always testing myself, and it is a good test for me, if I can compete with the young guys. It's nice.  
  
  Q. When they finish, they go off to the gym to work out in the gym. Do you do that?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: When I finish, I'm going to smoke my cigar and I'm going to have a glass of red wine. (Laughing).  
 I do go to the gym, too. It's very difficult to be physical after so many years and practice. So I'm doing some exercise, too, also, for my back, for my abdominals here, you see, like a bull here.   
 STEVE TODD: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT