BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good afternoon for scoring and you've managed a 68, how pleased are you with that?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Very pleased. This course with this wind, between the trees sometimes, it makes it quite difficult choosing the clubs on the course.   
 I played very well, very solid from tee-to-green, and that's what you need on this golf course. You need to play with the ball and make the putts.   
  
  Q. You like to move the ball about in the air, both right-to-left and left-to-right, have you felt particularly at home here, because it does require it at this course.   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, this course demands everything. All of the holes are designed for a draw but sometimes you need to hit a 5-wood or 3-wood and position the balls.  
 I've been playing very well here for the last few years and I feel good on the golf course, it's very nice, and you have to keep focused.  
  
  Q. Defending champion here, does that inspire good memories?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Good memories. This golf course, it's 20 times I've played over here over the years, and always good memories. I'm happy on the golf course and I feel like a fish in the water.   
  
  Q. How nice was it today to play in a Spanish-speaking group? You could speak in your native tongue?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It was no problem, because we could swear in our own language (laughing) and we understand.   
 No, it's very fine. All three we are good friends and we enjoy playing together.   
  
  Q. First round defending your trophy, you must be more than pleased.   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I'm more than pleased the way I played today. The course is not easy, but playing comfortable today and hit a lot of greens and that's what you need on this golf course. With this wind on top of the trees and in the fairway, you need to be very careful.   
  
  Q. What is it about this place that brings out the best in you?   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Probably that you need to play with the ball. It's not get on the tee, banging and wedge and a putt. No, you need to play with the ball. You need to control the ball, a fade a draw. It's a golf course that demands some kind of feeling. It's not only about power.  
  
  Q. Do you feel any extra pressure about being defending champion?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Always you have pressure when you are defending a title. And you want to defend it the right way and be in contention on the weekend, and I'll see if I can keep it.   
 4-under par, a few more days, keep playing, and keep plugging away.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT