OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 29, 2008
Miguel Angel Jimenez
Pablo Larrazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS: Miguel, Pablo, thanks very much for coming in and joining us again. It looks as if you were keeping yourselves in front, and then tied for the lead going into the final round. Can you just sum up your day for us?   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: We had not as good of a round as the first round, more mistakes today. But, we are still leading. So we know if we are playing like yesterday, we are going to win the tournament. So that's all.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Miguel, could you give us your comments about today, please?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, well, like Pablo says, you know, game today is not at the level of the first two days. We made a lot of mistakes. On 15, the par 5, we dropped a shot, and in this format, that's like killing yourself, the round.   
 But at the end, we are 5-under par today for a total of 22-under, and we hope tomorrow to keep on the same level of the game that we have as yesterday and before yesterday and keep in contention.   
 We are playing not as solid as the first two rounds, but still, we feel solid and strong enough.   
  
  Q. 15, is it starting to become a complex for you?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Tomorrow we don't want to play that hole, from 14, we go to 16. (Laughter).  
 Well, it's one of these holes, we missed with driver. I hit my driver into the rough, an impossible play and I had to lay up and then a mistake with the wind and was off the green.   
 Pablo, he is in the rough, also missed the fairway just in the semi-rough and he got a big flyer, and got to the middle and at the end, we walked away with a bogey on that hole, and that's very painful.  
 But, it's not the end of the world. We recovered and made a birdie on the next.   
  
  Q. Can you explain the difference between yesterday when you were so much in synchronization, and today's play, when you struggled so much? How do you summarize the difference?  
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: The only difference is, it is golf. It was another day.   
 You know, golf, you can play great, shoot 63, foursomes one day, and fourball, 67. That's golf. Only that's the reason.   
 We can make tomorrow another 63.   
  
  Q. Right now, there are two teams tied for the lead, and in the last few years, we have seen a playoff in the World Cup. Do you believe that there might be a playoff tomorrow?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Maybe. We have to wait till tomorrow. You know, whatever happens, happens tomorrow. We are going to try our best and we will try to win without a playoff. But if there is any playoff coming, we will play. It's not up to us.   
  
  Q. Can you give us a little insight on Jiménez, what's he like on the golf course and outside the golf course? Is he a very typical Spanish player, cigar-smoking, having fun on the course?   
 PABLO LARRAZÁBAL: He is like me, but 19 years older. (Laughter).  
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Miguel, Pablo thanks very much for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT