BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 18, 2008
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Miguel, welcome to this 20th BMW International Open. You're sitting here as the only player to have won all three BMW titles. Having of course won the BMW PGA just a few weeks ago, and obviously playing extremely well coming into this week. What are your thoughts ahead of this tournament? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, well, I've been playing very well for the last few times, and I want to keep my game on the same level and have a chance on the weekend, too, and be a factor in the tournament. I've been playing very well for a while now, as you say, and winning the BMW three weeks ago; and just coming from the U.S. Open now, also finished sixth there. 
 Now, a little bit with the jet-lag, tired, and always after a major, your body is going, phewww, and so now I hope during this week, I get my chances for the weekend.
 RODDY WILLIAMS: How much does a major like the U.S. Open take out of you? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: All of the majors take a lot, especially when you are in contention. It's different, you know. You know, it's difficult to explain, and you need to be in somebody's skin to get the feeling, you know. But you play a major, the golf course, everything is tough and very difficult. Of course, you know, all of the majors, what happens around you and you make things happen, also.
 That's it; you are there, and you want to be good. Other time you go with the nerves under your skin, too much swing up-and-down, and then when you're relaxing yourself, everything is going, pheww, like this. 

 Q. Talking about relaxing, Miguel Angel, you're not going to be able to relax if you have got ideas of winning the Order of Merit, and you're almost there for The Ryder Cup; so the whole season there is no relaxation.
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, there's no relaxing. It's not easy, because the Tour, we start from the beginning, we start the Tour here and we start with very long trips going to Asia and India. It's a very long season and then you never get time to relax yourself or rest.
 Now like you say, with The Ryder Cup, and I have to make my planning now for the majors, and of course I will also try to do my best in all of the tournaments I play, but I'm going to have my rest, too. Because you need to be fit for the events. I'm going to play this week here in the BMW, and I think it's a great sponsor and you need to support a sponsor that have three tournaments like they have on the Tour, and I play here. 
 And I'm going to play next week in France, that is also very good for the players, and then I have a week off, play the Scottish and The Open, week off, back to a America to play the Bridgestone and the PGA, and then going to have three weeks off on the summer, and then just rest and get ready for the end of the season and try to relax. And I think I will be on the team now on The Ryder Cup and I don't want to go with too many tournaments on my back. I want to have three weeks off, and then two weeks to play and the Ryder Cup. And then we'll see what happens after. 

 Q. The Order of Merit, though, is that your chief goal?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yes, now, it's moving to a goal now. Before I won the BMW PGA, the goal was the long term, The Ryder Cup, and after the thing happens, it's almost done now, so changing the goals. The goals are long term, and now it's the Order of Merit. I always say the same thing, you know, you need to concentrate on finishing the round and playing this week, that's how you get the thing and it happens. 

 Q. Do you suffer badly from jet-lag?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: I cannot sleep yet. (Laughter) I sleep a little bit on the airplane. But the problem of all of these things, also, is I don't like flying. (Laughter) I can only sleep two or three hours and I can't sleep more than that.
 So you get here and you sleep one or two hours, and you have to wake, and your body clock is not right, and then you can't sleep. That's the way. This morning, I cannot wake up. I am like a tomb on top of the bed, you know, I cannot move already when the alarm clock sounds. 
 I take a sleeping pill and try I think I sleep five, six, seven hours in a row, let the body rest when you sleep. 

 Q. Over the years have you tried different things? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: The last two or three years, I take a sleeping pill two or three days only. 

 Q. Not lots of wine? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: That is on my menu. There is no more, no. (Laughing) I was coming from my lunch which I eat with my beer, I cannot eat with water, and sometimes you have to if I am playing in the afternoon as alcohol is no good for playing. But after the Pro-Am I am feeling better, you're going to have a nice pasta, a nice steak, have this with the water, it's not hurting you. With a glass of wine, it's nice, not a bottle. (Chuckling).

 Q. What do you do to try to relax during tournament week? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: I try to do like I would do at my house but at the same times, try to find things that I like. I travel with a book, my music. Of course, I'm always looking for a nice red wine, have my cigar. I like to eat properly, you know, and I don't like this mechanical food. I like to have a proper restaurant and have a nice wine and have an espresso after that and smoke my cigar, and make a normal life. It's nothing, I don't think you have to say anything. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Thank you very much indeed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT