BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2008
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RODDY WILLIAMS: Very well played in very difficult conditions out there. How important were those last two birdies for you.  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Last two birdies is very important. Being 2-over par and making bogey on the 16th, and then I birdied 17, I think that sort of helps to at least finish level par with especially with tough conditions. I am satisfied with that. During the golf course, things happen, it happened to many people today with these gusty winds and then finish at level par today is very good in these tough conditions.  
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Are you surprised how far you've moved up the leaderboard with a level par score today?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: You never thought when you're going to start to play with level par that you're going to jump to the second place like I am in now. But this these things happen, and it's very tough.   
 RODDY WILLIAMS: You've done very well the last two years, Top-5 the last two years.   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, I like the golf course. You need to shape the ball, you need to hit fades and draws, and high and low. I like the golf course. I will try to do my best tomorrow and see what happens.   
  
  Q. It's very unusual for this course to have the wind against coming in from 13, is that why the scores have been so difficult?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, it's different and the winds is gusting and you have that intensity, you know, and then when you are about to hit the ball or whatever, it changes and gets stronger and then the ball is going -- doing things different than what you thought was going to happen. It's been all day like that. Sometimes it's difficult to see what distance is going to be affected by the gusts.   
 You say it's different, you get into the wind all the time from the 13th, 14th and coming in, but that's what we have. I don't have remember playing the golf course with that wind really.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised overall? I saw you looking at the leaderboard when you came in; to me it's a very surprising leaderboard, not with your name on it, but is it you are surprising to you?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, maybe a little bit. You know, you look McGinley is playing very well the first two rounds, Robert Karlsson is playing very well for a while also. Looking at one stage they are 10-under par, 11-under par after the 12th, par 5 but it's very difficult.   
 All of these holes into the wind, you need to be very concentrated and very focused on what you're doing there, because even if these conditions, it's easy to make a bogey, and that's what happened there. People make bogeys; we are human, you know. You make wrong club discussions sometimes because it's very difficult to record it.  
  
  Q. It's confusing, isn't it, because with the trees, as well.   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, that happened to me a couple of times. I hit a beautiful shot on the 14th, the par 3, with a 4-iron there and I hit it a little bit too low, and the last time behind, it stopped the wind; and this, it flies over everything. And you say, no, that's not possible, but then from there, I holed out from 1 1/2 metres for par.   
 On the 16th, happened the same thing. I missed my 3-wood on the left and then I had to chip into the fairway and I had 106 metres, 117 yards to the hole, into the wind, and I take just a little punch with a 9-iron low, probably it's too low because it's going through the green behind, and it happens. That's golf. That's what happens with the wind on this golf course.   
  
  Q. You've already won a lot and you've taken part in big tournaments obviously many times, but this, if you win, it would be the biggest title for you so far?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: If I win tomorrow, this will be the biggest title I win tomorrow, you know, but everything is very big because it shows you the moment where you are every time and I don't wants to compare this tournament with any other tournament. Every one is pure and unique.   
 If you're talking about money, yes, this is probably the richest one, but tomorrow is the more important one because tomorrow is the day you live. You cannot look backwards, you have to look forward step-by-step and the most important one that's going to happen tomorrow is tomorrow and whatever happens, we will take it.  
  
  Q. So tomorrow you will be no more nervous?  
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Tomorrow after breakfast I'm going to have my espresso coffee and long fat cigar and enjoy myself before to play because I'm going to have time to enjoy myself before I go to the golf course. (Laughing).  
  
  Q. No Rioja?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: I think that is not going to happen before the play, but in an hour, I'm going to have my glass of Rioja and a big fat, cigar. Can I? Thank you very much. (Laughter)   
  
  Q. The weather forecast isn't so good tomorrow.   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, I think we have to bring an umbrella tomorrow, no? What happens, it's the rain for everyone, it's the same, and that's the only thing you can you expect.   
 With these conditions, you need to have more patience and you need to be yourself on the golf course, and it happens, can you not think, oh, it's raining or oh, it's not raining. Whatever happens, happens. Keep playing with what you've got and be yourself on the golf course, that's the most important thing.   
  
  Q. What sort of score do you aim for tomorrow?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: I will try to beat every hole and then we'll see.   
 If it's only rain and no wind, maybe we'll have some more under par probably. If it's wind and not rain, it's going to be like today. But if it's coming together, oh, my goodness, terrible. (Laughing)  
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Enjoy tomorrow and thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT