THE DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS' CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 27, 2007
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR:  Miguel Angel Jimenez thanks for coming in and joining us.  A good round.   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, I played very well.  It was great it to make four under par under these conditions.  But I hit the ball very well from the tees and today I putt the ball better on the greens and I made a lot of putts.  It's not very easy  today the way, with the winds they are, sometimes, you know, sometimes it's not very good.  But it was fine.  It was a good round.   
 THE MODERATOR:  You started using a belly putter for the first time.  Getting used to that?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Well I didn't know what was going to happen.  At the opening I thought I would play better than yesterday.  Also the conditions were better than yesterday, so I thought I would play with it.  And yesterday they are a little bit bumpy, the greens are, and the greens were quite soft today in the morning.  And just people walking on top of the greens the conditions are a little better than yesterday.   
 MODERATOR:  Why did you change?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Because of I didn't hole enough putts. The ball rolls better.  I holed the putts better with it, you know.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  Take some questions.   
  
  Q.  Did Garcia convince you to use the belly putter?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, no, I got it in my mind.  I nearly start last week.  In the Open I nearly changed.  But I said this is not the moment to change.  And I decide to change after that.  But that was not an influence.   
 I just thought I putt the ball good with it, and saw others put better with the belly putter, like Havret, Sergio, and I said, okay, you know, I would try to do it.  I saw him putt good, and I thought I would use it too.   
  
  Q.  I understand you got some close friends here in Hamburg?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah.  I always come in here and go up there.  And when I was working on the driving range I see them and he's coming and they help me to collecting the balls.  And they're from Hamburg and he's always coming with me.   
 And he was my caddie one year and he's a very close friend and we keep close connection.   
  
  Q.  At the halfway stage of The Open you were in the running, how difficult is it to overcome the disappointment or was The Open a disappointment?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, it was not a disappointment for me.  It's the most important tournament in the world and it's very good to be there with chances to win the tournament, which was nice.  And I played very well there.  I hit the ball fantastic there.  You only have one winner. And I didn't win.   
 But he was leading for three days there and Garcia should have won the tournament.  But he couldn't hole the putts there.   
 And so I managed to finish in joint 12th  position.  It's much different than if you have the lead.  But that's the game.  But there's no disappointment.  I played good golf for three rounds and to get in contention, it's not a disappointment.   
  
  Q.  Have you spoken to Sergio?  I saw you watching him.   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I watched him in the playoff and I followed him out and tried to give as much support as I could, but you know, I have to go.  But you know, all the pressure was on Sergio and Harrington was coming from behind coming from behind. The momentum was with him.  It was good to see him in the playoff, but that's what happens, sometimes, you know.  I was talking with him and he said that his confidence is still there after The Open, and he will still play good.   
  
  Q.  How long have you been practicing with the new putter and how long will it take to feel comfortable?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  It's Tuesday to here.  But it feels different, you know.  The good thing is when you make a change like this for me, it is okay, because you stop thinking the way you thinking for so many years.  You have to stop that, you know.   
 Because you got the new putter and you say, okay, swing the putter.  But it's the same thing, inside, outside or whatever.  But now it's completely different thing.  The putter is in the tummy and it goes in there and then, you know, I go, how do I move it?  You know, it's different ways.  It's a different feel.   
  
  Q.  You said you almost changed before The Open championship?   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, I nearly did, because I didn't putting well.  And I played pretty well, but I thinking that I am playing very well, but my putting is like, you know bad.   
 (Laughter.)  And that's it.  That's what happened.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Any more questions?  Thank you.  Enjoy your day.   
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT