THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART McDOUGALL:  Ladies and gentlemen, Miguel Angel Jimenez.  70, total of 3-under par and currently the leader in the clubhouse. 
 Miguel, give us your feelings now.  You had two nice rounds, and you're in a good position at this stage of the championship.  How do you feel? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I feel good when I hit it -- for two days I hit it very well.  Only today I hit it very -- two putts short.  The rest I hit in very, very solidly.  I left a couple of chances for birdie on the golf course.  All the birdies I make, they're almost given.  And I hope through the weekend to do that. 

 Q.  Did you think you had a hole-in-one at 16? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, I hit it very good on the tee, and we cannot see the hole from the tee because there's a little depression there.  But I know it's going to be quite close.  I hit very well the shot.  And also to see the people, you had a sense of that. 

 Q.  Also, Sergio was in last night talking about how there are only two Spaniards in the field and how special it would be for one to win on the weekend -- on the week Seve quit. 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yes. 

 Q.  What would it mean to you to win this championship, particularly as Seve this week has retired? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Talking about Seve, we have to say thank you for Seve for what he did for golf.  I think it's growing with him, with the help of him.  For me when I look at myself and I believe so many players think the same thing.  We feel proud for what he did for us.  And thank you for him for all he did for us in the past.  I hope I have a chance to win the major here, this major here.  We'll see what happens. 

 Q.  Can I just ask, you played two rounds with Rory, what were your impressions of him, both as a golfer and the way that he handles himself? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  He's a good player, very good player.  He's 18 years old and has all the life in front of him.  He's a young player, still a little bit like a kid, young, not put too much pressure on him.  He's a great player.  He's a good player and has a big future. 

 Q.  Do you feel he handled himself well today? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, he's a great player.  He can handle himself.  But sometimes the people put too much pressure on the players.  He's a little bit too young.  But he's a good player.  He did very good.  You have to take care not to put too much pressure on people. 

 Q.  Are you happy enough with your game at the moment to handle the changeable British weather?  It's not supposed to be so good this weekend as it was today? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Well, we have a nice day, a little bit cold, but I hear that coming tomorrow it's going to come in some bad weather.  The weather is going to come in sideways (laughter).  And we'll see.  Sometime you can have a different weather in the morning and the afternoon and that is not fair.  That happens sometimes in golf and we hope that tomorrow the weather is not that bad. 
 STEWART McDOUGALL:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT