U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2006
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Wonderful round.  Do you feel good?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I feel great.  You know, I hit pretty good shot from tee to greens and also in the greens don't make much mistakes, and that's it.  It's not easy now with the wind we have today.  I'm happy with the way things are going for me.
Q.  A lot of players have been coming off 1- or 2-over par and saying I played at 4-under, that's the way it feels like I played.  How do you feel?  Is this course very, very difficult?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I don't have time to think this way, no.  I don't have time to think, well, I think I played well, no.  I feel like I play very well.  That's for sure, no?  That's the way it is.

I hit almost -- I miss a couple, three or four fairways.  Make one bogey and that's it.  The rest is pretty solid.
Q.  You've got to be accurate off the tees the way the rough is playing.  The key is keeping it on the fairway?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Every time on the fairway.  There's no way to tell the pin positions, very slippery, very fast.  This afternoon they're a little bumpy, also.  Don't feel like I want to hit it less aggressive at the hole if it's an uphill put.  It's not rolling very good at the end of the day, you know?  I think it's positive to be on the fairway.
Q.  The eagle?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  The eagle, I hit a nice drive there.  I put it like two-and-a-half foot, three foot.
Q.  Birdie and bogeys for us -- and eagles?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Well, I started -- no, eagles not -- only one.  I start on the 10th hole number 10.  I missed fairway there.  Slip it out with the sand wedge, hit my 9-iron, and I fell out six meter, and I 3-putt from there walk away with a double-bogey.  18, I hit a 3-wood from the tee, 9-iron, three feet from the hole.  And then the eagle on hole number 5.  I hit a driver and 7-iron, 2, 3 feet to the hole.  Bogey on the 8th, roll to the front of the green, make a two-putt from nine feet.

Do I have to translate for you?
Q.  Are you happy with your position?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I'm happy with the way I hit the ball today, you know?  I hit it very solid from tee to greens, and now I have to make the pars and the bogey.  I miss on the 8th, no?  But it's playing also and making some kind of sense.  I'm happy with the way I see myself on the golf course.  I hope I stay the same the rest of the tournament.
Q.  How important is it to win a major?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  It's like everything you working all the year as best you can, all the tournaments you play, but in a major, you -- it's the maximum for us, for the players, no?  You have to be (inaudible) you are not.  It's difficult to explain, no?


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT