BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2006
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Miguel, a fantastic round of golf today, 65 in these conditions.  You've won the BMW Asian Open, BMW International Open in Munich, one more to come?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, one more to come, and we'll see what happens tomorrow.  I played very well now and obviously very good from green to tee.  And today my putts liked to get in the hole, and that's what you need to make this score.
GORDON SIMPSON:  How do you adapt to these conditions coming from Spain where it's nice and sunny?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  After so many years playing on the Tour, at the end of the day you have to play in any conditions.

But I think today it's not windy.  And it wasn't easy we had a lot of wind yesterday and it was very bad.  But now, only some water, not very hot, so very nice.
GORDON SIMPSON:  And winning the BMW Championship would presumably mean an awful lot to you.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, of course, as I say before you already won two    17 years coming to this tournament, I won the first time BMW Asian Open in 2004 and then the same year I win the BMW International Open in Munich.  Marco (Kaussler), now that you're here, I'll try to win tomorrow.  Yes, that would be very nice.
Q.  Miguel, it looks tomorrow as though you're going to go head to head with David Howell at the moment.  Do you think David's a very calm golfer that you'll have to battle against?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  He's a great golfer, there's no doubt.  You see he's playing well, he made yesterday also a great score.  I don't know how he is now, maybe 12 , 13 under par probably now and we're going to have what is a gentleman's battle.
Q.  It will be a gentleman's battle?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Of course.  Of course.  He's a nice guy, a super guy and great player and he's going to be great for him tomorrow, me or him, for me I hope so.  Of course this BMW Championship is going to be great win, of course.
Q.  That chip at the last, as good as the one at the Lancome?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, it's very good.  Very similar.  The only thing, the hole is moving because the ball doesn't get in the hole, you see.  (Laughter).
Q.  The best of the round?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yes, very good.
Q.  Why do you think you play so well in the rain?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  At home when I see the cloud is coming up, I put my clubs away, in Malaga.  But maybe it's very good because we need so much water there, very pleased to be under the rain.

A nice finish for tomorrow.  I hope I keep it on the same road was today on the golf course.
Q.  How many cigars do you get through in a round?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I don't smoke in the tournament round.  I smoke before and after.  I smoke on the practice rounds and Pro Ams but I don't smoke in the tournament round.  You know, with the tension of things, you don't enjoy it.  Now I smoke a cigar, you have to enjoy yourself.  I enjoy myself just looking to you here, you know.
Q.  It's like a lucky charm for you, is it, part of your makeup?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, I don't think of lucky things.  Yes, maybe you have a beard or you come to sit here, I see the beautiful Renee here on the machine, and    lucky things, no, it's good.
GORDON SIMPSON:  What were the details of your birdies?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Second hole, 8 iron just by the edge of the green, and then five meters.

Birdied hole No. 4, driver, 5 wood, two putts for about 40 meters, 60 meters.

The 7thbling is driver, 9 iron, four meters.

The 9th hole is driver, 6 iron, six meters.

11th, drive, 8 iron, four meters.

16th, 3 wood, wedge, seven inch put.

At the 18th, driver, 3 wood, 30 meter approach to a foot.
Q.  When you started out this morning, you were I think eight behind David, so did you think, "I'm going to have to attack today"?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  What I think is I want to attack the golf course.  And the golf course is very humid from the rain and so the greens are very receptive and you can when the greens are receptive.  The thing I told to Miguel, we need to be patient and keep going and let everything happens and whatever happens, you have to be happy with it.  I start to make some birdies, 3  or 4 under par on the first nine holes and told make he will, just keep in the same mood.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Miguel, muchas gracias.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT