DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 5, 2005
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Tomorrow, I hope to have a very nice day, and the game is still with me and at the end of the day, hope to see some special people.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  And the story today, no mistakes, a few birdies out there.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yes, make a few birdies all day and I had a few chances.  I'd like to make some more birdies, but the ball is like a shiny thing, I'm playing very well.
Q.  What did you think when you saw Ernie 4-putt the first, and toward the end it looked as though you were leaving some putts short.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Well, that can happen to anybody.  You lose your concentration a little bit and start mis-hitting putts.  That's the thing on the first hole and what I'm thinking, well, doesn't matter what I'm thinking, you know, just keep concentrating on my own.  What happened is business between him,  that's four shots difference, that's it.  There is still 17 more holes to play.  You can't concentrate on what happened on one hole.  Doesn't matter what I think or what I saw there, it happened.
Q.  You had a few chances for birdies at the end.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, I got a few chances for birdies but, you know, shine appears on the holes, you know.  The ball was not hit not hard enough to get in the hole, you know.  It's very fast and you don't want to be sometimes aggressive, you know, and you just want to make the ball go into the hole, but the putts don't find the hole.  I had a few chances and hope tomorrow those balls drop in the hole.
Q.  Tell us what happened on 18.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  18th, I had 221 meters to the front of the green, carried over the water and I get my 3-wood and I focus, just hit nice and smooth the way I hit it, it's going to be enough on the green, but I just got to the front of the green.  I thought a full swing it would be enough.
Q.  You like a cigar and a glass of wine.  Do you do anything to keep fit for golf, go to the gym or anything of that sort?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I am allergic to the gym.  (Laughter.)

No, I do some things this winter.  I have a treadmill at home in Malaga that I do a few hours a week.  More of the things I work in the gym is aerobic, cardiovascular, more than anything.  I don't want to work myself now, but it's important to keep fit and have the best, you know.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Miguel, thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT