WGC WORLD CUP
November 21, 2004
Sergio Garcia
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARIA ACACIA:  Sergio, can you start first.  Disappointed, sad?
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, I mean, of course, you have to be a bit disappointed.   But I think you have to give a lot of credit to the English team.  I think Paul and Luke played unbelievable today.  I mean, to go out there on a Sunday, playing for the World Cup and they managed to shoot 8-under par in foursomes is a great effort.  We shot 6-under par, and it wasn't good enough.  I mean, I think it's a flipping good score.

But, you know, it's disappointing, and you know, you can only -- you can only do so many things.  We try as hard as we could.  We didn't get very lucky, unfortunately, but they just played great, they putted great, and they deserve the victory.
MARIA ACACIA:  Miguel Angel?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Not much more to add to that.  Like he said, we shoot 6-under par, and they shoot better than us.  That's the thing, foursomes is not easy, and I think both teams played very well.  They started on the very first hole and we just started a little bit slowly on that, and that is another point.  But all four guys were playing very good golf today.  That's the game.  Someone has to win and someone has to finish second -- but not lose, all right.  Careful.  Nobody loses in golf.
Q.  What did you say to Paul on the 18th green?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I said, "Congratulations, you played very well and you deserve it."
Q.  Anything about his putting?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  What you want me to say?  He is the winner, you know.  They deserve it.

SERGIO GARCIA:  They played well, too.  You have to make the putts, but you have to give yourself putts to make those putts and they did.  That's the way it goes.
Q.  Did you think you were out of it and then suddenly on the last you were back in it?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Definitely.  To tell you the truth now that we're finished, yeah, you can say, you know, we lost by a shot.  You can always go back on 16 and I'll say at that moment, it was the right position.  Unfortunately it was a tough shot and I didn't pull it off.  But, I'm more disappointed with the putt that I missed on 16 than the actual second shot, because the second shot you can do that, but I missed that putt after hitting that shot.
But we tried as hard as we could.  Miguel hit, I thought, hit a pretty good shot on 17.  Unfortunately just drifted a little right, and Miguel gave it a hell of an effort from the bunker, almost went in.  And then I tried to no knock mine in on 18 with the second shot and just pulled it slightly.  And then at least -- at least we made them win it.  We made that putt and we made them make that putt to win the tournament.  You know, it was gutsy.  Paul got up there and knocked his straight in the middle.  So that's all you can say.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  That happens in golf.  You have to take the risk.  He had a chance on that hole to win and I am the first one to say to him, hey, you have to go, we are one shot behind and they are going to make it for birdie.  We have to play to be aggressive.  We are human and you can miss a shot.  That's part of the game.
Q.  You both appeared to revel in the atmosphere out there.  Have you ever played in a tournament in Spain with a better atmosphere than that?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Oohhh, I don't think so.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  It was great.

SERGIO GARCIA:  It was amazing.  I think I'm talking for both of us, we probably feel the worst for the people, you know, because yeah, we would love to win, but you get through it.

But the people were just amazing.  You know, they were there and they were cheering at all times, and it was great to see how much energy was around in the atmosphere.  Everything that was going around, it was just amazing.  I'm really glad that I had the chance of playing this World Cup here in Seville with Miguel and with all of these great people around us.
Q.  What are your next tournaments?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Sun City.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I play next weekend in Coria.  I am going to fly now to Coria in a few minutes.  (Laughter.)


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT