WGC WORLD CUP
November 19, 2004
Sergio Garcia
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARIA ACACIA:  Who wants to start, the young, the not so young?  (Laughter.)
SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, definitely very pleased with the result.  It wasn't as easy a day as the first couple.  I think the wind changed, so that was a big difference there.  The course was playing -- some of the holes were playing totally different than the first couple of days.

You know, we managed to get it going nicely.  We finally made a couple big putts that we needed to make throughout the round, and it just kept us going.  So I think we both played very well.  We gelled very well.  When I was pretty much out of the hole, Miguel was right in there making birdies.  And when he was maybe a bit out, I was right in it, too.  It was just a big important day and now we have a nice chance tomorrow.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Well, there's not much to say.  We both played very well.  We made a nice team effort today and he made two eagles, one hole on No. 5 and one on hole No. 16; he hit that great shot.  It's very easy to play golf like that.  You can go there, and, you know, I played very well, but the way he played today is awesome.  We both shoot 11-under par, and I think that we will need to get close to the leaders and have a chance for tomorrow.
Q.  Can you talk about the par-5 16th, please?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Well, as I said before, the wind was totally different.  We've been playing that hole pretty much into the wind every day.  Today it was down in the right and my partner hit a great drive, straight on the middle and so I could wind mind a little bit.  I cut it very nicely.  Unfortunately, I didn't turn it over as much as I wanted and it caught the rough.  So it probably didn't go quite as far as it would have if we'd hit it in the fairway.  It was still quite a long drive.  I had 144 yards, a bit downwind on the right, and I hit a very nice wedge that I couldn't really see because I was quite far away.  It sounded like it was close from going in, and I was fortunate enough to make that putt for eagle.  It was a good momentum there.
Q.  You have great fan support out there, and you play off emotion, how much does that did that help you two today?
SERGIO GARCIA:  It definitely helps.  I've always said that I really enjoy when there's a big crowd following because I get a bit more into it.  I have more people to make happy or to show things that I can do.

So, you know, to have these crowds, and let me tell you, they have been unbelievable, all week, to see how many people are showing up throughout the whole week.  I think the weather has helped big time, but give a big credit to all of the Andalucians and all of the people here from Seville and all of the people from around Spain that have made an effort to come and watch us play.

So, you know, we have a lot of people that we want to win for, and now we finally have a good chance tomorrow.
Q.  Does it add to the pressure still?
SERGIO GARCIA:  No, I wouldn't say so.  I think I'll feel more pressure if I was at 19-under than if I was at 24 like we are I am -- like we are.  (Laughter.)

Did you want to answer something?  (Looking at Miguel Angel.)  Sorry.  I think they can understand me better in English.  (Laughter.)

I think that we are right where we want to be.  We wanted to at least be maybe one or two shots behind the English boys, and we actually managed to catch them and just get one in front.  So we just have to go out there and keep playing solid like we have been doing every day, and if we do that, you never know what's going to happen tomorrow.  If they go out there tomorrow and play like they played yesterday, it's going to be tough.  But it's Sunday, it's foursomes, so it could be an interesting day.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT