WGC WORLD CUP
November 17, 2004
Sergio Garcia
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARIA ACACIA:  Sergio, if you would tell us how you feel about playing here in the World Cup.

SERGIO GARIA:  Pretty much we're really happy to be here.  You know, I'm really glad to be paired with Miguel.  I think he's a wonderful player and a great person, and, you know he's playing some unbelievable golf.

So we're looking forward to the week.  The golf course is looking really, really nice.  I was talking to Slugger (White), one of the officials, and I told him that, you know, this course and Valderrama are the two best-shaped courses I've played in Spain in a tournament.  So I'm really happy about it and I think it's going to be a great week.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  The golf course, just like what Sergio said, he's right.  All of the changes made on the golf course and the conditions are good.  The greens are bigger.  I think it's a great golf course now.  It's a little bit long, also, and it's in super condition.  I noticed that they put the ryegrass now for the end of the year, and the bermuda is going to be a little bit tough and they put some ryegrass there and we appreciate that, and for the semi-rough also.  The conditions is superb.  (Pausing.)  And of course, I like to play with my partner Sergio.  (Laughter.)

SERGIO GARCIA:  Appreciate that.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  He's playing very well, also, through the season.  We've played a few times in the last couple of months and he is really swinging the club very well, with a nice rhythm on the greens.  They are like, how do you say, it is like a life insurance, you know.  (Laughter.)

SERGIO GARCIA:  It's nice to hear that.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I like very much to play with him and we will enjoy this week.
Q.  When you see a big event like this come to Spain, does it disappoint you that some of golf's big names have actually stayed away this week?

SERGIO GARCIA:  I think that we have a lot of big names here, and more than anything, we have a lot of great players.  Then if you have the big names doesn't mean they are the best players at the moment to play in the event.  So I'm really happy with the people that showed up, and I think there's at least six or seven really strong pairings.  You know, I think it's going to be great.  We're expecting a lot of people to come and watch the tournament, so it should be fun.
Q.  Nine American players turned down the opportunity to play in the World Cup; you play in America, why do you think that is?

SERGIO GARCIA:  I don't know.  You should ask them.  I don't know.  Maybe they don't like to travel, or, I don't know.  I can't answer that for you.  You should go and ask them and they will give you an explanation.  I know why I'm playing, because I love it.
Q.  But does it disappoint you, though?

SERGIO GARCIA:  No.  I come here to play and to try to win with my partner.  I don't care who is showing up.  I'm going to try to beat whoever is coming.  It doesn't bother me.
Q.  Does it bother you, Miguel Angel?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, it don't bother me.

SERGIO GARCIA:  This is a team, come on! (Smiling).

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  This is a golf tournament, and if people choose to come here or not, it's okay.  The season is very long and the tournament is played probably too late in the season.  The people who declined to play, I can't find an excuse about that.  I think probably it's too late, I don't know.  But I think the field is a great field, just because the top Americans are not coming doesn't mean that the tournament is a rug spot, you know.

The tournament is a great tournament, a great format with superb players.  I think the world of golf is not only a few of them, only a few, nine Americans that are not coming to play.  I think we have great players like Padraig Harrington, Sergio Garcia --

SERGIO GARCIA:  Paul Casey, Luke Donald.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Miguel Angel JimÃƒ ©nez, also.  (Laughs.)  I think it's a great tournament, you don't want to come, you don't want to enjoy the sun, enjoy Sevilla, enjoy the food, all the things, Spanish wine, Spanish people.  You miss lots of things, you know.  I feel sorry for them.  Unlucky boys.

SERGIO GARCIA:  Better luck next time.
Q.  Which would you settle for if you had a choice:  Three points for Real Madrid on Saturday or a World Cup victory?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Both.  Can I take both?  Then I'll settle for a World Cup and one point at Bernabeu.  Hopefully both, though.
Q.  You won't be able to go on Saturday now?

SERGIO GARCIA:  If it wasn't Madrid, I would think about it, but not at Barcelona.  It's too far away.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I wouldn't have let him heave anyway.  I'd put an attachment and I will put a TV in front of him.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT