BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 29, 2004
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Miguel Angel Jimenez, congratulations, a really tremendous week, a great tournament.

So, in May, you won BMW Asian Open.  You started the tournament winning the BMW International Open Shootout and now on Sunday you also win BMW International Open 2004.  You must love that sponsor.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, I would love BMW, of course.  I also like since '92.  But you told me the other day that the one who won the shootout wouldn't would win the tournament.  I said, well, who is he -- (laughing).
THE MODERATOR:   I am happy I am wrong in this case, for sure.
Q.  So you could play with week without any pressure; you were qualified for the Ryder Cup already; made it a little easier for you to play the tournament?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, of course, the only pressure I've got is the pressure of the tournament, that I play as best I can and try to win the tournament, you know, and that is the best thing to me.  Playing with three or four guys out there fighting for spots on the Ryder Cup, but apart from them, there are also lots of players that this is a very big field this week here.  It's always very nice for me to win this tournament with this field here.
THE MODERATOR:   You're seeing names like Retief Goosen, Sergio Garcia, John Daly.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, Montgomerie, it's great.  It makes it more special.
THE MODERATOR:   You must be proud now.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, very nice.
Q.  Just now, what is more important for you to, win this tournament or to be qualified for the Ryder Cup?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, at this moment, no, Ryder Cup is already qualifying a couple of months ago.  At the moment, you have to live in the moment, and the most important thing for me this week is the BMW, you know.  And next week it will be Switzerland Open and then the week after will be the Ryder Cup.

But no, you separate the moments.
Q.  Did you feel more relaxed after you were sure that you would be a member of the team?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Well, I have been very relaxed all year, no?  (Laughter.)  I've been playing very well and I feel very good on the golf course.  I've felt good all year, if not winning, but many, many times in the Top-10s.  When you are playing well, you know, you turn the right side of the coin and you win the tournament, you know.
Q.  It is the fourth tournament you've won this year.  Is this your most successful season?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  At the moment it looks like it, yeah, at the moment.
Q.  Was there any moment on that back nine where you felt like you had things under control, where you were going to win?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I was talking to my caddie, what is the one thing we need to be on the golf course.  He said keep concentrating and play it hole-by-hole and shot-by-shot.  Any time Thomas makes a birdie, I make birdie also, which we keep the small difference of one shot or two shot's difference.  And any momentum I get there is not, really.  You know, there's not really a turning point on the golf course.  I don't see any turning point, really, just good playing very well.  Thomas is playing very well.  I made 6-under par today for 21-under.  He makes, I think he finished 19-under par and he made 4-under par and he played very well.

But I don't think there's any turning point that you see where you win the tournament.  All of the time, just keeping it a small difference.  On 17 and 18, those are such dangerous holes that you can make a big number.  17, with the flag on the back and 18 you have water on the tee shot and water also for the second shot.  So if you hit a bad shot, you can be in trouble.  You never say, okay, you've won yet, until after you've hit the second shot on the 18th.
Q.  It seems like most of the players that have a chance on the Ryder Cup Team played this week, how good is this team going to be against the Americans?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I think we have a very great team.  I think all of them are playing very well.  And on the other hand, it's match-play, also.  I think it's going to be very nice.  It's going to be very close, both teams, it's like that every year.  It's not going to be -- maybe you win by the minimum, half -point, a point, someone will win, we may tie.  Both teams are very good, very strong.
THE MODERATOR:   Well done.  Miguel Angel, once more, congratulations, and for sure we hope you will be here next year and defend your title.  Thank you and good luck.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT