BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
August 27, 2004
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First of all congratulations, Miguel Angel Jimenez, another 66 today, leading in the tournament.  Must be a good feeling here.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, well, it played very well all day on the golf course, no bogeys, six birdies.  I played very well.
THE MODERATOR:   You feel fine here even in the tournament; I saw you before your round shopping in the public area.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, of course, I always like to see in the public area.  It's always nice here in Munich.
Q.  Were you buying a BMW?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I already buy one this morning.  The new M5,507 horsepower.  (Laughter.)
Q.  How many cars all together?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, I would say that the M3 --, I would like the M5, 550 -- (laughter.)  Is it hard to concentrate about the Ryder Cup or talk about what happens here?  I don't know -- well, I don't want to say anything, but anyway.

Maybe you want to ask them a question?
Q.  It's good to have such form in the BMW International Open, but it's also quite good form to take into the Ryder Cup.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I hope I keep on the same form.  I hit the ball and played golf very well today.  Even you know you're not going to win every time, you're in the Top-10 every time, so your emotions go because you get tired or whatever.  At the moment I'm working very well.
Q.  What's your schedule after this event?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I'm going to play the Ryder Cup.  If I feel tired a little bit or anything, I will withdraw from one of the two tournaments in between.
Q.  And what's been different this year, you've had a very consistent year, what's been the secret this year, more experience?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, I've got experience enough.  This is 16 years on the Tour and I've played very well.  It happens, you know.  You get a coin, same both sides, different faces, and this time I'm on the right face, I don't know.  Just started the playing well.
Q.  Do you have any thoughts on the picks that Langer has to make?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, I have one or another one but I won't say anything.  It's up to the captain.  He will take the two that's best for the team and it will be very good.  I shall not say one or the other one.  There are a couple of names that are possible, but you know when you're playing very well -- we'll see what's going on this week, who is playing well.  It's going to be tough for him because so many players playing well.  The two he will pick, they will be very good, for sure.
THE MODERATOR:   Looks like in the moment, Miguel, there are about 90 players in the final round.  It will take a lot of time then and now the three-ball matches are going around.  Do you like more two-balls in the final round or you don't agree?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I don't mind.
Q.  I know you've had a very consistent year, but you do seem to play very well in spurts.  If you're playing well in one tournament, you'll carry that on to another two or three.  Would you agree with that?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Normally when you are playing well, you're playing well and you keep going.  You know you're playing with the same level on the game.  It's better you play more confident and feel more better on the golf course, you know.  When you start to play not to lose, you start getting worse and worse.   At this moment, I'm playing well and I hope to keep going with the same level at the end of the year.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much and good luck for the final round and we hope to see you here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT