JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 1, 2004
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Well,I played great all through the round, last round I played very good. I hit the ball decent.  I had lots of chances for birdies.  Bjorn played very well today and he was unlucky on the par 5s.  I played very well and made a lot of putts. 

Q.  Take us through, the front 6, 7, 8, 9.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Yeah, on the 6 on the front I hit a nice 4-iron there very close.  The next one par 5, I hit a driver, 3-iron and I had a nice chance for birdie again, two, two and a half meters.  I chipped in on the eighth.  I hit a 3-wood and a 9-iron.  I hit behind just short of the green and six meters short of the flag  and I just make the chip-in.  9, next I hit 3-wood and sand wedge.  I missed my driver on the 10th.  I hit 3-wood to push down to the fairway and I make a nice third shot to one meter and a half, and I made bogey and missed that one. 11, I made three putts.  An 12 the par  3 I hit a nice tee shot and quite a long first putt.  I played very well all day, good.

Q.  Do you feel sorry for Thomas?  He's had a lot of near misses in the last year or so. 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Thomas was the leader all three rounds and today we are at one point I was in the lead, he was in the lead, we are tied.  We are lucky to play golf and to be here, to play the game.  I think we are lucky to be here.  It's not much difference, you know. 

Q.  He said you would be a very good man to have on the team again in September.  That is your main target this year?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   What I said yesterday, I want to try to play better every week that I can play and improve. 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I can every week that I can play.  The Ryder Cup is in September and now we are in February.  The next I am going to play is Dubai and you have to concentrate on the week and the round.  You cannot be thinking about what's going to happen.  You have to focus yourself in the moment.  

Q.  Do you have a psychologist or do you do all of this stuff for yourself? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   The mirror.  Yes, I take to the mirror.  I talk to myself.  (Laughter.) 

Q.  What do you think of the clubhouse and the people this week? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Very nice.  I'm very happy with the people on the golf course this week.  

Q.  Last week's winner had a ponytail.  The winner of the tennis today in Australia, Roger Federer, had a ponytail.  When did you decide to go to it and what was the reason? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Two years ago I decide to let it grow, my hair, and I just keep going I try to be a little different on the Tour, you know, put a little fashion statement.  Everyone has the same haircut, the same everything.  You have to make some new things.

Q.  When you wore your hair long, not in a ponytail, a rumor reached us that you did it because of a skin problem.  Was that right? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   It was a skin problem that happened.  The doctor said that I should  let it grow a little, the hair should be very nice.   When I start on the Tour  I had longer hair.

Q.  Did you have to have anything done about the skin problem? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Yeah , but it's not a bad thing, just a little surgery.  I grew my hair to cover my ears where I had surgery.

Q.  But there was a skin cancer problem or anything like that?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   No. 

Q.  What's your schedule from here and has this win changed anything? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   No, my schedule was set before I play this tournament.  The next tournament to play is Dubai and then Qatar. 

Q.  Can we just return to the hair for a second?  We've established about the ponytail, but is that your natural color and are those your natural curls? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Now you are starting to see a little white.  (Laughing)  you know, I just bought it last January, the white hair is coming through.  You see the mousse?  (Laughter).

Q.  The last 14, 15 weeks you have been playing absolutely brilliantly and you have just reached 40.  What is the secret and why has it just clicked into place? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   I am hitting well and thinking good off the golf course.  The most important thing is  the rhythm and just be happy with yourself, and not worry about what people are saying.  You start moving and you keep going.  There's no point to think about  what is ahead, or it's coming, it's coming.

Q.  Do you do lots of work in the gym? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   I do a little bit at home but mostly I think  this is my body and this is the way it is.  (Flexing).

Q.  Have you lost weight like the others? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   This week, of course.  I start with four holes on my belt and I know coming into this week that I will leave with two.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yes, it is very humid, but I prefer this kind of weather to playing in the rain or cold.  Just drink water, the most important thing you have to do to take care of yourself.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT