JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
January 31, 2004
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Miguel, very good playing, the last two rounds, yesterday and today have been excellent.  Tell us what has been the difference in your game Friday and Saturday. 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Well, I hit it very solid.  I put it close to the hole and I made some putts.  I played very well.  I hit the fairways today and at the end.  But on 16 for par I made that.  But at the end of the day I made the putts very good.  I was rolling them not very well at the beginning of the round but I did finish up very well.  So that's what putts you, that helps you out, you know.

GORDON SIMPSON:  You seemed to have made a lot of birdies the last two days, yeah.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah.  I played well.  I put it close and you put the ball very close and with the eagle I make at the par-5, I just, I mean I put it like two foot behind the hole.  An and when you play like that, you can make a lot of birdies.

GORDON SIMPSON:  Questions for Miguel? 


Q.  I was going to ask what has your early season form been like?  Have you been playing well early in the season?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Not well, this is my first tournament.  I finished last year with the World Cup.  That was my last tournament last year.  And then I think I played the national Spanish too the beginning of December.  That's all.  And so since then I didn't play any golf any tournament. 


Q.  What's the aim for this year?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  The aim for this year is, the main thing is you have to give your self a chance every time and you have to have all the big targets coming through, you have to enjoy your game.  For me the most important thing now is this week.  It's tomorrow.  Not anything else.  And then after this week it would be the week after.  And the week after that.  And we have to do all the little things to get the big ones. 


Q.  So you say like one week at a time?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  One week at a time.  One day at a time.

GORDON SIMPSON:  Anything else? 


Q.  What's are plan for tomorrow?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  My plan for tomorrow I just try to give all what I have.  I try to play well and let the thing happen.  That's it.  You cannot do anything more.  You get your self on the golf course and try to hit it good and try to hole some putts.  And that's going to be the winner.  And you cannot do anything else.  You can't do anything about that.  You control yourself, you relax on the golf course, try not to get attention in your self, try to be yourself.  That's it. 


Q.  How is the golf course?  Is it fine for you?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, the golf course is very nice.  It's been very good.  You have to hit very straight.  You have to control the ball.  Sometimes you have to hit the sand wedge just to chip out on the fairways.  And that's very very important to hit the fairways, to get the scores down.  Also the greens, the grain on the greens is very, very hard.  But I think the course is in great shape and I think it's an excellent golf course.  You have to play well.  You need to put the ball in position to shoot the low scores.

GORDON SIMPSON:  Okay, every one?


Q.  Do you expect to go back to the Ryder Cup team again next year?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I would say that.  Time will tell the answer.  I would like to be on the team, of course.  But hitting the targets right now is the most important thing and the most important thing right now is the tournament right now.  You can't think about that.  You can only work at the tournament that you're at.  But if it happens, it happens.

GORDON SIMPSON:  Okay.  Thank you very much then. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT