BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
February 15, 2001
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   I played so well in both rounds, and I make only two bad shots in two days and cost me a double-bogey on the 5th hole yesterday, and then the triple.  Apart from that, I'm playing so good and putting it close, holing putts and doing what I need to have a good round.  
 
Q.  You said you had two bad shots yesterday.  I assume they were on the two holes that you made double and triple.  Were those in the trees or out of bounds? 
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   No.  I started on the 10th hole yesterday and I hit it into the semi-rough, but my second shot, I got in the bunker, then I played from there to get to the green and made two putts for bogey.  Then on the 13th hole, a par 3, 4-iron got it to the right, tried to make a flop shot, hit it in the palm tree and got it short -- inaudible -- and I thought, "Well, it's going to be a very long day."  But I played so well yesterday and I still am in the same mode today.  I hit almost every fairway, close to the flag.  Like I said before, the putting on the greens is very good also.  Super conditions.  Everything is superb.  Everything is very good, the weather, all of the factors help you to feel good on the golf course. 
 
Q.  You've had a rough start on this West Coast Swing so far.  Is there something you've changed for this week or is it just the courses that suited you? 
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   I played quite well at the beginning of the Phoenix and I didn't feel very well the last two rounds.  I hit quite well at the AT&T last week, but the greens were not very good there, and I completely lost.  And when you are not putting well, this affects all through your game.  The moment putt a little more on the greens here and I start to holing the putts, that's what keeps you going over time.   
 
Q.  You've made 19 birdies in your last 32 holes.  Have you ever had a stretch like this before in your career? 
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   I don't think so.  No.  
 
Q.  What does it feel like? 
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Well, it feels great.  It feels like you are in a cloud, you know.  But it feels nice, really, and I hope it keeps going like that, you know.  I don't mind, really.  
 
Q.  This is the first time you've played this tournament.  Did somebody tell you before you came here that you were going to have to be 25- or 30-under par to win it? 
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Here, it is a five-round tournament, and I hear that the golf courses are always very good conditions and there are good chances to get birdies if you play well.  That's what I know of this tournament, just if you come and hit a good shot, they are very, very fair, very fair golf courses.  
 
Q.  Your nickname is the "Mechanic," if this round was a car, would this round be a Ferrari? 
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Well, I didn't bring my Ferrari today, really.  
 
Q.  How much of an adjustment has it been to play in America? 
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Well, to me it's family, like my wife and two kids at home, they are in school.  Those are the hard things, you know.  I am a professional golfer, and I like to play with the best people; and this is the great tour and I am very proud to be here.  But you have the other side of the coin, you know.  I cannot have everything in life.  You have to sacrifice some things, and this time, I don't know for how long I'm still going to play or compete, but somebody has to suffer at something.  I'm very proud to be here, to play here.  I'm going to play on both sides, the European Tour, and it is going to be very, very  -- inaudible -- I'm going to divide myself on both sides and try to do as best as I can.  
 
Q.  Besides your family is there any other things that you miss or that are tough to get used to in the United States? 
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Well, I miss  -- I cannot complain about the weather, not like Malaga, it's perfect here.  Family, friend, all of the things I'm used to from where I grew up.  I'm still living in the same place, and I will still live in the same place forever.  That's what I think about a lot from there, food, friends, families.  
 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   No. 1, I hit a  driver, wedge to seven meters (20 -25 feet.)  2nd hole is the par  5.  I hit a driver, 5-wood and two putts, two and a half meters (eight feet.)  5, the par  3, 3-iron to three meters (10 feet).  9, then driver and 8-iron to eight meters (25 feet).  11, driver, 5-wood and that was like 40 meters, (130 feet), two putts.   No. 12, 6-iron, nearly holed that one.  Just passed by the hole there, one meter and a half (five feet).  14, the par  5, driver, 6-iron, sand wedge to one and a half feet (five feet).  15, another par 3, 9-iron, a little bit lesss than two meters (six feet)  16, I hit a 3-wood and then sand wedge for  -- to four feet, more than one meter, maybe four feet.   18, driver, 5-wood and two putts from 18 meters (60 feet), two putts.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT