WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 6, 2000
Miguel Angel Jimenez
Jose Maria Olazabal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: We think that it is going to be quite difficult, but we hope that
we can change history this time. There are very strong teams on the course. We have
Ireland, we have Argentina. We have United States, of course, but we are looking forward
to it and we are expecting a good tournament. 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: It's going to be quite difficult this week, but, well, we're
looking forward. We have faith that we are going to do a good job, and we expect to have
both Cups in our hands, the World Cup and the Dunhill Cup. 

Q. Usually the golfer doesn't feel comfortable playing foursomes because you have to
hit a ball every 20 minutes or so. Have you already thought about how you are going to
play, who is hitting the ball on the first tee and second and so on? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Yes, because of all the things you've said before, all the things
you've mentioned, it is a more difficult type of game. But we have played several Ryder
Cups, and we think that we have some kind of experience. On the other hand, we haven't
thought how we are going to play the tournament. We have not decided yet. It is the first
time we have practiced the course. Maybe when we get to the hotel, we'll think it over.

Q. Does it affect you in any way that the fact that you both hit the ball the same way,
from right-to-left? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: We're becoming very technical here suddenly. No, in our case, it
is the other way -- I don't think so. Because I think that Miguel, he likes to hit the
ball from right-to-left, but in my case, I prefer to do the other type of shot, from
left-to-right.

Q. Did you play 18 holes today? How did you like the course? What did you think of it? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: We think it is a great course. We played 18 holes today. Yes, we
hit every single club in our golf bag, so we can say that we have quite a variety of shots
that we have played today. The course has a lot of movement. We have water on the left
side, the right side. The greens have a lot of movement, as well. So, yes, it is quite an
interesting course.

Q. You have a tradition of winning team Cups, for example, the Dunhill Cup that you
have won for the last two tournaments. Does the emotional part, the fact that you know
each other so well have any importance in this? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Absolutely. I think that if you know how your partner feels and
the way that he plays and you concentrate, etc., Etc., That is very important at the end
of the day. 

Q. The 17th hole is a very typical hole. You can have many difficulties, especially if
the wind blows on that hole. What do you think of it, and especially, what do you think of
the green on the 17th hole? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: As a par 5 today we had the possibility of reaching the green in
two-strokes. In that case you can do any kind of score you want, from two, three, or eight
even. As far as the green is concerned, it really punishes the shots to the flag. You have
to be careful how you play it. It has a platform right in the middle of it, right towards
the right side, so you have to be careful how you play your shot towards the flag.

Q. In 1999, Miguel Angel, we saw you with an Argentine caddy. Do you miss him, Eduardo
Gardino? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Yes, we had a very good relationship. It started back in August
1998, and it went all the way through to last year. At the end, we could not make some
agreements; but, yes, we had a good time and we played well together. It was a good
experience.

Q. I would like to ask either one of you if you have a physical routine that you
practice before you get to the practice range? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: You have to sleep about 10 or 12 hours -- (laughs). Wake up about
three hours before tee time, have breakfast, and I do some stretching exercises and
practice some other physical exercises. But when my tee time is at 7:00, I can assure you
that I never get up three hours before.
JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: He forgot about the cigar. That's part of the physical
preparation. (Laughter.) What I do is more or less the same thing that Miguel does. If tee
time is at a reasonable time, I try to get up about three hours before tee time, and we
try to get to the club an hour or so before, to shoot some balls. We do some stretching
exercises. We shoot about an hour, an hour and 20 minutes of balls, and then we get ready
to be on the course. And after we play, we usually go back training a little bit. We just
practice some more.

Q. Jose Maria, do you have any explanation to the fact that even though Spain has very
good players and you're in good position in both the World Ranking and the U.S. ranking,
why people in Spain are not such big fans of golf or not following golf so much? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: There isn't a logical reason for this. We also ask ourselves andd
we wonder why this happens. Maybe the fact that we don't have any public courses in Spain.
Usually, all of them are private. Maybe that's why there are not so many people following
golfers around and there are not so many people playing golf, even though we have very
good players, and we have had very good players in the past as well.

Q. You have won two Masters, and you also played very well at Muirfield. Now my
question is the 63 that you had at Valhalla, was that the best round that you had in your
life? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I cannot say it is the best round. I can say it is among the best
two or three rounds I have played. I can also compare it to the 61 I shot in Akron when I
played the World Series. I can say that those two rounds were the best ones maybe.

Q. Knowing your temper, maybe Mr. Olazabal is a little bit more wild and Mr. Jimenez is
a little bit calmer. Does it affect the game, how you play together? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: He's older, that's why. (Laughter.) What I can say is that, yes,
we are both of an aggressive temper, so I think he hits the irons very well, and I think
that I hit woods much better, or very good, in theory. So if we agree this weekend, we
play together in the way we usually do, I think that we have a good chance.

Q. This tournament has brought a lot of excitement into Argentina. And today being the
practice round, there were a lot of people coming to watch the tournament, or the practice
round. How does that strike you? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: This is my first time here in Argentina, and, yes, I was quite
impressed to see how many people came to the practice round today. I am gladly impressed.
I think it is a good thing to have so many people watching the tournament. As far as the
behavior of the public in general, I believe that they will behave well. Because talking
to Romero and Cabrera back in Europe, they usually speak about how well people behave here
and how much they know the game of golf. So I say that we won't have any problems. I hope
that I am not mistaken.

Q. The idea of the World Championships was to bring all of the world's best players
together. It didn't happen at Valderrama, it has not happened this week, and it isn't
going to happen at Melbourne. So what has gone wrong and what should happen? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I will say now what I said back at Valderrama, at the American
Express Championship. I think that the main problem concerns dates. The Valderrama
championship was placed after both rankings were over. So those players that were trying
to get some -- to improve their position in the World Rankings did not have any kind of
interests because the rankings were over. This tournament is almost approaching the end of
the year, and the following tournament will be at the beginning of the year, the first
week of the year. So many players really think that, well, it's not the best time of the
year. So they do not look into their calendars and they don't include this tournament in
their calendars. It is just a matter of dates. 

Q. Maybe you are the ones that know Sergio Garcia most. Do you think that he will be
the challenger for Tiger Woods in the future? 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: My personal point of view is that Sergio Garcia is a very
talented player, he is an excellent player, but his swing and some parts of his game have
to be polished. If I see him as Tiger Woods' challenge in the future, no, I don't think
so. I don't think any of the players now are a real challenge to Tiger. Maybe in five, ten
years, there will be a new junior player that will be able to give Tiger some kind of
fight. I think that in the case of Sergio Garcia, if he makes some changes and he polishes
some parts of his game, he will be able to be in the best positions among the first
players in every tournament. So in that case, yes, I think he is going to be in a great
position. I don't know whether he's going to be an immediate challenge to Tiger.

Q. Jose Maria, what differences do you see in your two victories at the Masters, the
one in 1994 and the one in 1999? What differences were there? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I think that the main difference between the two tournaments was
that in between those years, I had a lesion in my foot, as everybody knows. I had a
personal problem; I wasn't able to carry on a normal life for almost two years. So, when
the time came to win the Masters in 1999, I think I enjoyed it much more, because it was
like I had an idea of how to enjoy life. I had a different point of view on life. And even
though there was a lot of pressure during the last day, I think I enjoyed the course, I
enjoyed my game. And in that sense, I can say that 1999 was more enjoyable.

Q. Taking into consideration your aggressive temper, like you said before, do you think
that there are some holes which you have to play in a more conservative way, and do you
think that the winner of this championship will be a team that is more aggressive or
someone that is more conservative? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I think that if you take into consideration both formats, I think
that there will be not holes, but days in which we can be more aggressive and days in
which we will have to be more conservative. In the best-ball format, I think you can be
more aggressive. In fact, you have to be more aggressive, because you have to give
everything you can to make your team have a good position. In the case of foursomes, I
think that, yeah, we'll have to be a little bit more conservative in the sense that you
don't want to risk a shot and have your partner playing from positions that would be kind
of complicated. In the end, I think that the team that will win will be the one that plays
the best and the one that is a bit more aggressive, I suppose. 

Q. Jose Maria, throughout this year, in the middle part of this year, there was a rumor
saying that you were tired, that you didn't want to play in the European Tour anymore.
Does this have anything to do with the fact that you want to play more in the States, or
does it have to be -- or is it a consequence of having misunderstandings with people in
the European Tour, or just because you're bored of the European Tour?

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: Okay, before anything else, I want to state clearly that I am not
and I will not be bored of the European Tour. That tour is where I grew up as a golfer,
and I will always defend it and support it. I may be a little bit more a critic of the
European Tour, because I believe there are things that can be done in a better way. As far
as playing the American tour, I would say that is more a tactical decision, because at the
beginning of the European Tour, we have to travel a lot to Malaysia and Australasia, and I
have done this for the last two years. I realize that I was very tired at the beginning of
the year after traveling so much. So this year, or the coming year, I plan to go to the
West Coast, California, and play some tournaments there, so as to be not so tired and be
able to play the rest of the year in a better way.

Q. Jose Maria, could you give your opinion about Sergio Garcia? 

JOSE MARIA OLAZABAL: I agree with Miguel Angel. I think if you want to consider Sergio
as a menace or a threat to Tiger, I don't believe this is the case. Tiger is playing
really very well. And I think all of us have to make a bigger effort in order to be some
kind of threat to Tiger. In the case of Sergio, I think that he has to make some changes
in his swing, he has to mature as a golfer. And if he does these changes, with time, he
will be an excellent player. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT