U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2000
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Are you happy with your position right now in the tournament?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I'm very happy now. I'm playing very well at the moment. I'm
playing very, very solid. The 7th hole I made -- I made only one birdie on the par-5, 6th.
And I had a chance for a birdie on the 7th. I've done very well; I'm very happy. 

Q. What does it mean to you when you're chasing a player of Tiger Woods' stature. Do
you have to think differently about how you're playing?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: It's always tough when you see Tiger on the leaderboard. I hope I
stay in contention over the weekend with him.

Q. What is your strategy going into tomorrow on this golf course? You know you have to
drive it straight.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: To keep going. 

Q. Does the length of the rounds bother you at all? Have you ever seen where you have
to play more than a five-hour round?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: You need to have a lot of patience. We had three groups on the
5th and three groups on the 6th. You have to wait all the way around. You need to have
patience. 

Q. How was the course playing today? Everyone says it's been tough.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: When they stopped play, really not much breeze. But the condition
of the course is difficult, small greens, small area to play all the time. 

Q. You obviously --?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Also, the greens, they are hardest in the morning. Playing again
in the afternoon, they're so bumpy. 

Q. Everyone talks about Tiger Woods being at the top of the leaderboard. Obviously,
you've had success as much as anyone playing against him. What do you attribute that to?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: It's nice to see Tiger there. He's the best player in the world.
And to be in contention with him at the moment, two -- two and a half rounds more, and I
hope I stay over the weekend in the same position.

Q. Do you approach it any differently when you're chasing Tiger Woods as opposed to
another player? Does that change your approach to the game?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well, I don't know. You always have to concentrate, make the
shots and don't think about it. You know that he's there, and the other players are there,
also. And I have all the respect for them, because they are great players. But you need to
be yourself on the golf course. That's the only way to make scores. You have to feel big;
you have to be big. It doesn't matter the score you make, because the course is very
tough. And you need to be in contention and forget all these things to make you --.

Q. A lot of people, the way he's playing, are conceding the tournament to him. You have
to go into it and feel like you have to catch him and beat him?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Again, if he stays like he is now, I won't be there. But you need
to hit very straight to hit the greens and hole a couple of putts. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT