U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2000
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I don't know. You have to keep your feet on the ground, and
concentrate and stay in there and do what you have to do.  
 
Q. Were you affected in any way by the fog and the weather?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: No, I think I was happy a little bit. The sun here is very
strong, and you can play without sweating. I think it's a very nice day to play golf. It
was pretty nice for the first day.  
 
Q. How do you feel about chasing Tiger Woods here at the U.S. Open?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: It's always nice to be contending with Tiger or with -- all the
best players in the world are here, not only Tiger. I would like to be -- there's 156
players, and all good players. I like to be in this position. 
 
Q. Talk about your game the last month, how you've been playing the last month leading
up to this?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I think I've played very well. I played very well the last month,
and I'm very happy with the way I hit it. 
 
Q. Is your mentality the same or has it changed since The Masters?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: My mentality is the same. It's not changed so much. 
 
Q. At Valderrama, Tiger alluded at some incident on the 17th hole. What was that about?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: There, we both played very well, and he beat me in the playoff. I
don't know what you want me to say. He's a nice player. He finished one there, and I
finished second in the playoff.  
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well, it's different to compare, to measure against another one.
I think to win a major, it's the best thing in your life. I can't compare the Majors,
because I don't think it's fair.  
 
Q. Sort of that same question, again, in a different fashion. Johnny Miller said he
thought Europeans come into this championship with a negative attitude, because of the way
the U.S. Open courses are set up. Do you have a different attitude about this tournament
because of the course setup than the British or The Masters or the PGA?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: This golf course, they always play tough conditions, narrower
fairways, higher rough. And you need to hit very straight. This is very, very tough. You
have to be very straight at the U.S. Open, always, and hit all the greens if you're going
to make any score here.  
 
Q. Do you get tired of people asking you and other players being asked about whether
they can beat Tiger in any tournament?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Yes, I'm tired. You know, Tiger, after all, is the best player in
the world. But one thing, the press thinks there's only one player here at the tournament.
No, there's 156 players. But I think you have to realize that, also. He can win, sure; but
there's other players. And on this type of golf course, you have to be very consistent and
you have to hit very straight. There's too many things that you have to hold for four
rounds. 
 
Q. I know the British Open is a special tournament for you, because it's a major.
(Inaudible)
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I like to play this type of golf course in the States. When I
come to the U.S. Open, I feel great.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT