WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2000
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: We both played very well. And at the end, I made up a couple more
putts, and that's it. We played steady, and it was always a very tight match, and that's
all.  
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I feel well enough. I'm getting more confidence in my game. And
this type of competition is different. Stroke-play, you have to be good on that day, on
that hole.  
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Yeah, I do very much. I feel very confident in myself at the
moment. And I'm just looking hole-by-hole, day-by-day is what you have to do here. 
 
Q. Nice match yesterday against Lehman. How much did that help you going into today's
match?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: That helped me because it gave me more confidence in myself. I
was three months not competing, and I started practicing and started looking for
something, that's probably not happening, always looking for something. But now you go in
the tournament, you're focusing, and you just have to believe in yourself, so you just
play golf. Yesterday I beat Lehman, and that gives you more confidence, more -- it's a
nice day. I think it's always important. 
 
Q. In a tight match such as yours, what was the turning point today? You said you made
a couple of putts?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Probably -- I lost two more holes, and on the par-3s, I missed my
shots on the 7th, I missed my 7-iron to the bunker, and then also on the 14th. But then I
holed a nice putt for birdie on the 15th, to go 1-up there. And then the next one, he got
it in the bunker, to make five. And then the 17th I halved the hole. The match was pretty
tight, we both played pretty well. 
 
Q. The match play experience at the Ryder Cup, has that helped you at all?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Always helps when you play match play. Obviously when you get in
match play -- you're used to playing stroke-play tournament, and you have to be good in
that hole and that location, that's the difference. Always if you play match play, the
more you play, you get comfortable. 
 
Q. What do you think about playing Davis Love tomorrow?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well, he's another great player. I think it's going to be a very
interesting match. I hope my game is still the same for tomorrow and it will be very
interesting. All the people are very good players. The important thing is you keep your
mind on your game at the right place tomorrow. That's the only difference with only 64
players here. They're very good. No one is better than the other one. It's the combination
of the mind and the game at the same moment. 
 
Q. Miguel, after Valderrama, how much would you like to get Tiger again?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well, I don't want to get him, life is easier than that. Always
nice to play with the best player. And Tiger is one of the best players in the world,
probably the best player in the world. It's always nice to play with him. I like to play
with the best, because always you learn something. In this life you're learning every day.
So it would be very nice if I could get in the final with him.  
 
Q. Did you play any golf during your long break?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: No, after -- I played the Million Dollar Challenge, and then I
stayed away from golf six weeks, no putts, nothing, just enjoyed my family and friends,
and just putting a little bit.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT