WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2000
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Match play, I always like to play match play at home with my
friends. It's a different type of play, just hole per hole and day per day. You don't have
to worry about keeping score or anything. Just play your game, be aggressive on the golf
course. 
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I feel more confident now, and almost three months not competing,
and on holidays at home. But I'm getting strong, getting better and better, and starting
to feel more confident. Beating someone always makes you believe more in yourself. He's a
nice player, a nice player.  
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Yeah, it's good. Not like last year. We went home very quick from
here. But they're doing good.  
 
Q. What do you think the reason is for the Europeans playing so well this year, any
reason at all?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Match play is a different type of tournament, and I think -- I
don't know how you want me to respond. But there are nice players here and in Europe and
Australia and everywhere. You have to get the good gimmick, you have to be on top of your
play. At this moment America feels good, you have to compete day per day, hole per hole,
and that's the game. 
 
Q. How much did going the extra hole with Tiger Woods in the American Express
tournament help your confidence and your game? What did that do for you? I know you lost
in the extra hole, but how did you come away from that match?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: That is golf. He was playing very well in the last round there.
And I think on the 17th I had a good shot, and you think from outside, "Okay, this
guy is not supposed to win the tournament." After this, I'm very, very thrilled. But
things happen. And I go now, and he gave me the opening. And then I made a bogey on the
18th. But that's the game. You try to make it as best you can anytime. But the thing is I
play very well through the year last year. It's not only one tournament that gives you the
things. And I think the last few years my game has improved quite a lot. 
 
Q. Is this your first event for the year?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Yeah. 
 
Q. How have you found your game?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well, when I started it's strange. When you don't play, you don't
compete, when you go to the driving range, you try to look for something that's not going
to happen. But it's coming. The game is coming. I'm very happy, very pleased to be away
three months. 
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Almost every year I take a break. There are more important
things, more important than golf. And you have to spend some time with your family and
some time with your friends, everybody. This is only the way to make your life, your golf. 
 
Q. Your opponent is going to either be Ernie Els or Bob Estes. Have you played either
of them before in match play?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: No, not in match play, I don't think so.  
 
Q. So it will be new?
 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I think both in stroke play tournaments, but not in match play. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT