WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 1999
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: The details of my round: Third hole, birdie, 7-iron, and 5-meters
putt from just the edge of the green. Birdied the 5th, 2-iron, sand wedge, 4-meters putt.
Birdied the 6th with 9-iron and one-and-a-half, two-meters putt. Bogeyed the 7th with a
driver, 7-iron and 3-putts from seven meters. Birdied the 9th with a driver, sand wedge
and one-meter putt. Bogeyed the 18th with driver, 9-iron and 3-putts from seven, eight
meters. I played quite well and I have been hitting the ball well. I missed my second shot
on the 16th, but I had a very good approach and I nearly holed it. On the 13th I went to
the left and then a very good approach and two-meters putt. I had birdie chances on the
first hole, I was four meters from the pin. On the 8th hole I was three-and-a-half meters.
At 11, the par-5, I also had a birdie chance. At the 12th, I was three meters to the right
of the hole. At the 15th, I had a very good putt, 8 meters, and it didn't go in. But I
really have been playing pretty well. I've done two greens with 3-putts, and those have
been my two bogeys. Let's see if tomorrow I can have a bit more luck and have a good day
again.

Q. How important is local knowledge on this course, and how important is it for you
when in Spain? What kind of advantage does that give you?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: Well, obviously I think almost all the people know the course
very well now. And you have to hit the fairways. If you don't, it's very difficult to get
on the green in the second shot.

Q. (Question in Spanish.)

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: (Answer was translated.) He asked how he felt leading the
tournament, he said it is a long time before I started the last round being the leader.
I'm not nervous. I'm quite comfortable. I feel well. Tomorrow we'll see, but don't you ask
me that before I tee off, because I'm not going to answer. Let's see if I can have a
little bit more luck tomorrow and have a good round.

Q. (Question in Spanish.)

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: (Answer was translated.) He was asked what happened at the 18th
hole. His second shot and his first putt. He said I had a very good tee off, and a good
second shot, but when I was on the green I read the green quite well, and I just went for
the flag. I wanted to hole that putt. And I left me a very complicated putt of
one-and-a-half meters. But those things happen. I tried to finish with a birdie, not just
for me, but because of all the spectators.

Q. (Question in Spanish.)

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: (Answer was translated.) He was asked about how is he going to
sleep tonight; is he going to have a good rest. He said tonight I'm going to sleep as a
pork, in a muddy and dirty place. And he said I'm feeling very well. He's going to go out
for dinner with Montse, his wife. I'm going to have some fish and then nothing else. I'm
just going to sleep very well and have good thoughts.

Q. (Question in Spanish.)

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: (Answer was translated.) He was asked if he's going to play
aggressive tomorrow. He said, well, tomorrow I think I'll just go out, have it in mind,
I'm coming from behind, that I'm not leading the tournament, so that I can keep my tactic
on the golf course. And when I come from behind I always try to attack. But if I have a
bad round, nothing will happen.

Q. (Question in Spanish.)

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: (Answer was translated.) He was asked about the names just behind
him, one shot. He says I don't fear anybody. I'll just play my own game and that's it.
I'll play my own, and nothing else. I don't mind what the others do, I'll just play my
game. And I don't fear anybody. I have been saying that for a long time, that I have 14
clubs in my bag, but anyway, here, there are all very, very good players, I cannot say
that this one is better than the other one. They are very, very good players. This is a
complicated week, and this golf course, it's not easy, it's a very demanding one. But all
the players are very, very good.

Q. Can you talk about what you felt were the keys to your round today? And just talk a
little bit about the course knowledge and how much you think -- how important that is to
you?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: It's always important to know the course and to know where you
play. But the people here look on the golf course and also know. It's important also to
know the wind, from where it's from. Because sometimes you cannot feel exactly where it's
coming. It's very important that you know that. But it's important to know the course,
yeah. Anyway, I say the same thing on this golf course, you have to hit the fairways.
That's more important than anything. If you don't hit the fairways, it's difficult to make
a low score on this course.

Q. Congratulations on your round today. It's quite possible that tomorrow the village
of Churriana will be empty, as everyone will be here watching you play. In fact, if you
win, you may be elected mayor of your village. It's a very special relationship. How
important is it and how do you feel when you play your golf? Are you aware of this
feeling?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I am a friend of everybody. I know the people, and we are good
friends. They know me from when I was born. They are very happy to see me doing well in
golf. And I'm very happy to see my friends around here to come to see me on the golf
course and support me. And I feel like I have big support and I'm happy that they're doing
this.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT