WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 1999
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: I have played quite well, pretty well. I'm very happy with my
game and with the way I have been played. I have been hitting the ball much better than
yesterday. It's a pity, because I had three very good birdie chances on the last three
holes. On the 16th I was something like five meters from the hole and I missed my putt. On
the 17th I played -- I hit a very good driver, a 3-wood, great 3-wood over the green. And
I missed my putt from two meters. And then on the 18th, a very good driver, 9-iron, and I
was three meters from the hole and I didn't hole it either, so two putts again. But
generally I'm very happy with my game and I hope that I can have two more very good rounds
tomorrow and the day after.

Q. (In Spanish).

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: (Answer was translated). He was asked about his playing partner,
and he said that he thinks he must have had some problem with his back on the first nine
holes, because he wasn't hitting the ball well, he wasn't swinging the club properly. On
the 18th he was met by the President of the Government of Andalucia, and the Ministry of
Sports and Tourism of Andalucia. And he was asked what did they tell you. He told me good
playing, congratulations and very well done, and see if you can get another win this week.
And then I said to the President of the Government of Andalucia, Mr. Chaves, I think it's
about time you start playing golf.

Q. (In Spanish).

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: (Answer was translated). I played pretty well, and let's see if I
can have a very good weekend and do something really good. I'm feeling very comfortable
with the way I'm playing that allows my position -- allows me to play quite aggressively.
It's not like when you are leading, that you are pulling the rope. But right now I feel
quite comfortable. I'm going to try again. I know it's very difficult to shoot under par
on this course. Most people are either up or down. You can make lots of birdies and bogeys
on this golf course. I'm going to try my best over the weekend and see how I do.

Q. (In Spanish). 

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ: (Answer was translated). He was asked about the last two weeks
about his momentum. He said, I have been playing very well lately. And yes, this is a very
high moment, very high peak in my career. I'm playing well, and the scores are proving it.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT