MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round. 
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   I'm playing very solid from tee to green.   My irons are working very good also today to the flag.   I was not far from the hole all day.   I made some of those putts that I am able to make 6‑under par today.   Very nice conditions, golf course fair, and just a very light breeze sometimes, but that didn't affect us really too much.   It's very solid, very confidence and that's what you need on this golf course. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Well, my game plan is to be aggressive.   This is golf course that you cannot be too much aggressive.   You need to be always on its low side of the hole.   I always say that.   I know at the beginning of the day you never know what's going to happen, but you try to make birdies and make as many as possible.   You know it's going to be tough at the end of the day and then tomorrow at the end of the day also. 
Bubba starts with 7‑under, he's a solid player.   We saw him win here two years ago.   He's playing solid with confidence. 
There's a lot of things that can happen still.   They are all solid players.   6‑under par could get close to him.   We have to wait to the end of the day and for the round tomorrow. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Experience is always very important.   Experience is very important.   Not about hitting the shot or whatever, it's just about passion and staying calm.   This golf course is demanding.   You need to be very strong mentally. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   No, the difference between yesterday and today is yesterday I didn't play as well as the first round and I finished at 1‑under.   Yesterday you just want to keep in the same way.   And nothing happened.   Even with so many years experience and things, you still make the same mistakes.   You don't attack the flag when you don't have to and just keep playing hole by hole, shot by shot.   Yesterday, that didn't happen. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   I feel great.   I feel fantastic.   I like the feeling of the knot in my stomach.   I feel that thing since Monday when I got here.   It doesn't disappear.   I love that kind of pressure.   I love that thing.   That's why I'm still competing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT