ISPS HANDA WALES OPEN
August 27, 2013
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This week, the start of the qualifying for the Ryder Cup, does that give an added edge this week?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Always when the Ryder Cup start to counting, people start to‑‑ intense or not.   This week, as you say, it's the beginning of the counting, and it will make it more interesting, of course.  
   
 Q.   What do you make of this course?   What do you like in particular about this 2010 Course?   
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Well, the golf course, especially the weather we had this year, normally we play here, it's always raining every year.   But you know, this weather is going to be very good all the week, and I think it will be nice.   
And the golf course, well, the golf course has a lot of variation, some holes for draws, some holes for fade, a little water that you have to be aware.   It's a golf course that you need to think where you want to position the ball.   It's a very nice golf course.  
   
 Q.   Everyone seems to have memories of 2010 of the Ryder Cup, whether they were here or watching on the telly, what are the standout memories for you?   
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Well, to me, all the week, especially the police stayed there and don't moving away from there, just supporting the team everything.   
The game, good shots here or there, good memories, but you know, see all the tough week, how the police there supporting.   
   
 Q.   In terms of trying to make that next Ryder Cup Team, how much is that up on your list of priorities right now?  
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   I'm still hitting well, still hitting good the ball and I enjoy myself, it will be nice if I can be on the team again.   
Of course, I will do as much as I can for my partners‑‑ but of course, if the thing happens, if everything happens, everything coming, I hope I have a chance next year to be on the team again.  
   
 Q.   Is it one of those things that you have to put out of your mind and get on with the golf and let the Ryder Cup almost take care of itself?   
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Yes, that's it, you have to leave and enjoy yourself every moment, every single tournament and I will play here the Wales Open, I will play every week in the season, playing, and just playing, enjoy yourself, and let everything happen.   
   
 Q.   Any conversations with Paul McGinley?   Will you have a quiet word in his ear over lunch or something?   
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   We will talk in the days to come.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT