THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WOODCOCK:  Welcome, Miguel.  Congratulations, that's
a fantastic start today with a 3-under par, 68.  You must be very
pleased to get your week off to a good start.
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Yeah, of course.  I start with
under par at The Open, which is nice.  I always say the same thing - 1-under par is good.  More under par, more good.  At the
moment 3-under par is nice.  Sad at the end because don't make any
birdies on the back nine with two bogeys.  I missed the birdie on
the 17th, but finish off the first nine holes finish 5-under on
the first nine is like nice.  I always say the same thing.
I feel happy.  Feel comfortable, hitting well the ball
and the golf course is great conditions, fast and hard, windy
conditions not as how we like -- as you can see here at the Open,
but it's nice.  It's pretty fair.

Q.  You're used to making fast starts here the last few
years.  It was Turnberry you were the first-round leader and a
couple of years ago you were one off the lead.  What do you
attribute that to?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I don't know.  The first thing you
have to do is hit it well.  I'm hitting well.  I feel comfortable
and that's the main thing.  If you feel comfortable with yourself
and hitting well, feel happy with the golf course, hole some
putts.  It's a combination of everything, you know.  But the main
thing is hitting well and keep the rhythm, that's the main thing.
Q.  It's not that long ago that you broke your leg.  Can you
talk us through what happened there.  And did you ever feel right
at that time your career might be finished when you did that
initially?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I never think if my career is
finished or not.  I feel pissed off.  How at 49 years old, you're
going to break your leg?  If you breaking your leg at 30 years
old, you could say, okay, I'm going to have a sabbatic year, but
at 49 you don't want to spend any sabbatic day (laughter).
That's what happened.  I been a skier, enjoy very much
skiing with my girlfriend, my son, skiing there.  And one of the
distractions you have, you cannot distract for anything because
the bull can take you.  It cost me breaking my leg.  When I fall
down I knew I broke it.  And the only thing is it's tough so many
months without hitting.  Just knowing the competition is around
there, because I don't see any competition, just because I don't
want to feel anymore, you know, and that's it.
Q.  Have you given up skiing?  Is your skiing career
finished?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Do you give up anything you enjoy
yourself?  (Laughter).
Q.  25 years since Seve was the last Spaniard to win The Open
Championship, and yet two of you, Rafael and yourself at the top
of the leaderboard.  What would it mean for a Spaniard, and
especially yourself, to win it in Seve's memory 25 years on?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Well, 25 years, me, also on the
Tour there at that moment, 1989.  Seve last time he won The Open
was in '88, in Lytham Saint Annes, right?  Something like that.
It would be great, if one of the Spanish win the
tournament, especially if myself, even better.  But you never know
what's going to happen.  Three more rounds to go.  The only thing
you have to do is to enjoy yourself.  Don't think about to win or
not to win.  There are the things that happens through the week,
it's coming up.  The more important thing is enjoy yourself and be
happy on the golf course, be happy with what you're doing.  And
that's it.  Simple.  Make it as simple as possible.
Q.  With respect you're perhaps at an age now where it seems
less likely to win a Major.  In a sense does that make it easier
because you can be laid back and go out there and relax with all
the experience that you have of Major golf?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  No, well, I didn't win a Major.
Obviously I would love to have a Major in my career.  I would love
to have one of these.  I don't know how much long for me on the
Tour.  I'm 49, I don't know.  I will keep competing here, as far I
can be competitive with all the young people.  But I would love to
have a Major.  If I don't have a Major in my career, it don't mean
you're not a good player, simply it's a nice plus.  And I keep
doing, competing and a lot of motivation this week to do my best
to win a Major.
Q.  With 14 months away from a Ryder Cup in Scotland, what
would it mean to you to make the team again after missing out the
last time?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  I don't know what's going to
happen tomorrow (laughing).  Next year I would love to play, of
course.  That would be the first 50-year-old to play the Ryder
Cup.  But at the moment I don't think about it.  I just think
about The Open.  But if I get my opportunity and my chance to
play, I would love to play, of course.  Hey you, 25 years old,
what are you doing?  Come on, play some golf.
Q.  Are these the hardest, fastest conditions you've played
in all the time you've played in The Open or is Hoylake --
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Hey, I didn't forget how was the
second shot I hit in the fairway on hole No. 1 (laughing) to my
memory.  No, I don't know.  I really don't know what is the
toughest condition I play in The Open, I don't remember.
Q.  Hoylake?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Hoylake was very fast and hard,
yeah.
Q.  Is this similar?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  The condition, the golf course
conditions, yes.  I think the hardest probably we find.  I don't
know if Royal Saint Georges also or -- how do you keep so many
things in your head?  I don't know who I played with today
(laughter).MIKE WOODCOCK:  Thank you very much for coming in and
best of luck this week.MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Thank you.



  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT