BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2013
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on having a 600th European Tour event?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ:   Well, it's a quite cool day, a freezing day, but it's fine, it's nice to see that thing, playing 600 events, it's a lot.   You start to play, you never think; and now you're here, looking back and say, where is the time, because it's going so fast.  
   
 Q.   Can you look back for me, please, 30 years to your first event when presumably it was a bit warmer for you.   
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ:   Well, I think it's probably the Spanish Open or I don't know if it was Mallorca, I can't remember clearly that, but I think it was in 1986 probably.   
   
 Q.   I think you're a man who always looks to the future and you look what's around the corner, but presumably you've had a chance in these 30 years to look back and think, yeah, that's the highlight, that's the really good days, there must be so many of those?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ:   There is many good days.   The main thing I'm doing in my life, what I like to do, playing golf and I'm living this way and I like to compete.   I love the people, you know, and I've got the chance to meet so many players, so many people on the golf course and outside the golf course, I think it's a nice experience, a nice life.   The only thing I'm disappointed, it goes too fast.   
   
 Q.   And you go far too fast downhill at times, so how are you now?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ:   My leg is almost recovered.   I'm still sore a little bit, but I think I'm not going to stop and I'm going to keep doing.  
   
 Q.   You are going to keep playing and we're going to see you for a long while yet, are we?  
MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ:   Of course, I would like to keep playing a long time, I'm still hitting the ball good.   Today I didn't hole any putts.   
I still play well, I still enjoy the game and I still enjoying feeling the thing in my stomach and I will keep playing.   That's what I like to do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT