MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tremendous round of golf out there.   Can you describe your round?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Yeah, well, I'm playing very well, very solid from green to tees, and that's what you need on this golf course.   You need to be able to find the right place to hit to the flags, well, to hit below the flags because sometimes the target is not the flag.   I played very nice today, very solid from the tee, missed a couple of fairways, and I had to recovery on the first, I missed the green on the right, made a very nice save there from one foot.   I make bogey on the 5th where I missed the fairway on the left just short of the bunker.   I make a big hook and went to the bunker behind the green and I make‑‑ so from there, two putts. 
Made the bogey off of 8, and I make a good recovery on the 13th when I put my ball in the water there.   I hit my second shot, the ball was too far right and I keep the length and I make a putt from four feet for it, and I saved the par there. 
And then on the 18th I missed my drive on the right beneath the magnolia there.   I had to cut with a 5‑iron.   It had to be very big cut in there.   I cut it in there, on the left there.   I left 40 meters to the hole, and I put like a two and a half foot for a par.   And the rest I played very solid and consistent, nice shots to those greens, and a lot of chances for birdie, and that's what you need on this golf course.

Q.   Overall are you happy?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   Yeah, happy, no?   I always say that anytime you make under par on this course you have to be happy.   The more under par, I'm more happy.   That's the way you have to take it. 

Q.   Were conditions tough with you getting mud on the ball?
MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:   No, the conditions to me is perfect.   It's not very much breeze, not very windy, and it's quite soft after the storm we had the last couple days.   That make it softer.   But that's good.   I think the golf course is very fair, and I like the way it's set up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT