VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2011
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARÍA ACACIA: Great win today. How did you feel, Miguel?   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Very nice, you know, when you win the match, it always feels very nice. It's a beautiful day today. Lots of spectators. We had some water on the greens this morning but very nice weather. The golf course is great condition, and superb. Quite soft to the greens today, but that's it.   
 Talking about the game, played very well, very solid, I started 3-up after four holes, and I won the first and the second with a par. And then we have on the third hole, the par 5 -- (drinking, after being served glass of Rioja) cheers. Now better to say that with the Rioja.   
  
  Q. Did you benefit from a bit of local knowledge? You're from the area, so did that help?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: This is my first week I've played this course. You don't know very well until you play the golf course and you get the picture in your head. Started with two pars and bogey, bogey to be 2-up, and then hole No. 5, I was 3-up there, with the second shot on the right and that helps, a lot. But I still played solid, pars, pars. That's the game today.   
  
  Q. It's a tough course for walking, never mind about playing. But do you feel that experience will enable to you do well this week, as opposed to being youthful?   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Always a combination of everything is good. Experience of the place here probably goes a little bit more, but it's only the third year, so like a good wine, you know, it takes time.   
 But match play, it's very important to keep calm. It's very important that you know that things are going to happen all through the round. You have 18 holes to play and you have to keep calm, keep patient, keep playing your game and let everything happen.   
 Especially this golf course, like you say, it's quite tough to walk, and sometimes you have a lot of shots and you need to know where you are from the hole because of the greens, and you have to keep all of these things in mind to help keep moving that always helps a lot.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT