BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2011
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, I'm playing well, not as good the first two rounds, but that's the game. You know, it's a lot of pressure, and a little bit -- I made four rounds under par for 11-under, and that's not good enough.   
 The last hole, I had a chance for a beautiful day there, was between 3-wood and 5-wood and decided to hit 5-wood and land it softer, just pitched just on the bunker in the downhill lie and then it's almost impossible to get it close.  
 And then a putt that was going a little bit to the right and I missed a chance to play the playoff with Lee. He's playing very well, he made 5-under par for the last round to win it, and that's the day.   
  
  Q. It looked like there was stand trapped behind your ball as well?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: The sand is not a very good lie. Also, downhill lie with, like you say, with a little sand there, and it's difficult to adjust the clubface and the speed to get the ball close to the hole.  
  
  Q. You were conscious over what you had to achieve over the remaining holes that the birdie was necessary?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, not to win the tournament, but as soon as I saw Lee at 11, and then a couple holes to play, I told to my caddie, I said, well, he's going to finish 12 at least, and he finished 12, and so we have to make birdies to win the tournament.   
  
  Q. The two of you had dinner together?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, we have a bottle of wine together last night, yeah, having dinner together, why not.   
  
  Q. And I know you'll appreciate just how well he's performed over these two weeks?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: He's a great player. You see he wins the last two weeks, he's No. 1 in the world. Pity I didn't beat him today; he beat us.  
  
  Q. In this form you'll enjoy playing in Barcelona next week.   
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I've been in form, and hopefully Barcelona is a little bit better for me and I have a chance to get the Spanish title. I've never won the Spanish Open in my career.   
  
  Q. That would mean a hell of a lot, going without saying?  
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, that would be great. Happy for Lee but hope next week for me. We'll see.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT