JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 29, 2010
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So unlucky to make a mistake like you did on 17, any fatigue from travelling the world? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, I'm already be on the team but now you're looking for the tournament and this is way back. I saw my possibilities, you know, after making birdie at the 16th, and go again to 8-under par, and save my opportunities and one more birdie and I win the tournament there, what I thought. 
 But, you know, that ground club, and that little thing, stupid thing that sometimes happens, it cost me the life there. 

 Q. Your Ryder Cup place is now secure, how much does that mean to you? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, it means a lot, the history now, I'm here now. I've got my chances there and coming here, I get my spot. Very happy for all of the things happening, very important to me and I'm glad to be part of the team again. 

 Q. Will your nephew be pleased your in The Ryder Cup? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: He will be very pleased, even more pleased if I won the tournament.

 Q. Have you ever missed a short putt?
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's not the first time. I missed a similar thing when I won in '98 -- or 2008 in Wentworth, I missed a putt, but that was put in properly. 

 Q. Was that because you were in someone's line?
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I don't want to put my feet on his line, and the position is too far away, and I never thought he's going to putt it out. No, the putt is that way, that much. 

 Q. Don't do it at Celtic Manor. 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: That's a gimmie. (Laughter).

 Q. You can still win the tournament --
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I still can. For sure it would be if that thing happens -- it's not that thing, that thing because I'm frustrated off the tea, I'm supposed to hit eight, not seven, and the ball is in this floppy grass and I cannot make contact, you cannot make a full swing.
 Then the first putt is dying, missed the line, and everything is from the beginning not on the right track. If you hit 8-iron right in the middle, nothing happens. Three or four, minus nine, other people work. 

 Q. Has it been hard to concentrate with what's taking place today? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's tough this morning when all of the wind, I think, okay, windy, I like to play in the wind, you know, I'd like to play on the wind and now all of the opportunity is there, and you know, if I play decent, it will be that. 

 Q. Will you have a rest now?
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I'm going to play Switzerland, I'm going to play my 22nd time in a row in Switzerland, but then I change my schedule because I'm supposed to play Holland and I cancel Holland because I cannot play everything. So it's better I play next week, cancel Holland, play Austria, week off again and go for Ryder Cup. 

 Q. Does it mean more, the older you get? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, it means probably -- every time means more and more. You're more introduced in the game, you're more introduced to the sport, and you know that you are now with a new era of players. I was here when Seve, Faldo, Langer, Torrance, and now all of these players on top, I see them win majors and things and they are now on the Senior Tour. 
 Now I see the McIlroys and Kaymers coming, I see three generations. Now to be with them on The Ryder Cup means a lot. 

 Q. Is it more important to make this team than when you make the first Ryder Cup Team, or is the first --
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Always the first is very important, because when you break the thing is when you realise that everything is possible, always. But to me, every one is very important, every single one, you cannot compare. You have two sons, you know, you don't want to compare which one you love more. At the especially, compare is no good. I think the best thing to do is everything is beautiful and nice. 

 Q. You've won in France and Dubai, and possibly you could win today, too. Been a good year for you, hasn't it?
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, happy with the way I play all through the year, and here we are. 

 Q. Will you play the week before The Ryder Cup? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: No. I'm going to play next week, I never miss that tournament. I will miss Holland, and play Austria. I don't want to stay two or three weeks away before The Ryder Cup. 

 Q. Do you think you helped Monty by qualifying at all in relation to his picks? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Of course it helps because I am playing well. I know you are British press and I know you would like all the British players coming there -- I don't know what you are going to say --

 Q. He doesn't care about The Ryder Cup at all. 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Being here all through the week, it's going to be very hard for Monty to decide. 

 Q. But you've done Monty a favour?
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I think so. 

 Q. You've played with Harrington in the past. 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Yeah, in my first one. You never know. 

 Q. You've always had a lot of guts, but with what you've done this week, have you ever shown more guts to yourself? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, this week, I'm coming with a special purpose. 

 Q. As tired as you were on Sunday flying home from the Czech Open, you were weighing up the figures and then you took a flight here, were you on the flight thinking, what am I doing this for, do I really need this? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Nobody needs to do nothing in this life. You know, you can sit in any place and look how the days and the hours are going through your life. But everything is not -- you know, it's not the way. 
 It's not for what we are here. We are here to learn, and it's very important -- I think it's very important the decisions we make, because I want to do something, and then you think the thing you have to do is doing, and don't sit there and look what happened. You have to make part of your life.

 Q. It looks as though you could have stayed home?
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I could have stayed home but as soon as I finish and I'm travelling to the airport, I say, you're going to play, you cannot miss the thing because you cannot leave in somebody's hands. You have to lead your life. And my family and my nephew and everybody is behind, and says, that's what you have to do, and that's what I did and here we are. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT