JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 25, 2010
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Miguel, many thanks for joining us. Welcome to Gleneagles. Maybe start us off, obviously you're a very late entry, just explain your decision to come here, please.
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: The decision is to come here is three possible guys that can jump in over me for the spot, the ninth spot; I am now in The Ryder Cup. And I decide to come here as I explained to my family, and they said that they should go here and what happened, I'm supposed to go to a wedding next Saturday. It's my nephew, he is getting married, and, well, my nephew just told me that they didn't want to see me anymore at the wedding, go to Scotland and be on the team, but they are waiting for a present, that is what they said. 
 I am here and that is what happened and I'm ready now. I'm in good a position and I want to be on the team. I think this is one of my last chances probably to be on the team, and hopefully six, and I think that I decide to come here and try to save my spot. 
 Whatever happens, happens, but I can't let the thing happen up to wild card. Anyway, even if I were resting at home this week, I would be jumping on the sofa. I think it's better to be here than to be jumping or whatever.

 Q. You how difficult of a decision was it for you to come here or was your mind made up when you knew The Ryder Cup Team --
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Difficult, because I was planning a week off, as well, because I was coming from the states and I played two weeks in a row, and I wanted to have this one off and playing next week and the week after, and then two weeks off and then the Ryder Cup; it seems like things were going that way. Now I have to change the plans. It's difficult, with my kids, with my son, moving around, and school is starting in a couple of weeks. So everything is moving and everything gets affected, but it's a decision to make. But I made the right one.

 Q. What present did you get your nephew for the wedding?
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I haven't bought it yet. But I'm going to send a Maserati just in case he decides not to get married and run (laughter). 

 Q. And if you do make the team, who do you see as the natural playing partners you could pair with? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, you know, I can play with anyone. It's not a problem. I can fit to any player. I didn't think about it yet. You know, I can play with anyone, and I can have fun on the golf course with anyone. 

 Q. Do you think it's worrying for the future of The Ryder Cup and for the team at Celtic Manor this October that so many players that could have qualified for the team aren't here this week?
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, I think The Ryder Cup is solid itself. Obviously it's one of the more important sporting events in the world, so whatever people are not coming here, this will not affect to The Ryder Cup itself. I think The Ryder Cup is very special, and I think that it's very, very possible that it's a tournament that people loves to see and loves to play. The Ryder Cup itself I don't think is going to be affected at all. 

 Q. What about The European Team? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: And The European Team, I don't think we are going to be affected. We are going to have not only a couple of players -- we will have more than a couple of players, I think we will be very good; and we will be in contention and we will bring the trophy contention, that is what we want and we are wishing. It's a personal decision to come or not come to this tournament here. 

 Q. You said you made a hard and difficult decision to come here and play, it's not ideal for you; do you find it hard to understand the players that decide not to come here? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: That is something you have to ask to them, what is best for them. For me, The Ryder Cup, it means a lot, it's because I'm here. People can say whatever they want to, but it's not important because I'm here and I try to be on the team. The rest of the guy, I don't know, it's something you have to ask to them. I am not inside their skins. 

 Q. How spoken to Monty, and has he congratulated you on being here? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, I saw him yesterday and he said, "Thank you for coming here and making the effort." We were talking yesterday. 

 Q. And what else did he say? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I said, "It's good to be here because if I do not make the team by myself, I believe I am not going to be on the team." That's what I said, what I told him. 

 Q. You said that to him? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I said, yes. 

 Q. And what did he say? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: Thank you. 

 Q. Thank you; what a direct answer? 
 MIGUEL ÁNGEL JIMÉNEZ: I believe so. I see that -- you see the list and you see the list there, there's too many good players that is not in. And if I get enough, it could happen, you never know, it's going to be a problem, because I'm playing well and I'm hitting the ball very well. I'm playing very well. I mean, you can see in the last few tournaments and it's going to be a problem because we are going to have another decision to pick. That's how I see, for Colin is going to have three or four players to choose. But it's not that because I'm coming; I'm coming here because of me. I know people have said they are coming here, I believe he wants me on the team but he doesn't want me as one of the guys to pick. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Miguel, thank you very much for joining us. Good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT