MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Miguel Angel Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good round. Can you give us some general comments about how the course is playing out there?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: The course is playing beautiful today. It's a beautiful day, not much wind. Yesterday a little, little bit. But the golf course condition is superb. That's the way it is, yeah.

 Q. How about the pins?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, the pins, there are some pins that are tucked like they always have been here in the Masters, and you have to play very well and you need to focus on hitting good shots and being below the hole.

 Q. Are the greens getting faster?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: It's fast. It's fast. It's almost about the same all the week. They're getting a little harder but very similar all week.

 Q. Did anything turn around for you today in your round?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: No, been playing very well all day. Started making birdie on the 2nd and 3rd hole there and then making another birdie on the 8th, and made another three on the back nine to get to 15 there.

 Q. How is the back nine playing?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: You know, the back nine is -- you have two sides of the coin, because if you're playing well and you're playing the par-5s well you can make birdies, this and that, and make a couple putts. But at the same time you make the risk of putting the ball in the water and you think that you kill yourself. But for me, I am on the right side of the coin; I started with a bogey at 11, the only bogey made today, and then birdie at 14th, eagle at 15th, and a birdie on the 16th. 

 Q. You have so far like one of the low rounds of the day. Is it frustrating for you that it comes on Sunday? 
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: Well, it's better to come at the beginning of the week and then you just have to fight for the title. But to have a good round on a good golf course here, even in the last round, is always nice.

 Q. What got you going today?
 MIGUEL ANGEL JIMÉNEZ: I just enjoyed myself on a fun golf course. That's the key. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT