NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 1, 2002
Mike York
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Have you asked any of the other guys what to expect, totally new experience for you obviously?

MIKE YORK:  Not really.  I mean, playing with Brian, Mike, they know it's an intense competition.  Like I said, it's a short amount of time.  It's kind of whatever team really comes together and gels quickly, I guess. 


Q.  You and Mario (inaudible)?

MIKE YORK:  No, no.  I think he's doing pretty good by himself.  It's kind of like your first training camp all over again when you walk in the dressing room. 


Q.  Kind of sit there with your mouth open?

MIKE YORK:  Exactly.  It's one after another, too. 


Q.  With all three of the goaltenders on the world team playing in the Olympics and expected to start, do you think it's like an opportunity to scout them a bit before the games start?

MIKE YORK:  I don't know.  This game is obviously a little bit more offensive than it is defensive.  I think obviously you play the teams quite a bit throughout the year.  A little bit more of a scouting opportunity than this would be. 


Q.  Can you talk about how you felt when you got the phone call when you found out you were officially named to the Olympic team?

MIKE YORK:  I was really excited.  Kind of a little bit of a break. 


Q.  We talked to Chelios.  He's kind of a veteran.  You're getting your first taste of the Olympics.  What's going on deep down?

MIKE YORK:  It's an exciting time obviously.  This weekend probably won't be as intense.  This is more kind of a fun weekend, go out and enjoy yourself, then we go back to the regular season for a couple weeks, then it's time for the Olympics.


Q.  Playing so close to ground zero in New York, then the Salt Lake Olympics on our home soil, are you anticipating a lot of emotion from the US crowd?

MIKE YORK:  I think obviously the tragic events that happened, it's going to be special, anytime that the Olympics are in your country, but I think it will be a little extra special.


Q.  Are you excited to have the wider skating surface?

MIKE YORK:  Yeah, it will be a little bit different.  Obviously it takes some getting used to, the angles.  Just have to get used to it pretty quick.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT