BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 9, 2003
Hilary Lunke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR:   Hilary, thank you for joining us.  Congratulations, wonderful win, and I'm sure you're probably tired, but very excited.  So if you want to kind of tell us how you feel right now?
HILARY LUNKE:   Yeah, I feel a little better today.  I got a good night's sleep last night.  Yesterday I showed up here at the golf course, didn't take a shower, didn't put on any makeup.  Just came right out of the hotel just thinking I could come here and register and get out of here.  I was definitely wrong about that.  (Laughing).
I've never walked into a parking lot and had that happen to me before, but it's a fun experience.  I'm learning as I go along and happy to be here. 

Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about what you've done? 
HILARY LUNKE:   Yeah, Tylar just said to me this morning, "I can't believe it's only Wednesday and you won on Monday."  It just seems like so much has happened since then.  Basically, just had a celebration in Portland with a bunch of my friends that night.  They rented out the basement of a restaurant downtown and threw a big party.  Then started driving up here, just talking to newspapers and doing interviews and calling home and talking to all of my friends.  My e-mail box has filled up two or three times.  My voicemail box has filled up two or three times.  I'll leave my phone off for three hours and call and find out I have 18 new messages.  Just trying to make sure I talk to all of my friends and do what I need to do. 

Q.  Have you been able to sleep?
HILARY LUNKE:   I did.  Finally, last night, got a great night's sleep.  One thing I haven't been able to do is prepare for this golf tournament, (laughing), and that's kind of a goal for me this afternoon.  I have to postpone it until late this afternoon and actually try to go walk the course today and maybe hit a few putts and figure out the speed of the greens here and try to hit a few balls, if I can. 
I haven't hit a shot since I made that putt on 18 on Monday.  So I'm not exactly prepared to tee off tomorrow, but I'm going to try to do that this afternoon. 

Q.  Have you ever been to the Vancouver area?
HILARY LUNKE:   No, I'm really excited to be here.  A bunch of people came up to me and said, "I can't believe you're here this week, I can't believe you're going to play."  I was so excited come to Vancouver.   It was one of the tournaments I was looking most forward the entire year.  It's such a neat area.
I enjoyed playing in this event last year in Montreal, and I'm excited.  We are going to have to try to find some time to go downtown and check everything out here while we're here. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT