U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2003
Hilary Lunke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







RHONDA GLENN: How do you feel right now?  You've done the press interviews, and you must be flying high.
HILARY LUNKE:  I feel like I have to come back tomorrow.  I feel like it's not over.  It hasn't sunk in yet at all.  It's just -- I'm kind of in a daze. 

Q.  First of all, congratulations on winning.  The question is, how close were you to not playing golf this year?  Last year you were a conditional player, and I'm not sure of this, but you were on the cusp of having to go back to Q-School?
HILARY LUNKE:  I did go back to Q-School.  I missed retaining a conditional card by like $10 or something.  I only got to play in ten events last year, and I made 7 cuts, I played pretty well, but just missed I think top 125 to retain my conditional card.  I did have to go back to Q-School.  And actually went back to Q-School with a lot of pressure on me, because there's no safety net where you can fall on to the Futures Tour.  And unfortunately I wasn't going to be able to go to Futures Tour qualifying, because my wedding was planned that same weekend.  So I had the pressure of knowing if I missed the cut at Q-School, I was out of golf for a year.  There was nowhere I could play.  I could play players west or something like that.  I just tried not to think about that.  I went back to Q-School and luckily got my exempt card.

Q.  If this had been say the NCAA basketball tournament, where would you have been seeded coming into the week?
HILARY LUNKE:  Well, let's see there's 156 players, I guess probably maybe 40th, 50th, something like that.  I mean I would -- I would have thought I would definitely make the cut.  The U.S. Open courses are suited to my game, so I'd like to think if I had played my game I would definitely have made the cut.  And it was just a pleasant surprise that I ended up the way that I did, because my game really -- I does not have a hundred percent of my ball-striking this week, but I had 150 percent of my putter.  And that's what brought me through.
RHONDA GLENN:  Also we might mention that Hilary did go through local qualifying, and then the 36 hole sectional qualifying. 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
HILARY LUNKE:  I paced my putts so I generally have a pretty good idea.  It was 15 feet today.  I think I was 18 feet yesterday.  So just a little bit longer, maybe a little bit more break in this putt.  They say the hardest putt to make an is straight putt.  So maybe yesterday it was a little bit uphill and it was pretty straight, so I just didn't give it enough.  And today you just kind of had to let it go and hope that you read the break right.  And I did.

Q.  Today was 15?
HILARY LUNKE:  Today was 15.  I was closer today than I was yesterday. 

Q.  The last putt, just as the ball got closer to the hole, must have known it was going in with about two feet to go.  The emotions you felt.  You showed a ton of it out there, seeing family members, take us through that whole process?
HILARY LUNKE:  I can barely even remember hitting the putt.  I was just trying to trust my stroke, trust the fact that I've holed putts like that, I hole putts like that all the time when I play golf.  And this is a 15-footer for birdie on the last hole, you have this kind of stuff all the time.  And when it took off my putter I knew it had a great chance of going in.  When it had about three or four feet to go I didn't know if it was going to break.  I thought maybe I'd hit it up there a little too high, and it started curling in and I just said, just go in, and it went right in the center.  So I was just thrilled.  And then to look up and see -- I could see a lot of my friends directly up behind me in the stands, and just to hear the roar of the crowd.  I heard that roar twice for Angela, and to hear it for me was just a real experience.

Q.  You made light of the fact when you sat down about how many of us believed we would see you sitting here.  But really how many people out there, nonfamily members and friends, do you think believed you could win?
HILARY LUNKE:  I don't really know.  I know my coaches would think that I could do it.  I know that they know I have a lot of tenacity.  I know that anyone who played on the golf team with me at Stanford would think I could do it.  But other than that, I don't know how many people really knew that much about my game or knew anything about me.  And it was just important that I believed in myself and God pulled me through it.  And I believed in Him.  I didn't need other people to believe in me but it was nice if they did, if they did believe in me, I was happy.

Q.  When Angela hit her putt, what was going through your head, it was like, oh, no, here we go again or can you talk us through that?
HILARY LUNKE:  I had an immense feeling that she was going to make that putt, the exact same feeling came over me that came over me yesterday on the 18th green, although yesterday I don't think I was quite as prepared to hit my putt in response to that.  I think I learned a lot from that yesterday.  I had a feeling she was going to make it, but I wasn't focusing on my putt and what I needed to do.  That's what I did today.  I got that same feeling, and I tried to focus on my line and just really concentrate on trying to make it, because I really had a feeling she was going to make it.  As soon as the ball took off from her putter face, I knew it had a chance.  She got the speed right, and as long as she had gotten the read right it had a great chance.  And when it was about three feet away I knew it was in.  And I just kind of locked in, looking at my line, and just said, forget it, you're standing on 18, you're playing stroke-play, you've played great all day and you've putted 18 to be under par today, let's knock this in.

Q.  You started playing golf, the first 18 holes you shot about 124, and within about two years you broke 70 at the Girls' Junior.  Tell us a little bit about who was teaching you the game then, how you went about learning it so fast, particularly in the place where you're snowed out a good part of the season?
HILARY LUNKE:  My dad was the biggest influence on me in starting to play.  I played a ton of other sports growing up, I didn't play golf.  But to make money I caddied for my dad on weekends, and learned a lot about the game that way.  Even though I didn't start until I was 13, it was not like the first time I ever saw a golf club in my life.  I had hit balls on the range before, I had tinkered around with it a little bit.  But I decided I wanted to try golf.  And I went out and shot 120 something the first time I ever played 18.  And people said that was very respect I believe.  I didn't think anything of it.  I thought that's pretty good.  And I think that within about 60 days, I think I shot a 89.  And people just said -- well, the first time I broke a hundred was very quickly after I shot that 124, and people said wow, you really broke a hundred fast.  And then I shot a 89 to break 90.  And then I shot a 79.  And then I shot -- and when I shot the 79 my mom pulled me aside and she said, you know, Hil, I know you broke a hundred real fast, and I know you broke 90 real fast and you sure broke 80 real fast, but it's going to be a long time until you break 70, don't rush it.  Turns out I shot a 69 soon thereafter.  And continued to shoot about 85 or 86 as my average round.  But wrote to college coaches, hoping someone saw potential in me.  My junior year in high school, I was really just starting to be a decent player, start to go break 80 routinely.  Nowadays I don't think I would have gotten almost a single college coach to answer a letter.  But I was hoping that someone saw the potential, someone saw the rapid improvement that I had and the love for the game that I had, and just stuck with the coaches that believed in me.  And I ended up going to Stanford and turned into an okay player.

Q.  Who was the first person to get to you on 18, and what was the first thing you said?
HILARY LUNKE:  I don't even remember.  I think Tylar was the first person to get to me, I think he tapped me on the shoulder and said, hey, remember me, I'm here.  And I just hugged him and screamed.  I don't think I said anything to anybody.  I think I was just screaming and crying.  And when I saw my mom come over and she just kept saying, I can't believe it, I can't believe it, I can't believe it.  And I said neither can I. 
RHONDA GLENN:  What did you say to Angela, do you recall or what did she say to you.
HILARY LUNKE:  I said thank you.  I said I can't believe you did that to me, made me make that.  And I said I knew that was going in.  And she said you may have known it, but I didn't know it was going in.  And they were just great playing competitors, we had a ball out there today.

Q.  For most of this tournament there's been some pretty intense pressure, and you've been able to keep your emotions in check with not a lot of fist pumping, and not a lot of screaming.  Can you talk about being do that, and what a relief it was to let it go finally on that last hole?
HILARY LUNKE:  Yeah, for me it is important to keep my emotions in check.  I just had to keep myself in the present out there, just literally play my own game.  And if I was out here just playing, I wouldn't be fist pumping, and I wouldn't be screaming when I made these clutch putts for par.  I would be happy that I made them and thank the people that said good shot and kind of go about my business as I usually do.  And that's what I tried to do for most of the round.  I really didn't let myself fully believe the fact that I was in a playoff to win the U.S. Open until that last putt went in.  I kept tricking my mind saying you're just playing golf, you're just playing golf, another day of golf, the way you always do it.  When that putt started to go into 18 I think I finally acknowledged the fact, the gravity of the situation, and what I'd really done.  And it was a huge relief to just let it all out, and let out a big yell and finally give a big fist pump.

Q.  You and Tylar, as Stanford golfers and husband and wife, have a special pedigree or connection, can you talk about meeting him the first time, court go him and marrying him and what's it like having two excellent golfers married to each other?
HILARY LUNKE:  He was the very first person I met at Stanford, my mom and I drove up to campus and we went to Carolyn's office to get my freshman orientation pack.  And the men's team was leaving to go to an event.  And he came in and introduced himself to me.  He was the only player who did that and I thought that was kind of cool that he did that.  And I thought he was cute.  And I guess he thought I was cute, too.  And we just started talking, started hanging out.  We had a lot of similar classes together, so we formed a study group with some other friends, and kind of turned into dating after a few weeks.  And he stuck with me and proposed not long after I graduated.  And we got married in November.  And I'm so thrilled that he was here with me when this happened.

Q.  Do you guys play a lot of golf together?
HILARY LUNKE:  Not really.  That's really interesting, one of my good friends, Stephanie Louden, one of my teammates at Stanford, she always couldn't believe how Tylar and I would never play golf together, because I'd come home from a tournament, the last thing I wanted to do was play golf, when I got to hang out with him.  We'd do all kinds of other stuff.  He barely knew my game when he came out a month ago to caddy for me.  I had to give him a cheat sheet of what my game is like, and how far each club goes, what clubs I have, the ranges I would use them from, so that he felt like he could answer me if I asked him an advice question.  Otherwise we're standing over a shot from 150 yards and he says what do you think, 6-iron, he's going, whoa, I'd hit a wedge.  And so I had to teach him a little bit about my game, but he adapted really quickly, and has gotten to know my game really well and was really supportive of it.

Q.  There's been a lot of talk recently about foreign players, and dominating the Tour and everything.  I wonder, it's been I think 12 years since an American woman won this championship when she was in her 20s.  I wonder what that means to you, as an American and what you think about American women's golf?
HILARY LUNKE:  I'm thrilled, obviously.  There's one thing I said last night is, hey, we're going to have an American champion in the U.S. Open, no matter what happens.  I'm thrilled that I can represent the United States in that way.  And it's an exciting feeling for me.  I think American women's golf is in great shape.  I think a lot of people have been critical, saying, oh, you know, there was this long streak where only foreign players were winning on the LPGA, and I think it was blown out of proportion.  I think there are great players from all over the world and we welcome them.  I'm very excited that they're here on the LPGA, we have the best talent in women's golf in the entire world, it's not an American Tour, it's an International Tour.  And I'm proud to be a part of that and it means even more to be the champion here.

Q.  You made this prediction that this would be your first -- the U.S. Open would be your first tournament win.  Have you been good at making predictions all your life and what is maybe the next prediction?
HILARY LUNKE:  I said if I ever win a tournament it will be the U.S. Open.  I've said that since -- my dad has said that to me since I very first started golf.  And I don't know how good I am at making predictions.  I knew Angela was going to make that putt, I could have told anybody that.  It's just an absolute dream.  I don't think I could have predicted this, and I don't think anybody else was.

Q.  You alluded to this earlier, but I'm curious, what was Tylar's first reaction when you handed him that cheat sheet and saw you were hitting 6-iron from 150?
HILARY LUNKE:  He was okay with it.  He could tell -- I think we played one or two practice rounds before I gave him that sheet, so he had a little feel for women's golf, and obviously the fact that we hit it shorter than the men.  I don't think he quite knew how much shorter I am than the average woman, even.  But he just wanted to get a grasp on what clubs I hit from where, so he could help me out.  I don't think -- I'm not drastically short.  I'm probably on a par-3, I probably only hit one club, maybe one and a half clubs more than the average player.  So, yeah, he was fine with it.  He just wanted to make sure he had a grasp on it.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
HILARY LUNKE:  He teased me about that for a long time.  I got that towards the end of the season last year.  I think he told me it looks like a garden shovel.  But once he saw the way I hit it, he loved that club as much as I do.  And he said, I defy anybody to hit a 4-iron as good as you hit that 11 wood. 

Q.  Is there any particular shot early in the round that you've got or were you calm right from the start?
HILARY LUNKE:  I was pretty calm right from the start.  I had a good feeling with that putt rolled in on 4, because I was just trying to give myself -- get myself up-and-down those first couple of holes and save par.  And that was really my first even adequate look at birdie.  And when that went in, that really calmed me down.  And I said, okay, four holes, 1-under, playing golf, stroke-play, here we go.  And definitely when I hit that shot on 7, where the ball was at my belly button, that was a very scary shot for me at that point, hitting my fourth shot into the green, hoping I could get it anywhere near the green, and just hoping I didn't pop it straight up or hit it straight sideways, and go in one of those bunkers or something.  When that shot took off and I executed exactly the way I had seen it in my mind, that was a huge, huge relief for me.  And I just tried to move on from there.

Q.  What was your yardage there, No. 10?
HILARY LUNKE:  I have no idea.  Maybe around 170, 180. 

Q.  What did you use?
HILARY LUNKE:  11 wood. 

Q.  I think your dad said you carry, in addition to the driver, a 3, 7, 9 and 11 wood?
HILARY LUNKE:  Uh-huh.

Q.  Can you talk about the distances you hit those clubs and where you use those today?
HILARY LUNKE:  Yeah, I drive it -- I probably only fly my driver about 205, maybe 210, and depending on what kind of course I'm playing, you can figure out the roll from there.  I don't know what my average is this year, maybe 230 something, 240 at the max.  3-wood I can generally, off the tee, I can easily carry it 195 to 200 yards, off the ground probably 190, 195.  And my 7-wood is probably 180 to 185.  My 9-wood is 170 to 175.  And my 11-wood is usually around 165.  This week the greens are so firm and everything around the firms is so firm, I was hitting it from 170, 175, 180.  I considered dropping my 9-wood a couple of times, because they're all pretty close right in there.  But for me, as a short hitter, the majority of shots I hit on Tour are between 160 and 180 yards.  So I'd rather have as many clubs as I can in that area as opposed to maybe in some other areas, because I don't have to hit it from 140, 150 all that often. 
RHONDA GLENN:  What's the longest iron that you carry.
HILARY LUNKE:  5.

Q.  Your parents names have come up a few times, your father's name is Bill, and what's your mother's name?
HILARY LUNKE:  My mother's name is Penny, my father is an independent insurance agent and he has an insurance agency back in Minneapolis, he's partners with John Harris, who is a USGA Amateur champion and Walker Cup player, and plays on the Senior Tour now.  It's a golf insurance business.  So he has a lot of time off to come and travel with me, which is nice.  And my mom basically is a homemaker.  She sells replica jewelry on the side.

Q.  What's your dad's name?
HILARY LUNKE:  Bill.

Q.  People raved about your short game all week.  I just want to know is it usually this good or was it even better this week than normal?
HILARY LUNKE:  I'd say it was better this week than normal.  The short game by far is the best part of my game, no questions asked.  I don't think I necessarily chipped and pitched that much better than I normally do, it's just that almost every putt went in, that was of -- under ten feet.  I made almost everything, the whole week.  Maybe not the first round, I left a lot out there.  But I think I missed one three footer yesterday and I felt like I hit a good putt on it, I hit it too hard and it lipped out.  So that was the key difference, I think.  I didn't feel like I was chipping out of my mind or anything like that, I was chipping it and pitching it and hitting bunker shots the same way I always do, it was just that I was making every single 6 and 8-footer, instead of maybe only two thirds of them the way I normally would.

Q.  I guess you've just moved into the house or you're about to.  Can you tell me, are you even settled and why the move?
HILARY LUNKE:  We're definitely not settled, we just bought it last week, our stuff is still in a storage unit in Austin, Texas.  We actually don't even close on the house until August 15th, and won't be moving in until September.  We're far from settled, but it's nice now to have a little cushion, knowing that we can make all the mortgage payments this year, no problem.  The move was because of Tylar.  He's been accepted at the University of Texas business school, which is a great business school.  He was thrilled to be accepted and was just pretty much automatic that we were going to move there once he got in.

Q.  Have you picked out a course or anything like that down there?
HILARY LUNKE:  No, hopefully it will be easier now, to have someone let me practice there.  I was worried about finding a course that wouldn't mind if I practiced.  So, no, there's tons of good golf courses in Austin, and hopefully I'll be able to have a few privileges at some of them, practice and play and prepare.

Q.  How much of the prize money are you going to use for down payment on the house?
HILARY LUNKE:  We haven't figured that out yet.  We were talking about it last night, after we knew that I was at least going to make some money today, of a pretty good magnitude.  We'll have to sit down and figure it out with our mortgage broker.  It's definitely a change from the original plan, though, that's for sure.

Q.  How do you spell your husband's name?
HILARY LUNKE:  T-y-l-a-r.

Q.  Hilary, you've known Angela for a little longer, and played with her the last few days, what were your thoughts on her game, and just her opportunity to become one of the I guess elite American players in the next 4, 5, 6, 7 years?
HILARY LUNKE:  I'm extremely impressed with Angela's game, always have been.  She was a four time All-American, maybe a four time first team All-American at TCU.  I've always been impressed with it.  I think she's a solid player.  She's solid under pressure.  Her ball flight is so assist tent.  She always hits a solid, kind of boring draw shot.  And I think when she won last week, I was sitting back in Texas with Tylar's aunt and uncle and parents watching her win.  And I cried when she came up the 18th hole, I was so happy for her.  And it really did stir something inside of me.  I thought, you know, if she can win, I can win.  And she's got a tremendous game, and maybe I don't have as great of a game as she does, but I know I have just as much tenacity.  I thought if she's out here and pretty much just blew away the field, I can go out there and get myself in contention, too.  I didn't think it would be this week, necessarily.  But she did inspire me a lot last week.  And even more so this week, because if you watch how tournament winners tend to perform the following week, it's not usually that great.  It's just -- you kind of emotionally let down after that event.  And to come into the Women's Open having just come off a win and to perform the way that she did is just remarkable.

Q.  Do you think after she made the chip at 14 that perhaps that she had grabbed the momentum?
HILARY LUNKE:  Absolutely, when she made that chip, I thought maybe it's her day, maybe this is the way it's supposed to be.  And I was prepared to accept that if that was the way it was going to be, but I was going to fight it out.  And I was going to make sure that I put in my best effort.  And when we made the turn after No. 11 I thought if I make all pars I'll win.  And I bogeyed 12, unfortunately, but after that, par go 13, par go 14, which is an extremely difficult hole, you usually don't think you're going to lose ground.  And when I lost ground I thought all I can do is play my game, play it to the best of my ability, try to make everything I can, and if she comes off the winner, I can't look back on it with any regrets.

Q.  I guess you're the first one that qualified for the U.S. Open and won.  Do you think you'll encourage other players that have to go through qualifying?
HILARY LUNKE:  I hope so.  I was disappointed when I had to qualify this year.  It's a long process to qualify for the championship.  I think I was a little frustrated because I knew if I got in here that I could do well and I could make the cut and I could make some decent money for myself.  So it was a frustrating process.  But I hope I am an encouragement to people who have to qualify.  I was back there at the very beginning, at the local qualifier, playing 18 holes, and just start from scratch and do the best you can.  And there's a lot of people that could do the same thing, I know they can. 
RHONDA GLENN:  You know, you're exempt until the next ten Women's Open Championships. 
Q.  You looked so calm throughout the day, and it came spilling out of you, all the emotion came spilling out of you.  I wonder if you could describe what the mental, emotional battle was like inside?
HILARY LUNKE:  It was a battle, that's what it was.  It was me fighting myself.  When I hit the tee shot on 18 I was pumped and I started walking down that little wooden pathway they have there in the weeds where you're hidden from everybody.  And my mind kind of started wandering a little bit, like, wow, what if I win, how much money is it again?  How many -- I'm exempt for how long?  And what's the deal, here?  What will I do?  What will we do tonight?  And then I just kind of cut myself off, and said make birdie, here.  You're coming in, stroke-play, you're even par for the day, you want to break par.  And I was also trying to play the angle with myself, that you're playing match play, and you're playing against Angela Stanford, she's going to birdie this hole.  You have to birdie it to beat her.  I was fighting my with myself in my mind walking up the fairway.  I was excited to be in the position I was.  I was so thankful being one shot ahead going into the last hole as opposed to being tied, because I did have a huge feeling that Angela would make birdie there, knowing the player that she is.  So I was mentally fighting myself all day long, just trying to trick myself into thinking I was playing a regular 18 holes of golf, and it didn't have anything to do with winning anything.

Q.  You haven't gone through your card, but could you highlight what you consider the two or three key holes that won you the U.S. Open today?
HILARY LUNKE:  Well, first of all on No. 5 I was trying to hit a choke down 11-wood, I didn't feel so good about trying to fly my 5-iron back there, and I under cut it a little, and I got an incredible bounce, just right on to the front fringe.  It was an inch away from going in the water, probably.  So that was a huge hole.  That I felt like put momentum in my direction.
7, like I said before, when I was hitting that shot with the ball up above me, felt like it could have gone anywhere.  And when it took off, the way I had intended, I thought that was a good sign.
I think 11 and 12, 11 I kind of had gotten myself in trouble with my tee shot and my second shot and I hit an incredible shot into the green, had a pretty standard little downhill 30-footer, and ran it 8 feet by.  That could have been a huge turning point.  But I tried to focus on -- my husband said, just focus and this is the 8-footer you wanted.

Q.  What was the club in the fairway?
HILARY LUNKE:  11-wood.

Q.  For how far?
HILARY LUNKE:  It was 178 or 180, something like that.  And making that putt for bogey on No. 12 was huge after Angela made that birdie putt.  I didn't make a double bogey the entire championship, and I was very proud of that fact and I was not excited to be standing over a sliding 8 foot putt for bogey at that point.  But when I made that, I think that was a key point, as well.  You know, coming in the last couple of holes I was just kind of making, for me, routine pars.  I felt like I hit a great shot into 13, 14, 15, and 16 I pulled it just a little bit and kind of hit it into the bank and it didn't come up on the green the way I anticipated.  It was a pretty standard little up-and-down for me, 2-putt on 17 and then the birdie on 18. 
RHONDA GLENN:  What are you going to do tonight?
HILARY LUNKE:  I don't know.  I'm supposed to drive to Vancouver.  So I don't know if I'll change my plans or not.  But I'm playing in the Canadian Open this week.  And I'm supposed to meet my private housing people tonight.  So we'll have some fun.  I don't know what we'll do.

Q.  What was your distance on 18, into the green?
HILARY LUNKE:  I had 51 yards total.  I was a little downwind and I knew the green was firm, I was trying to play it about 45 yards in my head. 
RHONDA GLENN:  Ladies and gentlemen, our 2003 United States Women's Open Champion. 
HILARY LUNKE:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT