MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 12, 2009
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all very much for coming in. Nicole, great round today. It was a little up-and-down, you had a double-bogey on your third hole, but you came back. Did you ever think that even par would be in the lead for you?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: I thought if I could get it back to even for the day I could get close to the lead. The course was playing tougher today. The pins were very tucked. There was a little bit more wind, so it made the pins hard to get to, especially like I mentioned yesterday, you're coming in with mid- to long-irons, and even some rescue clubs and fairway woods at times. So it's hard to get really aggressive.   
 No. 12, I hit 6-iron in the water; made double. Then I dropped and hit a pitching wedge on the green and 2-putted from about 20 feet.   
 14, I hit a little 7-iron and 3-putted from 12 feet.   
 15, I hit a sand wedge to less than a foot.   
 No. 1, I hit pitching wedge to six feet.   
 No. 7, I hit 7-iron to about 35 feet.   
  
  Q. Could you talk about your mind-set after you finished the 14th hole and how you managed to stay patient the rest of the way?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Definitely obviously was not the ideal start but going into 14, I had made one bad swing, Craig kept reminding me that other than that one bad swing, I'm still hitting pretty good. Hit a bad putt on 14, and I knew I had a lot of birdie opportunities coming in. Like I mentioned, the course was playing tougher, and I knew that.   
 So I figured I could at least get a couple more birdies coming in. So it was just all about staying patient. You know, I didn't quite have it today, and so was able to grind out an even-par round under these conditions, which is good.   
  
  Q. How do you approach going into the weekend, halfway there? At most you'll be one shot off the lead or probably hold a share of it.   
 NICOLE CASTRALE: You know, I approach it whether it's going into Saturday, Sunday, if it's a major, not a major; my goal tomorrow is to get the first tee shot in the fairway and go from there.   
 I probably sound like a broken record but fairways and greens, really comes down to that and making as few of putts as possible and see what happens. Like I said, I can only do it the best I can; and if my best is good after 72 holes, great, that's all I can say. If someone else can play better than me and can win -- I can't control what anyone else is doing out there.   
  
  Q. If this course continues to dry out, how is that going to affect play?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: You know, we may have one or two shorter irons into greens, but you know, I don't anticipate it getting firm by any means. So you know, we may instead of getting one yard of roll on our tee shot, we may get six yards. So I don't see it changing a whole lot. It's really up to the rules officials at this point how much tougher they want to make the pins. And I don't know if it's supposed to be windy the next couple of days. That's really the only thing that could change things.   
  
  Q. If you are off to not a great start like you were today, does your husband try to keep it light, or does he just -- all he does is encourage you or is there anything, something to lighten the moment with you?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: No, I'm a pretty intense player, so, I mean, we are not going to -- it's not going to be just kind of random talk. You know, it's business out there.   
 Like I said, I hit one bad shot that really cost me at the wrong time, and you know, I'm not going to dwell on that. I still hit a lot of good shots out there to be able to come back and shoot even.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT