LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 13, 2008
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's get started with your card. Birdie on No. 1. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Made birdie on 1. I hit a gap wedge to about ten feet and made it for birdie. 
 No. 7, I hit a grip 9-iron to eight feet and made it for birdie. 
 17, I hit 5-wood to three feet and made it for birdie. 
 18, I hit sand wedge to about six inches and made it for birdie. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Great round today. Bogey-free, 4-under, and right now you're tied for the lead. We'll see where that ends up at the end of the day. If you would, just talk about your day. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: It was a real solid day. I hit a lot of fairways and greens. I've been kind of made some swing changes with my golf coach, Bill Harmon. Felt real comfortable hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in. I'm looking forward to just keep doing what I've been doing today and see what happens.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you talk a little bit about your year? I know last year, you got the win. This year, no win but really you've been pretty consistent. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: This year has been kind of of up-and-down. I really haven't felt like I've had it golf-swing-wise and it's been a struggle. But saying that, it's still been a good year considering I've struggled, I've had a couple Top-10s at majors still and quite a few Top-10s overall. 
 Really looking for hopefully another win this year and just trying to stay consistent. 

 Q. How are the greens? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: The greens are in great shape and a lot of the pins are in tough locations. The greens have a lot of subtle breaks, so you can hit it to six feet, but you have to be cautious of making sure you don't have another 4-footer coming back. 
 But overall, the golf course is in great shape, and hats off to the superintendent. He's done a great job and it's just really one of the top five golf courses we play all year on Tour. It's a great course.

 Q. It's too early to tell about final scores everything and like that, but what is the one thing that you have to do to remain competitive for the weekend? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Golf is a funny game. The low score after 72 holes wins, so who knows what that will be come Sunday afternoon. 
 I feel like I just have to keep hitting fairways and greens and giving myself putts for birdie and not putting too much stress on the putter having to get it up-and-down, and just trying to stay consistent. Like I said, low score wins after 72 holes, and hopefully that's me. 

 Q. How do you feel about being part of a new generation of U.S. golfers? Back in the late 80s there was the generation of Juli Inkster and Dottie Pepper, and after that, Annika and Karrie Webb, and now Lorena Ochoa. How do you feel about being part of this new generation of players that are winning tournaments and winning Solheim Cups and just leading the Tour? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: You know, it was a dream of mine when I was younger to play on the LPGA Tour, and Juli Inkster was definitely a role model of mine. 
 It's really neat and it's a blessing in the same aspect; I played a practice round with Juli and we're friends and we had dinner. It's just great knowing that when you're a little girl, dreams can come true, if you work hard and stick to the plan. You can't really say enough about where our tour is right now. 
 This tournament, for instance, Lorena is such a great golfer, and obviously being the No. 1 player in the world, but more importantly, she's such a great person off the golf course, and she's done so much for our tour, not only in the U.S., but to be able to host an event here in her hometown and her home golf course, it pretty amazing. 
 I'm just glad I'm able to be part of it.

 Q. Of all of your dreams that you mentioned, what are the next things you are going to do? What is left for you in your career? What is the next step?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: I feel like I've just started my journey on Tour. A big goal of mine going into the next year is to finish Top-10 in the World Rankings. You just have to keep on working hard on and off the golf course and becoming more consistent and becoming more competitive week-after-week, and you know, being in the hunt come Sunday; that's how you end up becoming a good player. 

 Q. Depends but maybe tomorrow you will be paired with Annika, one of her last rounds on the Tour. What does it mean for you, having the last days of Annika on the Tour, and do you think that the Tour is going to continue to have a huge change for the next year without Annika?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Annika has been such a great ambassador for the Tour, just as Lorena has done so much on the golf course, but off the golf course, I feel very lucky and blessed, like I said, to be able to have come in the last couple of years and to have played side-by-side with Annika.
 Last year I won Annika's inaugural event, and that was pretty special for me for my first win to come at her event. It's pretty neat and hopefully we will be able to play together tomorrow. 
 And looking forward to actually playing on the Lexus Cup. Annika has chosen me as a captain's pick, so I'm pretty excited about that. That will be our last event of the year in Singapore in two weeks, so looking forward to it. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT