CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2008
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Nicole, thanks for coming in and joining us today. Two great very consistent rounds for you has you in third place on the leaderboard right now. Can you just talk about your day? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: It was a pretty consistent day. Hit a lot of fairways and greens, which is pretty key out here, and hit a lot of good putts even that didn't go in but did make a few. It was just very consistent. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Let's go over your scorecard starting with the bogey that you quickly rebounded from on the first hole. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: I made bogey on 1, missed about an eight-footer for par.
 No. 2, I hit 9-iron from 130 to six feet, made that. 
 No. 6, I hit a sand wedge to about 15 feet, made that. 
 No. 15, I hit 5-iron to six feet, made that. 
 18, I hit a sand wedge to about ten feet, made that. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: If you could just talk about how key that final birdie on 18 was to close out 36 holes to play. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Like I said, I felt like I was putting well all day and really hadn't made a whole lot, and so I just told myself to make a good stroke and see what happens, and I hit a very good putt. You always like finishing with a birdie on the last hole. Makes you feel like you have a little momentum going into tomorrow, especially going into the weekend. 

 Q. Can you talk about the difference between the course playing yesterday and today, easier, harder, more difficult, same?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Pretty similar. The greens were a little smoother this morning, but overall the golf course is in great shape. You're getting perfect lies in the fairway, and if you miss the fairways you're definitely penalized because the rough is heavy. Like I said, overall the golf course is in great shape, maybe not quite as firm as it was yesterday afternoon, but it's playing well. 

 Q. Is there a stretch of holes that's going to decide what's going to happen on the weekend? Do you know what I mean? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: I know what you mean. You know, the only reason why I would say no is because you have to hit fairways out here. So if you start missing fairways early on, it's going to be difficult, and if you miss fairways coming down the stretch it's going to be difficult. Really the key is getting the ball in the fairway, really not mattering how far you have in. But like I said, the rough, very penalizing.

 Q. That being said, having played two rounds here, do you have in your mind places where you say, this is where I want to attack or this is where I have to be more cautious?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: I don't feel like this golf course you can attack. It's close to a major-type-style golf course, just in the sense of you have to hit fairways and greens. If you hit it in the rough, you're not going to be rewarded. 
 In that aspect, I don't think you can attack. You have to respect this golf course, and by doing that you have to hit fairways and greens. 

 Q. When you saw after yesterday's round that Lorena Ochoa had shot 66, did you come out this morning thinking, I've got to do something just to stay with her or to stay with whoever is at the top of the leaderboard?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: You know, the thing is they're not handing out the trophy after the first day; they're not handing it out after the second day. Lorena is obviously the No. 1 player in the world; she's a great player. Yeah, I'm a couple shots back, and if I stick to my game plan, I can't try to beat Lorena. I'm trying to execute the best golf shots I can, and from there we'll just see what happens. 

 Q. Do you feel like you've positioned yourself going into the weekend then? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Absolutely. I'm three shots back, and I feel like I can hopefully get it going on the weekend. I'm in a good position. I don't even know what place I'm in. But like I said, you can't go out there and try to beat Lorena or try to beat Annika because then you're not sticking to your game plan. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thanks for your time today. Congratulations on a great round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT