U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2008
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. You had five birdies out there today. A pretty strong  
showing in this wind. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: You know, the wind was really swirly today and I was just trying to leave myself in good positions on the greens to have good putting or good putts at it.
  
So it was fun out there, made a few bogeys, unfortunately, and at not  
good times, but all in all it was a good week and looking forward to  
coming back next year. 
 
  
Q. Were you watching the scoreboard throughout the day?  
Obviously with this wind the scores were coming down. Was there  
a number you were trying to get to?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Yeah, going into today knowing it was going to be windy I thought if I could get to five or six that I could have a good chance. When I got it to three I thought if I can get two more coming in. And unfortunately made bogey on 16 and almost made eagle on 18. So all in all, can't really be disappointed with my efforts today.
 
  
Q. Do you think anyone can come back that far? There might  
be a chance that somebody comes back to both of you?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: I'm not sure what's leading right now. 8's leading, so I'm going to need definitely some help out there, but the greens aren't getting any softer, they're quite firm out there, and the wind's swirly, so you never know what can happen. But like I said, I gave it my all out there today.
 
  
Q. How about your birdies and bogeys? You also had the  
five he birdies, which I'm sure you could trade those with a lot of  
the people that are out there. But go through those for us,  
please. 
  
NICOLE CASTRALE: I'm trying to think. 
 
  
Q. Bogey on 5, 8, and 16 and birdies on 6 --
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Okay. Wait. Let me do the bogeys first.
  
5, hit it just short of the green and chipped it to about five feet  
and just missed that for par. 
  
8, that hole is playing really tough. A long par-3. And  
missed about another 10-footer there for par. 
  
And bogeyed 16, drove it in the right rough and kind of punched out  
underneath the trees into the left green side bunker and missed about  
an 8-footer there as well. 
  
11, actually made a great birdie off the right fringe, made it about  
from 40 feet. So that was good. 
  
13, I made about a 4-footer for birdie. 
  
Made about another 30-footer for birdie on 15. 
  
And then 2-putted from the front fringe on 18.
 
  
Q. What about on 6?
  
NICOLE CASTRALE: I made about a 25-footer on 6. Hit a  
really good putt. So that was good. 
 
  
Q. We were talking to the rules official and he said you had  
some great saves, some great bunker play today. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: The putter was really, really good today. Made a few good putts for par on the first few holes to kind of get me settled in. There's some great pins out there. And tough to get them close with the wind swirling, so all in all, like I said, really happy with my performance here.
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT