GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
May 27, 2008
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Please talk about your first time defending a title. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: (Missing audio)...hit it here, hit it there. You know, the putt on 17, Craig actually said, "why don't you hit it again and see if you make it," and I was a little wrapped up and actually left it short, but I didn't leave it short last year. So it's just great to be back, and it's pretty neat. To win Annika's inaugural event last year is very special. She's done so much for the game of golf and women's golf in general. She's a role model of mine, and you know, she's just raised the standard, so it was very special to me to have won her event. 

 Q. And can you just talk a little about how you feel you've been playing this year? You've won some money, and a couple of good finishes. Where is your game at right now?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: You know, I'd like to say it's starting to come all together. Obviously not the start I would have liked to the season. I had very high expectations going into the year, coming off last year's win, in Solheim Cup. And you know, the putter was a little stale at the start of the year, so it's hard to play well when that's happening, and worked hard on that, and you know, just waiting for everything to come together, and you know, I am seeing signs of improvement, so you know, looking forward to this week. 

 Q. Nicole, just sort of the feeling, I mean, you know, the players have been coming up to you, and you know, talking to you about last year's win on the range. I mean does that factor into it? And then how do you step back from that and just get your focus, you know, on what's coming up for the rest of the week?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: You know, all I can do is pull from the memories of last year, and you know, use those to help me get better. And you know, I did win last year, but I'm looking to win again multiple times. And you know, it is definitely a great feeling to come back with everyone saying "defending champion," and you know, I'll always have that to my credit. When it's all said and done, I still need to come out and hit fairways and greens and do what I can. You know, last year was last year, and like I said, I can use those as positive memories, but I still have to play well coming back, any event, no matter if it's this event or next week. 

 Q. You mentioned last year that like the first couple of rounds you maybe didn't have your best stuff. You weren't playing that well, but you were able to hang in there. Have you been able to utilize that since that point?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Absolutely. You know, when you can kind of scrape it around and shoot one, two-under, even par when you don't have it. When you do have it, then you've kept yourself in the game, and that's what I've felt. And I've said that from day one. I did not feel like I had it the first two days last year, and my short game kept me in it. Then come the weekend I felt like I was in some sense firing on all cylinders, so you know, it was a good feeling, and I just have to use all those experiences, no matter if they were here or at Solheim Cup or other finishes throughout the year. They just make you a better player. 

 Q. I was going to ask you, with -- in events where both Lorena and Annika are in the field, I mean do players get the feeling that maybe their options are somewhat limited or their chances are a little more limited than in other events? I mean just talking about their dominance that they've had this year and all. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Right. Lorena and Annika obviously have dominated this season. They've raised the standard for all of us, and you know, when it all comes down to it, though, we're not trying to beat Annika. We're not trying to beat Lorena. We're trying to shoot the best score possible because at the end of four days, the low score wins, after 72 holes, so you know, whether it's Annika or Lorena, you know, we're not playing head to head. Now, you know, if it comes down on Sunday you're going head to head against them, then that's a different story, but there is no doubt that they have dominated and they're at the top of their games, and you just like to hope you're the lowest score on Sunday after. 

 Q. What was your initial reaction about Annika's announcement a couple of weeks ago? Were you shocked, surprised? And how do you think it's going to affect the LPGA?
 NICOLE CASTRALE: You know, the LPGA is definitely losing one of their icons. Annika has done, like I said before, so much for the game and just set the standard, and her dominance year after year. You know, I was shocked, and there was multiple: Shocked; I was disappointed, you know, because we're losing such a great player. 
 I'm also very happy for her and her fiance, Mike McGee, and I'm sure they'll continue to do great things in the golf industry; and will we miss her out here, absolutely. And she was definitely, like I said, a role model of mine, so I'm sure we'll still see plenty of Annika. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Nicole, thanks for coming in and good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT