MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 6, 2007
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Just want to thank you again, and congratulations, you are the sixth Rolex first-time winner of the season last week at the Ginn Tribute Hosted by ANNIKA.  It was a new tournament, new venue, interesting weather.  Do you just want to talk about all of those conditions wrapped up and what it meant to be the champion at the end of that. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Thanks.  Last week was awesome.  Like I had said on Sunday, winning is unbelievable and to win Annika's event, her first event that she hosts, is really special.  She's done so much for the game of golf and for women's golf in general.  So to win that event was really a neat experience. 
 The last week was great.  The golf course played hard and fast.  The first two days, and then come the weekend, we had the wind and the rain so, it definitely played different. We are just glad to basically be sitting here today. 

 Q.  What did last week teach you about yourself?  Was there anything that surprised you? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Last week I was very calm and stayed very patient throughout the whole week because the conditions were tough. 
 Week's prior when I was in position to win, I think I got a little eager.  And so that obviously wasn't working since I had not won.  So, you know, I figured this new approach, obviously worked a little better for me.  Like I said, I just stayed calm all week and it ended up working. 

 Q.  Can you talk about working with Bill Harmon, I believe as your coach, how long have you worked with him and can you talk about working with Billy? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Billy and I started working, we think around 2000.  I was working with Vern Frazier, who was a good friend of all of the Harmon brothers and Vern passed away in 2000.  Before he passed away, he called up Bill and asked Bill if he would take care of me for him, which I later found that story out after Vern passed away. 
 So Bill and I, we have done a tremendous amount of work the past seven, eight years.  This has been such a payoff.  I've become close with all of the Harmon brothers through Bill, and they have taught me so much on and off the golf course.  They share so many stories about their dad, Claude.  They are priceless, really.  Just the experience are knowing all the Harmon and everyone I've met through the Harmons; become good friends with Jay Haas and Jay's uncle Bob Goalby who won the Masters.  It's just great to hear stories from back in the day about Snead and Palmer and Hogan, and like I said, they are just priceless, you know, and I thank the Harmons for that. 

 Q.  Coming off a win like last week, is it easier or harder to focus on a major this week? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, I think the first few days, they were a bit of a whirlwind trying to get back to voicemails and text messages and e-mails.  But I've done a good job of getting back into this week because this is an important week and I have to keep doing what I've been doing to continue to have success.  So I'm just looking forward to it. 

 Q.  Along those lines, what did last week do for your confidence?  Do you come here with a lot more confidence than you did when you came here last year? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, my game plan going into this week is pretty much the same as it has been every week, always trying to hit fairways and greens and always going from there. 
 Last week definitely proves to myself that I can definitely win out here on Tour.  I'm just looking forward to gaining on the experience and just try to keep on getting better.  Because I don't think you can ever say that you've got it when it comes to golf, because I don't know that anyone ever gets it completely. 
 So, you know, I'm just looking forward to the challenge and to keep playing well. 

 Q.  Weren't you on the leaderboard last year?  Didn't you lead after 36 holes last year? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  I believe I was leading after the first day and was maybe a shot back after the second day. 

 Q.  What does that do as far as, is this a golf course that you like; what are the conditions of the golf course that play to your game? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Right.  The golf course is in great shape this year.  Fairways are good.  The rough is extremely healthy; therefore, it's long.  The greens are rolling well.  I'm just looking forward to the challenge of playing this week. 

 Q.  Michelle Wie said she didn't think she needed to apologize to anybody for what happened last week.  Just wondering what most of the players are feeling about what happened last week. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, I guess I would basically say the whole Michelle Wie situation is unfortunate that it's happening.  I don't really want to get involved with the Michelle Wie situation.  You know, I look at it as I won an event last week. 
 The only thing I would say is if it's true that she came here and practiced on Saturday, it's pretty sad that Annika -- it shows a little bit of disrespect to her.  Annika has done so much for the game of golf and for women's golf, we should really hold Annika at a very high level and have respect for her.  Really that's all I have to comment about that. 

 Q.  What did you do in the first round last year that gave you so much success, and can you pinpoint what that's going to be -- 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Sorry? 

 Q.  At the first round last year, what did you do so well, and can you pinpoint some of the things that you're going to have to do if you want to contend for this year? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Like I said, really my game plan every week, whether it's a regular event or a major, and especially in majors, you have to hit fairways because they will penalize you if you miss fairways with the rough being so long. 
 So really, the game plan is just to hit fairways and greens, and you know, low score after 72 holes wins. 
 DANA GROSS-RHODE:  Thank you all for coming in.  Nicole, congratulations on last week and good luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT