GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 2, 2007
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Great round out there, you put yourself into second place right now, three behind Lorena who has not finished yet.  You should be in the final group tomorrow.  Can you just talk about your round and how the weather affected it?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, you definitely have to stay patient out there when the conditions are like this.  I just really go out there and try to hit fairways and greens and make putts from there.   
 The rough is penalizing with it being wet and heavy.  So you really need to keep it in the fairway and then go from there.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Can we go through your scorecard?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Sure.  I birdied 1.  I hit 8-iron from 146 to about 25 feet and made that.   
 No. 3, I chipped it to a couple inches, made birdie there. 5, I hit 9-iron to about 20 feet and made that, from 138. 7, I had 138 again and hit 9-iron to about 18 feet.  Made that for birdie.   
 Made birdie on 14.  I think it was playing 193 and I hit 5-iron and made that from about 12 feet.  Then 18, I made bogey.  I was on the front of the green and 3-putted.  I hit 7-iron in.  I had 155 pin.  I was in the left rough.   
  
  Q.  Can you look back to any success you've had in the past playing in nasty conditions?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Not really.  Like I said you just have to stay patient out there and know that people are going to make mistakes and pretty much it's a grind.  It's going to be fun playing tomorrow with Lorena.  She's the No. 1 player in the world for a reason, and I'm going to have to make birdies to try to catch her.   
  
  Q.  Are you a leaderboard watcher?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, I glance at it here and there.  I don't think I go out of my way by any means to, you know, find the leaderboard.  You know, I'm just trying to stick to my game plan, and really, that's all I can control.   
  
  Q.  Did you know how far back you were?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, I think on 13 when we were waiting to get the green squeegeed, I looked over and saw I was six back.  I was thinking I had a great round going, and she obviously did, as well.  And really, like I said, I can only control myself.  Really, the low score wins.  So if that's Lorena or me or whoever, really, you just tip your hat to them.   
  
  Q.  How long did you have to wait for the squeegee to get out there?  Did you begin to wonder if you were ever going to be able to finish the hole?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  It took probably about 15 minutes or so.  I think there were a couple other holes they were having problems with.  Like I said, you have to be patient and you have to expect it.  There's low spots on the greens and really, it's out of your control.   
  
  Q.  Did you have any situations where the ball might have hydroplaned on any of your putts?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  No.  I think on 13, what was going to be only one with issue.  My putt was definitely faster than my first putt after they squeegeed it.  It was the driest the green had been.  Like I said, you just take it for what it's worth and go from there.   
  
  Q.  You seem to be having a pretty consistent year this year.  Is it a matter of -- does it take a while to become comfortable out here and do you feel you've got to that point if that's, in fact, true?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  I definitely think when you've had a few good tournaments, you start to settle in and get more comfortable.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Thanks very much and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT