GINN TRIBUTE HOSTED BY ANNIKA
June 1, 2007
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  (Indiscernible.)   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  I mean, it is what it is.  So either way the whole field is going to play it the same way.  Whether it plays hard and fast or softens up, you know, we pretty much take what we get.   
  
  Q.  What do you think right now it'll take at that win this thing?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  I have no idea.  All I can do is hit fairways and greens and try to make some putts from there.  Usually the lowest score wins, so that's what it's going take.   
  
  Q.  You started off with the bogey.  How did you rebound that?  How do you turn yourself around, and how does it feel to be making the turn after just making three birdies?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, everyone I'd have to think is going to have to make a bogey here and there because, like I said, the golf course is so fast.   
 But you really have to just stay patient.  And, you know, like I said, when you hit good approach shots and you leave yourself a good chance at birdie you have to take advantage of it.   
  
  Q.  Your season overall, can you describe that?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, it's been going well.  Obviously you always can feel like you can improve.  So, you know, I'm just looking on keep trying to improve my position and go from there.   
  
  Q.  Anything in your strength that your working on right now?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  No.  I mean, like I said, my goal all year and the last couple years has always been to hit fairways and greens.   
 The fairways are generous, but if you do hit it in the rough it's penalizing.  With the greens being so firm it's hard to hold it, so really, fairways and greens are good.   
  
  Q.  And just in regards to this being an inaugural tournament?   
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, it's a great event.  Seems like the fans are really behind the event.  Charleston is a great town, so I'm looking forward to playing.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT