SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 5, 2007
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Nicole, thanks for joining us today.  Talk about your day today.  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: It was a good day, the golf course was playing tough, the wind is swirling out there and there are pins that are hard to get to, so you hit a lot of good shots out there, and I definitely let a few get away, but I'm in good shape for tomorrow.  
 THE MODERATOR: Can we go over your scorecard?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Sure.  I eagled No. 4, I was at 168 and hit one in the hole.  I bogeyed No. 8, that's about a 10-footer for par.  I birdied 13, hit 4 in there from about 20 feet.  15 I 3-putted, and 16 I hit a 7-iron just past the pin and 3-putted that.  

 Q.  Did you think, hey, this could be my weekend?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: It definitely passes through your mind.  It was so early in my round when I got the eagle, I was happy that I was 2-under, and I knew there was a good stretch of holes coming up and the course was playing tough, which it is, because I don't think anyone is going crazy low.  

 Q.  Could you tell by the crowd that you had eagled?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  I landed on the green, and there was a late reaction,  so at first it scared me.  Then everyone cheered.  

 Q.  What's going right?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Hitting golf shots, I need to make a few more putts tomorrow.  I want to score better, so things are going well.  

 Q.  Normally in a group a threesome like you had today, someone will flinch or fall off the place.  No one did today.  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Right.  We all hit good shots, and you get rewarded on this golf course when you hit good shots, and it's playing tough.  
The scores aren't really that low.  

 Q.  When you're in a group where everyone is playing well, do you feed off each other?  If someone is struggling, can someone who is playing well carry the group?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Yes and no.  You still have to execute shots.  Just because someone else is playing well doesn't mean you will be able to hit your next shot well.  
You stay in the moment and keep doing what you've been doing, pretty much.  

 Q.  A lot of people at the top of the leaderboard that either have not ever won or haven't won in a while.  Is there a reason for that, and did you expect that, hey, this week I think I have a chance to play welcoming here?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: I've been playing well, and coming into here, and if I can keep hitting fairways and greens -- it sounds simple but it's part of the deal.  There are a lot of great players on the leaderboard, whether they've won or not.  It's definitely whoever shoots the lowest score wins.  

 Q.  When was the last time that you think -- you were close earlier this year, right?  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: In Orlando I finished 4th, in Thailand late last year I was leading after two days and finished third.  I need to take care of me and if I play well I can win.  
I may play well and not win, so, really, I can't control what anyone else is doing out there.  

 Q.  Does the fact that you've been there recently help you with the familiarity -- when you've been there a few times like you have been recently it's got to help you.  
 NICOLE CASTRALE: Yeah, I think you get more comfortable out here.  I was pretty comfortable today and hopefully will be tomorrow and be able to execute shots like I have been the last couple of days and go from there.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Nicole.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT