SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 4, 2007
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  First of all, thanks for coming in today. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  It was good.  Hit a lot of fairways and greens, and I really think that's the key out here.  Then you get a few to drop and it was pretty much you have to stay patient.  It's a great golf course. 

 Q.  Can we go through your scorecard?  Birdie on 3. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Birdie on 3.  I actually missed it left of the green and chipped in for birdie there. 
 THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  I hit 8-iron into the green.  4, I hit grip 5-iron to about 25 feet and made that for birdie.  7, I hit wedge to about 18 feet, made that for birdie.  13, I hit the 4-iron too about four feet and made that for birdie. 

 Q.  There seems to be several dozen players pretty much packed together.  You're on top, but obviously there's a lot of players.  Is that because of wet ground?  Has that kind of leveled the playing field out in some ways? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  I mean, it's a great golf course, and you have to hit golf shots, and you get rewarded for them.  So, you know, all the people on the top or under par have hit great shots and made some putts. 

 Q.  Talk about what you did on No. 18.  18 has been the toughest hole today. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Well, the first key is to get it in the fairway and go from there.  We had about a 185 pin, and I just hit a grip 5-iron.  Hit it really good and just released to the back of the green and had about a twenty-footer straight uphill. 

 Q.  Are you surprised that this is the toughest course -- I mean toughest hole on the course today? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, all holes are tough, really.  I mean, the key out here is to get it in the fairway to start, and then get it on the green from there. 
 I mean, I don't think we go into the hole thinking, Oh, this is the toughest hole.  Hope we can make 4.  We just try to do the best and execute each shot the best we can. 

 Q.  Some players have target scores; others don't.  Did you have a target score coming into today? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  No.  I knew from the morning that they weren't going crazy low.  And, again, it's because it's such a good golf course.  Granted the golf course is wet, but it's still in good shape.  It's been able to handle as much water as it's gotten. 
 As I said, I just go out there with expectations to hit each shot the best I can.  Like I said, fairways and greens and then go from there. 

 Q.  Anything happen in practice rounds, Pro-Ams, that made you say, Hey, this could be my time? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  No.  I mean, like I said, I just try to keep it real simple.  Gotten off to a pretty good start this year.  I just figure if I keep doing what I'm doing good things will happen. 

 Q.  Can you kind of give us the Cliffs' Notes of the obstacles of this golf course today? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  What do you mean?  Which obstacles? 

 Q.  The car wreck leading to the injury and so on. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  You know, unfortunately I was in a car accident my senior year in college and tore my rotator cuff.  Things happen for a reason, so I was able to get past that and overcome that. 
 Because of that I think I've become a better player.  So I really don't think about my shoulder injuries or whatnot.  You know, each day, you know, I'm just blessed to be able to get up every morning and play.  That's kind of how I look at it. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible) in the back of the room says you come back stronger from each one of those injuries. 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  Yeah, I guess that's a sign.  No, it's been good.  You know, like I said, things happen for a reason, and I've never once quit and thought that I couldn't come back and play. 
 Like I said, I'm just fortunate.  I've had the right people to surround me and basically be on my team.  It's been great. 

 Q.  I don't want to be over dramatic, but was the car accident a life-threatening accident? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  No.  I was just rear ended on the freeway. 

 Q.  Having the lead, how will that change going into tomorrow? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  No.  I mean, you really can't think that you have the lead.  You have to execute shots.  I can play well and not win and I can play well and win.  All I can do is control myself. 

 Q.  Can you talk about (indiscernible) a little bit? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  17 is just a great golf hole, and I didn't cut it enough off the tee and I hit it through the fairway and kind of had a little squirrely lie.  I hit a pretty good 6-iron, just didn't draw. 
 Ended up in the bunker and I misjudged the bunker shot and came out softer than I had anticipated.  Luckily Sherri Steinhauer gave me a great read on that putt and made about a fifteen-footer for par. 

 Q.  In other sports when the ground is really wet, like horse racing, people call it mudders.  Are you a mudder? 
 NICOLE CASTRALE:  I don't really consider myself that.  Granted, yes, the course is wet.  But that's not like your feet are unstable by any means.  I played in the morning Pro-Am yesterday right after the and rain and that was very wet. 
 The course has dried out.  For as much rain as its gotten they've really dried out.  You would never guess the greens had that much rain.  They're rolling great.  I would not say by any means that the golf course is in bad shape. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT