U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2012
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This has been a great Open for you.   Can you kind of talk about what this means for your career?   Kind of a big breakthrough this week.   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   I don't know if I would say it's a breakthrough.   I've won and I've been on two Solheim Cups, so I don't know.   It's a good week.   I had a few‑‑ in 2010 I had shoulder certainly.   In 2011 I had a baby.   So I didn't play full seasons.   
This year I've been pretty consistent all year and I've always liked U.S. Opens.   It's a good week.   Trying to stay patient out there.   
   
 Q.   You had a good seat today for 9‑iron on 2.   Did that fire you up?   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   It's hard to keep up.   The few birdies I matched, I couldn't get the tee from her.   She played great.   That was definitely one of the best rounds I've ever seen.   So it was neat to see.   
   
 Q.   Being a mom on tour, can you talk about playing?   I understand your daughter travels with you guys.   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   She does.   I'm fortunate that my mom wants to travel with us and take care of her.   It's been great.   It's definitely one of the best things that's ever happened to us.   It's fun.   It's nice to be able to go home to her and know she's giggling and she's always happy.   So it's great.   It's a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   I hear some moms on tour talk about it changes your perspective.   There are other things now that are more important than golf.   Do you notice it makes you calmer on the course?   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   I would say so.   I've never been a really emotional player out there.   It's fun.   We look at what time it is.   And try to figure out what Aleni is doing at that given time.   So it's kind of fun.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about kind of how the course played today?   It was a little more difficult.   The pins seemed to be in more difficult places.   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   Yeah, they were.   But I think the wind played a large part of it.   It was pretty much the complete opposite as it has been.   So the golf course was just playing different.   
So it wasn't what we were used to.   Some tight pins.   Greens that are getting quicker.   So it was definitely a good test of golf today.   
   
 Q.   As far as looking at the leaderboard, there's a lot of good competition close to the top.   What are your thoughts heading into tomorrow?   What do you think can play out?   What do you think it's going to take?   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   I have no idea.   It's the U.S. Open.   I don't think you really know how the USGA is going to set it up either.   Pars are still good.   When you can take a birdie here and there, just real good setup.   Good test of golf this week.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about that course difficulty and do you see a 65 out there at all?   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   I saw it today.   
(Laughter).  
No, I mean she putted great.   I think she had 11 putts in the first nine holes.   So obviously you have to putt good out here with the greens being like that.   I didn't think it was out there, but I was proven wrong.   It was clearly there.   But she played pretty much perfect all day.   
   
 Q.   You talked about it being a little bit tough because you were never able to get the tee.   Talk about how it affects your game, or do you kind of block it out and say it's a good round?   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   Oh, absolutely.   Hats off to her.   That was, like I said, one of the best rounds I've ever seen.   I've seen some good ones out here.   No, it was more kind of funny.   I made back‑to‑back birdies on 11 to 12, I still didn't have the tee.   It is what it is.   I think I finally got the tee on 16.   At least I got it once.   
   
 Q.   We appreciate it.   Good luck tomorrow.   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT