KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 2012
Nicole Castrale
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, talk us through this round, especially the back nine.   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   It was good.   I just stayed patient all day.   I started on 10, so I made nine straight pars, just kept doing what I was doing, hitting good shots and made a few putts, and it adds up.  
   
 Q.   You have a big happy face on.   Ever since you came back from having a baby, you look like you've taken baby steps, or are you just going for it?  
NICOLE CASTRALE:   No, I would just say I'm kind of getting back into it.   I really haven't played since June.   Each week I knew I wanted to try to get a little better and just stay patient and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you left anything out there?   There were some birdie opportunities.   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   You know, I don't think you can really get greedy on a major golf course.   I shot under par, and that's definitely a good round, especially in the afternoon.   Just trying to hit fairways and greens, and I think I did that today and putted good, so that's all you can ask for.   
   
 Q.   What did you feel out there regarding the greens?   Some people said that they weren't like they thought they were going to be.   Did they change up for you from when you started, because you started later in the afternoon.   Did they firm up on you?   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   I mean, you always know these greens are going to get firmer in the afternoon.   I mean, I don't know what I would have expected other than these.   We've been practicing on these all week, and they're a good speed.   You have to be careful if you're above certain pins.   It is what it is.   We all play the same golf course.   
   
 Q.   How about the rest of the way?   What are you looking to do?   
NICOLE CASTRALE:   I'm going to head home and hopefully put my little one to bed and just come out and hopefully hit the first fairway tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT