ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2013
Ken Looper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me about the week.   Monday qualifier to one of the final groups on Sunday? 
KEN LOOPER:   I was playing well the whole week.   All up until the back nine today.   I've been striking it good, and putting it great, chipping it great.   I showed that on the back nine today, getting in some bad spots but getting up‑and‑down pretty handily.   Other than that, everything felt good the whole week.

Q.   What was it to play in front of fans, family, friends on the PGA TOUR? 
KEN LOOPER:   It was a dream come true.   I've always said I wanted to make my PGA debut at this golf tournament.   I never knew how it was going to actually happen, but it just happened this way.   I've played in numerous Monday qualifiers and never gotten through until this one, and I got through and played the best I could.

Q.   What does a week like this do for you moving forward? 
KEN LOOPER:   Moving forward it gives me a lot of confidence that I can play out here.   I can compete.   Hopefully I can get another opportunity to show that I can compete in a future event.

Q.   Obviously, you had some hiccups on the back nine.   Like you said, you didn't play the way you wanted to, and 18, I guess, bad luck there, and then the weather delay. 
KEN LOOPER:   Yeah, I mean, not much to say.   I blocked my tee shot, heeled it, blocked it, whatever, it went in the water.   Hit my next one down where I should have hit it the first time.   Then I almost made it for birdie which would have gotten me to Charlotte, which would have been really nice.   But I have to go back to the Hooters Tour.

Q.   When you got to the 18 tee, did you look at the scoreboard?
KEN LOOPER:   When I chipped the ball on 17‑‑ actually when I was on 15, I knew what I needed to do, and I hit it to like 10 feet there and I missed it.   Then it's like 12 feet on 16, missed that and almost chipped in on 17.

Q.   Did you feel any pressure on 18 though, maybe that block there? 
KEN LOOPER:   Not really, not that much pressure.   I just came out of the shot a little bit and went right on me.

Q.   You said yesterday you weren't sure if you wanted to do more qualifiers.   Do you think you will now that you've had this kind of week? 
KEN LOOPER:   Yeah, I was saying that before I made it through the Monday.   I was deciding whether I should do anymore because it's so hard to get through just a one day event.   But now I think I'll keep doing it and going to more one‑day qualifiers.

Q.   Do you have any in mind? 
KEN LOOPER:   I think I'm signed up for the one in Athens tomorrow.   I don't know if I'm going to make that one.

Q.   Patrick Reid left here on Sunday, went to Quail Hollow and qualified there.   Did you have any thought of doing that?
KEN LOOPER:   I'm not signed up for it.   I don't know if they'll let me do it.   It's a little too late, I guess.

Q.   This gives you more confidence that you can do it even in a qualifier? 
KEN LOOPER:   Yeah, I mean, maybe they'll still give me an exemption, but I doubt it.

Q.   Were you thinking about that putt for a long time? 
KEN LOOPER:   I was, but it meant a lot for the money‑wise, but other than that, it didn't mean anything for my status going forward because I still had to finish top 10 to get to Charlotte.

Q.   Did you watch the tape of it? 
KEN LOOPER:   I never saw it.

Q.   It looked like it did skim the pin for a second. 
KEN LOOPER:   I never saw it.

Q.   Speaking of the money, top 20 finish or top 25, you can make five or six figures.   Have you thought about that? 
KEN LOOPER:   It's going to be, I think it's like 50‑something thousand.   If I made the putt, it was like 10 0‑something thousand.

Q.   But still that's huge?
KEN LOOPER:   Yeah, it's a big payday, but I was trying to get another opportunity for Charlotte.   That's why I went for the pin on my fourth shot from the fairway.   I mean, what do I have to lose?   I needed to make it, and I almost did. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT