U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2012
Jim Rutledge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right.   Here with Jim Rutledge.   Nice round today, 4 under par, including an eagle at the 15th.   Take me through some of your birdies and your eagle. 
JIM RUTLEDGE:   Just a good start.   Birdied 1 and 2 out of the gate there and had a couple more chances through to No. 7 and then made a bad bogey on No. 7 from just off the edge of the green.
But made par, a string of pars all the way through to 14 and then eagled 15 with a good 3 wood onto the green about 30 feet and made the putt.
Another good birdie on 16 from the left rough, hit it about eight feet and made it.
17, I had a really good putt from about 15 feet beside the hole.   Missed it.   18's a par.

Q.   Obviously, you threw up a pretty nice score today so the scoring conditions, the course can be scored on.   What do you think is the most important thing for players who are looking to shoot low?   What's the most important part of the game to be on today? 
JIM RUTLEDGE:   Any day on this golf course is drive it in the fairway because there's no way you can detect the pins out of the rough.   So that would be the number one priority on this course. 
And then stand below the holes because you get too many sidewinders and too many putts with big breaks in it that you can't really afford to take a run at.   You're just more or less trying to two‑putt.   So fairways and below the pin.

Q.   What do you think will be the key holes down the stretch, having just come off the course yourself, for the guys that are on the lead? 
JIM RUTLEDGE:   Probably 12 always, and I think 16 and 17, two good holes there.   You drive in the rough on 16, tough par.   17, tough pin placement today.   If the wind picks up, it's 203 to that back pin.   So guys are just going to be trying to fire for the middle of the green there. 
So I think 16 and 17 will play a key factor.   And who knows what happens on 12.   Anybody can tell.

Q.   Great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT