U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2018
Ryan Eibner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The big question is how does it feel to be exempted into next year's U.S. Mid Amateur as a quarterfinalist?  
RYAN EIBNER: That's pretty badass.  I did not know that.  No, that's awesome.  I'm super pumped.  Keep playing well, and hopefully I can be exempt into some other things when I win.   
 Q.  When you got into this, what were your expectations?  
RYAN EIBNER: Just to make the cut; get into match play.  Once you make match play anything can happen.   
Obviously my goal was to win.  I know I can win.  I'm a good player.  I'm hitting the ball really well.  I'm putting well.  I just got to stick to my game plan and not worry about what other guys are doing.   
Just got to stick to the game plan.   
 Q.  Obviously growing up you played North Carolina courses; then you played at East Carolina.  Is this kind of bermuda, is that the kind of style golf you're used to?  
RYAN EIBNER: Yeah.  It's pretty similar throughout the country.  Especially, I mean, Texas is pretty much all bermuda.  My home club, Trinity Forest, is zoysia.  The greens are a little bit different.  These things are perfect, so can't complain.  The whole golf course is perfect.   
But, no, I'm used to it, bermuda and playing out of it.  Just got to really pay attention when you hit it in the rough.  That's the important part.  I've done a really good job of managing that.  Yeah.   
 Q.  You played a veteran opponent today, a guy who has been a medalist and gotten far in match play before.  Got on top early, but then he came back at you.  
RYAN EIBNER: Yeah, made a good birdie on 6, and then I just hit just an awful tee shot on 7.   
Then, I mean, I kind of recovered, but then I just wasn't -- just didn't hit a good putt; made bogey there.   
I knew I've been playing 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 really well this week, so I knew I had those.  I was like, Ball is in my court pretty much.   
 Q.  Why are you so confident on that stretch of holes?  
RYAN EIBNER: Just fits my eye.  I've had really good numbers in today, throughout the whole week actually, o all the pin placements have been pretty good.  Just can kind of attack them.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Tell me about the birdie at 9.  That got to you 2-up again.  
RYAN EIBNER: Birdie at 9?  So I hit driver, hit it really well.  I was 120, and that's a perfect 52 wedge.   
I hit it behind the hole, spun it back probably six feet, and it was pin high three feet to the right.  He had a little trouble off the tee and so kind of freed me up.   
Yeah, good hole for me.   
 Q.  Another birdie at 15 that got you to 3-up and in pretty much control then.  
RYAN EIBNER: Yeah, moved the tee up.  That's a fun little hole from up there.  In the earlier round I hit the same hybrid and I hit a soft spot kind of right in front of the green.   
So I was like kind of maybe lay back a little bit more to catch more of the downslope and it'll run up.  I hit it a little bit softer and actually worked out better.   
Chipped up to probably eight feet and made that.  Then he missed his putt.  That was another really good birdie.   
 Q.  They say you usually can't go home again, but looks like you can come home again.  You're doing well here in...  
RYAN EIBNER: Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  ...kind of what's your first state now that you live in Texas.  
RYAN EIBNER: Yeah, it's kind of tough for me because I love North Carolina.  I call Texas home now, but it's definitely a second home for sure.  I know a lot of people here.   
But it's always good coming back here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT