U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Greg Reynolds
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Greg, I just want to get something on record, you obviously had a highlight moment, a highlight two days.  You made the cut and you played with Arnold Palmer.
 GREG REYNOLDS:  It doesn't get any better than that.  It was just a great thrill to have the opportunity to play with Arnold, and this probably will go down as one of my great highlights in golf, not just making the cut but getting the opportunity to play with him.  He was very enjoyable to play with, a class guy, and just to see the reception from the fans, it was really something.
Q.  Can you pick out any moment, one, two or three moments out there the past two days?
 GREG REYNOLDS:  Well, yesterday the crowds were great.  There was a lot of affection for him.  But today it was almost overwhelming when we started.  The very first few holes, you know, every step he took he had applause.  It didn't matter where he went, he had applause.
Q.  You've been in a lot of competition, but did this add a little extra nervousness for you?
 GREG REYNOLDS:  I wasn't too bad.  I didn't feel real bad about it.  But you can't play in front of that many people    if you're not nervous a little bit, then there's something wrong with you.

Yeah, I was a little nervous.
Q.  You don't have an awful lot of experience in coming up the 18th.  You weren't sure whether to go with him or stay behind as he was coming up to the green?
 GREG REYNOLDS:  I was definitely trying to let him go ahead, but he kept not walking very fast.  I didn't know whether he wanted us to walk with him or not, so I was trying to hang back and let him go up.
Q.  How would you characterize Arnold Palmer and what has it meant to you and your interest in golf?
 GREG REYNOLDS:  Well, anybody my age that's grown up has seen what Arnold has done for golf.  You know, the fans all love him.  I think we'll all feel like we owe him a debt of gratitude just for what he has brought to the game of golf.
Q.  Did you say anything to him when you were done with your 18th hole when you shook hands?
 GREG REYNOLDS:  Oh, yeah, I told him how much I enjoyed playing with him, and of course he says the same thing.  But that was a great thrill for me, to get a chance to play with him.
Q.  Continued success with your career.
 GREG REYNOLDS:  Thank you.  I'm hoping I can play well the next two days.  Looks like we made the cut, so we'll have to keep playing hard.  It'll probably seem like nobody is out there, though, after the last two days.

All right, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT