AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2015
Tim Smyczek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. NADAL/T. Smyczek6-2, 3-6, 6-7, 6-3, 7-5An interview with:TIM SMYCZEKTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. If someone at the final of the challenger in Napa said, Don't worry, in a few months you'll be the attention of world media in a fabulous Australian Open match against one of the great players of our era, what would you say?TIM SMYCZEK: I probably wasn't really thinking about that at the time.  The challengers are great for honing your game and really getting some work done.  That's the way I treat them.  So, you know, it's kind of just like an added bonus coming here and playing well.  That was really special tonight.  It was pretty clear Rafa didn't have his best stuff.  But it just shows the kind of player, the kind of champion he is because, you know, he was sick and not playing well.  That was his C or D game.  He found a way to win.  So hats off to him.  That's why he's one of the best.Q. You're proud of your performance?  Talk about your performance.TIM SMYCZEK: Yeah, I mean, very happy with the way I played.  I had a good game plan going in.  The most important thing I thought was for me to try and stay within myself.  I thought I did a pretty good job of that.  I didn't really struggle with nerves too much just because I got nothing to lose.  Very happy with the way I served.  I was happy that I was able to go for four hours and still feel okay.  But, yeah, very happy.Q. At the end you feel a little bit disappointed because at the end you didn't win?TIM SMYCZEK: Yeah, I thought I had him for a minute.  When he was kind of doubled over I could see he was really hurting.  I started to believe that I really, you know, had a chance and could get it done.  But he turned it up to another gear.  That's why he's been one of the best for years and years.Q. Have you ever played a better match?  Is that the best level of tennis you've hit so far?TIM SMYCZEK: I think that's the longest I've sustained a level like that.  I think throughout my career I've had flashes like that.  But that's definitely one of the positives I'll take from it, you know, being able to sustain that for four and eight/ninths of a set.Q. What was your game plan going in?TIM SMYCZEK: I kind of studied him.  He's maybe the one that I've studied the least out of the top guys just because he does so many things that I'm not capable of.  But that being said, I have spent a lot of time watching him.  We were going to try and just try and keep him from hitting forehands in his backhand corner because it's lethal from there.  Trying to pin him in his forehand corner, then when I had a chance, to really be forceful with a ball to his backhand.Q. Talk about what happened at 6-5 in the fifth when the spectator shouted.  Rafa was serving.  You indicated he should take another serve.TIM SMYCZEK: I couldn't make out what he said.  I don't know if the guy didn't know he was tossing the ball or not, but it clearly bothered him.  You know, I thought it was the right thing to do.Q. Where is your next match going to be?TIM SMYCZEK: I'm entered in the Maui challenger next week.  I think I might pull out of that one unfortunately.  Need a couple days off after that.  But assuming I'm healthy and everything, I'll start up at the Dallas challenger.Q. What I was getting at with the question is you come off 15,000 spectators, several million around the world, and your next will be somewhat fewer.  Where is the motivation going to come from?TIM SMYCZEK: Like I said earlier, the challengers really serve a very specific purpose.  It will be on me to go in there and really take care of business, you know, try and pick up points and work on my ranking.  So, yeah, it's definitely not going to be the same as playing a night session on Rod Laver.  It's just part of the deal with being ranked 100 in the world.  You've got to do it.Q. If you had to point to something, what is the most remarkable point of Nadal's game?TIM SMYCZEK: Just his competitiveness.  I mean, he was playing terrible.  I have to be careful what I say.  He was not playing well and he still found a way to just come back and hit another gear that he could tap into.  It's hard to argue with how good his forehand is.  It will probably go down as the best lefty forehand of all time.Q. At the point he doubled over, you were up two sets to one.  Even when you were racking upsets you weren't thinking you might do it?TIM SMYCZEK: Like I said going into the match, I wouldn't have walked out on the court if I didn't think I had a prayer.  But there was a certain point in the match where I started to really, you know, think it was going to happen.Q. Talk about Rafa's competitiveness.  Is that something as a player that you feel on the other side of the net?TIM SMYCZEK: At one point, I think it was in the fourth set, I had a service game where he didn't really move for any of my serves, and I hit a couple aces.  I think that kind of struck me as odd.  I don't think I've ever seen him do that.  So I think just, you know, the fact that I was so surprised with him not making moves for balls just goes to show -- he's been on the tour for 10, 11 years, whatever it is.  But you almost never see him take a point off.  So that was kind of one of the biggest challenges going into the match.  I knew there wasn't going to be a lot free.  That puts a lot of pressure on a lot of guys.Q. Did you have any difficulty with the spacing of the court, how big behind the baseline is?  Did that ever throw you off?TIM SMYCZEK: I loved it.  It gave me a little room to run.  It was a little bit odd.  I hit on Laver yesterday.  I was flagging balls into the stand.  It was a little bit of an adjustment.  By the time the match rolled around, I was fine.Q. Do you have Polish roots?TIM SMYCZEK: I do.  I don't speak Polish, though.  Sorry.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT