UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2007
Lloyd Carr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   BILL MARTIN:  Good morning.  On behalf of the Michigan Athletic Department, want to welcome you to the Young Family Center.  I want to introduce our Head Football Coach, Lloyd Carr. 
 COACH CARR:  Thank you, and good morning.  The last 39 year I have spent my life in the greatest of games.  And I'd loved every moment of it.  For the last 28 years, I spent my life in the greatest of places, the University of Michigan.  And for the last 28 years, I've had the greatest of jobs, Michigan Football. 
 13 years ago when I was named the head coach, I took as my guide, the words of (indiscernible).  He said, By your own soul learn to live.  If some man force, you take no heed, if some men hate, you have no care.  Sing your song, dream your dream, hope your hope and pray your prayer.  And that's what I've tried to do. 
 So on this week of Thanksgiving, no one has more to be thankful for than I do.  And I want to say thanks to some people who have been instrumental in my life here at Michigan.  And it's impossible to name all of those who have helped me, who have assisted me, and who have been there in time of need. 
 First, I want to thank the Board of Regents at the University of Michigan.  I have never, not one time had any interference from them.  And I've had great support from those people who have served in what is a difficult job. 
 I have worked for two great presidents.  People who in the history of university life in this country are among the best.  They have served this institution in ways that make us all proud.  And I've had the great fortune to have a great relationship with both of them. 
 Lee Bollinger, when I became the head coach I went up and saw him, and from that moment, I admired the way he ran the university, and I certainly admired the way that he dealt with me and all the issues.  He was not a great football fan, but he understood the role that intercollegiate athletics played.  And he understood the kind of program that he wanted. 
 Mary Sue Coleman is a beautiful lady and a tough-minded, decisive leader who has been a delight during the years that I've worked with her.  I worked for three athletic directors, all of them good men.  And people who loved this institution.  Joe Roberson who hired me as the football coach here at Michigan.  And Tom Goss, who was here a number of years, a former player and a guy that I respect and admire. 
 Most recently, Bill Martin who is a guy that's done some extraordinary things here in terms of Michigan athletics.  And during the course of our relationship, he has done everything that I've ever asked him to do, and we've had a great relationship.  He's one of those guys that is a stand-up guy.  And I appreciate all of the things that he did to help us in football. 
 Our staff at Schembechler Hall, we have a great family there.  There is a lot of love in that building.  And I've been fortunate to be surrounded by some great people.  People that have been here before I got here and people who went beyond the call of duty in terms of helping this program be successful. 
 The people within the Athletic Department, the Academic Support Program the medical staff we have here.  People who not understand that it is the health and welfare of the student athlete that always comes first.  So our parents of our players always know that their health is not going to be sacrificed for what we're trying to do here.  The faculty and the administration here have been tremendous. 
 Our coaches, I want to thank men who are talented, men who have great passion, love for the game and great love for the players.  They are men who have represented this University with great integrity, and I admire and respect and love all of them. 
 Last, I want to thank our players because that's really the essence of intercollegiate athletics.  I've always felt, and I always tried to create an environment and have a program where one of the values that we cherish is that when these guys leave here, they've had an experience that will be meaningful to them beyond the field of play. 
 I've loved them all, and sometimes that has been tough love.  But in the big picture, the big scheme of things, I just admire in today's world intercollegiate athletics in a place like Michigan, the pressure on those guys is unbelievable.  And they've got to want that pressure.  And I admire the way they've handled it.  I admire the way they've competed.  And I love them for the way that they love the University of Michigan. 
 I had the opportunity several years ago to get to know Robin Fleming, a former President here at Michigan during the '60s and '70s.  And I went up to see him one day, and I had a problem with a player, and I wanted to get his input. 
 He told me that when he became the President at Michigan he came in with the premise that college students are going to make mistakes.  And that hit me in a way that I hadn't understood before.  And it changed my approach, because any time a player got in trouble, that's one of the worst things that you can have as a coach. 
 But his insight helped me to understand that the most important thing you can do as a coach, when a guy has a problem is to deal with it in a way that will help him understand that he has to be accountable.  And he has to do things in a way that will prove that he wants to be here. 
 I can say for the great majority of guys that I've recruited here, I'm extremely proud of, and I am thankful that I've had the opportunity to coach them.  Because, in many instances, I learn more from my players than they ever learn from me. 
 I have been in a position here to make so many great friends and I'm thankful for that, because it has enriched my life, and really made me one of the most fortunate people in this country. 
 I have a great family, and certainly they are people I'm proud of that I love.  And I only can say that being a family of a coach in this environment is hard.  And I'm sorry for some of the things that they had to endure because of my position.  But they've done it in a way that has made me proud. 
 Before I take any questions, I do want to address one issue - the timing of this announcement. 
 My time something based on one thing, what is best for Michigan.  What is best for Michigan Football.  There are no other motives.  And this announcement is made at a time when the recruiting process can be handled in a way that this program can go forward. 
 To do it any later, to do it after a bowl game would have been absolutely ridiculous.  I did it for this program as I've tried to make all the decisions that I've made since I've come here. 
 So any of those rumors about anything else, this is much too big to be about me, or about somebody that is going to coach here.  And I want to make that clear.  My role in the upcoming weeks and in the selection of the coach will be defined strictly by Bill Martin.  Whatever that role, if any, it may be. 
 As we go forward I have only one wish, that this program will continue to abide by the values established by Bo Schembechler, and the men who preceded him.  And the men who succeeded him, and that is to win with integrity.  That's what we want to do, because in the big picture, the character of this institution will be defined by the way this program is run.  And that, really, is what Michigan has always been about and what I hope it will always be about. 
 So if you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them [ Applause ]. 
 All right, if there are no questions (laughing). 

 Q.  How do you think it would be fair to judge you?  With your record and what you did here?  How do you want your body of work remembered as a coach? 
 COACH CARR:  I didn't come here to discuss my legacy.  I came here to announce my retirement.  And I really don't have anything to give you on that. 

 Q.  Why was this season the right one for to you make this decision? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, I know what this job entails and I know what it takes, and it was the time.  It was the right time.  It's the right time for Michigan, it's the right time for me. 

 Q.  When did you know this was going to be it? 
 COACH CARR:  I don't have an answer to that.  I wanted to -- Bill came to see me at a low moment in the season.  And he said to me, you know, I want you to coach here as long as I'm here.  Which was something I really appreciated because it was at a time where probably a lot of people certainly did not want that to happen. 
 Yet, he said, you know, because we had discussed this down in the last year or so and ultimately, he said it, but if you have -- when you do make up your mind, I would like to know because it gives me an opportunity to get going in the search.  And a week or so later I called him up and he came over, and I told him that it was time.  Because I wanted him to have all the time necessary to do the things to hire a great coach here. 

 Q.  If you had to sum up why you're retiring, is there something out there that you want to do that is different?  Or is it just something about the job? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, I read I'm tired and all of that.  I'm not tired.  (Laughing) I may look tired, you know.  But I still have a great passion for the game and for the players and for the competition.  But I also know that there are some things that I don't have anymore.  And so it's time.  That's all I can say to you. 

 Q.  If you had made that decision up in your mind the rest of the season, did you try to separate with the team? 
 COACH CARR:  I've always believed this:  You have to, part of your responsibility is to know when you don't have everything that it takes.  So this is a tough job.  It's the greatest of jobs, but it's a tough job.  And being honest with yourself, I've tried to do that. 
 I've tried to look at myself, and the way that I've approached this job, and it is simply time for me.  And what I'm going to do?  I don't know.  I'll give that some thought.  I have an opportunity to stay here which I appreciate, but I'm just going to see what's out there.  And, hopefully, I can do something that will be meaningful. 

 Q.  A coach with college football championships, what about it may you not miss? 
 COACH CARR:  I think this, for the next coach we're all going to be measured by Bo.  And yet, you know, he's only been gone a short time but things have changed dramatically.  When Bo was here, there were 105 scholarships, there are 85 now. 
 The Big Ten conference has changed.  Penn State was not in the conference here.  And the BCS was not here.  You only had one camera, you know (laughing).  And Bo and I talked about those things a lot. 
 So it's changed dramatically.  And I think it will continue to change.  And yet the expectations here are never going to change.  That's what makes it a great job.  That's what makes it a difficult job.  And I think there are a lot of things that we can do better. 
 But, you know, in the meantime we have to compete and try to do the things that it takes to win.  And I don't know if that answers your question. 

 Q.  What won't you miss about being here? 
 COACH CARR:  What won't I miss every day when you walk into that office, something is going to surprise you, and there are going to be disappointments every day.  And dealing with those is part of the great challenge.  You know? 
 You've got 100 players on your team.  You've got a lot of people in your program.  And there are always challenges, there are always issues.  I this think it's time to let somebody else worry about all those issues. 
 I guess because it is consuming.  There is never a day when you aren't at work.  Whether you're on vacation, where you are it is 24 hours a day 365 days a year.  So I guess that would be my response. 

 Q.  I believe the advice was family and friends come before your occupation.  Are you confident that you feel that way going out on this job as you came in? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, Red Simmons came to me.  How old are you, Red? 
 RED SIMMONS:  42 days from 98. 
 COACH CARR:  98 years old (Applause). 
 Almost to the day I was announced as a coach, red came into my office and he gave me a medal.  He said, Lloyd, you know, when you leave here, you want to make sure that you've got your health and you've got your friends and you've got your family.  Because that really is what life is all about. 
 So that's great advice, and I have all those things.  As far as I know, as far as I know.  Despite all of those rumors out there, you know. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible)? 
 COACH CARR:  The guys that I brought here, the guys that I've coached, the guys that I've hired here, I think more than anything else any coach is measured by those people.  Because this is not a one-man -- you know, Bo hired great coaches, and certainly I was one of those (laughing). 
 But, you know, Michigan Football is about team.  It's about family.  It's about having a group of people that you trust, that you care about.  And I understanding that if everybody will do the best he can do and put the team first, then you can do things that you can't do individually. 
 Michigan has had all kinds of All Americans and Heisman Trophy winners, but that's not what defines this program.  What defines this program is teams.  Taking a lot of people from different parts of the country, different religions and races and socioeconomic backgrounds and trying to mold them into a cohesive group of people who have one goal.  And that goal is to win for Michigan.  And to me, that is what it's all about. 

 Q.  What was that meeting like yesterday with your players for you and for them? 
 COACH CARR:  I don't know what it was like for them.  I think they were probably cheering like hell when I told them (laughing). 
 Yesterday was one of the most emotional days of my life.  I cried more tears than I knew I had.  And I've never laughed so hard in my life because, you know there were so many memories, and it was a wonderful day, I can tell you that. 

 Q.  What things are you looking forward to doing that you could never do as a coach because of your schedule? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, my wife will have a few duties for me now that she's already written down.  Where's Laurie at? 
 I don't know.  You know.  I think I talked to some people who have been very successful in business who are also nearing maybe the possibility of retirement.  And they've all said one thing, the biggest mistake that people have made in retirement is that they almost always feel they retired too soon.  And I'm very much at peace with this timing. 
 By the same token, I love the game.  I love this place.  And I'm going to miss that.  I don't -- you know, I know that.  But that's when you enter a new phase in your life, there's always uncertainty and, you know, you don't know what's going to come.  But I feel very good about this time. 

 Q.  Are you ruling out being a member of the media by any chance? 
 COACH CARR:  No, I'm not.  Because what I want to do is I want to be a critic of the media (laughing).  Some of you won't like what I write. 

 Q.  You might not like this question. 
 COACH CARR:  Then don't ask it (laughing). 

 Q.  (Indiscernible) he's a man you worked with at Michigan, did you have much of a relationship with him? 
 COACH CARR:  You know, when it gets to discussing any potential candidates, I defer to Bill Martin, who will -- this process will be developed and executed by Bill.  And so I'm not going to get into all of the things that are his job. 
 But I can say that, you know, there are a lot of things happening on the recruiting trail.  It is a very competitive business.  But those are things that you put to rest. 
 So for some of those rumors that are out there, I'm not going to answer all of them.  I'm not going to talk about candidates, because that's not my job. 
 But I do want to make it clear that I am not here to want to name the coach and all that baloney that some of you have written. 

 Q.  Will your successor be a Michigan man? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, you remember a guy named Schembechler?  He wasn't a Michigan man.  Fitz Chrysler wasn't a Michigan man.  Fielding Yost wasn't a Michigan man. 
 So I think the only thing I will say is that I know this -- Bill wants to hire the finest coach in this country.  And I don't have any doubts that he will do that. 

 Q.  You announced this now because of recruiting and getting it out of the way.  What is Michigan's doing about recruiting in the next month or so or two months? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, we've had a sensational, in my years at Michigan, the guys who have verbally committed to us at this stage, it's a great class.  So, rather than me go out and waste visits, a head coach only gets one visit when he goes into a recruit's home or to his high school.  So this timing will enable when that coach is named, and he can immediately go and visit those kids and secure those commitments. 
 Plus we have 7 or 8 left that we want.  So it's about holding on to a recruiting class.  Because if this recruiting class falls apart, four years from now there is a hole in Michigan Football. 
 So the only important thing here is this program.  It's not about me.  I mean, it would be easier for me to wait because I wouldn't have to be here today.  But it's about this recruiting. 

 Q.  Is that the only part of your job that's going to change in the next week?  Or are you going to do everything else that you did in normal years? 
 COACH CARR:  Yeah, I'm going to prepare for the bowl game and, yeah, that's part of this thing. 

 Q.  When a coaching candidate asks about the job, what makes it a great job and what makes it otherwise? 
 COACH CARR:  I can't imagine a guy asking me why this is a great job.  I mean, if he asks that question, I wonder what he knows about the game? 

 Q.  Do you think you'll have to tell that to anybody that asks you that? 
 COACH CARR:  This is a job that seeks the candidate.  You know, you don't seek this job, the job seeks you. 

 Q.  Do you have a piece of advice for the next coach? 
 COACH CARR:  You got to be able to take a punch, and know that all those punches are worth it.  Because you get to go down that tunnel and you get to stand on that sideline and you get to represent the greatest university in the world, and you get to recruit the finest kids that play this game.  And you get the great challenge of trying to do something that is very difficult, and that is to be the very, very best in this country.  And it's hard to do.  It's hard to do. 
 But it's fun, and it's what makes life really worthwhile.  The challenge of trying to do something with a group of people that no one can do themselves. 

 Q.  In your opinion, are any of your current staff capable and qualified to succeed you? 
 COACH CARR:  There are guys on this staff that can do anything.  And if you look at their backgrounds, if you look at what they've achieved, they're all bright guys and they're passionate about the game.  And a number of them, if they so choose, will be very, very successful head coaches. 

 Q.  With regard to recruiting, have you spoken with the players who have said they'll come here with the next recruiting class? 
 COACH CARR:  We have made contact with all of those guys.  They know that those commitments, those scholarship offers will be honored. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible)? 
 COACH CARR:  Pardon me? 

 Q.  Do you hope to keep an office? 
 COACH CARR:  No, I do not. 

 Q.  What sort of role would you like to have? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, I want to be a guy that is there if needed.  That's it, period.  I want to be a guy that supports Michigan Football. 

 Q.  Coach, we hear you talking about rolling with the punches.  When you woke up this morning, how were you feeling?  Were you feeling different?  What kind of things went through your head? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, I was trying to make sure I put on the right socks (laughing).  You know, I have felt for really since I made the decision, there was a period in there where there was -- it was difficult.  And at some point I really was at peace with it.  So when I woke up this morning, I felt very good from the standpoint that I knew I was doing the right thing.  But, this day is special, because it's the end, you know.  And it's a beginning, so it's both. 

 Q.  Did you know at the beginning of this season that this would be your last season? 
 COACH CARR:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Did you do anything differently as a result? 
 COACH CARR:  No.  You know, the one thing that I made up my mind several years ago that I was going to work as hard as I could to the very last second that I was in this job.  That I wanted to be able to walk out of here knowing that to the very last minute, I did my job to the best of my ability.  And I know I'll be able to do that. 

 Q.  Did you ever have a moment this year where you thought maybe you'd come back? 
 COACH CARR:  No, not really. 

 Q.  Did anybody try to sway your decision in any way? 
 COACH CARR:  Bill had indicated that he wanted me to stay.  President Coleman had indicated that she wanted me to stay.  And that certainly meant a lot to me because, you know, that's -- those are people that I respect.  But I tried to make it clear that it was time.  That's it. 

 Q.  What is your biggest accomplishment?  And what do you think your biggest disappointment was? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, every time you lose, it's miserable.  I mean, they're all miserable.  And certain games are more miserable than others.  And it is a misery of its own quality. 
 And yet, I was talking to Herb Deromedi yesterday, he's going into the National Football Foundation Hall of Fame in New York here in a couple of weeks.  He said, Lloyd, you know, it took me until a year or so ago I would wake up in the middle of the night and think about this call I made, and how I wish I would have made another call, because, invariably, I was always thinking about the games we lost. 
 He said, about two months ago I decided that I was just going to think about the games we won.  And so we've won so many great games here.  And what I'll remember is being in that locker room after some spectacular performances and singing the Victors with those teams.  Those are the moments that you don't forget.  Those are the moments that make everything you do worthwhile. 
 And I know of no other profession that the exhilaration, the incredible euphoria that you experience when you've won a tough ballgame right at the end.  So we've had a lot of those.  But it's the players that give meaning to all of that. 
 I have had some guys that I've had to discipline, and that I've had hard times with I look back on some of those kids today who learned valuable lessons. 
 Because I think this game, you know, there's always a question about does this game develop character?  I don't think this game develops character, but I think it defines character.  You play this game long enough, you coach it, then it will define who you are. 
 Did you quit when you got knocked down?  Did you violate the rules in order to win?  You know, all of those things that you have to do in coaching and playing this game ultimately will define who you are.  And that is one of the real values of the game. 
 And there is an incredible value to this game.  And there are problems, yes.  There are criticisms that are legitimate, yes.  But at its essence, this game is valuable and like so many other games. 

 Q.  Who is your equivalent (indiscernible)?  Do you have one? 
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think they're all my favorites.  Thank you. (Applause). 
 BILL MARTIN:  Now you got me all choked up, Lloyd.  You started by saying this was Thanksgiving week, and it certainly is.  It's our turn.  This staff, this community, this university that wants to thank you. 
 So on behalf of our Regents, President Coleman, our Executive Officers, your fellow coaches who are here today, our athletic staff, certainly our fans and our alums who have been so loyal to us for so long, I just want to say publicly, thank you for those 28 years of service.  13 as our head coach for running a program that's clean, running it by the rules.  Helping to develop and mold these young boys into men, you did it all. 
 The only thing I'm going to object to what you said this morning, you don't know what you're doing in the future.  I know exactly what you're doing.  You will be working for me, and I have a list that's longer than Laurie's list. 
 So look forward to it.  Thank you so much, go Lloyd, and go Blue. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT