UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 27, 2007
Lloyd Carr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   COACH CARR:  Sorry to get you up so early.  I know you're not used to that.   
 At any rate, we are excited about the beginning of this season and looking forward to playing Appalachian State.  Questions?   
  
  Q.  What have been your impressions of Appalachian State.  What do they do well?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think they're a team with outstanding team speed.  I think that particularly the skill positions, the wide receiver position, obviously Edwards is an exciting athlete, quarterback.  From the reports that I've read, he's improved dramatically in terms of the passing game.  But he's an exciting football player.   
 Their secondary is back.  I think excellent speed, again, and the kicking game, outstanding return teams.  So I think the thing when you look at them, the thing that immediately impresses is their team speed.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the right side of the offensive line.  How do you feel about that side right now?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, Alex Mitchell is out of this game, but Jeremy Ciulla had a very good spring.  Depending on what happens this week, I think that's true of all the depth chart, still a work in progress.  So we've got a lot of things still that could change this week.   
 Steve Schilling has had an excellent fall, and he will start at right tackle.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Well, we'll make up our travel team roster.  We'll make up our dress list this week, so you might want to check that out when you get to the game.   
  
  Q.  Talk about Gingell and Wright and what each have done this fall.   
 COACH CARR:  Well, again, we'll see how they all do this week.   
  
  Q.  Can you give us a preview of which freshmen the fans may be able to see on Saturday?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think there are a number of freshmen who will compete.  If they don't compete in this game, it certainly does not mean that they won't compete as the season goes forward.  But I think particularly at the wide receiver position, Junior Hemingway, and I think to start with Junior, he has had an outstanding fall.  He is a wonderful athlete, a guy that I think will play, a guy that I think will play on our special teams.  So I'll start with him.   
 Give me some names.   
  
  Q.  Mallett?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, Ryan is backup quarterback, and any time we have an opportunity to play young players, and particularly in that position, we'll see how the game goes, but hopefully he'll get some opportunities because I think any young player if they get an opportunity to play early in the season, that motivates them.  It gives them game experience, and of course that's something you can't buy.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Marell Evans, the linebacker from the same high school as Brandon Minor, and has very good fall, and I expect that he will be one of those freshmen that gets playing time this fall.   
 Toney Clemons will play.  Toney as well as Junior, both those kids have had excellent falls.  They're both big guys, talented guys that will play.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  I think both of those kids will play.  Again, that will depend on situations, but certainly in the area of special teams, we'll have an opportunity to play a lot of freshmen, probably more than is normal.   
 When I look at this class, the one thing it brings is speed to our team, and I think all these kids have competed very well and picked things up.  They're guys that as coaches we have confidence in.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Yeah, David, he worked at center first couple weeks.  We worked him recently at guard because he is a guy that's very smart, he's talented, and so we'll see how it develops at that position.  We're not going to waste a guy's year just to give him a few snaps early in the season.  But certainly he is a guy that will be in the fray.  He will be competing every day; there's a chance depending on what happens at those two positions, that could enable him to have playing time.   
  
  Q.  Talk about what Johnny Sears and Stevie Brown showed you this fall?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think Johnny Sears has shown marked improvement, I think he's shown marked maturity.  He was a guy a year ago that did some great things on our special teams, and I think he's really displayed -- he's always displayed a real toughness and aggressiveness, and he has no fear.  He's a guy that has competed extremely well, and I think he has made great strides in terms of the coverage that is required at that position.  I think he's also displayed very good ability as a return man, so Johnny has earned an opportunity for significant playing time.   
 Steve Brown played some a year ago on our special teams.  He's a guy that in the last couple weeks -- he's another guy who runs extremely well.  He's a tough, hard-nosed guy.  He'll only get better with experience.  But he's done an excellent job.   
  
  Q.  In terms of the tackle position, do you have sort of a number three guy like Will, or do you (inaudible).   
 COACH CARR:  Well, you've got the depth chart there for whatever that's worth, and we'll -- our backups in the defensive front are all young guys, they're all guys for the most part that we've red-shirted again, so there will be some rotation in there, and we'll see how they play.  Their performance will dictate how much they play.   
  
  Q.  You've got Brandon Minor on the kickoff team.  You said last week that he was sort of struggling.  Why did you decide to go that way?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, again, that depth chart is -- did Spider make that up?  Jim got out of the hospital, back home and doing well, by the way, and we look forward to his return here, otherwise I've got to work with Ablauf.   
 So we'll see, but Brandon, if we had to go today, Brandon would be back there -- Brandon Harrison has done an excellent job, and we'll just have to see how that goes.   
  
  Q.  When do you think Carlos Brown will be back in there?   
 COACH CARR:  I expect that the cast will come off his hand this week.  I wouldn't rule him out, I wouldn't rule him in.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Well, Mark Moundros and Vince Helmuth have really had quite a battle at the fullback position.  I would expect that either or both of them can play, and we'll have to see how that position evolves as we go forward.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about potentially opening up to a three wide receiver formation?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think a year ago we ran more plays from the three wide receiver position.  I think what you're always looking to do is when you have some of the skill that we have at the wide receiver positions and can spread a defense out, that's something that's positive.   
 But we'd like to be able to use a number of personnel packages, two tight ends, two wide receivers, one back; the standard pro personnel, tight end, two wide receivers, two backs, or three wide receivers or four wide receivers.  So I think the more flexibility you have there gives you a lot more flexibility.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  John Thompson and Obi Ezeh, as I mentioned last week, both of them will play.  I think they've competed extremely well, and we'll have to see as far as our season goes.  I think they're in some regards different types of players, so we may end up with a situational -- game situational or personnel situational deal there so that -- and then they will determine by how well they play who plays the most.   
  
  Q.  Do you have any personal rituals or anything traditions that you do before the first week or the first game or anything with the team?   
 COACH CARR:  Practice.   
 Well, the band comes over on Thursday.  That's really about the only time during the course of the season that our players get an opportunity to see and hear the band in a relaxed atmosphere.  They come over on Thursday.  So that's one of the highlights, I think, of the preseason.  That's something I think all of our players look forward to.   
  
  Q.  How are Obi and John Thompson, you said they're different in situational.  How are they different like that?   
 COACH CARR:  How are they different?  Their strengths are a little bit different, and so that will -- what they've displayed in practice -- Obi moved from the Sam linebacker position where he played in the spring, and I think in the long run, playing him there in the spring was a great thing for our team because it gives us some additional flexibility in case of an injury.   
 But he's also big enough to play inside.  He played a number of positions in high school, but he's big enough to move inside, and I think he's shown the type of ability it takes to be an excellent pass coverage.  He's got a lot of ability, he's a young guy, but he's got a great upside.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Well, there was a big article in the New York Times yesterday about that rule change.  Joe Tiller expressed I think great significant disappointment in the rule, and I share his sentiments.  I think there's no question that it's going to lead to a great more number of returns, and of course that play is high impact.   
 I think the rationale was, I guess, that when you kick the ball into the end zone it stops the clock and lengthens the game.  So it is what it is, and I think there's no question that it's going to change significantly field position from what it's been in the past.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think we have two young fullbacks, and both of them are talented guys who are going to get better and better.  I think it comes down to you have -- when you have young receivers or you have enough receivers that you can stay in a one back, three wide receiver set, because those guys can't play every down because they do more running probably with the exception of secondary playing the field.  So if you have depth, then you can stay in a set because you have confidence in the young players.  Our young players are going to get better and better as the season goes on.   
 But it's always dictated by what you think the strengths and weaknesses of the other team are, as well.   
  
  Q.  From a health standpoint, in general are you pleased with where you were able to go from the start of fall camp until now?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think we've had the normal bumps and bruises and ankle sprains and things like that.  I think obviously Alex missing the first game is a disappointment because it's disappointing any time a player has to miss a game.  But I think we're in relatively good health in terms of where we've been in past years.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think they're both -- you could throw John Ferrara in there, as well.  All those guys are much stronger than they were a year ago.  I think they've all competed well.  They're all really kids that are smart, kids that work hard, that are competitive, and I think they're all going to be good players.  We'll just have to see how they develop as the season goes on.   
 But there's going to be opportunities in there.   
  
  Q.  You talked last year about playing a game a week earlier and giving a bye week to the guys and still getting out at Thanksgiving.  Any development at all on that?   
 COACH CARR:  No, I think the Big Ten is trying to influence the ability to have a choice of opening the season a week earlier so that you could factor in a bye.  My own guess is that the NCAA will be reluctant to do that, and I think going forward there will be some schools that will have decisions to make in terms of playing after Thanksgiving in order to build a bye into the regular season.  But I don't know exactly where that conversation is at this point.   
  
  Q.  What would be your guess that they wouldn't do that?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, because they don't want to lengthen the season.  They think it's okay to add games.  Other than that, I can't explain it.  Maybe you could ask them.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  I think they've come together.  I think it's a group of guys that are highly motivated.  I think throughout the course of this fall I've been satisfied with the way they have played, the way they have practiced, and I like the guys on the defense.   
 I think our secondary has made significant strides compared with where we were in the fall.  I think some of the competition from the freshmen has helped us.  I think some of the young players have really made strides, and of course Jamar Adams is back, and Jamar has had a good career here.  I think he is capable of being an outstanding player, and I expect that he will be.   
 Morgan Trent I think has really dedicated himself in the off-season, and I think he's had an outstanding fall.  I think the competition has helped us, and I think our front four are all guys that have size and strength to be good players.   
 I think the key for us, hopefully we can stay healthy.   
  
  Q.  Who would the nickelback be?   
 COACH CARR:  The nickelback would be Brandon Harrison, Charles Stewart.  Both those kids have experience there, and we have confidence in both of them.   
  
  Q.  You touched briefly on Shawn Crable; is there something you really see in terms of leadership that he does?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think I would go back to last year.  I think Shawn had an excellent season, and I think in the off-season he really came to understand and appreciate the significance of conditioning.  To be a great player you have to be in great condition, great physical condition.  I think he worked extremely hard throughout the winter and the summer.  His commitment was, I thought, outstanding.  You could see the difference in him this fall.   
 He's always been a guy that when you looked at him, when he was really playing at his best, you could see the potential.  He runs as well as I would guess any linebacker in the country, and of course he's got great brains, great size, makes a lot of plays.  He has the ability to line up as a defensive end when we go to the nickel package and be an excellent rusher.  He's a guy with great ability, and he has matched that at least in the winter and the summer and the fall.  I think his teammates saw that.  I think that's one of the reasons they selected him as a captain.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Well, they have a new offensive coordinator, so we're expecting some different things from what they did a year ago.  But I don't think philosophically I think there's still going to be a quarterback-oriented offense, and by that I mean they're going to have a lot of ways in which the ball will be in his hand in the running game as well as the passing game.   
  
  Q.  Do you anticipate using both Jason Gingell and Wright on extra points and field goals the first week or two to try to stir that competition?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, K.C. Lopata is right in the middle of that, and we'll have to see how it goes this week.  I would prefer that one of them win that battle.  But other than that, we'll just have to see how that position develops.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Zoltan has had a good fall.  He's an incredibly dedicated athlete.  He's one of the best conditioned players on the team.  He is stronger, he is bigger than he was a year ago, and he will -- he's like a lot of guys I've had at that position; he's a student of punting.  He can tell you when he hits a bad punt why, what the problem was.  So that enables him to make corrections.  You know, that takes an extraordinary athlete to be able to do that, kind of like me when I play golf.  I know immediately and can make corrections.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I've said this on numerous occasions.  Tim Jamison is an extremely intense, competitive guy.  He has been set back with injury, but he's really developed.  He's in wonderful shape and has had an outstanding spring.  He is a guy that is very, very capable of big plays, and that's what we're expecting him to do.  He's a wonderful athlete, has great quickness off the ball, and he's a powerful guy.   
  
  Q.  It's been a little bit of an odd fall in terms of weather.  How if at all has that affected your preparation?   
 COACH CARR:  Well, it's certainly not been what we are accustomed to, and there is a concern in terms of if the weather turns extremely hot.  It's always a lot hotter down in that hole.  So we'll just have to see.  But certainly I've never seen weather like this, and yet you've got to be able to adjust.  Hopefully all the conditioning that we've done throughout the winter and throughout the summer will help us.  I don't look at it as anything that everybody else doesn't have to deal with, as well.  It's the same for all of us.   
  
  Q.  When you break down, I'm guessing that you probably know about the team that they're playing on film.  Does that make it harder for Appalachian State, that they probably don't know as much about the teams that they play?   
 COACH CARR:  Yeah, I think that's fair to say, but I think as players and as coaches when you turn their film on, the caliber of the competition they play, those guys are well-coached, and they're extremely competitive.  Because we don't play anybody they play, I think it certainly makes it different in terms of personnel and all those issues.  But I don't think from any other standpoint it's any different than any other game.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Well, Kraus is a special guy.  As many of you know, a year ago, two years now, his family went through a very difficult year.  His father has had some extremely serious health issues.  But Adam is a guy that is very, very smart.  He came here as a tight end.  I was kidding him the other day, I told him, come on, Adam, you're going to be a great tight end here.  I lied to him (laughing).   
 But the truth is that I think he understood when he was here there was a good chance he would end up being an offensive lineman.  It took him a year or so to really develop the strength and to get big enough to be able to move inside and play guard.  But he's played every position out there.  He's a very good center, he's played some at tackle, so he is, I think -- when you line up two guys like Long and Kraus by each other, you're dealing with two guys that are great friends, and they've worked very well together.  They communicate extremely well, and when the ball is snapped, they're going to be in the fight.   
 He's done an outstanding job, and he had an excellent year a year ago playing much of that season with a shoulder that was not 100 percent.  He had surgery in the off-season and missed spring practice.  But he's one of those guys that every man knows you can count on.  He's a great team guy, doesn't say a lot, but he's always listening, always learning.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Well, I think the zone schemes, there's a lot of cutback plays, so the ball may start to the right, but that doesn't mean it's going to stay to the right.  That's the beauty, I think, of the zone scheme.   
 So I think whether you're running to them, starting the play to the left or to the right, you have an ability to get the ball back to the left.  If you've got a guy that sees and has good vision, which Hart and Minor exhibited that, I think every play, ones you can count on, you'll have two guys that will know what they're doing and are going to do their job.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 COACH CARR:  Yeah, he's beginning to run, and I'm sure he'll have some difficult days in there when you start to run, now you test the knee, and normally as you go through that process you'll have some good days, you'll have some days where it swells up a little bit, and then you have to back off for a couple days.  But we're very pleased with where he is.   
 Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT