NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: WICHITA
March 14, 2018
Angel Delgado
Khadeen Carrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I'll direct this to either player.  With your seniors being together as long as you have and the way the last two NCAA Tournaments have gone, what's been kind of the talk to where this is the year, this could be the year for you guys to make an impact and get that win the first round?
KHADEEN CARRINGTON: The last two years was a great experience for us.  My sophomore year was our first time getting here, and it was kind of new to us.  And last year I think we played a great game and just made a few mistakes at the end.  So that was a great experience for this year.  This is our last go-around.
ANGEL DELGADO: Yeah, I think right now we've been here three years in a row, so we're right now kind of on these type of events and stuff like that.  So I think we're ready, we're ready for the battle.
Q. For both you guys, how do you think this game impacts your legacy at Seton Hall?  You guys came in when the program was at a low point, and you've kind of put it back to being relevant and being a winning program, but what do you think winning a game would do to your legacy in this tournament?  How does that impact your legacy at the school?
KHADEEN CARRINGTON: I think we've left a pretty great legacy so far, but like you said, winning a game in the NCAA Tournament, that's something that we haven't done, and we're looking forward to doing it tomorrow.  I think it's going to just add to our legacy if we do so.
ANGEL DELGADO: Like Khadeen said, we never won a NCAA Tournament game, so we're coming with the mindset that we gotta win the game.  We gotta represent our school and represent our league.  So we gotta be in the right way and play as hard as we possibly can.
Q. NC State's players were up here before you.  They talked a lot about the concern about Seton Hall's physicality, Big East physicality.  How much of a priority is it for you to play that type of game, bring that type of game tomorrow?
KHADEEN CARRINGTON: The Big East is a very physical league.  Every game is a grinding-out game.  Every game goes down to the end.  So we're just going to try to impose our will on them.  We know that their league is not quite as physical as us.  So we'll just try to show our physicality, like you said.
ANGEL DELGADO: Yeah, we just gotta come with the mindset that we gotta come and play physical with these guys and just play hard.  Like it's a team anything can come and play physical, too.  So we cannot say like stuff like that.  We just gotta come with the mindset that we gotta play hard and do the best we can.
Q. This is really for Khadeen.  NC State is a team that prides themselves in turning people over, creating turnovers and kind of getting up in your face.  What have you seen on tape and how have you tried to prepare for their pressure defense?
KHADEEN CARRINGTON: Yeah, we pay attention a lot to the pressure defense.  We know they like to press you and turn the ball over.  I think it starts with me to stay composed, just get guys in the right spots and not turn the ball over, and I'm going to try to do that tomorrow.
Q. For both guys, what do the two of you know and what do your teammates know that NC State might not because they have a roster filled with a lot of guys who have never been to the NCAA Tournament?
KHADEEN CARRINGTON: I'm not sure, to tell you the truth.  At the end of the day, we're in the NCAA Tournament, but it's still basketball.  You know what I'm saying?  So you still gotta go out there and play.  It's just another game.
ANGEL DELGADO: Yeah, like Khadeen said, this is another game.  It's a regular game.  It's two teams.  Both got great talented players, so we just gotta come with the mindset that we gotta play hard and play great.
Q. Angel, they've obviously got a big in Omer who can stretch the floor a little bit.  How do you prepare for that?  You mentioned getting physical, but how do you prepare going against a guy like that and knowing you want to stay down there in the block area?
ANGEL DELGADO: I watch a lot of film on him, and he's a really good player and I got a lot of respect for him.  But at the same time we got a lot of players like that in our league, too.  They can stretch the floor, they can shoot threes and other stuff.  By this time right now I'm kind of used to it and I'm ready for it.
Q. Khadeen, have you guys at all thought about or talked to each other about -- I mean, tomorrow could be -- I mean, you obviously want to win, but just how it's coming to an end?  Have you guys talked about that or thought about that at all; that you seniors, whether it's Thursday or Saturday or next week or whenever, it's going to end soon?  Is that something you think about at all?
KHADEEN CARRINGTON: No.  We haven't spoken about that because we don't want it to end yet.  We'll speak about everything after the season, whenever that may be.  So we haven't spoke about the season ending yet.
You said have I thought about it?  I mean, you think about it, it's the senior year, I've been thinking about it since the start of the senior year.  It's my last year.  It's my last time to do something special.  So I've been thinking about it.
Q. The fact it is your last, how much does that push you and motivate you to win tomorrow knowing you don't want it to end?
COACH WILLARD: It motivates me a lot, you know.  I'm real focused right now.  I think my teammates are focused.  Coach Willard and all the coaching staff is focused.  So we're just going to go out there and play our game, play hard and try to get the W.
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions?  If there are no more, best of luck, guys tomorrow.  Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT