ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 22, 2012
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ANTHONY KIM:   A couple 3‑putts, I think two or three 3‑putts, but other than that it was great.   I haven't felt that comfortable on the first tee for a long time.   Been working really hard and actually just keeping out of my own way, and even though that should be the easiest thing for a professional golfer; it's the hardest.   I've been running my head into a brick wall.   So I moved way from the brick wall and now I can swing and make some birdies out here. 

Q.   Tell us about the hole‑in‑one.   
ANTHONY KIM:   Well, I really don't know how to explain.   I didn't even know it went in.   I think Zach said it went in and I looked over and it was missing.   So it was nice to hit a good golf shot, first of all, and it looked like it was not going to be a foot more than a cup and rolled in.   5‑iron, 203. 

Q.   How many do you have in your life overall? 
ANTHONY KIM:   I'm not even sure, I think I have nine.   That was my first one on TOUR. 

Q.   You talked about getting out of your own way, obviously been a tough start to the year.   Does this all go back to the injury, coming up on two years now, and yet you've had some flashes, last year at the British Open for example.   Can you just take us through? 
ANTHONY KIM:   Yeah, but that was more of a flash in the pan.   I'm trying not to do that because that's what I'm known for I guess.   I tell you what, it's not from the injury.   I have no pain.   I haven't had pain in a long time.   More people have been saying that I have pain without knowing.   But I had so many bad habits‑‑

Q.   Because of that? 
ANTHONY KIM:   Right.   And so I had to go back to hitting my fade and my coach and I have been working really hard, and we actually didn't work at all for six months, just because I wanted to learn my body again and learn how to hit the fade and I couldn't do it.
So a month ago, he said he's going to start travelling with me until I get it.   We've been working at home, hitting balls in my garage, chipping in my backyard, putting in my backyard, just to make sure that we have a good opportunity to win some golf tournaments, and who knows, I can still make it to Augusta if I play well. 

Q.   Is there a fine line between trying to get your game back as you've been doing, but also being patient, like you just said, you can get to Augusta, and yet there's the process of trying to sort it out, too. 
ANTHONY KIM:   Obviously it was a goal of mine to make Augusta and to make it in the Top‑50 and it didn't happen.   I'm actually farther away than when I started the season. 
But I'm doing all the right things to get me closer to playing ‑‑ and that's never been an issue for me.   Getting the ball in the hole is not an issue.   Getting the ball off the tee the last two years has been a struggle.   The band aid I've put on before Asia really came off the first six, seven tournaments, and even at the Honda, I had 20 birdies and finished 42nd. 
I know I can get the ball in the hole.   I just have to get the ball in the fairway. 

Q.   Mentally what did you do with that half of the game‑‑
ANTHONY KIM:   Just try to relax.   Being relaxed isn't a problem of mine but when you get up on that first tee, you have to just say, look, I'm going to let all the work that happened, happen out there.   I haven't been able to do that.   I did it today. 
I felt more comfortable‑‑ I hit less range balls in the first three days than I did of any golf tournament this year.   I'm happy with the progression.   I'm hitting the ball well.   I just have to get the ball in the hole and I have to start winning some golf tournaments. 

Q.   What was working for you today?
ANTHONY KIM:   I was hitting the ball very well.   I haven't hit the ball in the fairway in a long time, seems like years ago when I could actually stand up on that tee and be confident with the driver, and I was today.   Just going to try to keep doing what I'm doing, hopefully roll in a couple more putts than I did and clean up a couple of those 3‑putts that I had today.

Q.   You've seen progress and you're working harder and once in awhile you have a wayward shot, but are you seeing progress?
ANTHONY KIM:   I'm seeing a lot of progress.   Besides those two 3‑putts early, the first ten, 11 holes, I had six birdies.   So that's four birdies and a hole‑in‑one.

Q.   Hole‑in‑one?
ANTHONY KIM:   5‑iron, 203.   My caddie said 204 but it was 203 obviously.   Went in right in the middle. 

Q.   When is the last time you had an ace? 
ANTHONY KIM:   It's been a while.   Hitting the green is an issue, so making it in the hole is nice.   

Q.   Tell us about your golf bag, it has Oklahoma Sooner all over it.   We don't see many of those out here on the PGA TOUR. 
ANTHONY KIM:   Because my caddie has to walk through so many trees, we had to have a smaller bag.   Obviously I went to school at the University of Oklahoma, very proud of that.   Right now I'm still working on a couple bag deal, so for the time being, it's OU. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT