DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE: We'd like to welcome Anthony Kim here to the interview room at the Deutsche Bank Championship after a second round 66 out there, back-to-back 66s. Obviously you're playing pretty good golf right now.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I'm excited. This is the first time that I've hit the ball solidly for two days in a row in about two months, so I'm very excited to see what I've got coming on Sunday and Monday.   
  
  Q. Do you like the track meet formats where you've got to shoot 66 or get run over, or do you like the ones where par is a little more meaningful, or can you just adjust?   
 ANTHONY KIM: I don't really think of it that way. I just say par is 68 instead of 71, because you're going to have some opportunities on the par-5s to make birdie or eagle. You definitely have to take advantage of those holes and conserve it on par-4s because everybody else is birdieing them.  
  
  Q. So you're 2-under?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Right (laughter).   
  
  Q. The last time that you felt like you hit the ball solidly for two days, was that AT&T?  
 ANTHONY KIM: It was AT&T. Thursday and Friday I hit it pretty well, and Saturday I hit it very for nine holes, and on the back I struggled a little bit and hit it fairly well on Sunday.   
 It's been a long time coming. I've been working with my coach for a little bit, and I didn't know if we were going to have to figured out, and luckily we had Thursday to figure it out, and it's been working ever since.   
  
  Q. Working with him here or the last stop?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Here and the last stop.  
  
  Q. You saw him in Michigan, too, right?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah.  
 STEWART MOORE: Just for clarification, your coach's name?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Adam Schreiber.  
  
  Q. What have you and Adam been working on in layman's terms?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, my balance was one of the key things that was wrong. I was on my left side too much after I came back from the British, and to correct that mistake I put all my weight back on my right foot and overdid it. I was hitting off my right heel through the ball and hitting a lot of fat shots and a lot of shots right in the middle of the ball. So tried to even my weight out and just make a good, solid turn, and it should be pretty solid.  
  
  Q. Can you take me through the 7th hole? You hit the bunker on the left.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I hit what I thought was a good drive. The wind was coming slightly off the left and down, and it ended up in the bunker. We had a decision to make, either lay it up and have about 170 into a tough pin on the left or go for it. I was actually planning on hitting 3-wood and my caddie told me to hit 5-wood, just to make sure I got over the lip. I hit a 5-wood very solid, and it almost caught the lip, and I'm glad I didn't hit the 3-wood. But I had 62 yards in and hit it three feet and made it.   
  
  Q. How far did you make it into the FedExCup last year? I apologize for not doing my homework. How many rounds, if any?  
 ANTHONY KIM: The BMW was my last. I think I started at 40 and ended up at 60 by the end of the year.   
  
  Q. Pick up anything during the process last year about going through it, getting better? Obviously you're a little more well-rounded across the board this week and ready to compete, and that's probably the easy explanation.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, that, too, and I'm fresh. I took a lot more time off before this FedExCup, even though it's hard to do. I took some time off in the middle of the season to make sure I was ready, and obviously with the Ryder Cup in between, you want to be fresh for that.   
 Last year was such a blur to me that this feels like my first start at it.  
  
  Q. You said earlier that this is the first time you've strung together two rounds of solid ball-striking. I just wondered how much of a factor the strong winds at the British might have had on that.   
 ANTHONY KIM: It had a tremendous effect. That's the reason I feel like my ball-striking has been off for a while. I haven't played in winds where if I just crushed a 3-iron it goes 145 (laughter). I mean, I consider myself one of the longer players out here, and to -- it's embarrassing to hit a 3-wood and not hit it over 200 yards.   
 It had an effect on it, and now I'm just getting back to my usual game.   
  
  Q. They make an announcement on Tuesday morning where they're going to round out the full 12 for the Ryder Cup. Paul has got to find four guys. Who do you think he should pick? He's trying to find four hot guys. I don't know that there are four hot guys, so he's going to have to pick four guys somehow, period.   
 ANTHONY KIM: I agree. I don't want to be in his shoes for sure. I think it would be easier if he just had two picks. But obviously I think you need to pick a couple veterans, Steve Stricker or Scott Verplank, those guys come to mind, and guys like Hunter Mahan --  
  
  Q. Or O'Hair or somebody like that?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, a couple younger guys and a couple veterans. I'm just throwing out names. I don't know -- I haven't looked at their stats or anything.  
  
  Q. There's no right answer.   
 ANTHONY KIM: No, there isn't. If the guys play well, you're a genius; if they don't, you made a huge mistake. It's a tough decision.   
  
  Q. What's it mean to you to be on the Ryder Cup team?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I really can't put it into words. I can't explain it. When I made the Walker Cup team as an amateur, I thought that was the greatest thing I could do. Obviously this is one step ahead of that. I know when I lace my shoes up and will be representing the USA, I'm going to be very proud and excited to be on that first tee.   
 STEWART MOORE: Anthony, good luck the rest of the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT