THE BARCLAYS
August 22, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 67, 5-under today, are you happy with your position? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Very happy. I haven't played a round that well in a long time. My scores have been okay, but I really felt like I played some good golf so I'm very excited. 

 Q. This is a really risk/reward golf course. Do you find sometimes you have to reign in your innate aggression?
 ANTHONY KIM: I do. I was in the trees all day yesterday, so there wasn't too much aggression I could have in the middle of the trees. But it was a good day today. I hit the ball well and had some chances. 

 Q. Anything particular in your swing?
 ANTHONY KIM: Just trying to keep it short. My swing can get long and loose. After the British, that's what happened and that's what I'm trying to work on this week. 

 Q. At what stage do you start looking at other players' scores? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Probably the back nine on Sunday. Right now, it really doesn't matter. You're just trying to jockey into position to have a shot with nine holes to go on Sunday, so just trying to focus on my game and hopefully I can do the job.

 Q. What's your plan or the rest of the day?
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm thinking about going to New York City and maybe checking it out and seeing the sights and maybe have dinner. 

 Q. A lot of times in the trees and bushes yesterday; much happier today I would imaginea? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I definitely played a lot better. It's a lot more fun when you're not hitting out of the trees and chipping out sideways. Definitely had a good time out there and definitely my game is improving.

 Q. And no bee stings today? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I was unfortunate but I'm glad I don't have any bees to deal with today. Obviously that was a little bit of a distraction, and next time -- hopefully it won't happen but if it does happen, hopefully I'll be more focused on the back nine. Overall it was a very good day. 

 Q. Seeing the scores for the first time this week, is there a getting-to-know-you process you're going through, and do you feel more familiar with it?
 ANTHONY KIM: I do. It's a course you can't be too aggressive on and I'm learning a little bit day-by-day and hole-by-hole. It's getting a lot better and I'm looking forward to this weekend. 

 Q. Your thoughts on the weekend? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Very excited. My golf game is definitely getting better. I've been saying that for a while but the scores haven't shown it but I'm definitely coming around. 

 Q. Talk about your round. 
 ANTHONY KIM: Very good round, I played a lot better than I did yesterday and feel more comfortable on my golf swing. It was okay yesterday and definitely a lot better today.

 Q. Did you find the scoring conditions to be easier in the morning?
 ANTHONY KIM: Absolutely. The greens get crusty out here in the afternoon and I hit a couple good putts that didn't stay online very long, and so obviously it's a lot easier. 

 Q. What do you think about the course in general here?
 ANTHONY KIM: It's a tough golf course. It's a course where you need to work the ball both ways, and I feel like that's one of my strengths and I'm very excited to play this weekend. 

 Q. Yesterday when you got bit, was there a reaction? Did you swell? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I had a little bit of a hard time breathing, swallowing. So I was trying to drink a lot of water bill and my leg kind of swelled up. My calf still hurts. It's not painful. It just feels like there's a rock in there. It's fine. 

 Q. And the paramedics followed you for a few holes to make sure? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I took a Benadryl, and that made things a little bit easier for me. 

 Q. When is the last time you had a bad allergic reaction?
 ANTHONY KIM: A couple years ago, same thing. 

 Q. I can imagine it was pretty scary.
 ANTHONY KIM: When you're in a golf tournament, you really don't care, because there's $10 million waiting for you at the end of this tunnel. So, that's kind of what I'm looking at. 

 Q. Did it make it easier today not having to worry about that, comparatively?
 ANTHONY KIM: I tried to keep it out of my head as much as I could. It wasn't that big of a deal. If it was on my hand it would be different, but it was on my leg, so not too stressful.

 Q. You say your game is rounding up; is it something you're working on? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, after the British, my swing got all screwed up and I was trying to work the ball too much instead of just hitting my normal shot, which is a power fade off the tee and a slight cut on my irons. I was hitting draws. 
 And then what happened was I was starting to hit pull-hooks and hooks and bring the whole course into play and all the trouble into play. So now I'm getting back to playing my normal shot. 

 Q. Was that anything to do with the wind at Birkdale?
 ANTHONY KIM: It was. I moved the ball back in my stance with my driver and my putter and everything. It was my first experience playing in that kind of wind, so it was just a learning experience to get back into playing in the States. 

 Q. It's harder to do, but peaking three weeks from now or four weeks from now, is that the goal?
 ANTHONY KIM: Absolutely. I'm working up towards it. My golf game is so much better today than it was yesterday, and I felt like it was coming. So I'm very excited to play this weekend. 

 Q. What do you think about the galleries this week? They seem to have taken a liking to you. 
 ANTHONY KIM: That's always nice when you have some people following and cheering you on. I appreciate their support. Maybe if the ball is hanging on the lip and they are cheering loud enough, the ball will go in. So I'm very fortunate that they are rooting for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT