RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Anthony Kim, thanks for spending a few minutes with us here in the media center. 65, currently tied for the lead. How was the course playing today condition-wise? 
 ANTHONY KIM: It was a little wet, I think. For the most part. But it actually played pretty tough. We had some great pins out there. 
 The course, obviously, is playing a lot longer. If you try to go at one of those pins in the back and fire it over the green, that's definitely a bogey. You know, you're just trying to make a couple putts. It was, overall, it was a pretty fair day. Good test of golf, and looking forward to three more days. 

 Q. How fast did it take you to reacclimatize your swing and thought process from Birkdale to here this week? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Oh, it's been the three days, it's taken me. I really didn't feel comfortable until today. And yesterday playing 15 holes, my game was a little bit off. My putter was off. Everything was just a little bit rusty it felt like. 
 I definitely feel like I have my legs under me now, and I'm ready to go. But I definitely feel like a little rest would do me some good. 

 Q. How are the greens holding out there? You talked about going over the green. But if you hit the green, was it holding all right? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Absolutely. The course maintenance crew did an amazing job. I didn't think we were going to tee off on time after the showers we got yesterday. So, for the bunker not to have water in them and the greens to be holding but not tugging back too far, I mean, they did a wonderful job. 

 Q. Right now play is suspended. Could today be a tale of two tournaments? What went on this morning and what goes on say after a storm comes through? 
 ANTHONY KIM: You know, I don't think so. Because we're playing lift, clean and play, and if you hit fairways, you're going to have great opportunities to go at flags. 
 The course isn't overly long. But if you can hit some 7-irons 15 feet and shake some of those in, you'll be in good shape. What I did today is hit every fairway, and that gave me a lot of opportunities to go at some pins. 

 Q. I know it's still early, but one of the guys you're tied with is Weir. He's obviously, quite popular around here. Do you relish the opportunity to maybe go head-to-head with him as the tournament goes on? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I don't really consider anybody my enemy. You know, Mike's a great guy. Obviously the people love him here and rightfully so. What he's done for Canadian golf is wonderful and something to be very proud of. 
 I know I have an uphill climb. He's a great player. He's obviously shown it with a Masters win and a Tour Championship and a number of other wins he has. I have nothing but respect for him, and I'm looking forward to the challenge of playing against the field, not just Mike. 

 Q. All the talk about you as Tiger's next challenger. How are the galleries treating you, and what was the reception they were giving you? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I feel very comfortable out here. Obviously I don't have 3,00 people following my every shot and my every move. But, you know, the people that were following me out there have been great. I feel very welcome. The fans have been great here. 
 I think this might be the tournament where I've met the most nicest people. They're very helpful. Any question I've asked, people have been there with open arms, so I'm very happy to be here. 

 Q. I was just wondering, you said the course wasn't as easy as some might make it out to be. But at the same time, is this a day where you know someone else is going to go low so it's important if you want to hang around that you make some hay today as well? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I think so. I think anybody really on Thursday, as long as you don't shoot yourself in the foot, you're always going to be in good shape. To shoot 6 under is a very nice cushion. Now I can start moving forward. But, at the same time, as long as you don't shoot yourself in the foot on Thursday, you're in good enough shape to win the tournament. 

 Q. You're probably in a stretch where you're playing 7 or 8 out of 9 weeks right now. What was it that made you add this to your schedule for this year? 
 ANTHONY KIM: It's definitely a tournament that I've seen on TV many times. Obviously, I think it's most famous to hit 6-iron over the bunker and making birdie to win the golf tournament. 
 There's a lot of history here. Chris Armstrong, who is my new agent, is from this area. He told me what a wonderful golf tournament it was. And I saw that RBC was making a conscious effort to get people over here and to make this tournament as good as it can be. 
 So I felt like this was somewhere I wanted to be. And it's definitely a good test for me to go the next two weeks after this tournament. 

 Q. You're going to play probably four days of lift and clean. How's that going to influence things do you think that's a fair characterization of what the circumstances are going to be? 
 ANTHONY KIM: We're probably going to play four days of lift, clean and place. But it's obviously a huge advantage. But the thing is you have to remember that everybody gets the lift, clean and place at the fairway, So I think it's fair. 
 There are puddles out there. You can hit a drive 300 yards and it could be head high and roll a foot. So I think it's really fair out there. We definitely need to lift, clean and place. 

 Q. Do you think there are people who can stretch that though? Who can get a little extra out of it? I don't mean just in how you play football or what is your perspective? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I try to play it pretty close to where my ball was. So I don't really think anybody's stretching anything. 

 Q. When you see the RCGA getting a charter from Birkdale and that sort of thing at your age, does that impress you? Is that the sort of thing you're going to remember for a while? Well, Geez, they make a conscious effort to do stuff for us when we do stuff for them by maybe showing up? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Right, well, what they did to get us over here was amazing. We were treated first class. Obviously, the private charter was great, but those are just bells and whistles. They're running a first class tournament out here. Very happy to be here. 
 Now that I've gotten the first day under my belt and to see how popular this tournament is, and how popular it can be. So I think more players are going to start coming over once they realize what a great tournament this is.

 Q. I know this is your first Canadian Open. Have you had not much exposure other than this to Canadian golf? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Mike Weir, I mean, I played practice rounds with Mike, but that's it. I've never been over here. My uncle lives somewhere by Calgary, and I haven't been able to visit him because of my schedule. But this is my first time over here, and I'm enjoying it. 

 Q. First visit to Canada? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Yes.

 Q. First time you've ever been here? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Yes, first time I've ever been here. 

 Q. You've talked about maturing as a golfer yesterday. In this situation a year ago, how would you be feeling different than you're feeling right now? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I probably couldn't sit here and sit still. I'd be so excited and not know what to do. Probably looking for something to do tonight. Right now I want to just get a good meal in and get some good rest. 
 I think last year on 16 I would have already been thinking, "What am I going to do tonight," or "What am I eating for dinner tonight." Not being focused on the task at hand. 
 I feel like everything's moving a little bit slower for me, and I can make good decisions that way. 

 Q. You referred to this as a world class tournament. I'm just wondering what you've experienced here that maybe separates this from Milwaukee or whatever it is. IS there anything different? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Obviously it's a national tournament. Whenever it's a -- whether it's a Canadian Open, British Open, it means a lot to be somewhere where there's one tournament in Canada on the PGA TOUR, and I'm playing in it. I feel lucky to have the opportunity win this golf tournament. But not only experience Canada and the fans and what the RBC is offering us out here. 

 Q. You talked about your focus and how things are slowing down for you. Is that since the beginning of this year or is it just a matter of experience since this happened? 
 ANTHONY KIM: It definitely started happening this year. I had a great off-season. Worked really hard on my physical game, obviously. But definitely wanted to understand what it is to be a professional golfer. With the experience I've had, the good fortune I've had in winning golf tournaments, I'm definitely learning a lot more and a lot faster. I feel I'm just growing every day when I'm out here. 

 Q. Are you working with a sports psychologist or just doing this on your own? 
 ANTHONY KIM: No, I mean, I think if I start working with a sports psychologist, I'll make it harder on myself. I'm somebody that likes to figure things out by themselves anyway. And if somebody tells me to do it, I probably won't do it. 
 I look at what guys like Tiger and talking to guys like Mark O'Meara, and just listening to what they have to say and definitely try to feed off what they say. I definitely try not to make the same mistakes they did. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT