AT&T NATIONAL
July 4, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously not a great way to end the round and 6-under par you're right there?
 ANTHONY KIM: I can't be too disappointed, hit some poor shots and got nothing out of my game after the break and that was unfortunate but I've got to more days to go.

 Q. Was that an issue having to sit for an hour and a half? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I had many momentum going and whenever you have to stop it's always unfortunate whether it's a long wait or to go inside. I didn't make enough putts and hopefully I can make the rest on the next 36.

 Q. So what do you think of this place?
 ANTHONY KIM: It's beating me up pretty good but trying to keep a level head and keep playing some good golf.

 Q. Do we get to see the new belt buckle tomorrow?
 ANTHONY KIM: If I was in the last group I might have. I don't know, I'm still deciding. 

 Q. Frustrating to hit 15 greens and --
 ANTHONY KIM: I don't know how many greens I hit. I know I played well and it's always unfortunate when you make a bogey on a par 5 and especially on your last hole.

 Q. Three shots off the lead you must feel pretty good about that?
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, happy with how I'm playing and hopefully I can keep it up.

 Q. You've shown you can win out here so that has to be in the back of your mind?
 ANTHONY KIM: It's nice to have a win under my belt so I'm just going to draw on that and keep trying to play some good golf.

 Q. What did the delay do to your momentum?
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I was making some good swings and make something good par putts, and I don't know if I lost the speed of the greens out there, but I just didn't get the putts to fall. 

 Q. Will you go to bed thinking about that last hole bogey?
 ANTHONY KIM: No, because I won't be going to bed if I think about that bogey. 
 You know, I'll just chill out, go watch the fire works and have a good time. 

 Q. If you break out the belt buckle you might start making putts. 
 ANTHONY KIM: That might be what it is. I'm thinking about that, actually. I didn't want to bring it out unless I was in the final group but I might have to bring it out early.

 Q. Special game plan being three shots off the lead with two rounds to go?
 ANTHONY KIM: Just try to make more putts and take advantage of the par 5s. I think I've played it 1-under par, and with my length, I feel like I should be playing these par 5s pretty well, and to walk away 1-under through four par 5s, when I'm able to reach all of them in two, is pretty frustrating. 
 But I'm just going to keep working and hopefully I can get some putts to fall.

 Q. What kind of test is this course?
 ANTHONY KIM: It's brutal. I mean, if you hit it in the wrong spot like I did on the last hole, might hit a swirly one and over drive the green so just try to keep it in the fairway and keep it below the hole.

 Q. The good outweighed the bad today; what were you happy the most with today?
 ANTHONY KIM: It was the best ball-striking round I've had in a while. I've been struggling with that. I struggled yesterday and today I came out and was firing on all cylinders as far as hitting the ball. Obviously let it get away from me on 18, but other than that it was a pretty solid day. 

 Q. What's the belt buckle story? Not everyone knows it. 
 ANTHONY KIM: I guess a lot of people noticed my belt buckle last year. It was -- a lot of my friends thought it was really expensive but it was actually only 40 bucks and I got it at the mall. But I got an expensive one made and somebody was nice enough to give me one of those and send me one here and I'm going to be wearing it this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT