THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How disappointing was the back nine? 
 ANTHONY KIM: It was very disappointing, but at least I can go to sleep tonight and say I didn't give up on one shot. I tried my hardest on every shot, and that's more than I could have said for last year's rounds. 
 I hit some quality shots that didn't hold the green and ended up going two yards over the green and made a couple bogeys from there. But I grinded it out. 43 is pretty embarrassing, but that was all I had today.

 Q. The shot on 17, was that just bad luck, the fact that it clears the water and then somehow jumps back? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, the wind was swirling there, and on 16 it was swirling. So I knew if the wind was into me, I was going to be in for some trouble. But for 45 seconds before I was hitting the shot, it was dead left to right. So I trusted it, made a good, solid swing and ended up in the water.

 Q. Because you got a gust or something?
 ANTHONY KIM: It gusted straight back into me, and it happened to me on 15, as well, so kind of the same direction. But I didn't expect it to come. What can you do? 

 Q. When you're grinding like that, have you always been able to kind of pop out of that pretty quickly? Is this something that you -- no matter what you tried, nothing worked?
 ANTHONY KIM: I hit good shots, I was hitting fairways, and on 14 I hit a great drive, and from 217 I hit a great 4-iron and hit pretty close to the hole, I think, and down over the green into rough about five inches thick. I missed a 12-footer there.
 And on the hole before that, my ball landed four feet short of the hole right at it and went 10, 12 yards over the green. 
 I'm hitting some good shots, and I'm not scoring very well right now. But we've got another day tomorrow.

 Q. Do you feel that with the earlier tee time tomorrow, you may be able to cut into that and you may have better success on the course tomorrow than today?
 ANTHONY KIM: I think if the wind doesn't gust on me, I'll be just fine. I'm just trying to hit the best shot I can and stay focused, and I was doing that today. I'd say the only shot that I didn't focus on was 2 when I had a two-footer that I could kick in from there, but I obviously couldn't. Other than that, I hung in there tough and played as hard as I could.

 Q. How would you have reacted to a back nine like this last year?
 ANTHONY KIM: I wouldn't be standing here (laughter). That bag may be in the water. I'm just glad I have all my clubs and I'm standing here. You know, I don't know if I would have been able to eat dinner last year. 
 I feel fine. You know, it's not the end of the world. I've learned a lot from today, especially from the string of bogeys I made. Making great swings, I know if I tone it back a little bit, I'll be fine.

 Q. When is the last time you shot 43 on a nine?
 ANTHONY KIM: Probably here last year.

 Q. After a wonderful day yesterday and what you had today, what do you take going into tomorrow? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I'm still playing good golf. I know that much. And I'm thinking well out there. My caddie and I are doing a great job. So if we just stay focused, we'll be just fine. 
 I know 79 is not a good score, but it's all we had. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT