THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Really hard? 
 ANTHONY KIM: It was very hard. I just tried to hang in there and make a lot of pars, and when I made a bad swing, tried to get out of there with bogey.

 Q. Ernie was saying that it's really a mind game because you're trying to be aggressive and play defense all at the same time. 
 ANTHONY KIM: That's exactly what it is. You don't know whether to push it or pull it. You don't know if you're supposed to go for it, and if the wind kicks up, you're in the water. There's a lot of water out here. You just try to stay dry.

 Q. It's as much of an indecision game as it is the physical dealing with the elements?
 ANTHONY KIM: Absolutely. I think the biggest thing that my caddie and I are doing well, we're picking a target and making sure that that's where we want to hit it, and whatever happens from there is what happens. I think that's the biggest key to playing in the wind.

 Q. I thought you said you were tired; you're playing all right for a worn-out guy. 
 ANTHONY KIM: Maybe I play better tired. I don't know what it is, but I'm playing good and I'm excited to play on the weekend.

 Q. Which facet of your game -- you already mentioned what you're doing, but which facet can you fall back on? Is it putting or driving or is there one thing that you go, I know this is working but it's going to keep me in each hole?
 ANTHONY KIM: My putting has been saving me quite a bit. Today was the worst putting round I've had in the last six rounds I've played, but I'm stroking it well. It's just not going in. Hopefully I can get them to fall on the weekend, and we'll see what happens.

 Q. You maybe didn't make them, but did you have a lot of tough second putts or anything, or were they just tap-ins?
 ANTHONY KIM: I had a lot of tough first putts and second putts. On 17, I thought I hit a good first putt, six feet right of the cup from 25 feet. When you think you hit a good putt and you're six feet wide, there's something to be said about the wind on the greens. So I'm trying to hang in there and see what happens.

 Q. This wind direction, is there a group of holes that it poses the most challenge to?
 ANTHONY KIM: You know, there isn't, because it swirls. You can hit a driver left to right down, and then you get up to your second shot and it's right to left in. It's playing havoc with all the players. 

 Q. Have you played in a lot of wind out in the desert? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I stayed more indoors. 

 Q. Where is the other belt?
 ANTHONY KIM: It needed a rest. It told me yesterday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT