THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about how hard it was and kind of how you kind of scrambled and then came back. 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I started off 2-over through the first three holes with a three-putt, and I've been putting pretty well. So I knew if I hung in there that I'd get my chances. And on No. 12, I think, I stuck it in there about three feet and made that. I played pretty well from then on in.

 Q. Were you a little drained after last week? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm still very drained. I didn't go with my usual practice session of about an hour and 30, hour and 45 minutes. I came out here about an hour before my tee time and tried to loosen up before I got to the golf course. I have to change things up a little bit because I don't want to waste my energy. I don't have that much to begin with. Just try to hang in there and make a couple pars and birdies.

 Q. How good does this feel?
 ANTHONY KIM: 70 feels great any day, but especially on a golf course this tough and under conditions this tough, so I'm very excited about my score.

 Q. Would you say you were at a disadvantage playing in the afternoon with the wind picking up and the greens getting firmer? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I think any afternoon you play in any tournament, you're going to have a little bit of a disadvantage. But tomorrow I'll be playing in the morning, so I think everything evens out.

 Q. When you won last week Freddie Couples qualified for this field; he was the last player in at the time. Did he say anything like thanks, to get him in? Have you talked to him at all?
 ANTHONY KIM: I think he got in because Will MacKenzie withdrew. But I think he was going to pretty much get in anyway. He was actually at the dinner; him, Phil and I and a couple others were at dinner after I won, and they've been great. 

 Q. With your energy level as it is at this point and all the attention, is it almost more relaxing to get inside the ropes?
 ANTHONY KIM: Actually it is, as crazy as that sounds, because this course is so difficult. There's so many things to think about. But I felt very comfortable out there and I'm having a blast playing golf. 

 Q. Did someone ask you about the 17th already? 
 ANTHONY KIM: No.

 Q. Would you like to talk about the 17th at all? 
 ANTHONY KIM: You just try to get out of there with par. I think it was about 150 today, 147 to the pin. You're just trying to hit the middle of the green, and my ball rolled back to the front after it landed in the middle, and I almost holed a 40-footer, and I'm just happy to get out of there with par.

 Q. What yardage were you playing?
 ANTHONY KIM: I played it about 130. It's hard to do because if the wind knocks the ball down you're in the middle of that water, not even close. You have to trust your swing and let it go.

 Q. What was behind kind of the slow start today? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Energy level was a little down. I think I lost my focus on a couple swings early and just gathered myself, and my caddie helped me get in the zone again, and I played great from then on in. 

 Q. Was it a draining week?
 ANTHONY KIM: It's been a draining week. It's only Thursday, but hopefully I can just keep a level head and keep making some putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT