VERIZON HERITAGE
April 18, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Two out of the lead at the moment. How do you feel coming into the weekend?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm really happy with how my game is progressing. Even though it wasn't 64 or 63 Boo Weekley, it was pretty good for me. I'm excited about making some birdies and the putter feels very good.  
  
  Q. As you look at this golf course now through two days and into the weekend, is this a place you can be really aggressive?  
 ANTHONY KIM: You can, and you'll end up with a lot of tough bogeys. But I'm trying to stay patient. My caddie and I are working on putting it in the right spots. We're making the right decisions out there and hopefully we can keep that up on the weekend.  
  
  Q. Maybe a funny case of bounces here like on 9, you couldn't tell where it ended up and you got out there and it was perfect.   
 ANTHONY KIM: I got fortunate out there. Actually I thought I hit a great tee shot, and it went a little bit right and we didn't read the wind correctly.   
  
  Q. Talk to us a little bit about your round, 4-under this afternoon, pretty good. I guess you've got to be happy right now?  
 ANTHONY KIM: It was a real steady round. I'm proud of the way I hung in there.   
 It played tough on the back 9. Fortunately I got away with some bad swings and ended up making pars out of them.  
  
  Q. I guess the wind picked up a little bit more today. It's not as bad as it has been here, but it did pick up a little bit. How was that out there today?  
 ANTHONY KIM: It's always tough when the wind swirls in the trees. On 1, my 10th hole, I hit a perfect 9-iron and it went 20 yards off the green.   
 I'm trying not to make those kind of mistakes and stay away from big numbers.  
  
  Q. Obviously you wanted to finish birdie, birdie there.   
 ANTHONY KIM: I think this is the best I've been in two days my whole career. I'm pretty confident with my game and hopefully I can keep it up.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT