BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How did your round go today? 
 ANTHONY KIM:  It started out a little rough, and I just tried to make some pars when I was hitting bad and unfortunately towards the end of the round I started to feel a little better with my irons and drivers.  Made a couple birdies and felt pretty good about it. 

 Q.  Playing together with K.J. and DiMarco and all of the crowd following them, did it give you added pressure, as well? 
 ANTHONY KIM:  It was a lot of fun playing in front of all the Korean people.  I feel right at home here, and it was pretty special to play with K.J. because of how many people pull for him and how excited they were to see him here.  And I'm glad I was a part of that. 

 Q.  During the tournament, do you feel that the attitude of the gallery affected your play? 
 ANTHONY KIM:  No.  A couple times there were some people on cell phones and that was a little bothersome, but the marshals and K.J.'s security did a great job of telling those people to get off their phones and quit shooting pictures, so that was fine. 

 Q.  Game plan for tomorrow? 
 ANTHONY KIM:  Try to get started a little bit earlier and try to make some birdies early and keep it going, because I'm playing some good golf and I'm expecting to play well. 

 Q.  How do you feel about the golf course, is it up to the US PGA? 
 ANTHONY KIM:  The course here is in great shape.  The only difference is that there's no rough, and obviously the greens have to be a little bit slower because the wind blows so much out here. 
 Other than that, it's in great shape and it's a wonderful course to play. 

 Q.  Would you please speak more about the greens; are they too slow? 
 ANTHONY KIM:  The greens are a little bit slower than usual, but the only reason I think is because if the winds blow, we are not going to be able to play this golf course if the greens get too fast and too firm. 
 So I think they did the right thing and made the greens a little bit slower on purpose. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT