BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 18, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us for a few minutes here on the phone at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic.  A round of 67 out there at SilverRock.  Just talk about what you've done well this week and how you feel going into the weekend.   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Well I think for the most part I kept the ball in the fairway and that's important out here in the desert, so you're not hitting out of bushes.   
 But it's really been about my short game.  When I missed a green I put it back in play so where I have a good chance to make a putt.  And I've been making my par putts, but not enough birdie putts.  So in the next few days I'm going to try to make a couple more birdies.   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Questions, please?   
  
  Q.  It looked like you were pretty close to taking it a lot lower today.  And like you said the last couple day, just a couple putts here and there that didn't drop.   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Right.  I feel like I'm really hitting good putts and I'm staying confident with my reads and getting the ball started on line, but it's just not going in.  So hopefully that just means that the courses are going to owe me the next two days.   
  
  Q.  Is that a matter of you feel like you're reading the putts right or you're not reading them properly or you are just not accustomed to let's say the new greens at SilverRock?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Well definitely it took me a little bit to get used to how firm the greens were and the balls were definitely rolling out a little bit more on the putts out here at SilverRock.   
 But for the most part I feel like I'm reading them pretty well.  Obviously I misread a couple today at SilverRock I missed a couple putts of five feet and four feet.  But I'm going to keep staying confident with my line and hopefully they will start falling.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about the state of your game?  You mentioned yesterday I think when you came out here you just wanted to knock some of the rust off and maybe with the exception of the putts inside 10 feet, or the birdie putts, you've been playing pretty well.  Are you surprised at how well you've played considering you took the longest break of your career?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  No, I'm not.  I feel like I've been practicing really hard and working towards this tournament and I'm glad to see I'm playing well, but I definitely left a few out there.  So reality sets in at the end of the round when I look back and see how many putts I missed or how many errors I made out there.  So I'm just going to try to keep playing the way I am and hopefully more birdies will come.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you mentioned before that you always felt with when you had these Top-10 finishes that you were kind of chasing the leaderboard on the last day and really didn't put yourself in position, would you say this is the best position you've been in heading into a weekend?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  I think definitely.  I'm staying really patient out there for the most part and thinking well.  Obviously my caddie has been helping me quite a bit.  So I would definitely say this is my best chance with two days to go, obviously it's 36 long holes, but I'm looking forward to the next two days.   
  
  Q.  Have you had a lot of friends and family out watching you this week?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  My parents, my mom came out yesterday and my friends have been kind of staying away for the most part because they know I'm here to do my job and get a W or play really well and see how good I can do.   
 So I've been talking to them off the course, but they have been kind of staying away and letting me do my own thing out here.   
  
  Q.  I don't know, did you see the cover of Goldweek magazine running the noose on the cover and in relation to the story about Kelly Tilghman and the comment regarding Tiger.  Have you, the editor has since been fired, what is your reaction to that cover that the magazine ran?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  I haven't even seen that, so I couldn't comment on that.   
  
  Q.  Everybody likes to talk about the home court advantage you must have being here.  But at least two of these courses aren't courses that you grew up playing or playing in high school, do you feel like there is an advantage just in being used to the conditions?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Obviously to a certain degree there is, but at the same time like I said there's two of the courses that I played little or no golf on.  So I don't feel that like it's a big advantage like everyone thinks.  But having people help me out and support me along the way really does help.  So hopefully I can play well and keep everyone happy.   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Anthony, for joining us for a few minutes on the phone and play well tomorrow.   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT