ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 22, 2007
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Where did that come from?  Great playing.   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Thank you.  I was so far back I really didn't have anything to lose, and I just fired at some pins and it worked out today.   
  
  Q.  Birdie on 17, what did you hit in there?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  I wanted to hit 5, but the guy smarter than me carrying the bag said hit 6, so we made birdie.   
  
  Q.  I love a guy that gives credit to his caddie.  So you hit 6-iron and made the putt.  Talk to me about conditions out there on the course today.   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Well, I mean, early in the week the greens were holding a little bit better than they are now.  Now they're obviously drying fast, and you've got to run some more balls up there and it puts some pressure on your short game, and fortunately I chipped the ball pretty well today.   
  
  Q.  How good does it make you feel to shoot a 65 on a Sunday afternoon making a charge?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Obviously it feels great, but there's two guys out there still ahead of me, so I'm just going to wait and see what happens.   
 My game has been coming around, and my caddie has been telling me to stay patient, and we've been doing the exact same thing.  Fortunately I made some putts today, and that obviously helped.   
  
  Q.  Nine birdies out there.  Were you surprised that there were that many out there on this course?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  I mean, if you roll the ball well, there's nine birdies anywhere.  I mean, you're probably going to hit -- if you can hit nine greens and roll the ball well, you've got an opportunity.   
 My goal is to win out here, and until I do that, I'm just going to keep plugging away.   
  
  Q.  The scoring conditions this year have been so tough everywhere.  Pin placements have been hard, the greens have been hard.  The scoring seems to be out there today, but it seems like it's in spite of the same conditions that we've had all year.   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Right.  Well, every course, if you play smart and roll your ball well, you're going to have an opportunity to shoot low scores.  That's what we're trying to do every week, whether the winning score is 28-under or whether it's 14-under.  We're just trying to keep the same mindset and keep moving along.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT