SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2007
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Okay.  Just a couple of general comments.  Sixty-six, very impressive?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Sixty-seven.   
  
  Q.  Still impressive.  Just a couple comments about the round.   
 ANTHONY KIM:  I played a lot better this weekend and finally starting to hit my shots.  So pretty pleased with how I played, but obviously you don't want to finish with bogey after playing some good golf.   
 But overall, pretty good week.   
  
  Q.  Going to be a Top-10 which gets you into New Orleans.  Does that excite you?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Yeah.  I thought I was in New Orleans already, but even better and looking forward to the next tournament.   
  
  Q.  How did you create so much strength?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Well, you know, I just -- I don't know what it is.  It's the food that my mom is feeding me.   
  
  Q.  I guess No. 12 you drove it in the water?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Right.  I drove that and 3-putted from 15 feet.  So obviously things like that need to work on, but overall pretty good week.   
  
  Q.  Great 67 today.  Five birdies.  What a hot start you were off to 3, 4, 5?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Got off to a good start.  Obviously didn't want to bogey my last hole.  It was good playing all the way around.   
  
  Q.  Did you ever look around, you're 21 years old, when you were a junior player, you know, I was a junior player and I thought I was pretty good.  I always dreamed of playing on the PGA TOUR.  I'm sitting here holding the microphone, making minimum wage.  You're playing with the big guys and holding your own.   
 Do you ever look around and pat yourself?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  It's always been a dream of mine.  I know I have the game to play out here, and I know I have the game to win out here if things go my way.  So just looking forward to the challenge.   
  
  Q.  Have you set some goals that you have not achieved yet this year?   
 ANTHONY KIM:  Absolutely.  The first goal obviously is to win, and finally had a chance today, really an outside chance, but finally had a chance, and so I'm starting to get a little bit better and been working on the right stuff.  So I'm looking forward to the next few months.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT