RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Haven't seen you out here in a while. Give us an update on how you're feeling and maybe time table on a comeback?
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm feeling good. It's hard not to be playing, especially to actually be at a TOUR event and see some of the guys, see how well maintained the course is and how lucky we are to be out there, but at the same time I want to come back healthy and fresh, and hopefully it'll be soon. I don't have an exact date. I was hoping to play in this tournament, but I'm extremely disappointed for RBC and myself not to be playing, and hopefully get back soon.

 Q. At what point did you realize you wouldn't be playing this week? Did you know last week?
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I wasn't sure till about Friday what I was doing. I was starting to hit some wedge shots and pitch shots, so I thought maybe if I entered, I'd have a chance by Thursday to come around. But after talking to my doctors, they just said it would be better if I waited, and better safe than sorry. You don't want to come back one week too early and then take three weeks off. I think that would hurt my career a lot worse than taking a couple more weeks off. 
 And obviously with my relationship with RBC and Jim Woodall and Gordon Nixon, I wanted to play and made my best effort to, but just wasn't able to do that.

 Q. Does the hand still hurt? I mean like when you're hitting wedges, what do you feel?
 ANTHONY KIM: If you hit it bad, it hurts, mentally and physically. But it's been a tougher comeback than I thought. It hurts a little bit just because I haven't used it, not because of the surgery going bad or anything like that. It was immobilized for so long, and now to be able to put some pressure on it is a little painful, but that's part of the process.

 Q. Was it a full cast on it they put you in afterwards?
 ANTHONY KIM: I did. I had a cast on for about four weeks and then put a splint on it for about three, four more weeks, so it's been a long process.

 Q. How strange is it to be at an event when you're not actually playing?
 ANTHONY KIM: It's so weird because I was talking to my agent about it, and it's like I'm going through everything required to play in the event. I got here on Tuesday morning. I'm in here in the media center and walking the course and talking to some of the guys, so it feels like I'm playing, but I don't have my clubs. So it's a little different, but I'm excited to get back.

 Q. What's the prognosis when you think you will be back?
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm not sure right now. We're taking it week to week. Hopefully sooner than later. I'm not sure. I don't want to say I'm going to come back on a day and not show up. So we're just trying to work as hard as we can. I'm doing therapy every day and trying to hit as many balls as possible without reinjuring the thumb.

 Q. Is the PGA in sight then?
 ANTHONY KIM: I think so. I definitely want to make that Ryder Cup team. That's very important to me. It's a very special event to me, and hopefully I can get back and get some more points so I won't need to have any favors called in from Corey.

 Q. How frustrating has this been given your great start to the year, everything was happening, and then to have this? And my understanding was it was starting to compound, you were sort of having some shoulder issues with it afterwards as well?
 ANTHONY KIM: This injury has been going on for about two years now, so it was actually more stressful and frustrating not being able to hit the ball solidly. 
 This has -- it's been -- I hate to say it, but it's been good for my overall life, I think. Everything's kind of falling into place, and I'm excited with how everything is turning around. I've got great people around me. I'm starting to work out hard again. I'm on the right track. 
 And you know, sometimes people say that you gotta take a step back to go through such things, and I feel like I've done that. I feel like when I come back I'm going to be fresh. I'm going to have a good attitude and I'm going to be a lot stronger than I was. So I'm excited to come back, and it's been a long process, like I said, but I'm looking forward to the future.

 Q. Do you know how you did it two years ago?
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm still trying to figure that out. It feels like it could have been a mix of things, and that's what my doctor told me. Said it probably wasn't one thing, but just kept getting stressed and stressed and then more practice and then lifting weights, and all that stuff could have injured it at any time.

 Q. Have you watched much golf in your absence?
 ANTHONY KIM: When I want to go to sleep sometimes, I've watched it. (Laughs).

 Q. Are you saying it's not very -- not engaging?
 ANTHONY KIM: No. You know, when Tiger's playing I've watched a couple times, and you know, it's hard to watch because I want to be out there. I want to be competing, and I know that's my passion. So to not be able to get in there and mix it up with the guys is pretty frustrating, so I try to stay away from it and try to watch everything else but golf.

 Q. He's roughly the same age as you, but any comment on Oosthuizen on the weekend, his first major?
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I didn't watch all of it, but I mean it was pretty impressive. I mean what he did, to blow out the field at a major is pretty incredible. No, I didn't. A couple of my buddies from Las Vegas called me and said they were betting on some players, and what do I think. And obviously being on TOUR, you can't bet on golf. So I just said, you know, you gotta go with the favorites. I don't know who else to bet on, but I don't know what the odds on him were, but he had to be a pretty long shot.

 Q. Someone made money. 
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah. 

 Q. Thanks. 
 ANTHONY KIM: All right, guys. 

 Q. When is the last time you had this long away from golf, like competing?
 ANTHONY KIM: In college. 

 Q. Oh, yeah?
 ANTHONY KIM: I took quite a bit of time off in college during the fall because it was so cold, and I just wanted to be with my friends and hang out. So that part really doesn't -- that part doesn't scare me as much as just getting back and making sure I don't get more injured.

 Q. So it's not one of those things where -- just hearing you say about being fresh and excited. 
 ANTHONY KIM: Right.

 Q. It's not one of those things where you've been going since you were 12 years old and taking a break?
 ANTHONY KIM: No. I would be very nervous coming back if that was the case. 

 Q. Okay. Thanks. 
 ANTHONY KIM: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT