QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You come in 5-under par through three rounds at the 2010 Quail Hollow Championship. Speak to us about your round today.   
 ANTHONY KIM: It was wild. I actually have been driving it the best I've driven it all year the first two days and haven't gotten the scores I wanted, and unfortunately I was driving it poorly today and was scoring okay. It was weird. I'm trying to stay in the moment and just trying to hit good shots when I can and just trying to stay out of trouble. But it's been hard on this golf course with so many trees out here.  
  
  Q. The only real big trouble you got into of course was out there at 16, and I watched you walk down 18, big smile on your face waving to your fans. It seems like you're staying in the moment, staying patient and having fun.   
 ANTHONY KIM: I am. I'm having fun. I love North Carolina. I may just buy a house out here. This is my favorite tournament. Besides the majors, this is the one I'm most excited about coming to all year, and obviously it's special because I won two years ago, but the fans are so appreciative of the golf and the players, and it's not just me, it's everybody. Sometimes I feel overwhelmed because the support here is amazing.   
 So I've got to play some good golf and hopefully they'll stay on my side here.   
  
  Q. What will you try to do tomorrow?  
 ANTHONY KIM: If hit a couple more fairways and try to get the ball rolling early, I should have a good shot.  
  
  Q. Do some weeks you just feel it, and where does this week fit in?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I don't think you feel it for the whole week. I don't think you -- if you do, you do what Tiger does and win by 10 at the Masters when the best players are around. But even when I won two years ago, I played well for two and a half days, if that's even possible. I played well. But the other times you just have to make sure that you don't shoot over par, you stay in there and you don't get ahead of yourself. It's hard to get four rounds going perfectly, but you just hang in there and see how it goes.  
  
  Q. Talk about what happened at 16.   
 ANTHONY KIM: I don't really know right now. It's kind of a distant memory. I'm trying not to think about it. But I hit a very poor tee shot, the worst one I hit all day. It was in the junk let's say very nicely, and I tried to hit a miracle shot like I've been doing quite a bit, and it worked out on 7 for me and ended up making birdie, and I thought, why not, maybe I'd get lucky twice, and it didn't happen and made a double bogey.  
  
  Q. So on 7 you hit through a bunch of trees and you made it?  
 ANTHONY KIM: On 7 I actually hit it through a tighter squeeze with a 3-wood and made a putt from off the green for birdie. But I figured I could do it again, and it just didn't work.  
  
  Q. What were you thinking when it landed near the 18th fairway? What am I going to do now?  
 ANTHONY KIM: No, well, that was my third shot I hit out there. I was trying to hit it there. No, it was in the trees still so I was aiming down the right fairway and hit a pretty good shot and didn't make the putt for bogey.   
  
  Q. What was the discussion with the PGA folks? What were you hoping they would do?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I wasn't really hoping for anything at that point, I was just trying to make a bogey. There was a line-of-sight, I was hitting over the bleachers and I could have taken a drop, but I could see the pin from where I was so I just chose to hit that shot. It was a pretty good shot. I couldn't see the flag really properly because there were so many people, but you saw the top of it. Unfortunately I didn't make the putt.   
  
  Q. You heard the cheers, though. What were you thinking?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I've been hearing cheers all day. Like I said, I'm enjoying being in North Carolina. Charlotte has some amazing fans. I'm proud to be playing here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT