MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the round, 7-under, just a remarkable performance.   
 ANTHONY KIM: It was a very good round. I didn't get anything started early, but I hung in there and just waited for the good breaks to happen.   
 I knew I was going to be able to make some putts out there, so starting on 13 I got the ball rolling and had six putts in from there and that usually means that you're shooting under par.   
  
  Q. Was there a number you had in mind?  
 ANTHONY KIM: You know, I really didn't. I knew I was coming from pretty far back and Phil's obviously playing great and Lee was playing well.   
 So I just tried to make as many birdies as possible and fire at a couple flags; and got pretty fortunate to make a par on 17 and 18. But I grinded, I hung in there and I'm proud of the way I stuck it out.   
  
  Q. With what Phil and his family has gone through the past year, your thoughts on this victory?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, that shows the type of guy Phil is. Phil's been great to me ever since I've been out here and I've gotten to know Amy as well. So it's a tough thing they have been going through, but obviously they're plugging along and that's all you can ask them to do.  
  
  Q. How do you help to progress your game now as you move along in the course of the year?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I'm going to have to start hitting the ball in the fairway. I think that I heard some stat that I was last in driving again and that's not really a stat you want to be last at, when it really does give you a huge advantage out here to be in the fairway.   
 So I'm going to work on that and see if I can't come back next year and improve on what I did this year.   
  
  Q. Anything you can take away from this?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Just knowing that even without my best stuff I hung in there and I made some putts, I made some things happen, and that I feel like if I get the ball in the fairway this is a great golf course for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT