MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I know you're disappointed with the finish, but tell me about 16. 
 ANTHONY KIM: It was great. Any time you get to make a birdie in front of that many people it's a lot of fun. But I hit a great shot in there. We had some momentum after a birdie on the hole before and just trying to push for a couple more birdies at the end and got one there. 

 Q. What happened on 18?
 ANTHONY KIM: I just hit a great tee shot and I thought it was going to be in the fairway, actually ended up in a divot in the rough. And hit, executed a poor second shot. But overall not too disappointed. Happy with how I scored out there and how I stayed patient.

 Q. Nevertheless you're two shots off the lead after 36 holes, you have to feel confident and like your position here at the Masters. Is that correct?
 ANTHONY KIM: I am. I'm very happy with where I am right now, just got to get my driver straightened out a little bit more. It started coming around on the last three holes here and I feel more and more comfortable with it.

 Q. Will you work on that at the range tomorrow morning, is that your goal?
 ANTHONY KIM: I will. My coach and I have started to figure it out. It's coming, but it's still slow. And you never can hit too many fairways, so we'll work on it tomorrow.

 Q. What's the problem do you think with the driver?
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm not loading up and I just think I need to work on my posture a little bit and I need to load up and that way I can get through the ball a little bit better. 

 Q. Good solid round today, how are you feeling?
 ANTHONY KIM: I feel good. I definitely started to figure my swing out there a little bit more and more as the round went on, so I'm happy with my position going into this weekend.

 Q. What are you looking at towards for the weekend? Things you work on, things you think with your game is right where you want it to be?
 ANTHONY KIM: No, it's far from where I want it to be. But I'm actually just being patient and that's the key to the Majors, I think. I haven't played in that many, but just to be able to let the bad swings and bad putts go and just try to move on and make a couple of more birdies. 

 Q. What do you think about Tiger's play after two rounds? How does that look?
 ANTHONY KIM: I got two more days, I'm trying to win this golf tournament and obviously he is too and I just got to go out there and play my game. 

 Q. People say that the pins weren't as accessible today as they maybe were yesterday, do you feel that way or do you just pretty much go at them and, I mean after two days today starting out at No. 1?
 ANTHONY KIM: Unfortunately, I found every pin pretty accessible, I just couldn't pull off the shots some of the times. But I'm just going to go ahead and keep playing smart golf, but when I have a chance, be aggressive and when I feel comfortable, be aggressive. So the pins are definitely a little bit tougher today than they were yesterday, the ball's aren't funneling towards the hole, but funneling away, so it was a tough test today. 

 Q. Talk about being patient at a Major. Is there anything else you think you need to do to contend this weekend?
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm not even thinking about winning a Major right now, I'm just thinking about getting the ball in the fairway, that's been tough enough the last couple months, and just going to keep working on driving that ball in the fairway and see what happens. 

 Q. What is the problem with the driver?
 ANTHONY KIM: You know, I just have never, I haven't fixed it, it's been, ever since I got hurt I have been just trying to manage my swing instead of actually making good swings, so it's something that's starting to come, my coach and I have figured it out, I just need to load up on my right side and go out and swing through it. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANTHONY KIM: It's definitely getting better. I hit more fairways today than -- I hit more fairways yesterday than I did the final round of the last tournament at Shell, so it's coming, it's just slow and it can't get here fast enough.

 Q. What did you hit into 16?
 ANTHONY KIM: I hit 8-iron in there. It was about 149. Straight into the breeze and hit a good 8-iron and hit it to about two feet.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT