SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Anthony Kim, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a solid 3rd round, 3-under 69 at the Shell Houston Open. Just a few opening comments. You got to feel good about finishing up, 4 birdies on the backside, good position as you head into the weekend tied for the lead.
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, it's been a long time since I've been in this position. I mean, after two days, I've been close and I really didn't think that I was firing on all cylinders, and today was -- I don't know what happened today. 
 I woke up, maybe I woke up on the wrong side of the bed. Just spraying the ball off the tee and just hitting the worst shots I've hit probably this year, but I hung in there, I stayed patient, and that's the name of the game when the wind is blowing a little bit and things aren't going your way.
 So I feel like I've learned from a lot of past experiences, stayed patient, and made good from the good breaks I got.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. We'll go ahead and open up for a few questions.

 Q. Anthony, going into tomorrow not playing your best today, is that cause for concern, or did it give you confidence that you can still post a number while not playing well?
 ANTHONY KIM: I haven't even thought about that yet, because it gives me confidence that I'm getting the ball up and down from a lot of places I probably shouldn't be, and that's dangerous because you don't want to rely on that. You want to fix your ball striking now and be able to hit some fairways. 
 I think I hit two fairways today. If I can hit a couple more tomorrow, I would be a little bit happier.

 Q. Is the second shot into 18 an example of you didn't really know where some of these shots were coming from?
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, the second shot on 18 was more course management play, just to take water out of play, and even if I didn't hit it well or if I hit it -- pulled it or hit it left, it wasn't going to go in the water and I could take a big number out of play and go ahead and try to make a 2-putt or get up and down from 50, 60 feet. Just try to play where I had enough green to work with.

 Q. What do you think kind of got you settled today? At what point did you feel like -- because you obviously come out of the gate the way that wouldn't inspire confidence.
 ANTHONY KIM: I don't really think I ever settled down until I sat down in the seat. Even though I was getting up and down, I was always driving it in so much trouble that I really -- I had to think clearly for that second, but I was right back to the next hole and not going where it was going.
 So I haven't felt this way in a long time, but I'm very happy with how I handled everything, and as long as I keep a smile on my face, I know that things will turn around, and who knows, tomorrow I may have the best ball striking day of my life. 
 I'm going to go work on it. My coach is here, and we'll go work out some kinks tonight, and hopefully I'll be ready for tomorrow.

 Q. So the problem with your drives and your tee shots wasn't a problem with your irons?
 ANTHONY KIM: It was a problem with everything but the lob wedge and the putter. I just tried to give myself good opportunities around the green. Even if it was 40, 50 yards away, I felt like I could get the ball up and down. There were some spots today, I don't know how I got out of but was happy to go ahead and hit some lucky and good shots and get away with it.

 Q. Anthony, hasn't that kind of been the story of your year, couple of real good rounds made you think you're on to something and maybe one bad round? Do you feel like you dodged it this time?
 ANTHONY KIM: There's still a day left, yes. I felt like this was the day I've been having that lead to a 76. I feel very confident, and I'm in the process I'm going through before I hit a shot. It's not I get up there, 70 yards behind a bush and I'm panicking. That really hasn't been my game, but when I started losing confidence, that's what happened. 
 So I stayed a little bit more patient, took a little bit more time, and just tried to weigh out all my options and which would be smart and which -- and what shots I can't play.

 Q. What was the degree of difficulty on the shot at No. 12, the second shot there?
 ANTHONY KIM: I have no idea. 40 on a 1 to 10? I couldn't move a branch because it was leaning on -- it was leaning against the ball and I felt like it was going to move. I really didn't have the stance I wanted. 
 I told my caddy, if I don't hit this perfect, it's going to go 50 yards in the water, because the ball was sitting down and in a kind of a muddy but firm area, and then I had to get the ball over one of those little bushes that I didn't know if I could actually get over. 
 Then I had 10 feet of green to work with. You figure it out. I don't know what that adds up to (laughter).
 DOUG MILNE: Anthony, if you wouldn't mind running through your birdies and giving us some clubs and yards as best you recall.
 ANTHONY KIM: No. 5, I hit driver, 6-iron to about 10 feet. 12, driver, lob wedge to a foot. And 13, driver, 3-wood and a sand shot to about 10 feet, made that.
 15, hit driver, driver, 40-yard chip. Made a 10-footer. And 17, hit driver, pitching wedge to about 2 feet and made that for birdie.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay.

 Q. 17, another hole where you felt like the gods were with you a little bit, you got a huge kick on the drive?
 ANTHONY KIM: I've got enough bad breaks this year where I feel they're going to turn around if I have a good attitude. I've had a good attitude this whole year. Some breaks are going to come my way. If they do, I'll welcome those.
 DOUG MILNE: Anthony, thanks for your time. We always appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT