SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 2, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. After you had played in what I think are difficult conditions with the winds and fast greens.  
 ANTHONY KIM: Very difficult. I'm playing very well. Really hit some squirrelly shots and got away with it. A couple of putts away from it.  
  
  Q. You made a lot of birdies, particularly on the back-9, but I was impressed with the up-and-down par at the 6th hole off a tight lie?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I've had a couple great up-and-downs. That was one of them I could have made a double there.  
  
  Q. You know, you have 8 birdies on the backside and you're bogey-free and 2 birdies on the front.  
 ANTHONY KIM: I have no idea about that. I'm starting to play solid. I'm figuring my golf swing out, which hasn't been the case the last couple of months. It's the progress I've made.  
  
  Q. I always think when it's this windy, it's all about keeping control of the ball.  
 ANTHONY KIM: You're right. I definitely keep the ball under the wind, and sometimes you have a par 5 that you can go after, you have to get it up in the wind. Doing a good job of it.  
  
  Q. You get to go home, listen to the wind blow and watch everyone do it.  
 ANTHONY KIM: I appreciate it.  
  
  Q. Thanks very much. Anthony Kim follows up 68 with a 69. You're at the top of the leaderboard after two rounds. Got to make you happy.  
 ANTHONY KIM: It does. I'm hitting squirrelly shots the last three days and gotten away with it, from good up-and-downs like the one on 18 yesterday and 6 today. I'm starting to score a little bit better without having to hit it perfectly. So I'm looking forward to the next couples days.  
  
  Q. I'm showing you only hit 16 of 28 fairways. You're making something happen from places where you're not supposed to be.  
 ANTHONY KIM: I am. The good thing about this golf course is if you play it to the right side of -- right side of the golf course, you can manage your way around, the rough is not thick. I'm only going to have to hit a couple more fairways this weekend to stay up there.  
  
  Q. What does it feel like heading into the weekend knowing you're in contention? You a little bit more excited knowing you got a chance to win?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I was pretty excited to play this week. I took two weeks off and looking forward to this week and the Masters. I'm excited to keep this going.  
  
  Q. Did the stretch of birdies, what was the key overall to the round?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Just staying patient. That's the name of the game when the wind is blowing 20, 30 miles an hour. You hit good golf shots. The ball is not going to be close and sometimes not even going hit the green, but at that time, you have to make sure you miss it on an uphill chip or an uphill putt from 30, 40 feet away.  
  
  Q. Just some up-and-downs along with the birdies. What's the key there?   
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm just starting to score a little bit better. I don't know what it is. There's no key, there's no -- nothing I did with my putting. I actually got a putting lesson from Brad Faxon on Tuesday and worked on my set-up, and that helped me a little bit this week.  
  
  Q. Conditions about the same as yesterday or different?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I would say a little bit more windy this morning, which is very different from what it usually is. It's usually pretty calm and steady in the morning and starts falling in the afternoon, but it was pretty windy and just had to keep the ball in play.  
  
  Q. How challenging is that? You have to judge it on every hole?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, it switches in between backswings and through swings. There was a couple times where even Pat hit a great drive on 6. He hits it 300 yards and it carried downwind to 250. It's doing that out there. You have to stay patient.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT