SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Anthony, 6 birdies, 2 bogies, but that last bogey was the prettiest thing I've seen all day. Talk about that shot right by the green there, that flop you had to hit on the green on 18 just to get it tight.
 ANTHONY KIM: I didn't like my chances there. I was looking right at the water and looked like the sand was pretty soft. So if I didn't hit it perfect, it's going to be in one of those two spots. I didn't want to end a day that I played and grinded really hard with a double or triple, so nice to get out there with a bogey.

 Q. Kind of chugged along early, couldn't get anything to happen. Make the turn at 1-under. Then three consecutive birdies. The driver was kind of leaking a couple of different ways, but you were still able to make some big birdies?
 ANTHONY KIM: It was. I hit it great on the front-9, really -- I don't think I missed a fairway. I hit it pretty long and straight. Fortunately, I just couldn't get it going on the back-9, but the putter got hot and that's the most important part.

 Q. One day in, talk about the course conditions, the greens were pretty slick.
 ANTHONY KIM: They're getting faster and faster. You know that they're going to dry out a little bit. Spinning 8 and 7-irons out of the rough is not easy. We're going to have to get more balls in the fairway.

 Q. Good shooting today under these conditions.
 ANTHONY KIM: It was very good. I really didn't hit it very well on the back-9. Putter got hot and made a couple of those. On the front-9, I hit it great. I couldn't get any 10 or 15-footers to fall.

 Q. We try to mimic conditions at Augusta National by cutting the rough down. You can survive here without hitting fairways.
 ANTHONY KIM: You do, but the sand is pretty soft out here. I plugged a driver which was pretty tough, but overall, the course is in such great shape, all you got to do is get the ball started once you're on the green. Fortunately, I didn't do that on the back -- on the front-9, but I did on the back.

 Q. Are you having fun?
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm having a lot of fun. I'm enjoying being up on that leaderboard.

 Q. What were your thoughts as you walked up there on the 18th, looked the situation over, and walked back down?
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, it wasn't looking good. I was pretty disappointed. I hit my last tee shot in the water after a very good swing. Just took a little bit more of an aggressive line I wanted to. Ended up in the water and hit a bad third shot. I was glad not to be -- not to see that ball in the water, but it looked like my next one could go in after that. 

 Q. Heard you say you weren't hitting it well on the back-9. How did you score well?
 ANTHONY KIM: I just hung in there. We tried to hit more greens and said look, give yourself a chance and not worry how we're hitting it, get the ball on the green somehow. Fortunately, a couple those long putts fell and they haven't been falling. Maybe the tide is turning.

 Q. Were the conditions windy out there?
 ANTHONY KIM: Very windy. We hit I think 3-iron from 200 yards. On the very next hole, we hit a 7-iron from 200 yards. It's very tricky out there and it's gusting at times, but you just have to hit the middle of the green and try to make a long one on those holes.

 Q. Do you remember what holes those were?
 ANTHONY KIM: I really don't.

 Q. Do you realize the way the conditions were, the fact that some guys did make a run, yourself included, were you a little surprised at some of the afternoon scores? 
 ANTHONY KIM: No. It's out there, the par-5s are definitely doable. I played them 1 under par. I 3-putted for bogey on one of the holes I could get there in 2. Unfortunately, didn't capitalize on a couple of good swings I made on the first par-5, but the par-5s are where you have to score, and you can get some low scores out here.

 Q. Do you see time of day, your tee-off tomorrow being a factor in how you score tomorrow?
 ANTHONY KIM: Obviously, it's a little bit softer, and that way the ball stays in the fairway a little bit longer and the greens will be a little bit more fresh. So I'm excited to go out there tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT