THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 7, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Final round 67, and second place finish, your best since the '09 Mercedes-Benz Championship. Very nice tournament. You shoot 67 today and rallied back from yesterday. Maybe a few thoughts about your round and how you played overall. 
 ANTHONY KIM: It was a good week. I'm excited with the progress going into next week, and I think I'm just trying to peak for the majors this year, and obviously I want to play well every week. But the Masters is the tournament I'm looking forward to. 
 So I'm playing well, I'm thinking well, I have a good attitude and hopefully I can keep practicing hard and keep improving. 

 Q. What are you most happy with, the progress you've made from last year?
 ANTHONY KIM: My attitude's a lot better. I really want to -- yesterday I wanted to break every club in the bag, but then I wouldn't have had a set to play with today, so I'm glad that I didn't. Just try to keep a positive attitude, and once that happens, I'm going to play good golf. 

 Q. When you wanted to break every club in the set yesterday, what was different about your reaction now, as opposed to other times?
 ANTHONY KIM: When they did break? No, I just laughed it off. You've got to putt things in perspective and unfortunately last year I was injured and had to deal with some bad golf, a bad attitude and lack of practice. 
 So I know I'm putting in the time, and good golf will come, because I know it that I have the ability to do it. It's just a matter of going out and doing it now. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Can you take us through the day? What was your mind-set starting out? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I got off to a quick start today. First hole, ten, 15 feet, made it. 
 3, I 2-putted from a good ways away, and 4, hit it to about a foot. So got off to a quick start. 
 13 and 14 were a couple good birdies to put myself back in there. I made a long one on 14, and just let one slide by on 15, which was unfortunate. 
 You know, the Bear Trap, I guess 17 got me again this year, and played that 4-over it looks like. I guess next year I'll try to do a better job on that hole. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Did you think you could catch Camilo starting out, the way you started? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I did. And especially -- when he got to 15 (under), I thought it would be pretty difficult, but when he came back to 13 (under), I was at 9 and had a putt on 15 to cut it to a couple. Thought I had a chance and unfortunately it slid by. Made a bogey on 17, which didn't help. 

 Q. So for next week, how does Doral suit you?
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, if I keep hitting it this good, it's going to be great for my game because it's a longer golf course. I'm reading the greens real well. My caddie and I are doing a good job of reading the grain, and that's the first thing that you have to look at. 
 So if we can just keep a level head out there and stay happy, we'll be just fine. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Thank you. Good luck next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT