THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 5, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Anthony Kim, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a successful second round of the Honda Classic, 6-under 64 today, seven birdies and just one bogey, obviously feeling good as you head into the weekend.
 ANTHONY KIM: I feel really good. I've been working hard on my game, and the last couple of months I've really started to play getter. Haven't put four good rounds together. Happy to have another opportunity to putt four good ones together and hopefully have a chance to win the tournament on the back nine. 

 Q. There are a bunch of 64s out there, including yours, did you think it was going to be that kind of a day where you would need to score as low as that to make moves up the board? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I haven't even been thinking about what I'm going to shoot. I didn't have a goal, a number in mind, but just to go out there and hit some quality golf shots, it's been a long time since I've been able to have confidence and fire at some flags and be able to be aggressive and feel comfortable in that situation. 
 So I'm really happy with how I'm playing. It's just a matter of time before I put four good ones together and start winning some golf tournaments again.

 Q. Statistically speaking, the sixth hole today is the most difficult hole on the golf course. You bogeyed it. What's making it tough in your opinion?
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, there's water down the whole left side and there's bunkers on the right side. It's 470 yards. It's a par 4. It's really windy out there. 
 And I could keep going: The greens are firm; it's straight into the wind --

 Q. What did you do? 
 ANTHONY KIM: I 3-putted. I hit two quality golf shots in there, played a little ping-pong table and walked to the next hole.

 Q. So your bogey was not necessarily because of the golf hole itself? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I misread the grain, so I guess you could say it was part of the golf course. But I hit two good shots in there and just 3-putted. 

 Q. What two shots?
 ANTHONY KIM: Driver, 5-iron. 

 Q. How close?
 ANTHONY KIM: Not very close, about 40 feet. 

 Q. Last time you hit as many quality golf shots in a round as today?
 ANTHONY KIM: Last week. I played great in Phoenix, and just couldn't get the ball in the hole. Definitely starting to find my rhythm out there a little bit earlier. I birdied 1 and 2 today. To hit driver, 3-iron on my first hole showed how did he manning the golf course was. 
 But I went out there and had a good attitude and striped two shots, made a 10-footer and kind of moved along my day that way. It was a good start to the day, and if I can just keep hitting good golf shots, I'll be in good shape the rest of the week. 
 DOUG MILNE: If you wouldn't mind just running us through your birdies and just give us some clubs. 
 ANTHONY KIM: Starting on 10 or 1? On 10 I hit driver, 3-iron to about ten feet. 
 11, driver, 8-iron to ten feet. 
 13, driver, lob-wedge to about four feet. 
 On 3, I hit driver, 3-iron, got up-and-down out of the left bunker. 
 4, driver, lob-wedge to about ten feet, made that.
 7, 6-iron just left of the green, chipped that in, and 8, driver, 8-iron to about five feet and made that. 
 DOUG MILNE: We sure appreciate your time. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT