THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 4, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ANTHONY KIM: I grinded it out pretty good. That's what it takes when it blows that much.  
  
  Q. When the wind is blowing the way it is, is it hard to make yourself be patient, because you know you're going to hit some shots and go, that started out --  
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I did that a couple of times, and sometimes it's funny, because the wind is blowing so hard that the ball did move, and that happened to me on 18. So we have to be aware of all of the surroundings. We did a good job of staying patient out there.   
 It was a long morning for me. I was hitting 3-wood -- I hit that thing about 265. It was just a long day and had to stay patient and grind it out.   
  
  Q. With the success of your contemporaries this year, what do you think about your own game?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, it's great but I think last year -- I'm on the right track to getting better. I'm working with the right coaches and the right people right now, so I have to keep working hard.   
  
  Q. Where does The Ryder Cup fit into your plans this year?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm not really worried about -- if I play well, it will happen.   
  
  Q. What are the things you need to do to shore up play?   
 ANTHONY KIM: I was not playing very much and not practicing because I was just trying to -- (Inaudible.) Other than that, I didn't really much golf but now I'm starting to play a little bit and I'm starting to catch my rhythm.   
  
  Q. Can you comment on your round overall?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I played very well. Unfortunately 17 ended up with a double-bogey. I feel like I had a great opportunity to make bogey, and, well, what can you do.   
 I'm very happy with how I played today, and 17, if I made a bad swing or a made a bad decision, it would be different. But I made a good swing, good decision. Just picked the wrong club. You can do that when it's 30 miles an hour, so I'm not too disappointed.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT