NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 5, 2010
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Anthony, what was the feeling like being out there in this weather and still getting a pretty good score?   
 ANTHONY KIM: It felt great, just excited to be playing on the PGA TOUR this year and get my first tournament under my belt. Hopefully I can just keep building off this. I've been working very hard the last couple weeks and it's starting to pay off.  
  
  Q. You talked about the fact that you were out here I guess it was at 6:30 and getting after it. What's the motivation for you?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I'm healthy, and what I did last year was so disappointing. Really it affected my confidence, and I think I want a positive attitude, get out here and work as hard as I can. I'm going to win golf tournaments, it's just a matter if I get a couple breaks to go my way.  
  
  Q. You saw Stricker out there. What was it like to watch him play? He obviously is playing really good golf.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, he obviously putts well. That's Steve's game. He's got an unbelievable short game. I think he chipped in maybe three or four times, and that's pretty fun to watch. I'd like to start doing that myself, so I've got to obviously be out here on the range a little bit more.  
  
  Q. Did yesterday's round really try your patience?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I actually got a couple birdies to drop early, which was nice. At that point you just try to maintain that and try to make a couple birdies on top of it. Overall it was just a well-played round, and I really didn't have to worry about my patience at all today.   
  
  Q. What's the most important thing, just to keep it in play?  
 ANTHONY KIM: It is, it's to keep the ball in the fairway, especially lift, clean and place. It's pretty easy when you give us a free look at it. The greens were rolling well this morning, and all you've got to do is get the ball on the green, and if you're Steve Stricker you make everything.   
  
  Q. Looked like you hit a couple close out there.   
 ANTHONY KIM: I did. I hit a couple pretty close, and whenever you take a little pressure off the putter, it's nice.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT