KIWI CHALLENGE
November 12, 2009
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Not too often you get to make bogey on a playoff and walk away with the first prize. 
 ANTHONY KIM: I think that hole played about 5.6, almost a half a shot over par, because it played straight into the wind off the right. There's OB along the left side and hazard down the right. I did what I had to do to win and fortunately it was just good enough.

 Q. Sean didn't like that hole, but he went left. Your second shot kept going right. What was going through your mind when Sean had trouble off the tee?
 ANTHONY KIM: I had hit a poor drive that went into the hazard earlier. I didn't think that my first tee shot was going to go in the hazard.
 So I told myself pick a specific target, go ahead and chase the ball down the line and that's what I did. 
 But, unfortunately, the second shot I didn't focus on my target. I didn't pick a target because I said, hey, hit it in the fairway, let's just get this over with, instead of picking a specific target. 
 That was a mental mistake, but other than that I played great today.

 Q. You did. You saved your best for last. You didn't lead any first round, and not up until the 12th hole. So basically you led when it counted most. 
 ANTHONY KIM: It feels good to be in the hunt and make a couple crucial putts and some momentum-swinging putts. I think that's the been the story of my year. I haven't made those and haven't felt comfortable with those. But I felt great. My caddie and I talked the whole way. We were relaxed and we had fun. I think that's the way that I'm going to play my best. And I'm still trying to figure out how I play my best. 
 But if I relax and am joking around, having fun, that's when I do it.

 Q. And you reads, when I listen to you out there getting your line for putts, when you stood up and over the ball, you were sure each time, weren't you, today?
 ANTHONY KIM: I was sure. I think there was one or two putts where I wasn't 100 percent sure. But overall I was sticking to my guns and going ahead and chasing those lines.

 Q. Birdies on 3, 4 and 5. Did you ever think that you were too far behind?
 ANTHONY KIM: Not on this golf course. Especially when the wind can blow out here, and it did. For me, it was just staying in the moment, staying even keeled, whether I make a birdie or bogey. And fortunately I only had one bogey. Well, two bogeys at the end I did. But it was good enough.
 So I just tried to stay steady and keep a positive outlook on what was to come.

 Q. And lastly, you weren't real pleased about being runner up last year. So it feels pretty good?
 ANTHONY KIM: Feels wonderful. I just have to thank Alex and Julian for running a great tournament and inviting me back. This place is unbelievable and it's beautiful. And they've treated us so well. 
 And I feel like I owed it to them to put on a little show today and fortunately I made a couple putts fall.

 Q. How about the last part of your year, the last three times out, you're really closing with -- you're closing. You're getting it done. 
 ANTHONY KIM: It feels great to finish off the last couple of weeks the way I have has been very rewarding, because I have been working very hard. And unfortunately I've been hampered with injuries all year. And finally, to get a win under my belt for the year, even though it's unofficial, it feels wonderful.

 Q. It cashes just the same. What is the difference, being healthy and also kind of carefree out there? I mean, you're really flowing. 
 ANTHONY KIM: I am. My caddie has done a great job of keeping me loose, and I think that's the beauty of our chemistry. We've known each other for so long that we have such a good rapport out there. And I feel like if we can stay loose, we can play with anybody and that's just what I gotta do.

 Q. Finally, about your trip to New Zealand, pretty good trip?
 ANTHONY KIM: The best. This is a little bit better than last year. And I didn't think it could get better. But obviously the win and just enjoying the scenery, enjoying the peacefulness out here is wonderful. And, again, Alex and Julian have put on such a wonderful show for us as far as the staff is concerned and the way that the maintenance crew has worked to keep this course in great shape for us, it's been wonderful.

 Q. And the way the golf course plays, you might as well have been someplace else yesterday. You played a completely different golf course. 
 ANTHONY KIM: It blew more than Royal Birkdale and that's the most wind I've ever played in, in the '07 British Open. It was unfortunate it blew that way, but I think it blew in my direction.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT