WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2009
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: We have Anthony Kim here with us, 8-under par total for the tournament. Quite a nice way to finish your round today.   
 ANTHONY KIM: It was a tough day today for me to get the ball in the hole, and fortunately on 18, we didn't have the perfect number, and was actually thinking about laying up. But it was too close to the green, 225 yards. So we just tried to hit a big, cut 5-wood and ended up perfect. Nice way to finish definitely.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: How many feet was the putt on the last?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Four feet.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Beautiful. And you said the rest of the round, not an easy way to get the ball in the hole. What was different from yesterday?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, yesterday I gave myself a lot of 15-, 20-footers, and today, my iron game wasn't quite as on.   
 So I had a couple more chips and a couple putts that were 30, 35 feet. So I had to make a couple 4- or 5-footers for par today, and just tried to grind it out and salvage an under-par round.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Have you got some rest in Shanghai yet?   
 ANTHONY KIM: A lot better than yesterday, and got to bed about 10.00 and slept until 7.30, so feel a lot more rested than I did the day before.   
  
  Q. Very tight at the top of the leaderboard there. What's your plan of action going into the weekend? Is it just more of the same, or what do you need to work on?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, this last week at the Volvo Match Play, I found a couple of things in my golf game that I was doing a lot better, and bringing it over to this week.   
 So I'm just going to try to stay patient. I've been picking targets away from the flags and going ahead and hitting them at that target. And if I have 15, 20 feet, try to make the putt and move on to the next hole.   
 You know, on 18, that was a different story. I wanted to get a little aggressive, because I felt like a birdie or an eagle would really ignite my round tomorrow, and I'd have some momentum going in that way.   
 But overall, I've been staying very patient, and I think if I do that, this course will let me make some birdies, if you have uphill putts. The greens were rolling very true, and if you get them started on the right line, they are most likely going to go in.   
  
  Q. Obviously there's still two days to go, but if you were to win here, that would put you right up there in The Race to Dubai. Now, I know you've said that you won't be playing there, but if there was a possibility that you might be playing for the bonus money, is that something you might reconsider?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, that's not something I've even thought about yet, and I'm not going to think about that till Sunday. If I have that opportunity, I may reconsider, but most likely I'm not going to play.   
 I talked to Guy Kinnings last night, and we were talking about different scenarios and what could happen. But you know, I think it's easy to get lost in it and just chasing money around, and that's not really what I want to do. I think I did that a little bit last year, and I'm not going to do that anymore. It hurt my golf game physically, and my body obviously wasn't rested, and I think that cost me this year.   
 So I'm going to try to learn from my mistakes. But you never know.   
 CHUAH CHOO CHIANG: Anthony, thanks very much and all the best for the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT