VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
November 1, 2009
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Not the result you were hoping for, but I'm sure you have much to be proud of.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, Ross played great. I obviously made a couple of mistakes. I felt like on hole No. 8, I gave one to him, and 7, I kind of gave one to him there. Really, that was the turning point. We both made birdies on 9 and he made par on 10.   
 It was an up-and-down battle all day, and I never seemed to get anything going. I never seemed to make a string of three or four birdies in a row, and that's what cost me today.  
 I gave it all I had, but unfortunately it wasn't good enough. Of course I'm disappointed but what can you do; he played great.   
  
  Q. 3-down and six to play, what's going through your mind? What's the game plan then?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Try to make six birdies. That's the goal. You don't want to give somebody a chance to come back on you, and I know he was trying to make birdies, and I was, too. It was unfortunate I couldn't get the ball in the hole a little bit faster, but I'm going to learn from this and I'm going to be better for it.  
  
  Q. What do you take from the week?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm starting to swing it great. I know that. Obviously I missed a couple of tiny putts today, and that happens sometimes. Unfortunately it happened at the wrong time and the wrong place.   
 But I know that I'm swinging it well. I'm definitely on the right track to coming back the way I want to, and I'll look at this as a positive.  
  
  Q. A word for the caddie and the coach, because of the part they played?  
 ANTHONY KIM: My caddie did a tremendous job, and obviously my coach is ready to get back to work and hopefully we'll be a little better here in the few fewer.  
  
  Q. I imagine you're exhausted, but you're going to sleep well tonight, aren't you?  
 ANTHONY KIM: You know, a little bit disappointed, that will have set in a little bit, but I probably will get some good rest.   
  
  Q. Overall how much have you enjoyed your first Volvo match play here in Spain?   
 ANTHONY KIM: It's been wonderful. They have treated us great here at the resort. The people have been tremendous and very supportive. I feel lucky to have been here and I'd love to come back.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT