THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2011
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, it was nice to be in the mix, for sure. But at the same time you want to have a chance to win with about three, four holes to go, and I didn't really do that. But that was all I had this week, and it's a real positive step for me and the rest of the year.   
  
  Q. How electric was it out there with Phil on that run there?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I knew kind of who they were rooting for, that's for sure, and I think he knows his name by the end of this week. But he played great. He played a lot of putts, and I learned a lot from watching him play that front nine. I think there was a couple things that if I were to do it again after watching him, I would have done different, and hopefully I can take that and use that as experience next year.   
  
  Q. What did you learn specifically, what kind of things?   
 ANTHONY KIM: I think there were times where he either waited out wind or just hit it and didn't really second-guess himself. And that's been a strong point of mine, but at the same time, I haven't been playing as well as I have, so second-guessing has come pretty natural. But I got rid of a lot of it this week.  
  
  Q. There's been a lot of notions that Phil hasn't had much success at this championship, that he doesn't play links golf very well.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, 5 or whatever under he shot was pretty good. I'll tell you, when you make 20-footers, it doesn't matter what kind of golf it is. The hole looks as big as a bucket, and he played really well.  
  
  Q. Did you notice anything different in his putting?   
 ANTHONY KIM: The front nine I noticed a lot different; he made everything. He's a very good putter, obviously. He's played tons of tournaments where he's made key putts, and you expect that from a guy like Phil, and he played very well.   
  
  Q. Since the air kind of came out of his balloon when he missed that short one on 11, it looked like he was kind of --  
 ANTHONY KIM: You know, I was so focused on my game, I really didn't worry about what he was doing. At that point I was just trying to make one or two more birdies to see if I could give myself a chance with a couple to go.  
  
  Q. You couldn't get any putts to go?  
 ANTHONY KIM: No, I missed a couple early and made a couple poor swings today. Today was probably the worst I hit it out of the four days, so that was a little bit disappointing, but I hung in there and gave it all I had.   
  
  Q. Seems like when you're paired with Phil he always plays well. Do you notice that trend?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, that's great. Hopefully I can start playing well. Obviously Phil plays well with a lot of people, so I'm not really too concerned about what he's doing.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT