THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2011
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is par a pretty good round out there?
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I'm really happy about how I scored. Obviously I would have liked to have gotten one or two more coming in, but you don't want to get too greedy at the British Open. So I'll take 70 and hopefully I can put up a low one tomorrow and have a chance to win.

 Q. Can you talk about the conditions. It was a little bit tough out there early on. 
 ANTHONY KIM: It was a lot more than a little bit tough. I was happy to be 4-over. There was a couple shots that I hit that maybe could have got me to 5- or 6-over and made a couple key putts. At the beginning of the day, I told myself that if I hung in there, good things were going to happen, whether it was going to be one or two things, and that would turn the tide. And fortunately, it did. 

 Q. Are you finding something out here?
 ANTHONY KIM: I've found my game, it's just I haven't brought it to the tournaments. I'm excited that this is the tournament I brought it to. Obviously other tournaments are very important, but to play well at major championships is what I work for. So to be able to put up some good rounds, probably my best rounds I've played all year, at the British, is pretty rewarding.

 Q. What did you find?
 ANTHONY KIM: I found out that I still know how to get the ball in the hole. That became a concern when I was doing all I do and trying to put Band-Aids on my golf swing. I finally sat down with my coach and said, we're just going to go back, like I'm just starting golf again with the grip, the posture, everything like that, and setup, is when things really started to turn around. Even though I took a step back I feel like I'm moving two steps forward.

 Q. When did you have that conversation?
 ANTHONY KIM: About two months ago.

 Q. Was it around a tournament?
 ANTHONY KIM: It was before a tournament, and he said -- I think he said my left hand looked like I was driving a Harley, and that's a snap hook if you don't know what that is. So we got back to when my thumb was healthy and my normal swing.

 Q. Did you neglect your short game?
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, my short game got so good because I was always in the trees and I was always having to do that to miss the cut by a stroke. So it's all kind of coming together. There's obviously some loose ends that I need to tie up. I actually played and hit the ball really well the week before this tournament, two weeks ago at Travelers, but I just didn't score well. So I knew it was just a matter of time, and late entry into this tournament, and what better way to stay in contention. 

 Q. When did you know that you were in range of moving into --
 ANTHONY KIM: I knew Thursday, and I was deciding whether to come on Saturday or Sunday, and I didn't want this course to beat me up. I know how British Opens are. I know the weather is going to be bad. You're not going to be making those full golf swings like you're used to making. So I actually only played 11 holes as far as practice before the tournament and walked the rest. My caddie did a good job of leading me around, and I'm hitting some good shots out there.

 Q. Which 11?
 ANTHONY KIM: I played the front nine, 17 and 18.

 Q. I know this is partially media driven, but given the fact that 13 of the top 22 players are Americans and it's been a lot written about American golf (inaudible) does that bother you when you read something like that?
 ANTHONY KIM: It doesn't bother me. The media is going to say what they want. Obviously when a golfer is hot they're going to jump on that guy's bandwagon, and that's just the way it goes. I think a lot of us understand that. I'm going to do all I can to represent America well, and hopefully I can make a final push tomorrow and see where that leads me.

 Q. What about seeing Rickie and Dustin on the board? Does that get you a little motivated?
 ANTHONY KIM: Anybody in front of me gets me motivated and anybody behind me gets me motivated. I know it's a cliché, but I'm ready to kind of step out of the shadows of all the guys that have been playing so well. I know a lot of -- whether it's media or fans or whoever has kind of forgotten about me, and that gives me a little bit more drive to practise harder and make a few more birdies.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ANTHONY KIM: It's really hard to stay patient. I think my mom is my new golf psychologist because she just tells me to be happy, and it's hard to do when you're shooting 73s and 74s. But if I listen to her, things usually go okay. 

 Q. Are you just frustrated or angry or what's the emotion that is kind of prevalent?
 ANTHONY KIM: I wouldn't say angry. I'm in a pretty good spot in my life I'd say. I would just say I'm frustrated, extremely frustrated with how I was playing and the work I felt like I was putting in. I felt like I wasn't getting anything out of it. So to put myself in contention on Saturday is a very nice feeling. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT