AT&T NATIONAL
July 5, 2009
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ANTHONY KIM: I know I'll be knocking at the door again, it's just a matter of time. I've gotten a lot better, stayed a lot more patient than I used to. So it's only a matter of time.

 Q. Did you learn anything new today? 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I learned that if you don't -- if you have a birdie putt, you'd better make it, especially on the last day. Tiger obviously wins for a reason. He makes the putts when he needs to. Unfortunately they didn't drop for me today. They'll drop. 

 Q. It looked like you got yourself through a shaky period and were able to somewhat correct your swing. 
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I started to figure it out, but it still didn't feel comfortable. It felt like Friday with my golf swing. I definitely found a way to recover a little bit, but it still wasn't really comfortable. I think that was the reason for a couple off-line shots. 
 But at the end of the day you have to make putts, and I didn't do that.

 Q. You've known Tiger for a while and played golf with him. He's different on a Sunday, a little bit more business. Did that put you off at all?
 ANTHONY KIM: Actually I've never played with him. That was the first time I've played with him in any round, practice round, tournament round, anything. I don't really care what he's doing. I mean, it's about me staying focused on my game, and for the most part I did stay focused, I just didn't get the ball in the hole. 

 Q. It looked like you guys exchanged words coming down the fairway on 18. What did you guys stay to each other?
 ANTHONY KIM: He just told me to stay positive, something like that. 

 Q. What other positives did you take out of this experience?
 ANTHONY KIM: I know I can play at the highest level. I feel like I'm one of the top players in the world, I just need to go out there and take care of those careless mistakes. I made a couple early. Unfortunately I didn't make the right decisions. I swung a little bit harder than I had to trying to cover a tree that I wasn't really even paying attention to.
 I have to get better on my decision-making and definitely improve my putting a little bit.

 Q. Is that something you see Tiger doing out there on the course?
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, today I wasn't watching him so much, but I have seen him dissect a golf course. He's done it to perfection in many tournaments. Now I just need to go and learn. I'll learn a lot from this event, and I'm taking a lot of positives away. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ANTHONY KIM: No. I did it all last year, I did it all this year. Unfortunately I didn't hit the right shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT