AT&T NATIONAL
July 4, 2009
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Anthony Kim, thanks for joining us here in the media center for a couple minutes. You're currently tied for the lead going into Sunday, chance to repeat. Take us through the day first and give us some thoughts on your round.   
 ANTHONY KIM: It was an interesting day. I played really well. I hit the ball very well.   
 Hit a great drive on 1, and my caddie and I have been doing a good job of playing short of the trouble where it's almost impossible to get it up-and-down. I got a little aggressive, was so happy about my tee shot, I fired right at the flag and put it in the back bunker where you just can't put it.   
 On 9, hit a tremendous drive, had 240 yards in, and it took me five shots to get in from there from the middle of the fairway straight downwind, which is a little bit hard to swallow.   
 But other than that, I played pretty solidly. I played away from a lot of trouble and kept my round pretty consistent with a lot of pars and feel pretty good about today.   
  
  Q. You mentioned about wanting to play with Tiger, something you haven't done before on the final round on Sunday. What do you think about that?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I expect he's going to be wearing a red shirt and he's going to be out there ready to go, and I'll be ready, as well.   
  
  Q. What color will you wear tomorrow?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Probably blue, my favorite color.   
  
  Q. Can you remember the first time that you thought about what it was going to be like to play in a final round with Tiger?   
 ANTHONY KIM: I used to practice thinking I was in the final round with Tiger, final putt, had to make a ten-footer to win the golf tournament, he was watching me. And I was probably nine, ten years old when all that was happening. It was almost dark, and my dad was yet to pick me up from the golf course.   
 I've replayed a lot of those moments, but I have to actually not think about that. I have to go out there and stick with my game plan of getting the ball in the fairway first and foremost and just moving and attacking from there instead of worrying about what could be or what is going to happen. I just have to be in the moment.  
  
  Q. How often did those putts go in that day?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Man, they were going in a lot (laughing). I'm excited to be honest with you. I'm excited to be there. I'm excited for the opportunity. There's not too many chances you get to play against the best in the world at his golf tournament. I've won this tournament before, and I don't see why I won't have a good opportunity tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Technically he was watching last year, right?  
 ANTHONY KIM: On TV. He was in a different state, which was weird. But he was watching. I'd love to play great tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Do you have to guard against watching him, getting into kind of a match play situation tomorrow?  
 ANTHONY KIM: No. It's going to be hard not to watch him because he's in my group. But other than that, it's like playing with anybody else. I watch Jim Furyk as much as I watch anybody else when I play golf. The way he dissects a golf course and plays so strategically baffles me. He gets the ball in the hole from some impossible spots and figures a way out.   
 When my ADD kicks in, I pretty much look at everything that's moving or makes noise. So it really doesn't matter who I'm playing with.   
  
  Q. Talk about the shot real quick on 15 in the bunker.   
 ANTHONY KIM: We had 84 yards, I had no chance to get to the green and just blasted one out there. The pin was seven or eight off the back, and we had a backstop. And it was actually hurting me because I didn't want a backstop because the greens are still a little receptive with lob wedges and sand wedges.   
 Usually I'd play a lob wedge and try to skip it back there. But I figured even if it lands on the back of the green, it's going to come of the middle of the green. And in that section, you have to keep it on the right side.   
 I've actually been trying to hit shots like that while I practice, but I've never had the guts to use it in a tournament. I figured I'm probably going to make bogey anyway if I hit sand wedge and hit an unbelievable shot and spin it back and hit 20 feet, so might as well try it. So I did, and almost hooped it.   
 NELSON SILVERIO: Anthony Kim, thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT