AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2009
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ANTHONY KIM: The golf course played a little bit tougher in my opinion. Obviously I didn't drive it the way I wanted to and like I did yesterday. So hitting out of the trees, there's not going to be as much spin. So it was a rough day, but I'm glad I got through it, and now I have to go work on it and see what I can figure out.   
  
  Q. Obviously your physical presence has changed. You have a trainer now with you full-time. Could you explain the background and what you guys have been working on?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, we're just working on my balance. That's huge in golf. Even though it's just a couple shots you have every day on TOUR, you're going to have knock-down shots, and we want to be ready for those. I think power is something that I've lost in the last six, seven months, especially with not being able to work out and not hitting as many balls. So we're working on a lot of different things.  
  
  Q. I think you mentioned your thumb yesterday was the injury that hurt you the most. How did you hurt it, and is that something that still comes up?  
 ANTHONY KIM: It's not 100 percent healed, but it's as close as it's going to get for a while until I rest it. So I think next week I'll have a good week off before the British and just try to chip and putt and get ready that way. The finger feels pretty good, and hopefully I can just maintain it through the next two days, and I should be fine. It's the left thumb.  
  
  Q. How did you hurt it?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I don't know. I think it could have happened from any different thing. But I was hitting a golf shot out of the rough and it felt like it pulled, but something happened before that, so I'm not quite sure.  
  
  Q. After 11, how did you control your emotions from there? Were you on the brink of getting a little bit emotional?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, after 11 I was pretty frustrated with myself, but I'm out here to have a better attitude. I know I played a fantastic round yesterday. I just look at it as it's never as bad as it seems. When you're playing bad, you think it's way worse than it is, and I tried to keep that attitude and said, look, we've got seven more holes. I'm not swinging my best right now, so I can't add onto it by moaning about a bad swing here and a bad swing there and just keep a positive attitude and try to make a couple par putts.  
  
  Q. Would you maybe have handled that differently in the past?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Absolutely. I might not have had a driver for very much longer.   
  
  Q. Did the difference in start times between Tiger and you make any difference in your round?   
 ANTHONY KIM: No. I mean, I know he played in the morning, but I'm not out here to watch Tiger. I didn't pay $30 to come out. I know he's obviously the best player in the world. We're all out here trying to beat everyone's brains out, whether it's Tiger or Jim or Davis. I had my hands full with my game, so I wasn't too worried about what he was doing.   
  
  Q. Did you notice a big difference in the galleries this year compared to last year? Do you notice things like that?   
 ANTHONY KIM: I do. I feed off the fans. They've been great. It's been special to come out here and feel that warmth that I've been feeling from the fans. It can only help you. Even when you're having a bad hole, like you said, on 11, I can hold my head up high or I can drop my head. They pushed me forward. I'm lucky to be at 8-under right now and have a chance going into the weekend.   
  
  Q. You said it's never as bad as it seems. To just be two off the leader on this course, that's not a bad place to be at all.   
 ANTHONY KIM: No, this year I've actually just barely been making cuts, so I was happy to be in the position I was in. Obviously the first six, seven holes I was trying to move forward and putt well and maybe get it to 12, 13, 14-under par, but once the swing went away, I had to just focus on getting up-and-down and making some pars out there.  
  
  Q. You said after a couple holes your swing kind of got away from you. Is there a swing thought that you use or any kind of keys you do to try to get it back in mid-round?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I just try to make sure I open the club. My problem is I keep the club closed right off the start. So I tried to open it, and unfortunately didn't do a very good job of figuring my swing out.   
 Golf isn't about how you hit the ball but how you get the ball in the hole. I think I did a pretty good job the last three holes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT