HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2009
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Well, Anthony, thanks for joining us here for a minute at the HP Byron Nelson Championship. Kind of a home game for you. As you're heading into the week, assess your game. You got off to a great start of the season with a runner-up in Hawai'i, and on the way in you were commenting that you were hitting it pretty well. Assess the state of your game as you're heading into this week here in Dallas.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I really have no idea how I'm going to play this week, but I know I've been working hard and working on the right things. Unfortunately the scores haven't shown it. I haven't had great finishes lately, but I'm still grinding, still working hard, and hopefully one of these weeks I'll break through and get the ball rolling good.   
 DOUG MILNE: You did have a good finish here last year, top 20 finish, T19. Talk about the course and how it sets up for your game.   
 ANTHONY KIM: I played the back nine today. The greens are a lot better, and I like what they've done around the greens. They've cut the rough down so there's more creativity you need to use around the greens, and hopefully that will work to my advantage because I like to throw the ball up in the air when I chip. If I can make some putts, I should be in good shape.   
  
  Q. How special would it be for you to win in the area, the city you reside in?   
 ANTHONY KIM: It would be very special. I mean, right now I'm just looking to break par, make good golf swings, make a couple putts. But it would be very special to me because I've made quite a few friends here and just would be -- it would be many dreams come true. Playing on the PGA TOUR has been a dream of mine, and I'm obviously living that dream and having won last year and playing on the Ryder Cup. It would be great.   
  
  Q. After the year you had last year, is it almost tough to look at what you did and try to -- each week try to gauge yourself by that?   
 ANTHONY KIM: No, that's not what I'm doing. I know I'm a better player right now than I was last year. I hear from -- whether it's players or other people, they say that my game has fallen off and whatnot, but it's not. I believe in myself, and I know that the good scores are coming. I just have to be patient. I think I'll be a lot better player than I was last year at the end of this year. I just have to stay positive, which is hard sometimes, but just keep practicing and keep working out and do the right things.   
  
  Q. What in particular are you kind of focusing on right now to get the scores going back the way you'd like to see them?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I'm actually hired a new trainer, and I feel like in college I swung it the best I have in my whole life, and last year even though the scores were good, my swing wasn't where I wanted it to be. I'm just trying to get it back to the college days.   
 So I hired my trainer from Oklahoma, and we've been doing a lot of medicine balls and just getting back into shape. I know that's going to end up helping, even though right now around the greens I'm losing a little bit of touch because we are lifting weights and doing other things. But once that goes away, once the soreness and all that goes away, my scores are going to come down, and hopefully I'll see some more tournament wins.   
  
  Q. Do you think that the draw for the pro-am was actually randomly done?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I heard I'm playing with somebody from Texas. We'll have a good time out there. I'm not wearing a Texas shirt like they had requested, so I might go to the mall here in a little bit and buy an OU shirt.  
  
  Q. Will the BCS standings come up tomorrow during your pro-a            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT