VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 13, 2011
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Anthony Kim. Anthony, you just played the course. If you want to talk little bit about your thoughts on the course and then we'll take some questions.  
 ANTHONY KIM: It was my first time playing this golf course and it's in great shape. If you don't hit some quality shots, it seems like you're going to end up in some rocks or some trees. So I'm going to try to keep the ball in play and obviously if the wind stays down you can make some birdies out here.  
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Questions?  
  
  Q. What sort of differences between here and where you broke in over at LaCantera?  
 ANTHONY KIM: The walk is a little bit easier. Other than that, I don't notice too much. LaCantera was in great shape and I enjoyed playing there. The walk was tough on some holes but we got cart rides on a lot them so it wasn't as bad as the fans had to walk.   
 But both golf courses are great. I enjoyed playing LaCantera and I feel like I'm going to have a good shot here.  
  
  Q. I know in Houston you had your moments again. We talked before about what you're trying to do with your game. How do you feel now after last week coming in, are things still rounding into shape for you?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Extremely disappointed, missed the cut at the Masters, but I actually played better at the Masters than I did in Houston. So just shows that I have to be patient and things are starting to come around and good golf is on the way.   
 I feel like that 64 could have been 74 or could have been 60. So, I feel like my game is getting better. I just need to stay on my grind and keep doing the right things with my golf swing.  
  
  Q. You pretty much, I don't know, scrapping everything you were doing is the right word. You made some big changes. Convinced that's the way to go to not just tweak this or that but take a good basic look?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Absolutely. Whatever I was doing before I went and had surgery worked mentally and my swing in 2008 was pretty solid. I wasn't perfect but it was solid. And if I could put those two things together, that's when my best golf is going to come.  
 And, unfortunately, I didn't -- I didn't have the right tools when I came back from my surgery to use my course management that I learned when I was injured to my advantage.  
 But I feel like I'm slowly starting to get the hang of it. At Augusta there was one, two areas on the golf course where I felt like I pushed a little too hard and I didn't use the experience that I gained when I was injured to my advantage and ended up making a bogey or a double bogey and ended up costing me the cut. But, at the end of the day I'm trying to get better every week. I feel like I am.  
  
  Q. This course in particular, I know it can be a little penal for a loose swing off the tee box. That's something you've been really working hard, getting the accuracy down.   
 Did you notice that today when you're going through, this is not going to be fun if I'm a little loose off the tee box?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I did notice a lot of the spots but I'm trying to stay focused on one target and just stay in the moment and believe that the shot will do what I'm planning on it to do and then -- if you ever have doubt on a course like this where there is rocks and trees and whatever else there is, that's when you make a poor swing.   
 So, I'm looking at specific targets and going to swing as hard as I can at those and whatever happens from there I'll be okay with.  
  
  Q. You're talking about the things you learned while you were injured. Are you just talking about course management?  
 ANTHONY KIM: And the fact that I have to treat every shot like it's a brand new shot, it's a completely new test.   
 In Houston it was a perfect example when I hit 30 percent of my fairways to win that golf tournament meant I was enjoying the challenge of trying these different shots, being in these different positions.   
 Even though I didn't like all of them, I still enjoyed that and embraced the position I was in and just tried to get the ball in the hole.  
 So I think it has a lot to do with attitude and course management.  
  
  Q. Adam is the defending champion. He rolled through here. What does it look like to see someone like him going to that long putter? Not many guys on this Tour do that.  
 ANTHONY KIM: Obviously it's working for him. Maybe I should go try it (laughter). Nike built me the new putter that's working okay for me and hopefully I can get better with it. But whatever works to make birdies is the right way to go.  
  
  Q. Anthony, when you were injured and you're still playing with that sore thumb, did you develop any bad habits that you had a problem shaking since the surgery?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I developed so many bad habits I couldn't list them all for you. I was saying the week of Houston or the week before Houston, I called my coach in and said, "We're going to start with the fundamentals. I want to work on the grip."   
 We spent an hour hitting balls on the range. He would check my grip after every golf swing. I felt like I was four, five years old learning how to play the game again. But that's exactly what I needed and hopefully it will payoff soon.  
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Anything else? Okay. Thanks a lot Anthony. Good luck this week.  
 ANTHONY KIM: Okay.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT