CHEVRON WORLD CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY BANK OF AMERICA
December 21, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you feel a difference today?  
 ANTHONY KIM: You know, my swing felt off, and there's a little bit of rust that goes along with playing. I'm just happy that I kept it under 80 out there. I'm just glad it's under 80. It's disappointing, but at the same time I put myself in position.  
  
  Q. When there is rust, is the fourth day tougher sometimes?  
 ANTHONY KIM: No, I mean, the rust is going to show up one day -- one, two, maybe three, you're hoping not all four. It happened to show up today, which is unfortunate, but you know what, I hung in there. I could have shot 100, and I shot 1-over. I'm going to try to take away the positives, how good my short game was.   
  
  Q. You were kind of scrambling a lot. How tough is it mentally to kind of stay in a round when you're having to get rulings and wait a while?   
 ANTHONY KIM: It's really not. I mean, that's how I grew up playing. I grew up not knowing where the ball was and just trying to find it and chip and putt. I mean, it's definitely a little bit tougher to hang in there when you see guys making birdies, but at the same time, I hung in there.  
  
  Q. You had a great attitude when you sat down on that fence and the thing collapsed on you. That could have been scary.   
 ANTHONY KIM: It could have.   
  
  Q. What happened there on 10 with the ruling?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I was behind the fence there, and I didn't really have (indiscernible.)  
  
  Q. Talk about the week and just how fun it was.   
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, it was great. I know Tiger is a busy guy, but you've got to thank Chevron and Bank of America and guys like Tiger for help putting this on, and I'm excited to have played this event. I hung in there and tried to hold on.  
  
  Q. Will you take a little time off between now and the new year?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I'm going to take two weeks off. I'm playing in Hawai'i. I've got a bad wheel, so I'm going to try to rest that up, and I'll be ready to go.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT