CHEVRON WORLD CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY BANK OF AMERICA
December 18, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ANTHONY KIM: You know, I really haven't played much golf, and I've been working out a little bit, but I haven't walked the golf course and I haven't gotten into that rhythm where my legs are fresh. Just two wobbly leg shots on 16 and 18 off the tee, but other than that it was a pretty good day.

 Q. What's the significance of this tournament, because it's Tiger's tournament or it's the end of the year or a payoff for having a good year?
 ANTHONY KIM: Obviously when Tiger is involved with anything, you want to be involved in that same event or whatever he's into. For me going out and watching him and getting to try to emulate what he's done in a different way, it's special for me to be out here and to be playing in front of my friends and family.

 Q. What's it like playing and being one of the guys to challenge Tiger? 
 ANTHONY KIM: We're good buddies. We just did a photo shoot on Wednesday together. We've become pretty good friends, and we were friends in college. 

 Q. Ryder Cup, do you get any Ryder Cup questions anymore, maybe every day?
 ANTHONY KIM: Every day, yeah.

 Q. Is there any Ryder Cup hangover? 
 ANTHONY KIM: There wasn't really a hangover after the event, and obviously it was very exciting and I feel very honored to have been a part of it. But it's time to move on and start chasing down that next Presidents Cup and then the next Ryder Cup.

 Q. Can you set your sights to that now, look two years ahead?
 ANTHONY KIM: No, I need to look at tomorrow, even today, and I've been doing better at staying in the moment and just thinking about what I need to do today and preparing for tomorrow. If I can just keep this up, it should be a good year for me. 

 Q. How is that ankle?
 ANTHONY KIM: It's a little tender. I took care of it before I teed off and it's fine.

 Q. Do you look at all at this tournament as a way to jump start next year? Are you thinking about next year yet, or is this kind of the end of this year?
 ANTHONY KIM: To be honest, I don't know what it is. I know it was a big deal to get into this event, so it's almost like a reward for me to be out here and be playing in California where I grew up. 

 Q. That shot on 16, if you were out playing with your buddies, you would have tried something there, right?
 ANTHONY KIM: Oh, yeah, I was thinking about doing it. I mean, I had all these opportunities, I had left-hand options, kind of hit to the side, off one foot, I had all that stuff going through my head. But I'm trying to be intelligent about how I play golf these days. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT