SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2011
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Anthony, quite the follow-up to yesterday's even par 72 with the second round 8-under 64, bogey-free round today. Talk about the difference and what connected for you today.  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I'm really pleased with my round today, obviously because of the score, but the fact that my coach and I have been working so hard on my game and it's not -- it just hasn't clicked out there and I just haven't trusted it. Today, even though it was a couple of swings where I didn't trust it, but I got away with it, I got up and down and managed to make a par, but it feels great to have that feeling of confidence and go out there even make some good golf swings and make a couple puts after that.  
  
  Q. Looked like there were a few points in the round could have really tripped your trigger. You putt in from the fringe. You chip in. Was it one of those things or something else that really kind of got you dialed?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, the fact that I hit a couple fairways early really helped. I've been playing out of trees and bushes, and that's pretty tough. But today I got off to a pretty solid start. I hit it in the fairway off the tee on 10 and hit an average shot but still in the fairway -- still on the green, and that's what I haven't been doing. Either I've been hitting it in the fairway and hitting it in the bunker or in the water.  
 So, it's been a tough stretch, but I'm glad to have this one under my belt and now I can draw back on this and know that when I do get it going, I can shoot under par.  
  
  Q. Much was made yesterday of how good the greens were. Today, 22 putts for you. Pretty outstanding total.  
 ANTHONY KIM: I just heard I had 22 putts. That's pretty amazing. I felt like I had 52 yesterday. To have 22 today and have some of this hard work pay off really feels good. I'm excited about what's to come and excited for this week.  
  
  Q. The fact that you won here last year, did that help today at all? Is there anything in the back of your head that kind of kicks in?  
 ANTHONY KIM: It helps a lot knowing I played well before, knowing I made a couple putts when it mattered and hit some quality golf shots when it did matter really helps, especially since I won here in college about six, seven years ago, feels like a long time, but I draw back on those things. Some shots I had are similar, some putts I had are very similar, so I try to remember those things and play off that.  
  
  Q. President Bush make you nervous?  
 ANTHONY KIM: He handed me the trophy last year. He actually made me a little more comfortable.  
  
  Q. Did you tell him to come back Sunday and hand you another one?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I thought that would be too forward (laughter).  
  
  Q. When did you start being afraid of being too forward?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Yesterday (laughter).  
 DOUG MILNE: Alright. Anybody else? We good?  
  
  Q. You putted one in and you holed one out of the bunker. Did you have any others?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I actually --  
  
  Q. Was it out of a bunker?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I chipped two in. I chipped one from about a foot off the green, and it was only about 15, 17 feet. And the other one was on 16 where I hit it over the green and it was probably 10-yard chip shot.  
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Anthony, we appreciate your time as always. Good luck this week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT