THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 27, 2008
Anthony Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Anthony, day three here. Thanks again for joining us at the third round of THE TOUR Championship presented by Coca-Cola. We appreciate you taking a few minutes. Just thoughts on the day to start off.   
 ANTHONY KIM: I really don't -- I'm speechless how bad I hit the driver. It was a struggle out there today. Obviously I hit 4 of 14 fairways, and when you do that on a golf course like this, you're going to make a lot of bogeys.   
 I felt like I hung in there pretty tough and made some great up-and-downs, gave myself a chance going into Sunday. Tomorrow I'll be out here early and figuring my swing out, and I should be in good shape.   
  
  Q. What was up with the tee time thing?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Yeah, I thought my tee time was 11:55, and it was 11:25. So I'm going to figure that out for tomorrow, too (smiling).  
  
  Q. How much did it throw you off, a lot or a little bit?  
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, I was hanging out in the locker room talking to the locker room guys and I noticed there was nobody else around (laughter.) We were having a good time, and they're like, Well, you've got about 30 minutes to go, or 25 minutes, so I kind of went out there. I had no idea what time it was.   
 So obviously I need to be a little bit more focused on the golf course when I get here and start planning my practice routine before I go tee it up.   
  
  Q. About what time did you finally figure out -- I mean, did you find out like ten minutes beforehand, or...   
 ANTHONY KIM: When my caddie told me, I got down there, I said I had 30 minutes to go, and I wasn't in the practicing mood. I was still talking to everybody, which I probably need to shut my mouth and go practice. But I was still having a good time talking The Gallery.  
  
  Q. Do you normally take about an hour to prep, to get ready? What's your normal?  
 ANTHONY KIM: I get out there about an hour and 15 before I'd say, but about 20 or 30 minutes of that is talking (laughter.) So not really an hour and 15 minutes.  
  
  Q. How did you feel playing with Sergio Garcia again?  
 ANTHONY KIM: It felt like I was playing with anybody else. I mean, he's another guy on TOUR. He's obviously a good player. You know, I have a tremendous amount of respect for what he's done and his game.   
 But at the end of the day we're out there to beat each other, and after all that's said and done, we'll go have an adult beverage and laugh at everything that happened.   
  
  Q. How much did 9 affect you, or did it at all?   
 ANTHONY KIM: Well, it didn't affect my golf game, but I felt terrible. I mean, seeing that guy -- I thought I killed him. It was an awful feeling to look down and see a golf-ball-sized impression in his forehead and it's cut open. It was probably the nastiest thing I've ever seen.   
 It didn't affect my golf game. I still played the same way I would. I was hitting it terrible anyway, so I can't say that threw my game off. But obviously when you see that, you just feel for him and his family, and I was hoping and praying that he'd be okay.   
  
  Q. Just wanted to ask you some more about being late or almost late for your tee time. Did you misread the tee sheet yesterday or call and get bad information?   
 ANTHONY KIM: No, I didn't call. I didn't do anything. I just -- after the round at the scoring tent, there's a sheet of paper that says tee times from 9:30 to obviously 11:25. I thought it said 11:55, so I just kind of sat there and said, All right. Well, I'm going to go off around 12:00. So actually I lost five more minutes.   
 But when I got to the course I didn't know what was going on. I was just having a good time.  
  
  Q. Did you sort of feel rushed? Is that what it was? You never got to feeling comfortable on the course today?   
 ANTHONY KIM: I wasn't rushed. My swing was terrible whether I sat out there for an hour or eight hours. I mean, I don't know anyone that could have fixed that golf swing. I was just trying to hit it in the right areas of the rough, I really was.   
 On 18, there was about .01 chance I hit that green, so I said, Let's hit it in that bunker if nothing else. I hit it in the bunker. So I really had no control of my golf ball, and that wasn't because of the practice.   
 Obviously it would have been nicer to have a little bit more time to figure it out, but that wasn't it.   
  
  Q. With your star being in assent this year, you've gone from being another guy to tenth in the world and a Ryder Cupper, and people out here are calling you by your initials like they've known you all your life. The fans are starting to come out. They're following you around. You've obviously embraced it and had fun with it. What's that ride been like sort of emotionally, for you sort of to be swept along and developing into one of the key players out here? Is it overwhelming at all, or is it just fun?   
 ANTHONY KIM: It's not overwhelming at all. This is what I've dreamed about my whole life. I'm glad that I've gotten to -- I'm glad that people have gotten to know me for who I am. Feel like I'm a pretty outgoing person, so I let a lot of people in.   
 It's been my dream to be able to help other people, and definitely when you're eight or nine years old you say you want to be rich and famous. I'm working on that rich part and I'm working on that famous part (laughter.)   
 I'm enjoying every second of my life. It's a dream come true every day I walk around on the PGA TOUR. I shot 72 today, and really felt like I lost a lot of ground. But I'm 23 years old. I'm playing on the PGA TOUR. Everyone in my family is healthy. It's an absolute dream.   
 DOUG MILNE: Best of luck tomorrow. We have Sergio right behind us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT