NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: BLUES VS BRUINS
June 10, 2019
Jaden Schwartz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  At this stage on the power play, anything you guys can do differently personnel-wise, strategy-wise, or just go out there and execute?  
JADEN SCHWARTZ: Whoever goes out there has to execute.  We know it has to be better.  Comes down to one game.   
We'll look at some stuff tomorrow.  Not sure if we'll make changes or not.  At a time like this, I think it's just getting pucks to the net, taking their outsides away.  I think we're doing a decent job of getting in the zone.  We have to get more bodies to get on the same page.   
 Q.  How do you do that when they're boxing you out?  
JADEN SCHWARTZ: I think getting the pucks through to start the power play is good.  Get them running around a little bit, just execute.  Making tape-to-tape passes, moving, getting guys low, moving it high again.  I think when we're stagnant, standing still and passing it, we're not really moving their box around.   
 Q.  At what point do you embrace a Game 7, Stanley Cup?  
JADEN SCHWARTZ: I don't think we really have to say much.  I know everyone is very, very excited, anxious to get there.  This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.  This is something you dream about.   
Just talking to a few guys coming over in the car, it's pretty easy to see how excited guys are, how pumped up they are.   
 Q.  Obviously you still have to do it, but can you draw some confidence out of the fact you guys have been so good on the road?  
JADEN SCHWARTZ: Yeah, we're in the Cup Final for a reason.  We got a lot of confidence in our game, in ourselves.  Just comes down to one game.   
Like I said, everyone is excited.  We still have that belief.  We never lost it.   
 Q.  Do you expect in a Game 7 more dirty goals than something beautiful because of the style of play?  
JADEN SCHWARTZ: Yeah, I mean, there's probably not going to be a lot of odd-man rushes.  We know that.  It's been a tight series.  Not a lot of room out there.   
Every game is different.  You don't know how it's going to go.  I'm sure both teams won't expect to have a lot of three-on-ones, two-on-ones.   
 Q.  (Question about getting inside.)  
JADEN SCHWARTZ: Yeah, defensively they do a good job of boxing out.  They want to keep guys to the outside.  We just got to get better numbers inside and around the net.   
Yeah, this time of the year, it's dirty goals.  Even from the goal line, we can do a better job of jamming pucks, finding guys open.   
 Q.  You figured this would be a series like that, pretty even, long series?  
JADEN SCHWARTZ: Yeah, I mean, you kind of expect that in the Playoffs, almost every series, with how good teams are.  Obviously when you're in the Cup Final, both teams are there for a reason.  It's going to be hard-fought.   
You don't know if it's going to be a short or long series.  With how desperate each team plays, you know the series is going to go late.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT