WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL B: MEXICO CITY
March 8, 2009
Rich Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're one of 26 Australian players to make it to the Major Leagues. How much pride do you take in that?  
 RICH THOMPSON: A lot of pride, Mate, because I definitely know I'm No. 25. That was always my goal. I was really shooting for No. 25. That was a big goal even now. When I made it I was very happy.   
  
  Q. You played in the 2006 World Baseball Classic. What are some of the differences that you see so far even though you haven't played a game yet?  
 RICH THOMPSON: It's pretty similar the way it's organized and everything, very similar. I think a few more kinks have been worked out seeing it's three years later. But you know, our team is very good, and about the same as it was in 2006, so hopefully we can come through this year.   
  
  Q. You were obviously with the Angels last year. Do you know where you stand right now before the World Baseball Classic even begins with making the big club's roster and all that?  
 RICH THOMPSON: I think it's pretty up in the air right now, but I think it's between me and about three or four other guys to make the pen. We'll see. If it's two of the three or four guys or if it's one of the three or four guys, we'll see. Hopefully I showed enough before I left and will get enough time to show enough when I get back.   
  
  Q. Do you think something like this could put you over the edge if you do well on a world stage?  
 RICH THOMPSON: I definitely hope so. I mean, I think they're definitely watching. The pressure situations that hopefully I will be in coming in late in a game hopefully will show them that I'm ready to take that next step and really sort of get a good Major League career started.   
  
  Q. You've also played in the Claxton Shield four times. For those who don't know, it's a pretty major tournament in Australia. Who do you play for when you're in that tournament? And how did that help you with your professional career?  
 RICH THOMPSON: It definitely helped me because my first one was when I was about -- I actually played the 18s the week before and then came and played Claxton Shield the week after. I played for New South Wales, which is my state, against all the other states, and the competition is pretty good. Hopefully they'll turn it into a wooden ball league and we can get something going with Major League Baseball.  
  
  Q. You've played also in the 2007 World Cup. How do some of the international competitions differ?  
 RICH THOMPSON: Tournament baseball is a really different kettle of fish. You've got -- in a season you've got 162 games. You can come back again tomorrow. But one game and you could be out of the tournament, especially double elimination. Two bad games and you're done. Dominican, they lost a game, and a lot of those guys are probably ready to play Major League Baseball seasons. If you've got 162 games you can come back tomorrow, but tournament baseball is definitely a different way of playing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT