NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 21, 1997
Marian Hossa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Well, he's very, very happy because he knows that the team is very young. Also, young great players.  And that's why he think it's a big team for future for him.

It is a nice team. Sure, he knows.

Yeah, he thinks it will be big help.  But he knows he's going there to play hockey.  I'm sure he will appreciate the help from the guys because they are there already, they speak very good English and it's good, perfect.

No, not really.  He had about 16 meetings, and it was very difficult to judge who will pick him.

The game would be very physical.  And he knows that that would be the probably biggest adjustment there, yep.
 
Yeah, for sure there was a huge lift, because he thinks that, first of all, he likes to represent Slovak republic.  And second of all, he plays some games already with some top players, and he was very close to them.

I mean, it's -- yeah...

Well, he wants to be ready for camp.  And he would like to try to make a team as soon as possible.  But if he cannot make the team, at least that he would be there the year after.

Yeah he would like to score goals like Zigi, that's right.

He thinks that he will work on physical, you know, upper body more stronger.  Try to be even more stronger than he is right now.  Because he's expecting that hockey would be very physical.  And everything else he thinks that  he's very close to be there.

Yeah, that's up to the coach what he will call him.  He thinks that first thing is to actually be on the team, and second thing is what the coach will expect from him and what he will tell him to play.  That's what he will do.

I think he understands a lot.  And he study English more than one year.  And I think he -- he would be able to speak probably very soon, you know.  You can tell them something English if they want.

I'm very happy.  That's all.

My brother play hockey in Trencin.  He's 15 years old.  But my coach -- my father is coach in Slovak league, and he's second coach in Slovak National Team.

I'm 20 years in Switzerland -- championships in Switzerland.

They just select him. He would be like a second assistant coach in Slovak team and probably in Olympic games.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT