NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 11, 2013
Marian Hossa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   It's going to be really interesting.   Obviously we are good friends.   He's my neighbor.   He lives right across the street. 
But this coming up two weeks, that has to go on the side and we just have to play the roles.   I going to play my game, he's going to play his game.   I'm sure right after we'll be friends again. 
It's going to be hard two weeks, hard battle.   It's going to be also fun and I really looking forward to it. 

Q.   What are the main challenges of playing against Chara?
MARIAN HOSSA:   He's the biggest guy on the ice.   His stick is so big.   If you don't move your feet, he's going to hurt you, he's going to come close to you and pin you on the board.   You have to make sure you're moving your feet, stop and start. 
It's not easy.   But if it's possible, it's better to play on the other side. 

Q.   What makes Coach Q an effective coach? 
MARIAN HOSSA:   I think he got great personality.   He's a players' coach.   He's easygoing.   He will bring the best from the player.   He'll leave you play your game.   But you have to do what he says defensively. 
I think he's been great to the players.   Players realize that.   There is not that many coaches like that. 

Q.   Treats you like grown‑ups?
MARIAN HOSSA:   Oh, definitely.   He trusts us, but also on the return he want to see the results obviously. 
It's been great communication between the players and him during the whole year, and also during the whole career I've been here.   It's been great. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   Yeah, last three years both teams been in the Stanley Cup Finals.   There's lots of players experienced this moment, how to handle it. 
It's going to be great series.   Just because there is few new players for each team, you know, but not as many, it's for both teams pretty much same. 
It's going to be really interesting series and really looking forward to it. 

Q.   How much of the success in the series will be predicated on finding a way to get past Chara?
MARIAN HOSSA:   Well, we know he's going to play almost half a game each night.   He's their top guy.   The team is around him.   So, like I said before, he's going to hurt you if you don't move your feet.   If you standing still, you have to shift him.   You can take advantage stopping and starting, it's harder for him to move because he's so big. 
He's unbelievable.   He's one of the best defensemen.   We know it's going to be battle against him, but we have to find a way somehow to deal with him. 

Q.   Knowing him as you do, is there anything you might have an advantage against him, next‑door neighbor and all that?
MARIAN HOSSA:   I try to joke with him because he like to be serious all the time on the ice.   I know he doesn't like to talk on the ice.   I try to throw some funny stories on the faceoff, make him laugh a little bit. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   It's kind of similar apartment unit.   Right across the street, so... 

Q.   Did it just wind up that way?
MARIAN HOSSA:   Yeah, we are friends, neighbors.   We know each other such a long time, obviously.   We play together when we go back to the junior in Slovakia.   I know Z a long time. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   I think it just happened.   There is new area, so it just happen. 

Q.   After the playoffs last year, how long did it take you to feel right?
MARIAN HOSSA:   Tell you the true, when I start feeling right, I thought I was right when I was coming here after the convention.   I come here to work out.   As soon as I was skating, start doing more exercises on the ice, I realize that's not me. 
For me, it worked out there was a lockout so I could took extra couple months to skate on mine own, get into shape.   Also I was doing bicycle and you just pedaling, right? 
As soon as I go on the ice, all of a sudden there was bunch of guys skating beside me.   There is so many new things, the puck is coming your way, you have to shoot, skate, watch the players.   So many things going through your mind.   I knew I wasn't ready for it. 
It worked for me there was a lockout.   I could go back and take my time.   When the season start, I was ready. 

Q.   Did you ever think that might be it for you hockey‑wise? 
MARIAN HOSSA:   You know, there was some mind, you think about that thing obviously.   You have so much time off, you start thinking about different things. 
So, yeah, that cross my mind also.   I knew when I was getting better, that a good sign.   I took my time.   I was getting really much better.   I was pleased I had so much time to take my time and I was back to normal. 

Q.   What's it like being in your fourth final in six seasons?
MARIAN HOSSA:   It never gets old.   It's always fun to be here with you guys answering these questions (smiling). 
This is a great moment.   It's even better when there is the last game you win.   It would be great again.   Looking forward to it. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   You know, somebody said I was choosing good teams when I was free agent. 
But now I sign long‑term.   We have a great group of guys.   We find a way after a couple years to go to the Finals again.   This year was great year for us. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   They just prove they have strong defensive game.   They play such a great team game.   We have to be really disciplined.   By that I mean we have to play five‑man unit up and down.   We just cannot have turnovers.   We cannot just go one against three in the neutral zone.   The bluelines are crucial for turnovers because they can hurt you. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   This season was a great story, great start.   We felt like after so many wins we had something special here.   Joel did excellent job to roll four lines, feel like the first couple lines had more energy, so they didn't have to play as many minutes the first two years after the Cup. 
I think that's great, we can roll four lines.   Everybody is in the game.   We feel like we have more energy.

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   There are some similarities.   A little different type of players, different size players.   But there is pretty much everything what we had there in 2010. 

Q.   Anything different about this year coming back this year?   Greater appreciation getting to this Final as opposed to the other ones?
MARIAN HOSSA:   I always appreciate when I make it to the Finals.   This time of year, still playing hockey.   It's been great. 
I know what you're asking.   I definitely appreciate it.   I'm still healthy, I can play on a high level.   Like I said before, I was glad I could return and be myself.   I'm here now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT