NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
June 6, 2013
Marian Hossa
Michal Rozsival
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   Big loss for us.   But it is what it is.   We all have to go out and step up our game and be a little better. 
We'll see what the defensive pairing will be for tonight.   That's a big loss, but you have to deal with it.   That's the way it is. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   He's a professional.   I know he has been skating hard, keeping himself ready.   He's a steady guy.   He showed it during the regular season. 
I don't worry about him not being ready.   I think if he's in, we'll be fine with him in the lineup. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   Well, we all know Dunks, he's one of our top defensemen.   He's on the ice the most minutes for our D.   We definitely going to miss him for this coming up game. 
But somebody else going to have more ice time.   So we just have to find a way without him.   Definitely it's a big loss.   But, you know, we were missing some part of the season some key guys and we find a way to win. 
It's unfortunate what happened.   He got suspended one game.   But we'll find a way to win without him. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   Well, I talk to Dunks earlier in the morning, in the breakfast.   After that, he had a phone call.   I just find out on my phone application. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MARIAN HOSSA:   For sure, you know, this is sometimes part of the playoffs.   You miss guys maybe for a suspension, you miss guys because of some injury.   That's happen. 
Now we just have to go out there and find a way to win without the key guys. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   Yeah, same thing.   Been doing pretty well during the course of the season with the D.   Didn't have to go through any adversity through the season, have been pretty healthy.   Hopefully it stays continue. 
Missing Dunks, like Marian said, he's a big part of the team, playing a lot of minutes, power play, penalty killing. 
It's part of it, whether it's injury or something like that happens.   It just happens.   I guess if we get through this, it's going to make us stronger. 

Q.   After Game3, your teammates were saying you didn't match the Kings' intensity.   Making that adjustment for tonight, is it strictly a mindset in terms of bringing proper energy or the necessary energy this evening? 
MARIAN HOSSA:   I think the key is the first period.   In their building, even before, some guys, they come up so hard.   We were talking about it, but for whatever reason they still come up hard.   They were faster, better in the first period. 
We just want to make sure we play better in the first and create better position for the second and third.   Tonight we have to be much better in the start of the game. 

Q.   Is there a sense of urgency at all in this game or not because you know you still have two games at home? 
MARIAN HOSSA:   Definitely it's a huge difference.   We know what this game means for us.   We could get ourselves to the great position coming back home. 
You know, this is a huge game.   Obviously every game is huge, but this really make a difference how the series going to go. 
We need to be ready.   We need to bring our best, put the best effort.   We need to not worry about the result, but if you bring the best, I'm sure the result will be there. 

Q.   How difficult has it been for you to find open scoring areas for yourself? 
MARIAN HOSSA:   They're a great defensive team.   You're not going to find too much open area.   You have to really work for it.   You have to get open, come to the spot, go back to the open ice again.   You have to really work a way because they're a great defensive team and it's not easy out there. 
There's not much room.   You have to keep fighting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT