NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 27, 2010
Marian Hossa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Third time a charm for you?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: I really hope so. Obviously, it's very interesting being three times with three different teams.   
  
  Q. Third time in the Finals. Just give us your thoughts on that.   
 MARIAN HOSSA: It is a really interesting situation. Really unique. I really hope so.   
 This is the time, definitely want to win this time, and being in the Finals, definitely want to touch the trophy.   
  
  Q. Anything changed when you think back of going to the Finals with Pittsburgh, and then with Detroit, what have you learned and what's changed as you get ready for this one?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: There's always a few different things you learn. Obviously, when you didn't win, you kind of have the time during the summer to think about things, got more enthusiasm coming to the new series. It really helps. We have a great team. A great chance.  
  
  Q. Your general manager, Stan Bowman, talked about the enthusiasm and the city waiting another nine years to win a Cup. From a player's perspective, what does it feel like?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: It is awesome feeling. Since Game 1, the building was sold out. And the fans were unreal. This town is a true hockey town since the beginning.   
 Obviously, they proved it last year when they lost against us in Conference Final, and this is another step and people are going crazy in the city.  
  
  Q. You've been through this media day stuff before, right? So you know all about it?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: That's correct.  
  
  Q. How do you handle all these repetitive questions?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: It's the same thing. Like, what happens in the dressing room, now wear a nice hoodie in comfortable seats.  
  
  Q. How exciting is it for you?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: Definitely it's exciting. But this time we want to make sure it's a better finish than the last few years.  
  
  Q. That's right, you've got something to prove, right?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: Definitely.  
  
  Q. The city's rallied around the team, too. Coming here the first year, can you see it?   
 MARIAN HOSSA: Definitely. Since Game 1 was sold out and since through the whole year, you know, people were unbelievable, fans coming to the games. You can feel the enthusiasm in the city.   
  
  Q. You've been through this before. Does it ever become routine after a while, or do you still get kind of giddy when you go through this experience?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: The truth is, this is the third time doing this type of interview. So could get easily used to it. But I want to make sure we're in a better finish this time.  
  
  Q. When you came here to the Blackhawks, did you expect this - did you think this team was capable of coming this far?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: Definitely. When I was signing as a free agent, in Chicago, I knew how good a team it is. Obviously, sometimes you can face some injuries, things like that. But so far it's been great. We had a great run since the beginning of the season, and we are not in the Finals by accident, but by hard work.  
  
  Q. Give us your thoughts on this series. What kind of series do you think it will be with the Flyers?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: It's going to be a tight series. Lots of maybe people, does a favor, obviously because of the standings, but the Flyers play really well in the Playoffs. They've got a great team. Lots of experience, too. It's going to be a tight series.  
  
  Q. How important is it to you to set history come the first guy to play on three consecutive championship teams with different teams?  
 MARIAN HOSSA: Well, that's not as important as winning the trophy. That's the most important.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT