SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 9, 2020
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2-Under par, 68 out there. Got to feel pretty good about that round. What was the biggest challenge for you out there?
PATRICK RODGERS: Oh, my gosh, was it ever challenging. The wind, I'm trying to remember a tournament round that I've played that's had that much consistent at 7:30 in the morning all the way through and I can't.
TOUR did an awesome job setting up the course to at least give us a chance. I hit so many nice shots, and it's a great way to start to 2020.
Q. What was the key for you being able to get to 2-under par?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, I'm really kept my composure. I think it's really easy on windy days like this to let the tension rise a little bit. It's hard to stay calm and relaxed and tension-free. The classic phrase, Swing easy when it's breezy, I think a lot of times your speed gets up, your rhythm gets up even just walking, and so I really kept my composure nicely and kept calm and stayed within myself and was able to hit a lot of the quality shots.
Q. With all the rain we've had, how was the condition of the golf course today?
PATRICK RODGERS: It's fantastic. It's so impressive each and every week on the PGA TOUR, the tournament staff, and this week is no different. I mean, they deal with so much adverse conditions over the course of the year, and it's always set up perfectly. Shout out to them, and I'm looking forward to difficult conditions and them working hard the rest of the week.
Q. Had some key par saves out there. I think that was probably a big part of today.
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, I started the day and made par on 10 and then made a really good swing on 11 and hit it in the ocean.
Q. No kidding?
PATRICK RODGERS: Par 3. So I dropped and got that one up and down from short side and birdied 12. So kind of get that little speed bump out of my system and really trusting myself the rest of day was a good key.
Q. What did you hit into 11?
PATRICK RODGERS: I hit 5. I was just trying to hit a little low draw that held up against it, and I kind of got riding on the wind. I hit 5-iron short of the green in the Pro-Am and I hit it in the ocean today.
Q. Which really underscores the difficulty in trying to figure out the wind.
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah. The crosswinds are the most difficult. Sometimes you might get a little in, sometimes you might get a little help and it depends on how you shape it, and so it's a challenge.
Q. It's only 2-under, and I say only just because sometimes -- I mean, Justin Thomas shot 59 here; we've seen some low scores here. Is that 2-under, are you pretty proud of that because of the conditions?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, I mean, I would've taken it to start the day for sure, especially knowing how difficult it is. You know, any round under par on the PGA TOUR is a good round. I don't care where you are, how easy it is, you still got to get the ball in the hole. It's a good way to start.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT