TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2016
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Other than 10 today, I thought you played a great round of golf, solid play.  What did you think?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, thanks.  I felt really in control.  I felt like I was mentally sharp out there.  I didn't leave myself in too many spots where I could make a mistake, so that was nice.  It was a pretty stress-free day.  Obviously I saw scores were low out there and the leaders were pushing, so I tried to push as hard as I could and didn't get as many as I needed there towards the end of the round, but I've got a chance for tomorrow, and that's all I can ask for.
Q. After the bogey at 10, three straight birdies at 11, 12 and 13.
PATRICK RODGERS: That was a really good way to come back from that.  I felt like I got a little bit unlucky at 10, got a bad bounce off the tee and kind of a weird bounce on the second shot, but that's going to happen over the course of a tournament, and it was nice to bounce back and make three birdies after that.  It really changed the momentum of the round.
Q. Shootout tomorrow with all these guys on top of the board?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, I mean, I knew that going into today there was only six shots' difference between the guys who just made the cut and the leaders, so anyone still had a chance to win, and you've got to go pedal to the metal in order to stay up there, that's for sure.
Q. Three rounds in, solid position; your assessment?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, I felt really in control today.  It was nice to control my ball well and not have too many situations where I can make a mistake out there, so it was a pretty stress-free day, and it was nice to bounce back from my only bogey with three birdies there.  It really changed the momentum of the round there on the back nine.
Q. Part of that control, of course, is the way you're thinking on the golf course; how does that match up with the course here in terms of where you have to play it from and to?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, the changes to the golf course definitely make you think a little bit differently.  The bunkers are in better position than they were in years past, so a lot of the holes are playing completely different even though they look very similar.  So it's definitely a different challenge mentally out there, and I feel like I'm handling it well, and just trying to make as many birdies as I can.
Q. What of the mental and physical challenge that will face you tomorrow?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, no doubt.  Starting today everybody had a really good chance to be there on Sunday, and I'm just glad that I still have a chance, so I know it's going to take a lot of birdies, and I'm going to have to push to the finish.
Q. Talk about the 10th hole, how you bounced back.
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, it's like a parade back there behind the 10th tee, and I got a cart starting in my backswing and hit some right and it got a weird bounce, and next thing you know I've got 250 yards into the hole.  Tried to keep it under the tree and got another weird bounce, but it's going to happen over a 72-hole tournament.  I'm just really proud of the way I hung in there, and it changed the momentum of the round after that bad hole.
Q. Talk a little bit about tomorrow; there's going to be a lot of guys shooting it out there.  What's your mindset or your approach?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, same as today.  Like I've been saying, everyone is just within six shots of the lead going into today, that's kind of crazy, so everybody still had a great chance, and I knew you're going to have to go out and shoot a great round in order to stay in the mix.  I know I'm going to have to do that again tomorrow and just from the very get-go, go pedal to the metal.
Q. This tournament is known for extending invitations to young guys and some come back and win their first title.  Are you aware of the history in that regard?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, this tournament has been unbelievable to me.  I played my first event on the PGA TOUR here.  I played my first event as a pro here.  This is my fourth time playing here.  I feel like an experienced player at this golf tournament already at such a young age.  I owe it all to them and Travelers and the people behind the scenes that were so gracious in trying to support young players, that's for sure.
Q. Are you the only guy on TOUR that you know of that has a Colts bag?
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, I'm for sure the only one that has a Colts bag, maybe the only one with an NFL bag, and I'm proud of it.  I'm proud to be from Indianapolis, even though I've caught a little bit of hell this week from some Patriots fans.
Q. Anybody say anything particularly --
PATRICK RODGERS: They're just trying to get under my skin a little bit with the Colts bag.  It's not super popular in these parts of town.  But I don't know why they have any reason to be bitter.  They've kicked us in pretty well the last few years.  Hopefully we'll be able to get them this fall.
Q. How would you assess your season so far?
PATRICK RODGERS: I mean, I have incredibly high expectations for myself, so it's been a little bit disappointing in some regards, but I think some of the struggles that I've been through this year have led to some really positive changes.  I'm working with a new coach and I'm really excited about what I'm working on.  It's allowed me to kind of take some time and reflect on the things that are important for me to play my best golf, and I think I'm on the right track now, and I think I will be for a long time, so it's exciting.
Q. Who are you working with now?
PATRICK RODGERS: I work with Matt Killen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT