SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 7, 2015
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The round today, I guess the second round, took you, what, a little over 24 hours to complete?  
PATRICK RODGERS: It was interesting coming back today to hit a wedge shot and hopefully just one putt.  It took me two.  It was a good round.  I really hit the ball well in round 1.  Had one of my worst putting rounds as a pro.  I knew it could only get better from there, and I gave myself a lot of opportunities there in the second round.  Nice to get back in the mix a little bit.   
 Q.  You are in great shape now, 10-under after 64.  As you went out, you hit the one wedge shot.  How wet was it in the fairway, as we sit here with more rain coming down?  
PATRICK RODGERS: It wasn't too bad.  I heard they got three inches overnight.  I don't know if that's true or not, but it wasn't too bad.  The greens are still holding up fine.  Hopefully we can catch a break with the weather and get as many holes in this week as possible.   
 Q.  Do you think you got the good draw?  You are finished now and the rest of these guys have to finish round 2 in the rain?  
PATRICK RODGERS: Absolutely.  I'm glad I'm not out there right now.  Sometimes you get a good one, sometimes you get a bad one.  This one worked out in my favor so far.   
 Q.  What do you do the rest of the day?  Obviously you are not going to play any golf?  
PATRICK RODGERS: There's some great college football on.  My Stanford Cardinal play, so I'm looking forward to watching that game.   
 Q.  That's a big game for you guys.  You are still in the mix?  
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, absolutely.  I've been following them all year.  I've been lucky enough to go to a few games.  It's fun having a chance to get in the mix in that college football playoff.   
 Q.  Lastly, could be 36 tomorrow, could be a Monday finish.  I guess you have to be patient, don't you?  
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, I'm ready for anything, as many holes as we can play, that would be great.  I'll be ready to play when I get a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT