BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2015
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Patrick, 15 points today. Our current leader. Great start to the tournament?  
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, I scored it really well today. Took advantage of the easy holes and made a lot of birdies when I had chances to.   
It was nice, felt comfortable on the greens. The greens are nice and smooth this morning. And I was obviously really happy with it.  
   
 Q. First time around this course?  
PATRICK RODGERS: I played last year.  
   
 Q. Changed at all?   
PATRICK RODGERS: No, it's very similar. I just played nine holes Tuesday and the Pro‑Am on Wednesday. And it was very easy to get back accustomed to the golf course, and this format's a lot of fun. I think it favors my length and allows me to really free up and be aggressive and not really worry too much about messing up, just trying to fire at flags and take advantage of the chances that I have.  
   
 Q. That early weather condition, that kind of helps a guy that hits the ball long you don't have to worry about roll‑out you'll get enough distance?  
PATRICK RODGERS: Yeah, it was nice and soft. But it was a little inconsistent with the bounces out there. There were a couple greens that were pretty firm that were sitting up top of the mountain and some of them were a little soft. But I was able to keep the ball in the fairway and the way to make a lot of birdies is to play from the fairway, which was really nice.  
   
 Q. What did you learn today that you can take the rest of the tournament?  
PATRICK RODGERS: I've just got to do that‑‑ if I do that the next three days I'll be holding the trophy. So I've just got to keep going pedal to the metal, trying be as aggressive as I can and take advantage of every chance I have.  
   
 Q. Talk about your year up to this point.   
PATRICK RODGERS: It's been good, obviously starting on the Web and getting a win under my belt gave me a lot of confidence and freed me up to take advantage of some opportunities out on TOUR and to take advantage of that there in Charlotte and lock up special temporary status was huge and has really freed me up this summer, and although I haven't played my best as of late I feel really comfortable with where I am and I'm excited about next year being out here full time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT