THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 7, 2015
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You received a temporary membership on the PGA Tour, especially with that strong finish there. 
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, it definitely made it interesting.   My goal‑‑ I wasn't really focused, heading into the weekend, not at all.   I was just trying to win a golf tournament. 
Yesterday was a tough day, but probably the attitude I had, it was one of my more difficult days on the golf course. 
Today just trying to get myself back in a good position in the tournament, and I got off to a great start and struggled in the middle of my round.   I hit a lot of good shots with just the wrong club, so it was frustrating.   And then obviously made a mess of 15 and 16.   But proud of the way I hung in there.

Q.   How did you get yourself refocused for 17 and 18?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, obviously that's kind of like getting punched in the gut.   But I felt like I was still okay in terms of the temporary status and I just wanted to finish strong.

Q.   A year ago you received the Nicklaus Award for Player of the Year, another Stanford player nearly got it this year.   When you look back on that, can you imagine where you are from last year?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, it's crazy to think about.   A lot has changed since then.   But you talk about the other Stanford guy, really proud of Mav, really special to have him here, and have him receiving this award.   And what it means to win this award and get to play in this tournament, it's super, super special and I look forward to it for many years to come.

Q.   Were you worried that it might be slipping away?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I asked Tom what he thought it was and he thought I maybe needed a birdie.   I felt like a couple of pars would have been fine.   But like I said, my goal at that point was just to finish as strong as I could.   Because obviously I made a mess of that hole.

Q.   What's your plan for now?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I'm going to wait for spots.   Even though this is temporary status, I still need to get sponsors exemptions to play out here.   So I've been fortunate to have plenty of opportunities so far and I need more to reach my dream of playing out here next year.

Q.   The pressures of this week and even today, when was the last time that you felt that kind of pressure?
PATRICK RODGERS:   It's more pressure for me, I think, winning a golf tournament.   So for sure up there at Wells Fargo.   This was more frustrating than anything just because I felt like I played a few sloppy holes coming down the stretch.   But like I said, I'm proud of the way I hung in there.   I think in the new system there is a lot of pressure for guys like me to get out here.   And seeing all my buddies come out here and have a lot of success, I put a lot of pressure on myself to get out here as quick as I can.

Q.   What are your plans next week?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Not sure yet.   I have to sit down with my manager and my team and decide my schedule going forward.   I have a U.S. Open qualifier tomorrow.

Q.   Web.com is in Cleveland next week.   Is that possible?
PATRICK RODGERS:   That was the plan originally, but I think I'm focused on the PGA Tour now.

Q.   With the Nicklaus Award you received a year ago, it's come full circle.   What has changed for you the past year?
PATRICK RODGERS:   A lot.   I feel like I have a lot more experience at this level.   I feel like ‑‑ I've said it all week and all year, I feel like I have the game to compete out here.   I feel like I have the mentality to compete out here.   I'm frustrated I didn't get it done this weekend, but I feel like I definitely have a lot to build on. 

Q.   What was the difference between the first two rounds and the last few rounds?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yesterday was more difficult.   Yesterday I hit the ball terrible.   I probably did well to shoot 78.   I held it together with my attitude and kind of played smart to avoid some big numbers. 
Today I struck the ball great.   I hit my spots.   I had four wrong clubs in the middle of my round.   It's frustrating.   It cost me four or five shots.   And then making a mess on the wrong spot on 16.   But for a few mistakes here and there, I could have had a really good round today, especially in that wind.   I played today like I played the first two days, just had a rough Saturday.

Q.   What about the golf course got tougher, just the wind‑‑
PATRICK RODGERS:   I don't know what the greens were stimping at, but they were sort of fast.   Especially playing Friday afternoon, they weren't near as fast as they were Thursday morning.   So I was able to take advantage of the slower greens Friday afternoon.

Q.   How much did you talk to Jordan about the same path you're on now, and do you take any solace in the fact seeing how he's done using the same route you're going to take now?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, seeing guys like him‑‑ obviously I'm good friends with Jordan, but seeing guys like him come out here and have success gives me a ton of confidence.   But I know I've got to go out and shoot the scores and hit the golf shots.   Nobody is sitting here giving it to me.   I tried to be as focused as I could and work as hard as I can to get out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT