CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 19, 2015
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Patrick Rodgers into the media center here at the Crown Plaza Invitational at Colonial.   Coming off a great week last week at the Wells Fargo Championship, tied for second.   You're just a handful of points away from qualifying for a special temporary membership on the PGA TOUR.   I know that's something certainly you have your eyes on, and here you are this week.   You're certainly off to a great start, Web.com Tour.   You've already got one victory under your belt there at the tournament in Bogota.   So with that just some thoughts on being here at Colonial this week.
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   I'm really excited to be here.   Through the Hogan award last year, I got a spot here, and I've been excited ever since.   It was fun to be a part of the award last night and really excited for the whole tournament week. 
It was a very, very fun week to be in the mix a little bit last week in Charlotte.   Very special event there and very good to be in that position for the first time out here on the PGA TOUR.
Hopefully going to carry that momentum forward to the next few weeks.   I have a fun little stretch here with three more events in a row and hopefully make the most of those opportunities and then take it from there.
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   With that we'll take questions. 

Q.   You kind of touched on this, but what did you learn last week at such a big tournament the way you played?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   It was obviously a new position for me, at least on the PGA TOUR, but I took a lot of confidence that I felt very comfortable and very relaxed.   I've been in that position a lot in collegiate and amateur golf, and I really drew on that experience.   The time that I was in contention on the Web.com Tour I felt the same way.   I felt like‑‑ felt very comfortable.
I felt very relaxed in that position, very confident in my game, and I was able to seal the deal down there in Bogota, which gave me a lot of confidence that I could do the same on the PGA TOUR.   And obviously it's a different stage and more people involved and I'm playing against the best players in the world.   But I felt very comfortable, very relaxed and excited to be in that position and obviously can't wait to be in that position again.

Q.   Patrick, winning the Hogan award last year and then all the success you've had so far this season, what's really worked for you and I guess is there at least somewhat of a level of comfort here at Colonial having the award last year and how do you think that might help you get those handful of points you need to improve your status?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, for sure.   My focus just isn't on those handful of points.   I'm going to try to continue to play the best golf that I can and I know if I play well then stuff like that will take care of itself.   So that's kind of my mindset going forward.   As far as professional golf and what's been going well, it's just getting acclimated to the transition. 
Turning pro last June, it's been quite the transition, and just having to figure out the ropes out here.   I've been fortunate enough to play quite a few times on the PGA TOUR and I feel very, very comfortable out here and I feel like I have the game to compete and to win, and last week was validation of that.
I just gotta carry that same confidence and that same mentality going forward and I know that my best golf is more than capable enough to play well and compete out here. 

Q.   Patrick, in the last few weeks obviously Spieth has won, Ricky has won.   Rory obviously last week.   All guys in their 20s.   When you look at what's happening on the TOUR and you look at the young guys, how do you see that as maybe part motivation, part enthusiasm about the way the TOUR is headed and especially the young guy?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, it's in great shape, and it's a tremendous season.   It's been very, very cool to see.   It was well documented that Justin and I are roommates down in Florida, and during the Masters both he and I were sitting in front of the TV watching Jordan Spieth come down the stretch, one of our really good friends, and that was really, really cool to see, to see how well he handled that situation and to see him at the highest stage in golf and accomplishing not only his dream, but I think all of us, that's been our dream since we were little is to win that golf tournament. 
And so that gave us not only confidence that we could compete at the highest level, but you know, we were just really, really happy for him and really happy to see our buddy succeed and give us a lot of motivation to do the same. 
So I think it's no coincidence that Justin has come out after that and played some really good golf, and me seeing him on TV almost every Sunday gave me a lot of motivation that when I got out here back on the PGA TOUR that I could play and I could compete and I think that showed last week.

Q.   Patrick, obviously this place has taken on a lot of water in the past few days.   And we got a lot of rain still in the forecast potentially.   Hard to get this thing back to firm and fast conditions.   Do you go in with a little more aggressive mindset because of what's out there and feeling like, okay, I have to go really low, and could we see some record numbers this week?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   Yesterday was my first look at the golf course, and it's obviously very different from last week.   Last week was a big golf course and this one is a little bit more tight and narrow.   But I always try to show up with a really aggressive mindset.   I tend to play golf courses pretty aggressively, and I feel like so far through my early looks that's what my game plan is looking to be and I'll try to take advantage of some of the shorter holes and with the greens being a little bit softer, if that continues throughout the week, it's going to allow us to fire at a few more flags.
But still, simple, patient golf is what wins out here, and even if the number is really low, that mindset is going to have to be carried through the whole week. 

Q.   Do you still have the master bedroom?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I do, I think, after last week.   I think Justin is going to be home this week, so unless we moves me out, we should be good in the master bedroom.   So I'll always have that one up over him.

Q.   It was just a coin flip; right?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   It's hard when you're both accomplished players to figure out what to do. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Well, Patrick, we appreciate your time.   Best of luck this week. 
PATRICK RODGERS:   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT