WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2015
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Patrick, you came oh so tantalizing close to locking up your temporary membership.   Would have taken a solo 2nd today but a lot of positives out of today.   What do you take out of today?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   It was awesome.   I'm 22 years old and to think of a PGA TOUR event.   Doesn't get much better than that.   It was a lot of fun being out there, pushing Rory a little bit.   Getting within a couple shots was a lot of fun, at least what I thought was a couple shots.   I kept pushing.   It was awesome and really thankful to have gotten a spot here this week.

Q.   We just found out you're in the next three events and you're not that far away from locking up unlimited exemptions. 
Is that going to take any change in your game mentally for you to play?   You've been trying to play your game --
PATRICK RODGERS:   I try to come into this week with a lot of confidence.   I feel like my game can compete out here and I'm going the really carry that with me for the next few events.   Obviously this builds a lot of confidence and just going to continue playing some good golf.

Q.   Patrick, well played today.   Did you know the situation as you were coming down the stretch with your position and trying to gain temporary membership?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I'm Just trying to finish off as best I can.   That's a tough stretch to finish it off, especially in a new situation for me.   I'm really happy with the way I played today, really happy with the way I handled the situation.   I felt really comfortable out there.   Obviously disappointed with the finish.   It's something I'll definitely learn from and be better for the next time in that position.

Q.   How for was it for you to play with your buddy Justin Thomas?
PATRICK RODGERS:   It was huge.   All of a sudden it doesn't feel like a tournament.   Feel we're out at the Bear's Club having some fun.   He's a guy I grew up playing golf against.   Pretty cool for us to be in this position and living our dream out here on the PGA TOUR.

Q.   Webb two putts for par at 18, you're tied for 2nd.   You'll end up 9 points short but you're playing next week, the Top 10 gets you in the Byron Nelson and playing the Memorial. 
Got to feel pretty good about your chances to get in that special membership.
PATRICK RODGERS:   Obviously getting temporary membership is a goal of mine and being out here full-time is a huge goal of mine but I know if I just keep playing good golf all that will take care of itself. 
Going to try to build on some of the good play this week and continue playing well on the weeks ahead.

Q.   You come out here with great expectations and certainly great credentials.   What did you learn out there today?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I mean I just took a lot of confidence from it, to be honest.   I felt really comfortable being in that situation.   I'm very grateful to have gotten a spot here and I'm just going to try to build on the good play this week and continue to build confidence going forward.

Q.   How much do you guys talk out there, anymore than normal, you and Justin?
PATRICK RODGERS:   It was awesome.   It was like just hanging out playing at the Bear's Club.   I was telling my caddy walking off the first tee it's almost didn't feel like a tournament, playing Justin in a 2-some. 
We had a lot of fun.   We're both really   lucky.   This means a lot to us.   We're really focused out there.   It was a great pairing for me and kept me really relaxed.

Q.   Any truth to the rumor you guys were playing for the master bedroom today?
PATRICK RODGERS:   No, we weren't.   We always have a little pride on the line.   Like I said, it was huge for me to play with Justin.   He's been one of my good friends for a really long time in golf and kept me really relaxed.

Q.   He says at this point you have bragging rights.
PATRICK RODGERS:   He's the one with the your card.   I've been watching him on TV for most of this year.   It's cool to be out here in the mix with him.

Q.   What does a break through like this do for your career?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I feel like I played really consistently all tournament.   I came into it with a lot of confidence.   I turned professional after my junior year because I fell like I am compete out here.   Just realize that decision and hopefully I can build on this week and continue playing well moving forward.

Q.   How aware were you of the situation finishing in solo 2nd?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I wasn't.   I was looking at the leaderboard to see what Rory was doing.   He kept distancing himself.   I was just trying to play the best I could to finish off the round and three pretty hard holes to finish it off.   Didn't make very good swings and obviously little disappointed with the result but something I can definitely learn from and build on.

Q.   Do you feel like your career for the future will change pretty drastically now?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I'm not sure.   Going to be something I'm going to have to evaluate with my team.   I'm really excited about the next three weeks now.   Hopefully make the most of those opportunities and reassess going forward.

Q.   The Indianapolis Colts on your back.   Just a huge Colts fan?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   I'm from Indianapolis.   It's a cool partnership.   They sponsored me when I started my pro career.   Lot of connections through Stanford and Indianapolis and Andrew Luck being the quarterback from Stanford.   It's really cool partnership.   The owner loves golf.   I'll really proud to represent them in my home city.

Q.   Is there a time you felt like you could catch Rory?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   When I got to 17 the last time I saw the board on 14 Rory was at 19 so I felt like I was within two, three and walking down 16 I saw he had it to 21.   He kept playing awesome so I tried to finish it off the best I could and post a number but I just -- that didn't happen but obviously good week for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT