WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2015
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Really played some great golf around this course for the first two days.   First time here as a professional.  
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, thanks.   It was great.   Lots of fun to be out there and this golf course just sets up really well for me.   Lot of holes turn right to left and I can hit a big high draw.   Kind of my go to shot.   I'm able to really put myself in good position off the tee and it's yielded some good scores.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about some of the key shots that kept it going for you in the 2nd Round.  
PATRICK RODGERS:   Today I was really solid.   Took care of the par-5s.   Just made simple birdies.   Was pretty simple golf.   Other than that, nothing too flashy.   Didn't make any long birdie putts.   Took advantage when I had good scoring opportunities.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you heard of the reputation of this course and tournament on Tour.   Everything you expected when you got here?  
PATRICK RODGERS:   I was obviously so excited to get a spot here.   I've heard so many great things about this event.   Obviously knew how great the golf course was and it's really exceeded all of my expectations.   It's going to be one that I'm going to look forward to coming back for a long time.  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling for the weekend?  
PATRICK RODGERS:   Feeling great.   Little bit of a new position.   I'm excited.   I won a lot in college and comfortable at the top of the leaderboard.   Hopefully put together two solid rounds of golf.  
   
 Q.   Patrick, making the most of his sponsor's exemption at the Wells Fargo Championship.   Not only today but yesterday as well, back to back 68s.   What have you been doing to consistently well this week?  
PATRICK RODGERS:   As soon as I got here the golf course really fits my eye.   All the shots I feel comfortable and I'm driving it well enough to be really aggressive out here.   
I'll take advantage of the par-5s which I've been doing for a couple days and take advantage of the shorter par-4s with putting the ball in the fairway and having some wedges in.   Been fun being out these last couple days.  
   
 Q.   You already won on the Web.com Tour this season which puts you in a great position to pursue your PGA TOUR card.   Playing the way you have played over the last two days, did it inject anymore belief that you belong out here on the World's Greatest Tour?  
PATRICK RODGERS:   I left after my junior year at Stanford because I had belief.   I haven't been in the mix yet on the PGA TOUR.   I have full confidence I'm capable of not only playing really well but winning out here.   I just try to carry myself with that confidence and hopefully this weekend I can do the same.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT