WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2015
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'll get started.   We'd like to welcome Patrick Rodgers into the Interview Room with a consecutive 4-under par, 68.   Patrick I know just one bogey on the card on the last hole but still a tremendous round.   If we can get in comments.
PATRICK RODGERS:   Obviously it was another good day.   Certainly a challenging golf course.   I'll take anything under 70 for sure.   I really feel very comfortable around this place. 
Most of the tee shots set-up really, really well for me.   It really suits a high draw off the tee and I'm really able to be aggressive with some of the irons. 
It's been a big advantage so far.   I feel really comfortable with most of the tee shots.   I have good clubs in my hand.
JOHN BUSH:   Playing this week on a sponsor's exemption.   I know you're appreciative of Wells Fargo.   Comment a little bit about your season up to this point.
PATRICK RODGERS:   Obviously huge to get a sponsor's exemption here especially with the reputation of this tournament.   It's an event I've been watching for a long time and excited to be a part of it.   Very, very thankful. 
The season so far, it's been good.   Starting on the Web.com, it's been a good experience.   Lot of travel to start the year.   Good to get a win under my belt in the second event.   Set me up for the rest of the season, which is nice. 
Allows me to comfortably spend some time out here and take advantage of some opportunities and gives me a lot of confidence going forward.   Good start to the year on the Web and hopefully carry that through to a few starts out here on the PGA TOUR.
JOHN BUSH:   Questions.

Q.   Been a lot of talk about young guys coming out here being ready and everything.   You've seen some of your peers.   How does that play into your mindset?
PATRICK RODGERS:   It obviously gives me a ton of confidence.   I just watched Jordan Spieth win the Masters and make it look pretty easy.   That gives me a ton of confidence, and then Justin Thomas, my roommate, seen him towards the final group every week. 
I play with him everyday now at the Bear's Club.   Definitely young guys I feel like are really ready to come out here and win.   I feel no different.   I feel really prepared.   That's why I turned professional.   I'm excited to get in the mix this weekend.

Q.   What's maybe the biggest thing you've learned in your 9 months or so as a professional to be helpful for this week?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I learned I don't have to do anything special, that my golf is good enough to compete and contend out here.   I think at times throughout my professional career I've tried to do something extra special or force the issue a little bit and I just realized that I have the game to come out here and compete and I don't have to do anything out of the ordinary, just play good, simple golf and gets it done.

Q.   Can you go back 12 months and talk about what you were doing?
PATRICK RODGERS:   The Stanford teams at the Regionals this week.   Doesn't feel too far away.   That's really an exciting time for me personally, the last year kind of chasing Tiger's record at Stanford but more than that our team was having a ton of success and really fun to be a part of a good college team. 
It's what I went to Stanford for and team golf is really a unique aspect of college golf.   Ton of fun to be with my buddies and be having a great time, have a lot of success.

Q.   Recently moved to Florida.   What was behind that move for you?
PATRICK RODGERS:   The weather is really nice down in South Florida.   That's been good.   And, more than that, there's a ton of good players that are close to my age down there so there's always a fun game and I've always been a firm believer I want to be around the best players I can be around. 
I feel like it's going to push me to be the best player I can be.   That's why I went to college to Stanford and moving down to Jupiter kind of a similar decision.   Cool seeing Rory and Luke Donald and Keegan Bradley and Ernie Els get to work everyday at the Bear's Club.   Be able to compete against my peers is a lot of fun.

Q.   What's a normal game at the Bear Club?   Who do you play with?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I play a lot with Justin and just kind of whoever.   Good friends with Morgan Hoffmann.   So many guys down there.   It's a lot of fun. 
There's no shortages of games and they're always really competitive.   Anytime you're measuring yourself against some of the best players in the world that's really, really positive.

Q.   Rory right behind you.   You played a game with him down there?
PATRICK RODGERS:   I haven't.   Practiced with him a few times.   Haven't played with him.   Hopefully we'll get paired together over the weekend.   Be a lot of fun.

Q.   Young faces around here on this side of the room that won this tournament.   Does it give you pretty good confidence going into the last two rounds here?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   I'm really confident in my game right now.   Feel like this golf course suits me really, really well and I just kind of got to keep doing the simple stuff really well, putting the ball in the fairway and attack with short irons.   I'm excited for the opportunity for sure.

Q.   You mentioned Justin is your roommate.   Is that now currently or previously?
PATRICK RODGERS:   We've been really good friends for a long time, with him growing up in Louisville and me in Indianapolis.   We've known each other really well throughout Junior Golf and college golf. 
We've been good friends since I can remember, really, and it's been a lot of fun to be able to practice with him and just compete on a daily basis.

Q.   Who owns the house?
PATRICK RODGERS:   We're renting it (laughter).

Q.   Is he a messy roommate?
PATRICK RODGERS:   He's probably the cleanest one.   I do have the master bedroom.   I got one up on him.

Q.   How did that happen?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Flip a coin.
JOHN BUSH:   Patrick, we appreciate your time.   Thank you, sir. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT