THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 3, 2014
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you just explain to me what was going right out there today?  
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   I just felt like I managed it really well.   It's just one of those weeks so far where I didn't feel like I had my A game and you're trying to piece it together on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and didn't get off to the greatest start ball striking wise, but I really hung in there and kind of managed it and placed the ball where I needed to and was able to get on a good run there on the back 9.  
   
 Q.   And what do you think of this golf course?   Is this your first week seeing it?  
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   My first time being here was Monday.   So really cool.   I always have a high regard for old, classic golf courses with kind of the classic design, on a flat piece of property.  
You know, you got the third hole with the classic template Biarritz and then the Redan hole.   It's a pretty special place, so I think it suits my game well and I'm excited to play the next three days.  
   
 Q.   And then overall, I see you're going back to the putting green.   What is it that you're going to work on?  
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah.   I felt like I putted well today, but I'm probably going to have to hit a few balls.   But just going through the routine.   Being a new pro out here, you're always trying to figure out and establish your routines, and mine is just kind of cool down after the round and work on the things I felt like I can improve and hopefully be ready for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Patrick, first time you see the golf course in a competitive round.   Made it look pretty good going five deep.   How did you do it?  
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, I got on a great little run there on the back 9, and it all started off with holing my wedge shot here on the first hole, my tenth hole of the day.   So it was good, I felt great over the putter and I was able to piece together some good golf swings on my last nine holes.  
   
 Q.   Take us through that shot as you make the turn, because you played the back 9 first.   So you're playing the first hole.   And you got 119 was the yardage.   So take us through the first shot.   
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, I was struggling a little bit on my first nine holes, just tee to green, left myself in some tough spots, and I had a great up‑and‑down on 18 and I made about a 15‑footer for par, and I was trying to build on that momentum heading into my last nine holes, the front side here, and hit a great drive down the middle and had just a little flip gap wedge down in there and flew it right behind the hole and it's been a really long time since I made one from the fairway, so it was great to see it drop.  
   
 Q.   How big for the confidence coming out with this 5‑under par first round?  
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, for sure.   I feel like I'm continuing to get settled in here the last three weeks and I'm continuing to learn and improve and hopefully just build on today and continue to get better as the week goes on.   
   
 Q.   Great job.   Thanks.   
PATRICK RODGERS:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT