TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2014
Patrick Rodgers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Patrick Rodgers, someone that doesn't need much of an introduction, we'd like to welcome you to Travelers Championship interview room here, the world's top ranked amateur player, junior at Stanford, your list of achievements pretty much too long to rattle off.   You recently were recipient of the Jack Nicklaus Award, which I was there for that, and that obviously touched you pretty near and dear.   You're making your second start here at the Travelers Championship, and with that, I'll turn it over to you for some comments on being here this week. 
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, I'm so excited to be back, to have a second opportunity to be back here and making my professional debut here in Hartford at the Travelers is so special for me.   I can't thank Mr. Fishman and Mr. Bessette and Nathan Grube enough for the opportunity.   It truly is very, very special for me, and just going through every day this week through getting here Sunday and going through the Monday and now Tuesday, it's just every day is so special to me, so new and so cool.   I just couldn't be more excited to get going.
DOUG MILNE:   I guess an obvious question I have is with everything you've achieved so far, what kind of expectations do you have, or are you more of a player that just kind of sees what you have and works with it, or are you coming in with a set of expectations? 
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, I have the confidence that I feel like I can come out here and win.   But with that said, I know how challenging that is.   There's a ton of great players out here, both young and old, and I know that's going to be a huge challenge to come out here and win.   The reason I'm turning professional is because I truly believe I have a great chance this week.   I have a lot of confidence that I can compete with the best players in the world.   That's why I'm a professional this week.   That's why I decided to leave Stanford.   I feel like I'm ready.
But like I said, I know it's going to be a long process getting adjusted to this level and this stage in golf, but I couldn't be more excited for that challenge. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
PATRICK RODGERS:   Well, yeah, this is the place where I played my first ever event on the PGA TOUR.   No matter what happens in the future, this is always going to hold a very special place in my heart.   Just to be able, like I said, to go through each day of the week and have everything be so cool and so new two years ago and remember how nervous I was on the first tee on Thursday, how bummed I was that I didn't make the cut.   But to be back here and have a chance to start my professional career here, like I said, it's kind of another milestone week. 
We've been treated so well.   They've just gone above and beyond to make me a spoiled player this week and make me feel like I'm just a regular out here on the PGA TOUR. 
It's just really exciting to be here in Hartford, to be able to play at a place that I know, which will be an experience I won't have very often, but be able to be back at a golf course, and just everything, Monday through Sunday hopefully, is just pure excitement and kind of a dream come true week for me.

Q.   Do you think that's something in the future when you start putting a schedule together (inaudible)?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, of course, the Travelers Championship, like I said, will always have a very special place in my heart. 

Q.   Sort of a two‑part question.   What's your schedule for the rest of the year, and what are your goals? 
PATRICK RODGERS:   Well, my goals are to play my best each time I tee it up, so I think I'm pretty fortunate.   I think I have seven opportunities to compete on the PGA TOUR, which I'm very excited about, obviously hopefully get off to a great start here this week.   But as far as big, kind of result‑oriented goals, I'm not going to focus too much on those.   I obviously know what it's going to take for me to earn my PGA TOUR card, but I know if I play my best golf and I continue to learn and improve throughout this process, those results will come. 

Q.   Any rookie hazing on Tour or‑‑
PATRICK RODGERS:   Maybe driving around Hartford lost is the rookie hazing, but no, it's been great.   All the guys in the locker room and being able to be around guys that I've really looked up to for a long time has been a really special experience for me.   There's a few young guys out here that I would consider peers that I've played amateur golf against, but most of the guys I don't know very well, and they've been really gracious with their time and making sure that I know what I'm doing out here and I'm not walking in the wrong place. 
But no, like I said, every new experience is really cool for me.   Just being able to have a locker next to some of the greats in the game is a dream come true. 

Q.   Is there one player in particular that you're excited to run into in the locker room?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Zach Johnson has been amazing to me.   I was able to play a practice round with him last year at the John Deere, get to know him a little bit.   He's been amazing, followed up and kept in touch with my career and rooting me on throughout my college experience, and of course I keep tabs on Zach Johnson.   I've always been a huge fan.   I'm looking forward to playing more rounds with him and learning from him because he's got a heck of a golf game. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, Cam and I have an unbelievable relationship, obviously.   This is a special event for him, too, being in Connecticut.   But to be teammates for the last three years and watch him improve each year and accomplish some of his goals, win an NCAA championship this year, has been amazing.   He's always pushed me to be a better player.   He's so knowledgeable about the game, and he's taught me so much.   I don't think I could be the same player that I am today without having Cam on my team. 
To be able to chase a national championship victory and have some of the successes we've had as a team at Stanford is really cool, and to be starting my career and us both be here together is a really awesome part of this whole experience. 

Q.   Have you had a chance to get out on the course yet?   How does TPC River Highlands set up, suit your game?
PATRICK RODGERS:   Yeah, I've been here since Sunday.   I just wanted to get here, get comfortable and get accustomed to the golf course again.   Like I said, it's nice to be at a golf course that I've played before, kind of have a good idea of maybe where some of the pins will be or what the lines are off the tees, kind of in my preparation.   But I've been able to be out on the golf course Sunday, Monday and today, so three practice rounds, I have a great feel for it.   The greens are just ideal.   They're perfect.   They're a great speed and they're in flawless condition.   I feel like I can make a lot of putts. 
But continue to learn the golf course.   I think I have a good idea for what I'm going to hit off each tee and I know where most of the pins will be, so now it's just about executing that game plan.   But as far as how it sets up for my game, I'd like to think every course sets up well for my game, but this is certainly one of them.

Q.   Is there anything about your game right now that's particularly encouraging as far as an element to your game right now? 
PATRICK RODGERS:   I'm just trying to continue positive momentum from the college season.   I played well during the college season.   My game kind of comes in ebbs and flows.   There's some parts of your game that are working well one week and not well the other, so I'm just trying to get each part of my game where I want it.   It's all part of the process.   I hope that I wouldn't have my tournament game on a Tuesday, so keep continuing to dial it in, and hopefully I'll be sharp in all facets. 
DOUG MILNE:   Patrick, best of luck this week.   We appreciate your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT