WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 27, 2021
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Brian, what a match.  You were 4-down through your first five holes.  How were you able mentally and emotionally not to get down and bounce back and roll in eight consecutive birdies and win seven straight holes?
 BRIAN HARMAN:   You know, Bubba got me out of this tournament several years back and I've watched him win numerous tournaments now.  When I saw that I was playing him, you know, I can't say that I was excited to play him today because he's just such a hard competitor and he starts out of the gates so good.
 But it was hard.  Finally made a good putt there on 7 and made some putts from there.  Just kind of off to the races.
 But it's nice to get the best of him today because I think he's about 10-0 against me.
 Q. Kevin Kisner was talking to him earlier this week.  He of course is the defending champion.  He says, I'm such a good putter that I'm going to be a force in match play.  You obviously showed that today.  How big a weapon is your putter in this format?
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, yeah, a place like this to where it's not overly long and I can get some looks and the greens are in such good shape that if I make a few, you know, kind of puts some pressure on the other guy.  Whoever I play this afternoon is a great player too, so.
 Q. I want to confirm you're now inside the top 50 in the official World Golf Ranking, and you'll get an invite to the Masters.
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Yes, it's pretty special.  I thought if I got out of the group I had a chance, and then I was kind of looking at it and knew I had to win today.  Feels pretty good.
 Q. You have a little emotions?  A little up and down ride there for you.  Early on you're down four, you rip off eight straight birdies and win seven holes, and then Bubba comes back and takes it all the way to the 17th.  What a range of emotions you must have gone through out there.
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Well Bubba is just so good, and I knew he was going to be tough today.  And even when I got him -- even when I was on the run I knew I had to put him away because I knew he was going to make a run.
 I really didn't want to have to play 16 because he's got such an advantage on that hole.  I can't get there today and he can get there comfortably.  He is a hard guy to beat in match play and he knocked me out of this tournament last time, so it's nice to get the best of him today.
 He's a true gentlemen and a pleasure to play against today.
 Q. Didn't just knock you out of match play, he has a probably a winning record against you when you go head-to-head.  Did you learn anything or did you apply any different strategy out here from past experience?
 BRIAN HARMAN:   No.  You know, he's a different kind of golfer.  He's so talented that I can't try to play his game.  I've got to let him play his game and I've got to play my game, and my game is fairways and green and making putts.
 And it's just hard not to watch some of the stuff he can do with the golf ball.  It's fun to watch.
 Q. Land of Harvey Penick, and the old coach said, A good putter is a match for anyone.  You certainly proved that today.  See you in the afternoon.
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, the little red book.  I don't know how many times I've read that from Harvey Penick.  Yeah, just keep rolling it and just keep hitting good shots.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT