TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2018
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another solid day, certainly the putter's still working.  What was the difference between the tale of two nines today?  Is that safe to say it was something that clicked on your last nine?
BRIAN HARMAN: Well, when we started this morning, the conditions were very difficult.  It was breezy and it was cool, and it took me a little while to warm up and settle down.
I was just a little anxious and just a little uneasy the first few holes, but I settled down and started playing some good golf.
Q. You had a great finish today, and that quite easily could have been four in a row.  Did you think you made the last two, because I thought you had?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I hit a really good putt on 8, not as good a putt on 9.  But two good looks at it.  But you've got to just give yourself a bunch of looks.
Q. Is that the recipe as we head into the weekend?  You're 10-under par, in a great spot, seems like you're in full control.  Is it more of the same and get some rest tonight?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, get some rest and try to put as much pressure as I can on the golf course.
Q. Quick comment about your round?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, putted great today.  Got out of position a couple times, but I was able to get myself good looks at it.  I started hitting the ball really well coming down the stretch and made a few more birdies.
Q. Is there a big difference in the conditions yesterday afternoon and this morning?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, it was tough this morning.  It really was.  The wind was blowing, but it's obviously settled down a lot.  This course is tough in the wind.  It's hard, especially on the back nine, because you kind of get kind of in the golf course a little bit, it's hard to tell which way it's going.
Q. Do you have a gut sense how your score is going to hold up through the afternoon rounds?
BRIAN HARMAN: I won't pay attention until Sunday afternoon.
Q. Was it your approach game that was so good or your putting or both of those two?
BRIAN HARMAN: The putter has been really good so far.  But I've been in position a lot.  I've had a lot of good looks at it.  I'm just able to put a little pressure on the course right now, which is nice.
Q. What is your mentality, just being aggressive, going for the pins at this point?
BRIAN HARMAN: I just take every shot on its merits.  If it looks good, I go for it.  If it doesn't, then I play it safe.
Q. You've had some good rounds at this course, what is it that you like about playing here?
BRIAN HARMAN: I just think it's really a risk-reward golf course.  You can take on as much as you want, but you run the risk -- because it's really easy to make bogeys here.  I made three of them today getting out of position.  So I enjoy that aspect of it a lot.
Q. How do you keep your emotions together?  Do you consider yourself an emotional player?  How do you stay focused?
BRIAN HARMAN: I'm not very good at keeping my emotions together.  It's hard to do out there.  It's easy to get frustrated.  But hopefully I won't get frustrated this weekend.
Q. Is that part of your personality?  Because I want to compare to say being a sports fan and what your reaction was when Alabama scored the game-winning touchdown?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, thanks for bringing that up.  Appreciate that.
Q. What was the -- I'm just trying to compare emotions as a professional athlete to a fan.
BRIAN HARMAN: So you want me to compare a football game to --
Q. -- to what you do.
BRIAN HARMAN: Playing golf?
Q. Where you have to stay not emotional when the emotions are a big part of the game?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, the better you can keep your emotions in check on the golf course, the better off you are.
Q. (Inaudible) twice, is there anything about this course that (inaudible) to a certain degree?
BRIAN HARMAN: I don't know.  I wouldn't know otherwise.  I've never played it right-handed, so I'm not sure how it goes that way.  But, yeah, Bubba and Phil have won here, so hopefully the next lefty will be me.
Q. Can you talk about the top 10 this year?  (Inaudible)?
BRIAN HARMAN: Just being a little more consistent.  I'm driving the ball much better than I have in year's past.  I signed a new club contract this year which I think has helped.  Stuff has been a little more consistent in helping me out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT