THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2019
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously you're going pretty good going into the weekend.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, the golf course got really hard this afternoon, greens got really firm and it was really tough to manage, especially that front nine.  I was proud of the way I got it in the house.  I kind of leaked some oil coming in, but the game's pretty good, so I'm excited for the weekend.   
 Q.  The winds are supposed to switch maybe a little bit.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, it's been forecasted to switch all week, so.   
 Q.  What do you, is that good for you, is it bad, how do you view that?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I have no idea.  I mean, obviously I think the course will play more difficult with the northeasterly wind, so I don't know.  Hopefully it's great for me.   
 Q.  Do you think it plays to your strengths though?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, maybe.  I mean, I feel like I can fly it pretty good off the tee, so maybe it will help.   
 Q.  Looking back to your first PLAYERS as an alternate those years ago and all of the adventures going out, what's it like to think back seven years later and think that you're not far off, you're maybe in contention to win it.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, had a chance here, I guess, two or three years ago on Sunday and I just ran out of steam on the way in.  So I've been around the back nine on Sunday close to the lead so I'll try and draw on some of that.   
 Q.  A lot of the courses on TOUR, where does this one rank in terms of coming in feeling like can you really contend at this kind of course?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I feel like I've kind of contended all over the place.  I contended at a U.S. Open that was 8,000 yards long and I contended at Harbour Town and Colonial which are the shortest courses on TOUR.  So it's certainly a different style of game that is played around places like this, which I tend to enjoy a little bit more than just trying to hit it as hard as you can.   
 Q.  Do you think it fits your game maybe a little better than some others?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I don't like to box myself in like that.  I feel like that whatever the course is that week I try to find the best way to play it.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your start, starting on the back nine, but just kind of bogey-free 5-under.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, 4-under on the back, played really nice, had a bunch of good looks, birdied 10 and 12 and then birdied 15 and 16.  And then made the turn and the greens just got so firm on our front nine, it was hard to get anything close to the hole.  And I didn't drive it as good so I was kind of playing defense a little bit.  But I got it in the house okay.   
 Q.  What do you think you're able to learn from two years ago the U.S. Open being obviously very much in contention there, and is there anything you feel like would help you for obviously what is now a very important tournament here?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, obviously that's one of the biggest stages in golf and I feel like I handled it okay.  I had a chance on Sunday, but yeah, I mean, any time you can get yourself into that position late on Sunday, then eventually it's going to go your way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT