WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2021
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Kind of describe the roller coaster of the day, win your match and obviously advance through a playoff with Patrick.
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, it's a tough format.  It's hard not to look ahead and see what's happening in that group.  At the same time you've got to pay attention to what -- you've got to take care of your business.
 Just fortunately I've been playing really well, and just really excited to get through.
 Q. You lost your first match on Wednesday; what was your mindset heading into the next couple days?  You didn't feel behind the 8-ball, did you?
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, for sure, especially with as well as Patrick was playing.  I didn't really see him losing a match.  But I had a really hard match against Hideki yesterday and I knew he was rounding into form, and looks like he played pretty good today.
 Sometimes you've got to get a little bit of a break, and I got one today.
 Q. What's been trending in your game the last few weeks going back to THE PLAYERS?
 BRIAN HARMAN:   I don't know.  I just don't know.  I've been striking it well.  I've been staying in the golf course really well, and I'm finally starting to make some putts again.
 I haven't been putting that great this year and I've been making a ton of cuts; just kind of finishing middle of the pack and not really making any noise.  I have to putt well.  I've been doing a lot better, and my short game has gotten a lot better.
 Q. You've always been known as a grinder.  Match play kind of seems to suit your game.  Does that help you when you knew you had to go out and win the last two days and obviously when you got in the playoff?
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I was definitely down after the first day.  It's almost worse to play really good and get beat.  I think I made seven or eight birdies and played great and just got beat, and that's kind of demoralizing almost.
 But you've just got to pick yourself up and keep going, and I was able to play well the last couple days.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT