TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2018
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great start, great opening round, and the putter working.  Brilliant with the flat stick today.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, the putter has been kind of my strong suit these last couple years.  Just really let me down last week.  I hit the ball well enough to contend last week, I thought, just putted terrible.  It's nice to get a few to roll in today.   
 Q.  I picked you up near the end of your opening nine, and you ran into a bit of a road block at 10, a scrambling par at 11.  Is it fair to say I felt that you fought very hard to keep it going and you kept it going?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, there are always points like that in the round where it can swing one way or the other.  So I was proud of -- especially I made a nice up-and-down on 8 and then 10 and 11, and hit it in the water on 13 and made a really nice par.  So you're going to have some stuff like that happen around here.   
It's a course that if you take aggressive lines there are chances you could end up in some trouble.  But you have to play aggressive to make birdies.   
 Q.  Your chip in on the last, it was about 40 feet.  Did you just love the line?  Were you thinking make?  
BRIAN HARMAN: That was a pretty tough chip.  I would have been really happy with about a four or five-footer.  I was able to check it up into that hill, and once it started going sideways, I knew it had a chance.   
 Q.  Great round today.  Good way to end it on the last there.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Thank you.   
 Q.  If you could talk about that chip-in on the last?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, just being left-handed, I was able to kind of chip it and spin it up into the hill a little bit.  It was a tough chip, it was almost sideways coming in.  But it was not a good leave, but a good shot to make up for it.   
 Q.  What worked so well for you out there today?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Little bit of everything.  I drove it well a couple times, hit a couple good iron shots and made an eagle on the front nine and a couple good par saves, so just all around really good.   
 Q.  Was it the kind of round that you're -- this course produces runs and birdies?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, but it can also be very challenging in places.  If you take too much of it on, like I did on 13 and like 10 and 11, it can really get you.  So it's hard to stay patient out there for sure.   
 Q.  Is it good to see some birdies go in this week after last week being such a grind?  Good to see some good numbers going in?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I can't say I thought about last week one time today.  I was just focusing on today and trying the best I can.   
 Q.  Can you talk one more time about the 18 and what you did there?  
BRIAN HARMAN: It was a hard breaking shot going downhill.  So for me being a lefty, my chips are going to spin a little to the left, like kind of cut spin.  So I was able to get it up on that hill.  A righty would have had a much tougher time there.   
 Q.  What did you do on 6?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Driver, 3-wood to a foot, tap-in eagle.   
 Q.  That was nice.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, it was nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT