SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2018
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brian, it was hard to improve on round 1, but you did, one shot better.  Tell us a little bit about the day.
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I was just in position a couple more times today.  Probably made a couple longer putts yesterday, but was in position a little more consistent today, drove it really well.  I was able to hit some iron shots in there pretty close and make a few putts.
Q. 26 putts for the second straight day and a great one to finish on 9.  Are you just seeing all the lines, and was that a perfect number for you for your second coming home?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, 172, 7 iron, had a little help off the right.  Yeah, I ended up with a bunch of good numbers today.  For the most part, made -- left a couple out there.  Missed a short one for par on 7 and missed a short one for birdie on 5.  But overall, pretty good.
Q. Well, the continued solid play is here from last week to this week, and good luck the rest of the way.  You're in great position.
BRIAN HARMAN: Thank you very much.  Appreciate it.
Q. 14 birdies, one eagle in two rounds here at Waialae.  If you look back on the last two days, are there certain specifics of your game that you feel like you're really clicking on?
BRIAN HARMAN: It's the shoes, man.  These narrow shoes, staying nice and stable.
Q. That's what we're going with?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah.  Really hanging onto the ground nicely.
Q. Fair enough.  Let me look at some of the stats that you are doing well.  With your putter, you've made nearly 227 feet of putts.  How big a weapon is that in your bag right now?
BRIAN HARMAN: I think it's -- I'm making putts, but I'm also putting myself in position to make those putts.  I'm getting a bunch of looks.  I'm not making everything I'm looking at, but I'm hitting a lot of good putts and made a few today.
Q. You had a share of the lead last week.  Do you do anything different mentally at all as you head into the weekend, which you'll at least be on the first page of the leaderboard?
BRIAN HARMAN: No, I'm not.  I'm just going to show up tomorrow and try to hit the first tee shot best you can and go from there.  There's no magic formula.  There's no reason to change.  I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing.
Q. When you go back to midsummer and what you've been able to do since midsummer last year and into the fall and now this week, has anything changed, or is it just a matter of your game's coming together?
BRIAN HARMAN: I switched golf balls, and it's made a huge difference.  I wasn't a very good wind player, and I switched golf balls -- and I know it's kind of like a Titleist commercial, but honestly, when I switched, I was 90th in the world.  I won the first week I put it in, and I'm just able to flight the ball so much better than I used to be able to, and the wind doesn't seem to take it as much.  That's just a personal thing for me.
I feel like I did when I was a kid again.  I felt like I was a better ball striker when I was a kid than I was a pro.  I'm starting to get some of those feelings back.
Q. Two different courses, Brian, same result so far.
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, the courses are very different.  The biggest elevation change here is from the walk down from the hotel.  So I think the biggest one we had on the card today was plus 1 or plus 2 on the fairway.
I've always kind of felt like, as long as there's fairways and greens and holes to putt it in, then I'm going to be fine.
Q. To finish this round the way you did today with that eagle, especially after you hit the one bogey on 7, what did that mean to you to sort of finish strongly?
BRIAN HARMAN: Everybody's going to make bogeys.  It happens.  That was an unfortunate one.  But I played 8 nicely and hit a good drive on 9.  I think that definitely helps going into tomorrow.
Q. Through two solid first rounds, what is it out here that's got you playing so well playing at this type of level?
BRIAN HARMAN: Maybe it's the weather.
I enjoy the weather.
Q. And the shoes, Brian.
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, narrow shoes.
Q. Anything from last week from the final round?  Obviously, there's no hangover whatsoever.  Did you take all motivation from just how well you played?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, the first three rounds last week, I played well enough to win the golf tournament.  The last day, it was a combination of Dustin playing incredible and me not putting a lot of pressure on him.  But I did everything I could do.  I don't really have any regrets last week other than I wished I would have played better.  I don't think I could have done anything differently to change the outcome.
So just kind of back to square one this week and trying to do the best I can.
Q. What's the difference putting these greens compared with last week?
BRIAN HARMAN: Last week's were a good bit slower.  These greens are always so good here.  I grew up on this kind of Bermuda.  So it just -- I like the way it looks.
Q. You were struggling on speed early on Sunday?
BRIAN HARMAN: Last week?
Q. Yeah.
BRIAN HARMAN: I did.  I couldn't quite get a feel for those the last day, last week.  They seemed a little slower to my eye.  But I've got the speed dialed in this week, I think.
Q. What do you think of the changes to some of the greens here?
BRIAN HARMAN: I think they had the right idea most places.  It's just -- it's so new.  I need a couple more years to see how it kind of settles in before I can make a -- I don't think anyone can walk up on the green the first year it's changed and say, oh, this is markedly better or markedly worse.  It takes time for the grass to settle and for the hills to settle and see how it's going to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT