SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2018
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brian, you played really well last week, and the momentum has carried forward to a new island.  Good opening round.
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I like this golf course a lot.  I've had a little bit of success here.  I was excited to get back this week.
Q. You missed -- a near miss for birdie on 15.  You bury one on 16.  But a great up and down on 17.  How important is that momentum to kind of add one more and keep this round heading in the right direction?  Sometimes pars seem to be the most important thing.
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, got a little loose with that tee shot.  It's a tough up and down from that bunker.  They've changed that hole quite a bit, and that bunker is still bad.  It was bad before, and it's still bad.
Q. It's a very different golf course here this week from last week.  Obviously, many different things going on.  We're not dealing with 30-mile-per-hour gusts.  The greens are different.  What's the biggest thing to get accustomed to in the switch?  Is it the lack of undulations or lack of wind or these slick putting surfaces?
BRIAN HARMAN: Probably a good bit more rough here, and the tee shots, in my mind, are a little more nerve-racking.  So it's just a little different feeling.  Last week I felt like, if you started driving it well, a lot of those tee shots, you really didn't even have to think.  You just get up, and the ball's going to all end up the same kind of spot.  And here, you've really got to be careful off these tee boxes.
Q. You were just saying that you're playing with great confidence and freedom.  What is it that's got you in that position?
BRIAN HARMAN: I don't know.  I've been working pretty hard.  I'm playing some new equipment this year.  My tee shots, I feel like I've kind of tightened up just a little bit.  I don't feel like I'm doing anything heroic or special.  I'm just -- I mean, I still made some bad swings today.  But I made a couple putts, and I was around the hole pretty much -- I think I only missed three, four greens maybe, which is pretty tough to do around here.  Everybody is kind of missing fairways and greens here.
Q. And you kind of kept that same sort of even keel, demeanor and whatnot.  Is that something you work to do, or is that literally just natural?
BRIAN HARMAN: No, it is not natural.  I probably have a reputation for getting pretty hot under the collar.  Obviously, playing well helps, but I guess, after you're out here for a while and you've played bad plenty of times, it's just not that big of a deal when it happens, you know what I mean?  I think getting upset out there is just because you're so scared of playing bad.
I don't know.  Maybe I'm just a little older.  Maybe I don't want my daughter to see me throwing clubs around.
Q. So what's the key to this round?  Obviously, you did play well all last week.  Not quite the exact result you wanted, but a very good one.  Just the same thing, have a go in front this time?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, just trying to do the best I can.  No guarantees for tomorrow.  Just do the best you can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT