DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2017
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about the round, the last nine --
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I played -- I had a nice birdie on 18 from a bad lay-up and that sort of set into some motion some good stuff.  Hung in there nice on my first nine which was the back nine.  It played much more difficult than the frontward side of it.  Hit some good shots, makeable putts on the front, so that was nice.
Q. How did you play 12?
BRIAN HARMAN: I played 12 great.  I hit a driver, skirted the bunker on the left and then hit 4-iron to 20 feet and 2-putt.  It's a hard hole.
Q. What did you think of the change?
BRIAN HARMAN: I think it's fine.  It's nothing earth-shattering.  It was a pretty good hole before I thought.  It's a pretty good hole now.
Yeah, it's hard to tell the first time you play it in a tournament.  I've played the old one, whatever, 30 times in a tournament.  More used to that one I guess.
Q. What did it take to manage the course today?
BRIAN HARMAN: It's just tough.  You sort of always seem to get a couple days like this.  When the wind is down here, it's a very manageable course.  There's been some low numbers.  But if the wind picks up just a little bit, the scores seem to really go up.
It was hard today; one of the harder days I could remember here.
Q. Because of shifting wind?
BRIAN HARMAN: Just wind in general.  Wind in general tends to make golf a little tougher.
Q. Is there a difference when you walk off the course when you're only down by two, but you're down to Dustin, as opposed to maybe someone else?
BRIAN HARMAN: Oh, man, it's Thursday -- or Friday.  It's first round.  I won't start checking the leaderboard until late Sunday.
Q. But there's no difference if he's at the top versus anybody else?
BRIAN HARMAN: No, I have to play against him every week.  He's usually pretty far up there.
Q. What is it about this place that you like?
BRIAN HARMAN: I feel like it's a really fair test of golf.  You've got some good short holes and you've got some good long holes.  You've got good par 3s.  If you hit good shots, you have a chance at birdie and if you don't, you're going to struggle to make par.
Those are the type of places I appreciate.  Sometimes we get to places where you can hit good shots end and up in a bad spot, and that doesn't seem to happen very much.
Q. Did you have to alter your approach much because of the wind?
BRIAN HARMAN: No, I knew it was going to be windy.
Q. You're one of the guys who could move into the Top-10 for The Presidents Cup.  It's a nice week this week.  How much is that weighing on your mind at all?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I definitely think about it.  I've done pretty good in the team stuff.  Played a couple Walker Cups and some Palmer Cups in college, and this is the first opportunity I've had to try to make a team on my own accord as a professional.
It's very important to me, and I'd love to make it.  But the only way to make it is to play well this week.  It's the last week before they make selections and before the team is finalized.  I'm just going to try to take care of business as well as I can this week.
Q. What kind of contact have you had with Strick?
BRIAN HARMAN: You know, Strick and I are buddies.  I have not -- I've certainly haven't lobbied for a pick by any means.  We played together at the PGA and I don't even think we talked about it.
I'm just not a guy that's going to toot my own horn.  I feel like I would be a really good part of the team but if they don't think so, that's fine, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT