TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2017
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Heck of a finish last week at Erin Hills.  What did you take from Wisconsin and bring to this course?
BRIAN HARMAN: I put all that to bed.  I had my family here on Monday, so we spent Monday together.  But once the tournament's over with, it's over with for me.  Obviously I would have loved to have that won last week but my focus is on this week and trying to play well.
Q. Anything confidence-wise you take and apply mentally to this week?
BRIAN HARMAN: For me sometimes I kind of let my expectations get a little too high, so I almost try to lower expectations after a big week and try to get back to what I was working on.
Q. Four birdies in a row for your opening round here at TPC River Highlands.  What did you like about your round today?
BRIAN HARMAN: I love this golf course.  It's in beautiful shape.  It's playing really, really nice right now, and the wind was down, so we were trying to get after it today.
Q. How about your game as a whole, where do you feel it's at right now?
BRIAN HARMAN: I feel it's good.  I'm controlling my distances really well and driving it okay and putting it well.
Q. Congratulations on what was a great week for you last week at the U.S. Open.  Can you talk about coming in and focusing again here on a tournament after what you went through last week?
BRIAN HARMAN: I just tried to put last week to bed.  I was proud of the way I hung in there, proud of the fight.  Didn't get it done but at the same time, just trying to focus on this week and start kind of back at ground zero.
Q. Gained a lot of fans last week the way you played but let's talk about the way you played today.  A lot of birdies but a couple of blips?
BRIAN HARMAN: Hit a bad drive on the back nine and made double.  Only missed three greens.  Two bad drives cost me two holes but tighten that up and try to do a little better tomorrow.
Q. The putts that didn't go were close, even on the finish, weren't they?
BRIAN HARMAN: I hit some really good putts today.  These greens are really good.  I've always enjoyed coming up here and playing on them.  I look forward to the rest of the week.
Q. Talk about your round.
BRIAN HARMAN: I played well.  Just a couple bad drives cost me a couple bad holes.  I think I made six, seven birdies.  A lot of offense, which is nice.
Q. Talk about the gallery following you guys.  You had a big group?
BRIAN HARMAN: Whenever you've got Rory in the group with you, there's going to be a big crowd.  He's a lot of fun to watch and he's a big draw.  I'm glad he's here.  He's great for the tournament.
Q. Golfers have to have a short memory anyway, but how difficult after you gear up for a major to come back and play a tournament like this and how is your mental preparation this week?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I've just tried to put last week to bed.  I've just tried to take what I was going to take from it and just start over, because you can't -- it's hard to maintain that same sort of focus.  You have to, I took Monday off, didn't do anything, and that kind of helped me reboot.
Q. Happy with where you were today?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, just a couple loose tee shots but I'll try to tighten that up tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT