U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 17, 2017
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the weekend opportunity in the U.S. Open.  You're at the top of the leaderboard.  You're the third round leader.  How do you feel about that?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, first cut made too.  So we're breaking down all kinds of barriers.  I'm proud of the way I hung in there today.  I got off to a pretty good start, which I really haven't done yet, so that was nice.  Struck it well, had a couple putts that could have gone that didn't, but had a bunch of looks, hit a bunch of greens, and that's what you've got to do to play well around here.
Q. Seeing a 63 ahead of you, did you realize there were a lot of opportunities on the back nine?
BRIAN HARMAN: No, obviously, Justin played a great round, but he was two, two-and-a-half hours before me.  The golf course can change a lot, especially in an Open.  So I didn't put any expectations on myself after seeing how well he was playing.
Q. How does winning recently affect your confidence tomorrow, especially how you made that great putt against DJ?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I think I'll draw on some of the preparations I did for that week.  Just kind of how I felt that morning before, because I remember specifically I kind of dealt with some of those emotions, yeah, we'll see what happens.
Q. How is it to have a leaderboard with so many young guys in a major all at the top like this?
BRIAN HARMAN: Well, a bunch of young guys have been winning on TOUR, and a bunch of young guys have been doing really well in the Ryder Cup and the Presidents Cup, so I'm not very surprised by it.  I think it's just a matter of time before the younger guys start playing well.  I mean, they've been doing it all year.
Q. What were those emotions Sunday at Wells Fargo?  How did you deal with them?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I think everyone has doubts, everyone has fears.  For me, just trying to figure out what they are and kind of rationalize them and deal with them.
Q. With the way that back nine sets up, especially with a couple of par 5s, are you expecting a lot of fireworks down the stretch tomorrow?  Do you think things will tighten up a little bit?
BRIAN HARMAN: It just depends.  I think the wind is supposed to turn around and blow from a different direction tomorrow, so that will change things.  If it comes out of the north, it's going to be a little different golf course.  So I don't know.  I'll tell you afterwards tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT