U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. To be right there on the weekend and right on the top of the leaderboard, how does it feel?
BRIAN HARMAN: It's good.  It's where you hope to be.  I was pretty nervous this morning, and I got off to a little shaky spot.  And I was proud I hung in there.  Finished off pretty well.
Q. Do you get nervous on a Friday?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, anytime you're up there towards the top, you want to keep playing well, but you're always wondering, am I going to play well.  But that's part of why four days of golf is very tough, because everyone kind of goes through the same sort of motions throughout the week.
Q. What's the mindset going into (inaudible.)
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I just think you take every shot on its merits, and try to do the best you can.  You can't control where the ball goes.
The first hole today, hit the drive right where I was looking, gets a foot out of the fairway, gets buried in the first cut and had to lay up and hit a 6-iron to the green.  You can't control which way the ball bounces.
Q. You came up and played a practice round to Dustin Johnson, they said there are a lot of ways around this golf course.  What are the best ways around for you?
BRIAN HARMAN: I don't hit it as far as the big guys do.  So for me, I have to use some of the slopes and try to get some extra distance that way.  But what I think is so good about this course is that the longer the par-4s are, the more generous the greens are.  So you can tell they put a lot of thought into it.  If you hit a good shot, you have a chance for birdies.  If not, it's penal.
Q. Going back to Wells, what confidence did you get from that?  It was such a good field coming into that.
BRIAN HARMAN: That was a great tournament.  I hope that I can draw confidence off of that, but at the same time I'm not thinking about the tournament, I'm thinking about right now and this weekend.
Q. You are here for the weekend for the first time at a U.S. Open and you're right there at the top of the leaderboard.  Talk about your anticipation for the weekend play?
BRIAN HARMAN: I have no expectations.  I have no idea how the weekend is going to go, no one does.  For me, if I can just stay where I am, just keep doing what I'm doing, I'll have a chance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT