CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 22, 2017
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Juice was going there on the back nine.  Put yourself right in this.  Just a couple burnt edges and this could have been a lot different.
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I'm proud of the way that I got in there this week.  I just couldn't really get anything going on the front nine.  I was proud of the way I finished.  I hope my buddy Hudson finishes it off.
Q. Another Georgia guy coming down here with a chance to get a win.  I know it's bitter sweet to be in position, but if he does pull this out, it's got to be pretty special?
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, we got a tight bond down there on Saint Simons and I would love to see him win.  Obviously, I was trying like heck to chase him down and I thought I hit two pretty good putts there on 17 and 18, it just didn't work out.
Q. What do you take from this one?
BRIAN HARMAN: I'm going to take lot of confidence from this.  I've been working really hard.  I won a couple years ago and haven't really been there a whole lot.  A couple here, a couple there.  But I want to be there consistently and I want to continue to play well.
Q. What stood out?  What makes Hudson, Hudson?
BRIAN HARMAN: I met him when I was 11 and he was 10.  And he hit the shot on this hole and it was a dogleg left and I'm like, where's this guy going with this thing.  He flies the trees and he's left with nothing into the green.  And it hasn't changed since then.  He's a big ole boy and he hits it a long way and he's as good a guy as you would ever want to meet.
Q. Where was it?
BRIAN HARMAN: At the Okefenokee Country Club, No. 2.
Q. Tee shot?
BRIAN HARMAN: Tee shot, yeah.  Actually, it was over this like pond, elevated pond.  And he hit it and I'm like, oh, my, where's he going.  He flies the pond, it's perfect.  Everything is perfect.  I was like, "dude."  He plays a different game.
Q. Was he big at 11, too?
BRIAN HARMAN: Oh, yeah, he looks just like he does now.  Just a big mountain of a man.
Q. He carries himself as kind of doesn't not a lot bothers him.  He struggled on the finishing holes yesterday, but what's he like?
BRIAN HARMAN: Well, he acts like nothing bothers him, but I know watching all of his buddies win definitely bothered him.  That's evidenced today with how he's playing.  So I'm proud of the way that's doing it and I hope he finishes it off.
Q. You had your family here, you were in the thick of things on the back nine.  How would you assess your final round?
BRIAN HARMAN: I was a little frustrated on the front nine.  I really wanted to get off to a good start and didn't.  But Country did a really good job of calming me down and I got right in there the last couple holes.  So a couple putts go my way, it would be a different story.
Q. What did it mean to you to be able to battle back, considering the slow start, that you were a shot off the lead or right in the middle of it.
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I'm going to look back on this week as just a couple of loose shots here and there that's going to make the difference.  But that's golf.  You got to be mentally tight and I kind of let it get away from me a little bit yesterday and that, but overall it was a good week and I hope my buddy Hudson pulls it out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT