THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2021
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Harkening back to the first time you played this tournament and the circumstances of that, where you didn't know if you were going to get in and all that kind of stuff, how do you feel now being in the position on the weekend?
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I mean, this is turning into one of my absolute favorite stops.  I love the golf course.  We stay on those condos on the beach and it's fun.  My whole family comes down and it's nice to have some fans back out.  It's been a great week so far.
 Q. What sets up well between your game and this course?
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I've always been a pretty straight driver of the golf ball, and when I drive it well here, I feel like I can put myself in spots to be aggressive in places, and that's kind of what it takes around here.  You have to know when to be aggressive and when to lay back.  I seem to chip it and putt it pretty good around here.
 Q. What is it about this course that you feel kind of fits your game?  It's not like you haven't been on a leaderboard before here.
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Right.  I think that I really like when the fairways are firm.  That helps kind of closes the gap between the guys that can carry it 300 -- I can't carry it 300 yards, but if I'm able to hit some fairways my ball runs out nicely here.  So, you know, if I drive it well I've got enough short irons to where I can get it in there close and try and make some birdies.
 Q. Do you feel like this course fits you, either your eye or whatever?  You hear that golfers use that terminology sometimes.  How would you say this course sets up for you specifically?
 BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I can't really put -- I don't really know why I play well at certain places.  Certain places where I shouldn't play well and do, and certain places where I should play well and don't.  This has always been a place where I've felt pretty comfortable.  I don't really have a great reason why.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT