U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Could you sum up your day for us?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, it was pretty good all around.  Drove it well, ironed it pretty good, made some putts.  And when I got in position, I was able to get back in position to make par.   
 Q.  How does today differ from the normal U.S. Open first round?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Not much.  I mean, I played -- this is my third Open.  It's a difficult golf course.  It is.  If you don't drive it in the fairway, you're in big trouble; and if you don't hit it on the green, you're in big trouble.  That's what the USGA is hoping for.   
 Q.  You come in here and shoot a great opening round.  What's kind of made the difference or adjustments you've made this year?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I just think time.  Time sort of grows you as a player a little bit.  I've just tried to get a little bit better.  I'm not trying to reinvent.  I'm not trying to hit it 350 yards, just trying to hit a little better every shot.   
 Q.  Do you have any conversations with Sauers this week?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, yeah, I talked to Gene a couple weeks ago.  We were both up here on the weekend of Memorial.  Got to see him.  I hadn't seen him in years.  He's been playing so good.  I've been so proud of him.   
 Q.  Sunday, when you were here practicing, what did you learn from that day that translated to today?  
BRIAN HARMAN: When you're preparing for this tournament, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday can be kind of a whirlwind.  So for me to come in kind of early and see the course made the last three days a little easier on me.   
 Q.  What's most challenging about it out there?  If you had to pick one thing.  
BRIAN HARMAN: I just think the length in places.  You know, I got a hammer drive on 4 today and I've got a 5-wood into the green.  So I just think that it sort of tips you into overswinging.  If you get into the hay, you're just chipping out.   
 Q.  The key moving forward?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I would just think just trying to keep doing what I've been doing.  Not get ahead of myself.  Just play the course for what it gives.   
 Q.  Did you see that blimp go down?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I did not.  Everybody all right?  I hope so.   
 Q.  The pilot got hurt, yeah.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Oh, geez.  Oh, no.  Was it wind that took it down or what?  Golly.  Well, I hope everybody's okay.   
 Q.  Having won twice, do you look at your major championship record more and give yourself more chances?  Do you focus on that anymore?  
BRIAN HARMAN: No, not really.  I just -- it's obviously not just another golf tournament, but at the same time, this is what we do for a living.  You just have to take the course for what it is and try to play the best you can.  I don't know how else to do it.  I don't know what else.  I can't try any harder than I already try.   
 Q.  Of all the majors, though, is one particularly of more interest to you or more fun or whatever?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Well, growing up in Georgia, I always wanted to play The Masters, obviously.  That's what a Georgia boy always grows up.  But for me, there's something special about all of them.  The USGA Championships, I feel, are the most difficult, but at the same time, British Open golf, they're all great.  There's something great about all of them.   
 Q.  I didn't realize this until today, but as I mentioned, no left-handers.  The U.S. Open is the only one a left-hander hasn't won at.  Does that make this at all more appealing?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Well, you forget.  Like I don't watch myself play golf, so I forget I'm left-handed because I see righties all day.  So I look like everyone else according to me.   
 Q.  How many times have you hit driver today?  
BRIAN HARMAN: A lot.  I think I only didn't hit driver once.  So 13 times.  There's a couple par-3s I could hit it on too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT