THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 23, 2017
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Curious, Cody is the leader, and you had another great round, and you have the course record.  What is the number you shot?  
BRIAN HARMAN: 61.   
 Q.  Is there something about lefties, the way it sets up?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I don't know, the course definitely fits my eye for whatever reason.  Usually feel pretty comfortable here.  I don't know if it's a lefty thing or not.   
 Q.  Certain courses when you look at them, you say, that's for me.  
BRIAN HARMAN: I think it has more to do with the individual player.  I'm sure there's places that Phil loves that I don't and there's places that I love that Phil doesn't.  Everyone's got their own style and has their own way that they like seeing things.  Who knows.   
 Q.  Based on today's round, that's a score that works here any day of the week.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yes, it does.  It's very difficult.  I enjoy places where a couple under, 1-under, even, is always a pretty good number.  I like places like that.   
 Q.  Where did you gain the most ground today?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I just hit the ball pretty consistently all day.  Missed a couple early chances for birdie.  Had two in the bunker on 3, holed a bunker shot for eagle and made a nice birdie.  No bogeys.   
 Q.  Is that a long hole-out?  
BRIAN HARMAN: No, probably ten yards, 15 yards.   
 Q.  What are your favorite holes here?  
BRIAN HARMAN: My favorite holes here, I think 4 is a really cool hole.  I enjoy 15.  I think 15's a very challenging hole.  And then 13.   
 Q.  Do you think of that 61 often?  
BRIAN HARMAN: No, I don't.  I mean, it's not like I lay in bed and think about it.  But whenever I -- I usually think about it at least once a week during the tournament, during this tournament.   
 Q.  What other low scores have you had in that range on TOUR?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I've had a few.  Nothing off the top of my head.  I think I've shot 63 a handful of times and 64s.  I don't know, you'd have to look it up.   
 Q.  Difficulty of this course, makes it really stand out.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, it was a great round.  Tiger shot 62 on Sunday that year.  I mean, it was slightly easier than it is now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT