BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2016
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You dominated the par-5s, you birdied the first three and then eagle the 15th.  Tell me about it.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I looked at my stats from the year, I haven't played the par-5s very well, so I've been working real hard on my fairway woods trying to hit a few more.  And I hit a few great ones today.   
 Q.  You must be so mentally strong, I know you were disappointed with Monday's finish, but to come out here and play well, I think that really says a lot about you.  
BRIAN HARMAN: You got to be able to put that kind of stuff behind you.  I know that I'm playing well.  Monday was very odd, because I felt great going into that round.  I had had some trouble in some wind this year and years past and I felt like my outlook and attitude was really good and I just didn't play well.  So I don't really know where that came from, honestly.  But for Monday, I played great, I played great all week.  So I'm glad to see at least for another day it's still going well.   
 Q.  Did the golf course change much during the rain delay?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, it did.  Man, it was firm.  When we were out there this morning it was very windy, very firm, very difficult.  And it's, you're going to have to make few more birdies now.  It's much softer and ball in hand, I expect some more low scores.   
 Q.  57th in the FedExCup points, I imagine you're in attack mode all week.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I'm going to try to do the best I can.  I don't know if my game plan changes at all, because I feel like that, if I play well, I'll be right there.  So I'm just going to try to keep playing well.   
 Q.  You said you have to put Monday's round behind you.  How hard was it and how long did it last?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Monday was really hard for me to swallow because I felt like that I was going to contend in that tournament.  I felt really good and I felt like the conditions were playing to my advantage.  I felt like I was trying to out last everybody.  And I got killed by that stuff.  I was very disappointed with that.  But at the same time I played well enough to be in the tournament on Sunday.  And that's what you're trying to do.  So, the more times you can get there, the better your chances are.   
 Q.  Is it easier because you teed it up quick to get over Monday?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I know that I've been playing well, I've been driving it really well the last three or four months and I was just been kind of a progress to get everything else to kind of fall in line.  And I'm still driving it well, putting it well, and I played the par-5s very well today.   
 Q.  How important was it that you did what you did today though, given what happened on Monday?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I don't know, I guess really important.  I'll be able to tell you more at the end of the week.  But shooting 6-under as opposed to shooting even par, yeah, I'm much happier with a 66 than I am a higher score, I guess.  I don't know.  I'm happy I played as well as I did and I hope to keep going.   
 Q.  You said that you struggled a little bit in wind throughout this year?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Well, it's just, I've had a couple of days like that, to where I'll be around with a chance in the tournament and the conditions will flip.  The way the wind flips or it gets soft or it gets firm, just something changes and I haven't adapted to that very well.  And it's something that I feel like I should be better at.  I play on Saint Simons where the wind blows all the time.  That's part of the reason why I live there, because the wind blows all the time.  And I had a bad day in San Diego where I was pretty close to the lead in the tournament and had a terrible Sunday, it was really, really tough conditions.  So, but you got to be in those situations to learn and to move forward.  Hopefully I learned something.   
 Q.  How do you work on that?  Because you can work on your driving, you can work on putting, but that's just kind of something that's experience?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, there's really no way to practice it other than to get out on some bad days when you're home and try to -- it's about survival on days like that.  It's not necessarily about trying to attack the course, you have to really be patient.  That's not something I'm particularly great at.   
 Q.  What's your experience level like at East Lake?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I've only played East Lake a handful of times.  I was a junior golfer and played a U.S. Open sectional qualifier.  We didn't ever go over there as a team.   
 Q.  Does Cooper Marie help you get over something like what happened on Monday?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yes, she don't care.  I go home and she's happy to see her dad and so, yeah, we got over it quick.   
 Q.  What have the adjustments been like trying to be a new father?  
BRIAN HARMAN: It's been a much smoother transition than I thought it was going to be.  So far.  I should knock on wood.  I've got a wonderful wife, she's such a good mom and takes such good care of her, that I'm able to come out here and go to work and know that Cooper's well taken care of.  And I can come home and I'm the good guy when I come home, she's been having to deal with her all day and I just want to, she just gets to play with me.   
 Q.  How many new videos do you get a day, how many new pictures?  
BRIAN HARMAN: A lot.  Well, they're out here with me.  They have been out the last -- they came with me to John Deere and what was that?  I can't remember Wyndham.  And then they have been out the last two weeks.  So it's been great having them.   
 Q.  What was the situation on your wife was giving birth?  Were you already at a tournament?  
BRIAN HARMAN: We, she was due, Cooper was due Monday of the U.S. Open.  So, I tried to qualify for the U.S. Open and missed it.  And then Cooper ended up coming a little early.  She came during Memphis, which was a tournament I would have normally played, but I was obviously I was so happy I could be there for everything.  So I was able to go home and we got to spend a day together and then the next day we went and she was born on Wednesday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT