RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2015
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Let's talk about today.  Again, solid day for you.  You had a couple of bogeys, but that happens.  You have to be pleased.BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I was trying to keep the pedal down, stay aggressive.  I had one three-putt and made another silly bogey, but played well overall.  Played well again.  So I'm excited for the weekend.Q. You're driving the ball really well and yourself in great spots.  You have to be pleased with that?BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I love this place.  If you're comfortable hitting driver, you can really take advantage of some of the shorter of holes.  So I think that's probably my favorite part.Q. I followed you early this morning, and the greens were really nice early.  They're really nice right now.BRIAN HARMAN: They are in great shape.  My caddie and I were talking that maybe this place is No. 1 all year for conditioning.  So it says a lot for people at Glen Abbey.  They've done a fantastic job.Q. What about the weekend now?  You're going to be in one of those final groups.  You've been there many times.  You've got to be pumped up?BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, it's exciting.  Anytime you get in contention, it's always a positive week.  I'll be trying to do the best that I can.Q. Looking back at your year, you've really had a good year.  You haven't won, but a lot of top 10s and really consistent play.BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, that's what I'm looking for.  I'm looking to get in contention more often.  That's where I want to be and that's where I enjoy myself the most, so I'm really excited.Q. 65 yesterday, and 67 today.  What did you carry over from yesterday into the second round?BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, drove it well again, putted it well again, and I managed my game.  Still made a couple bogeys, but I came back nicely from both of them.  So I'm excited the way I'm playing, and I look forward to the weekend.Q. I just heard you singing the praises for this golf course.  What are your thoughts on the condition and how this golf course is playing?BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, Country and I were talking, my caddie, and we thought maybe this was the best conditioned course all year.  I think that's why the scores are so good.  The greens are rolling so, so nicely.  It's a real testament to Glen Abbey's staff.  They've done a great job.Q. With the golf course playing the way it is, what do you expect out of the rest of the field and yourself this weekend?BRIAN HARMAN: I think the wind will pick up a little bit today, and it's coming from a different direction tomorrow.  They'll let the greens firm up.  It's going to be tougher this weekend, I think.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT