DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2015
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH: We'll get started.  We'd like to welcome Brian Harman into the interview room here at the Deutsche Bank Championship fresh off a spectacular final round there last week.  Could we get you to comment on your performance at the Deutsche Bank, and specifically the two aces in one round.   
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, it was a good tournament.  Finished up nice.  Obviously the two par-3s helped.  I'm focused on this week, trying to prepare to get ready for this golf tournament.   
JOHN BUSH: No. 62 in the FedExCup standings.  Some work to do this week.  Just comment on your goals.   
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I was close to the Tour Championship last year, finished 34th or so.  I need a couple of big weeks, but that's what I'm gearing up for.   
JOHN BUSH: You're making your fourth start here at the Deutsche Bank Championship.  Talk about this golf course and how it suits your game.   
BRIAN HARMAN: I haven't played particularly well, but I do like the golf course.  I'm going to put in a little extra work this week, and see if I can't make a little noise.   
 Q.  I'm sure you've been asked this a thousand times, but what was your bar bill like?  
BRIAN HARMAN: It was steep, yeah.  New York City is not kind to the -- there's no drink specials in New York City, I'll tell you that much.   
 Q.  How many people --  
BRIAN HARMAN: It was actually -- it ended up being a lot tamer than what you would imagine.  My buddy, Hudson Swafford, Kevin Kisner, Ryan Palmer, we all went out with our wives.  It was a lot of fun we had a good time.   
 Q.  You had success at the Travelers in New England.  Is there anything similar to this course to that course?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I've always enjoyed -- a lot of the amateur golf we played in high school and college was played on this northern bentgrass, really good turf, and I enjoy playing golf on this turf.  Yeah, the courses up here suit me.  I think they're beautiful.  And down south this time of year it can get so humid that Bermuda is totally different.  It's a great time of year to be in the northeast.   
 Q.  Not a lot has been made about the different kinds of courses you play over the course of the playoffs.  How do you factor that in when you prepare from one event to another?  By the way, speaking on behalf of the media, thanks for the beer.  
BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, glad you guys enjoyed it.  Obviously we come to this course every year, but the Barclays is different.  But I think it gives it a little bit more of a major championship feel, because that's what happens in majors.  You get to the course and most of the guys have only been there once or not at all.  I think it's good for the playoffs because everyone is kind of on the same playing field.   
And we also have a deal to where you can't play the course the weekend before.  If this was a major championship there would be guys that would have come in early in the weekend and played all weekend to get ready.  And so the playoffs, I guess we have an agreement to where that doesn't happen.  Everyone is really on the same playing field, you could say.   
 Q.  What kind of reaction did you get from other players or whatever about the aces?  Was there anything funny?  
BRIAN HARMAN: Well, it's been a lot of fun.  And obviously we have a pretty tight knit group out here.  And all the guys are really friendly.  Anytime something happens that they think is cool, obviously they'll let you know about it.  If you win, there's a lot of people that come up and congratulate you.  It's the same kind of deal.   
 Q.  Were you able to mentally get over those two aces quickly, and especially this week, now, a lot of talk is going to be around those.  How quickly were you able to put those behind you?  
BRIAN HARMAN: I was obviously trying to hit the best shots I could, and obviously had some good results.  Both of those aces were to get back to even par for the day.  It wasn't like I was playing incredible golf.  I'm more concerned about trying to play the best golf I can this week.  And that's going to involve hitting a lot more good golf shots.   
JOHN BUSH: Brian Harman, thank you, sir.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT