JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2015
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about coming back here and defending your title.BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, this is a great tournament.  I'm thrilled to be back.  Obviously it's always going to be real special, being my first win, and I'm just excited to get the tournament going.  It's been a hectic week, but I welcome that, and I'm excited for my tee time tomorrow.Q. What's it going to be like when you hear that name, defending "JDC champ"?BRIAN HARMAN: It's going to be great, but you know, I'll be back to business after that first tee shot.  Like I said, I'm really excited.  We're going to have a fun day today out in the pro-am and be ready to get to work tomorrow.Q. You've played pretty well lately.BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, a couple weeks ago I had a real good chance.  You know, this is a new week.  I try not to look too much past this week.  Just got to try to focus on what I'm doing.Q. How hectic has this week been?BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, you know, it's been a little bit of a different experience.  Obviously I've never been defending champ anywhere, but like I said, I welcome that, and I'm happy to do it.Q. A lot of people are talking about other golfers.  Do you feel overlooked, and how do you approach that?BRIAN HARMAN: No, I don't.  I don't read too much into that.  I try to stick to my business, and I'll try to shoot the lowest score I can and see where it stacks up.Q. What's that like rolling it in and seeing your face up there on the billboard?  You know about the magic happening here?BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I didn't even notice it until my wife pointed it out this morning.  Yeah, it looks good.  I hear it's the best-looking billboard ever.  That's just hearsay.Q. You survived the Boys & Girls Club event all right?BRIAN HARMAN: Oh, that was great.  It's so good to work with those kids.  They just get so excited out there hitting those golf balls.  It's really cool to see.Q. What are your expectations for this week?BRIAN HARMAN: Just to try to hit every shot as best I can with the clearest mind I can.Q. Mentally when do you get to prepare?  You've been so busy doing other things.BRIAN HARMAN: Well, I've been thinking a lot about this tournament.  I've been thinking a lot about what it takes to win here, and obviously I've got some good experience around here.  I've played some good golf here.  Like I said, I'm excited to get going, and I'll see how my game plan turns out.Q. Have you seen the golf course much?BRIAN HARMAN: I went and played nine yesterday, and I was really surprised at how dry it was.  We had so much rain on Monday.  But it looks like it's going to be in good shape and hopefully it'll firm up and get real fast this weekend.Q. Did you reminisce a little bit about last year and the shots you hit?BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I played the back nine.  It was pretty cool walking up the -- I just kind of shared like a pride of my own on the 18th hole.  It was fun.  Yeah, it's really good to be back.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT