MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First experience, obviously I know you're focused on the score right now, but in general how did it feel getting through 18 when it mattered here?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Not great today, obviously.   I didn't really execute anything like I wanted to.   I drove it poorly, putted it poorly, just didn't quite have it today.   It was frustrating.   Today you wanted to have it and I just didn't.   I did my best.   I've been working hard, just not quite coming around yet.

Q.   You got Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus up there, hitting, and you guys get to the tee.   Now you've got the golf course to yourself, what's it like?
BRIAN HARMAN:   It was great.   You couldn't ask for a better tee time.   Tried to take advantage of it this morning.   But still very difficult, I felt.   You're kind of coming out of the tree, it's a lot more difficult than it has to be. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BRIAN HARMAN:   No, they did not come out. 

Q.   What did you see from Charley Hoffman?
BRIAN HARMAN:   His iron game was beautiful today.   He hit it in some good spots, made a couple of long putts, and really, really played nicely. 

Q.   Did you find out where not to hit it today?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I know where not to hit it.   I'm well aware, I just did it anyway. 

Q.   Was there something where you hoped to turn it on, maybe that birdie on No. 8?
BRIAN HARMAN:   No, made a decent bogey on 11.   Hit it in the water, got it up and down. 
Hit a great shot on 12 and made a birdie. 
A good look on 13, out of the right rough, came out and hit the water again. 
And almost birdied 14. 
The middle of the fairway on 15 and just knock it right on the green, really tough up and down.
So I really thought if I could have hit a better shot on 15 I maybe could have turned it around. 
And on 16 just hit bad golf shots.

Q.   How far was the putt on 12?   You were very close?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Two foot.

Q.   And the other birdie?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Six foot. 

Q.   So your approach now, do you just wing it, now, tomorrow, and get real aggressive or do you try to do everything you can to go low and make the cut?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I'll try to shoot the lowest number that I can.   I don't really know how the cut works around here.   I'll shoot the lowest number I can.   If it's good enough, if not‑‑

Q.   Did it feel different today with the crowds and the conditions?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, it's almost impossible to recreate tournament conditions on practice day.   There's no way to practice for the Masters other than playing in the Masters.

Q.   Did it live up to every expectation you had?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Of course.

Q.   The toughness?
BRIAN HARMAN:   It's spectacular. 

Q.   What are you going to do tonight, spend time on the putting green?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I'll go through my normal afternoon routine on the PGA Tour.   I'll fix some holes that I need to fix and that will be it.

Q.   On the tee shot on 17, was that a tree on the left side?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Hit a tree.

Q.   Charley hit a tree on his side, but it was a little better bounce. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I had a poor tee shot. 

Q.   Did the greens frustrate you, because it seems like you're coming up short?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I probably gave them a little bit too much respect there in some regards.   Yeah, I needed a couple or putts, but that's golf.

Q.   There was one you were right at the top of the slope and it didn't catch it?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, but that's golf.   You've got to hit a better shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT