THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2015
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You have to be happy with your performance this week.  BRIAN HARMAN: Yeah, I came in today really wanting to give them a push and got off to a good start, and I just couldn't get enough looks on my back nine.  Had some good up-and-downs for par.  I'm pleased with the way the week went.  I've got a little work to do on my putting.  Just couldn't quite get the speed right on the back nine, but played beautiful, struck it great, just a little unlucky coming in.   Q.  Jamie Donaldson said when we talked to him earlier, I knew I had to put up a low number today, especially with all the birdies at that we saw on Saturday.  You kind of said the same thing.  Does that change the way you attack this course when you know you have to be aggressive to get it done?  BRIAN HARMAN: Well, it was a little tougher today.  You really feel like you need to make birdies, but the greens are really baking out, they're really firm.  The speed is really tough to judge on all of them. I didn't necessarily think that it was going to take a crazy low number to get it done today.  I knew that a good, solid under-par round would have a chance.  I put myself in position, just putts didn't drop.   Q.  You played with Rory McIlroy on Sunday on the weekend a couple years ago.  What was the big difference?  Obviously world No. 1 now, a lot of fans out there for him.  What's it like?  Does it change really kind of the vibe of the round when you're playing with someone like that?  BRIAN HARMAN: Well, I was fortunate being a local guy, a lot of fans out there, too.  I've got all my family out here.  My brother came down and watched.  I felt the support of the crowd, as well.  Rory is a true gentleman, he's a pleasure to play with, and I really enjoyed it. I hope that last putt doesn't end up haunting me, but I don't think 8 or 9 is going to get it done.  I think it's going to be 10 or 11.  Got a really tough break on 16.  I hit a great shot in there on the second.  I guess it got a little lucky not to go in the water, but it was up against a tuft of grass and I had almost no play.  I knew when made a good par on 15, so I felt like I had a chance, especially the way 18 was going to play downwind.  Just couldn't get any putts to drop. If you're going to win a tournament, those putts have got to drop.  That's just what happens.   Q.  Overall what do you take away from this final round today?  BRIAN HARMAN: You know, obviously playing with Rory, he's if not the benchmark in golf right now, he's got four or five majors and wins almost every tournament he plays in, so to go toe to toe with him and be right there with him and have a chance to win this golf tournament on the same day was pretty cool.   Q.  What was your lie on 14?  BRIAN HARMAN: Oh, it was fine, we just misjudged the wind.  It just wasn't my day.  I'll get another chance.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT