JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2014
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRIAN HARMAN:   I knew Zach was coming.   Steve was playing well to start with.   I figured I needed to get after it, and I just made it happen on the back nine.   I don't know what else to say.   I just felt it and made some putts, and it was unbelievable.

Q.   The ball‑striking on the back nine was phenomenal, great shots at 11, 12, 13, the ball wouldn't go in.   I was getting a little concerned for you. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I asked my man Country, Scott Tway, to come over there and check one out on 15, and that was the one I felt like did it for me.   I knew I was in good shape after that.

Q.   You guys packed, have all your passports, everything you need?
BRIAN HARMAN:   We're packed, passport and jackets. 

Q.   You began the final round with a one‑shot lead, more importantly finished with that one‑shot lead.   What was the final day like for you with regards to nerves, emotions, confidence, trying to break through?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Whenever I got off the green I would just say, 10 holes left, nine holes left, eight holes left, and I knew that I was playing as good as I could, and I knew if I just hung in there and kept doing what I was doing I was going to have a chance at the end.   I had some putts go down on the back nine, and I couldn't be happier.

Q.   Why now?   Why was this your week to finally break through?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I've had a lot of chances this year and I learned from all those chances, and just to be able to close it out, especially with Zach playing such a good round, just sticking to my own game and pulling it out was pretty cool.

Q.   Bigger picture, 2014, young lady next to you, you said yes a few months ago.   What has she meant to your career and what does this do for you going forward?
BRIAN HARMAN:   She's my rock.   I've been down a bunch.   I was down last year when we first got together and I was down, and she always built me up and always believed in me and helped me believe in myself. 

Q.   Do you have your passport and are you ready for the Open Championship?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Passport and jackets.   I'm heading across the pond. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT