THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 24, 2014
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Brian, solid Friday afternoon, 3‑under to go with your 5 yesterday.   Your thoughts heading into the weekend.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah.   I'm excited.   I let a couple get away today.   I felt a little sloppy, but I finished well.   I had a nice couple up‑and‑down, chip‑in, 15, 16.   So I ended the day well.   I hit some great shots today.  
Just going to try to keep getting it a little tighter and try to hang in there a little while longer.  
   
 Q.   Talk me through the middle of the round there.   It seemed like every time you made a birdie, you gave one back on the very next hole.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah.   That's kind of what I referred to about being a little sloppy.   Short game just wasn't quite where it needed to be.   
A couple drives‑‑ you know, here you're penalized so much for poor drives, and I hit a couple that were just a little uncharacteristic, so I'm just going to really think about those and try to figure out exactly‑‑ I'm glad that I finished with some really good tee shots to give me a little momentum going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Certainly 16, of course, there's trouble looming in every direction down there, but the chip‑in that was I think most of it is how well you strike the ball.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah.   That's a hole, it's just so tough, it's into the wind.   I actually looked up at the scoreboard and saw where some guys had 80 or 90 yards, so I guess the wind flipped at some point today.   We were having to aim way over there to the right.   It's a great golf hole.  
So fortunate to get a good lie in that rough.   The chip on the hole before had a good chance to go in, so I was glad to see that one find the bottom.  
   
 Q.   So wise position heading into the weekend, you look like you're the low local at the moment.   Does that add a little bit of extra pressure or is that a little bit of extra excitement I guess?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I'll be playing with‑‑ hopefully I'll be playing with my good buddy Russell.   He was actually a local here for a while.   He lived here for a little while before he moved back to Charleston.   I'm just going to try to hit the best tee shots and the best iron shots and try to make a few putts and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Bulldog shootout over the weekend?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I hope so.   That would be a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Brian, a strong finish out there gets you in with a 67.   What do you take away from your second round?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, it was good.   Played well most of the day.   I had a couple of just kind of loose bogeys that I wish I had back, but I finished well.   Should have some momentum going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Take me through what happened on 16 with the chip‑in.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I got very fortunate.   It was out of the bunker.   It was in the rough and it was sitting up a little bit, so I knew I could get some spin on the ball, and that particular shot is into the grain.   
You know, I hit a really good shot, but obviously I got lucky to get it to where it was.  
   
 Q.   There's a chance you'll be paired with Russell Henley tomorrow who's currently 9‑under and leading.   What would that be like if you're in the same group?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   That would be great.   Russell is a good buddy of mine.   We were best buddies in college, still really good friends.   Got to go to a football game with him earlier this year, Georgia/Tennessee game.   "Free Gurley."   So hopefully I get paired with him.   I like playing with him.   We've played a lot of golf together.  
   
 Q.   All right.   We'll see you out there on Saturday.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT