THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 23, 2014
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How many times did you play SECs here?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Twice.   My first two years SECs were here, and then my junior and senior year were at Frederica Golf Club.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about your round today, Brian.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   I struck it nice, got some putts to go in.   I think statistically which is one of the hardest plays to putt on TOUR.   The grain is very difficult to read here.  
I was pleased to make some 10‑ to 15‑footers, some nice mid‑range putts, and when you feel like you're rolling it well you don't have to be quite as aggressive coming into the green, so I was playing a lot of shots to the fat side of the green and just gave myself good looks and was fortunate enough to make a few of them.  
   
 Q.   Do you ever get any good‑natured kidding from some of your former teammates or other Georgia guys about when it this bug dog going to win a tournament?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I did win.   So they don't kid me anymore.  
   
 Q.   Which one was that?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   John Deere.  
   
 Q.   Oh, that's right.   I was off most of the summer.   Are you getting any good‑natured winning about when you're going to win again?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   There you go.  
   
 Q.   I apologize for that?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I'll take some good natured from Davis.   His line.  
   
 Q.   What do you think the commonality is between the Georgia guys and the success they've had the last four or five years?   What's going on?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   We all hit it good and we all putt it good.   It works out here.  
   
 Q.   Is it something that helped at college that you guys developed there?   Is Chris that good a coach?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I think that win the ball gets rolling at a certain college and you're kind of seeing it at Alabama now, that good players want to go play with other good players, and it all happened to be timed up right at Georgia.  
We had a lot of good players starting with Kevin Kisner that began kind of the whole deal at Georgia and we were all good friends and we all ended up playing together, and I think it's more of a coincidence that we all ended up at Georgia and all out here at the same time, but it's a nice coincidence.  
   
 Q.   Do you push each other at all?   Kind of along the lines of his questions.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   You know, we did in college for sure.   We were definitely on each other in college, but as we've gotten older, most of us have families, it's all kind of a personal thing now.   Obviously I've got 140 other guys I have to compete against.   I'm not just worried about beating Harris or Brendon or Kirk or all those guys.   
But yeah, it definitely helps, knowing that those guys are going to be playing well.   I think y'all make it out to be a lot more than we do.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of family, when is the wedding?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   December 13th out at Frederica we're getting married.  
   
 Q.   Any particular‑‑ where's the honeymoon?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   St. John's, U.S. Virgin Islands.   Going to go for three or four nights, hang out, come back and start getting ready to go to Maui.  
   
 Q.   How hard is it to keep the personal life separate from golfing goals here?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, Kelly comes with me probably 60 to 70 percent of the time.   So it's not really separated.   It's my life, my golf life is a very personal life, and I try to include as many people as I can in it, so I don't separate it.   You know, sometimes it carries over.   Sometimes, you know, I'm still mad when I get home.   But playing well helps.  
   
 Q.   During what off season you get, which won out, the golf practice or the wedding, personal things?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Deer hunting and fishing won out this past off season as opposed to practicing.   This wrap‑around season has made it tough to really get away and heal up, and that's my outlet to get away from the game.  
   
 Q.   Go on any good trips?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I killed a nice nine‑point on Saturday morning, and a buddy of mine and I won the red bone tournament, in‑shore fishing tournament a couple of weeks ago.   So we've done it all.  
   
 Q.   I should know this, how long have you worked for Jack?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Since I was 11.  
   
 Q.   So it's been a while?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, been a long time.  
   
 Q.   So you came up from Savannah a lot?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I came down here a pretty good bit.  
   
 Q.   Outside of Davis, does anyone else know this golf course as well as you?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, Chris Kirk knows it pretty well.   He played one more SEC here than I did.   I don't know if he knows it any better.   He might play it a little bit better so far.  
Davis certainly knows it.   Tommy Gainey probably knows it pretty well.   He's got the course record.  
   
 Q.   Do the greens make you more cautious?   Do you wind up leaving some short because you might be a little bit concerned about what happens when the ball goes by the hole?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   You know, it's a little odd this week because we're used to these greens not being this fast, so you've played here a hundred times with it being one speed and it gets here and it's a completely different tournament speed.   That might be actually a little bit of a disadvantage sometimes because you're accustomed to certain putts not running out and now they are, so it's definitely an adjustment to be made whereas if someone doesn't play a lot, they come here, they just know the greens as one speed.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel any different now that you do have a win playing out here?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, feels a lot different.  
   
 Q.   How so?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   A little more sense of belonging.   I felt like I belonged before and I knew that I was capable, but it just reaffirms all the things that I wanted to do, and obviously I don't want to be done with just one.   I want to try to win a lot of tournaments.   
But I'm very pleased‑‑ I was very pleased to get that one out of the way.  
   
 Q.   How much experience do you have on the other course?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Plantation?   A good bit.   We had the polo tournament down here, junior tournament.   I play over there a bunch.  
   
 Q.   Do you?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah.   It's a great golf course.   It's really good.   I mean I'm not so sure that the stroke average would be any lower over there than it is Seaside, or any higher, however you want to say it.  
   
 Q.   Percentage of rounds between those two courses, which one do you think you play more?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Probably pretty equal because whenever Seaside is crowded, plantation is pretty open.   Whenever Plantation is crowded, I play Rose.   Less amount of people.  
   
 Q.   5‑under to open things up for Brian Harman.   Brian how were you able to get it clicking early out there today?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I was a little nervous to start with.   I hadn't played a tournament in a long time, since the BMW, so feels good to get out there and make some putts.   Got off to a little bit of a shaky start and finally freed up and made some good swings, made some putts and felt really good.  
   
 Q.   You're a local guy.   You've got about a five‑minute commute this week.   What's it like?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   It's great.   It's the only tournament of the year I get to sleep in my own bed, which is pretty awesome.   Not a lot of guys get to do that.   So I'm fortunate to be lucky enough to live down here, and even more fortunate to have a tournament in my backyard.  
   
 Q.   How comfortable are you playing at your home course this week?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   There's a lot going on.   I got a lot of family that comes down, and you can either see that as a distraction or embrace it, and I'm trying to embrace it and have everyone out here, and everyone's having a good time.   It works especially well when you start playing well and you can feel everyone rooting you on and really wanting you to do well.  
   
 Q.   You certainly embraced it with 18 in the books.   
Brian, lovely start to the day.   5‑under par.   Looked like you did everything you were supposed to.   Kind of hung in at the start when you didn't quite have it and then really got it going on the Back 9.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, like I was just saying, I was nervous starting.   It has been a while since I played a golf tournament.   Took the first two tournaments off.   Just wasn't quite ready to go, so I wasn't quite sure how things were going to go.  
It was windy, it was cold this morning, it was tough conditions, and I just out lasted it and finally started getting comfortable and playing better and finished.  
   
 Q.   Obviously this is a home tournament for you.   How hard is it for you to stay in your traditional tournament routine?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   It's definitely different.   It's actually a little nice.   You get to sleep in a little bit later than you normally would.   It is a little different, but this is the third year that I've played this tournament, so I'm starting to get more used to it.  
   
 Q.   This year, obviously after last year's wonderful year with a tournament win, expectations obviously can be a trap.   What are we looking at for the rest of the year?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I feel like that's golf in a nutshell; hard work and managing expectations.   Obviously after you win, you kind of feel invincible for a little while, feel like you gotta win every week.   So just doesn't turn out, there's so many factors that go into it.   So work hard, see what happens, do your best and stay patient.   That's what I'm trying to do.  
   
 Q.   And a wedding and a little trip to Augusta in April.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   I got plenty of distractions, that's for sure.   It's been nice.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT