RBC HERITAGE
April 19, 2014
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   General thoughts on the round. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I played great.   I got off to kind of a low start, but catching in play out there I hit a bunch of greens.   Just the one hiccup on 17.   But other than that pretty happy.   Putted well. 
I think the wind is supposed to blow tomorrow, should be fun.

Q.   What do you take away and what do you tell yourself tonight to bring out the positives tomorrow in the final round?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I was proud of the way I handled it on 17.   I could have gotten real mad and made a mess of 18.   But this course is testing you all day.   So many different shots you've got to hit.   You've got to stay patient. 

Q.   You've talked about what Scotty means to you.   An intense conversation after the round, care to share some insight on that?
BRIAN HARMAN:   He's a very intellectual man.   So whenever he sees me doubting what I'm about to do, he makes me explain it.   So I explained to him what I'm trying to do with the golf shots.   We work as a really good team.

Q.   Did having two Major winners in your pairing, did that affect you at all?   A little more excitement?   You had a long day today, 31 holes.   Did that help you in any way get pumped up?
BRIAN HARMAN:   It's always good to play with guys that have been there, kind of watch what they do.   I was trying to beat them, just like I'd beat anybody else in this tournament.

Q.   Did you know them at all?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I think I played with Martin once, never played with Graeme.   But they were delightful.

Q.   How do you go to first tee tomorrow not getting wrapped up in right there for your first win, playing the home crowd.   How do you get everything out of your head and just go play golf?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I think I'll just think about what that first tee shot is doing, where the wind is going.   I mean that's‑‑ yeah, I want all those things.   I want to win.   I want to contend.   The only way to do that is to hit good golf shots.   So if I stay focused on that I think I'll be okay.

Q.   Kind of neat, though, having those folks out there today?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, it's great.   My whole family.   My fiance's family.   It was great.

Q.   Heard a lot of "Go Dogs," I know that. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yes, that's great. 

Q.   Talk about the four birdies, if you would.   After yesterday I guess you now like 14 a lot?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, playing 14 well.   I watched Graeme hit it in the water there.   To be able to shake a shot and hit it in there close was pretty cool.

Q.   So was it‑‑ I'm trying to remember‑‑ 7, 10, the birdies?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, one was a two‑putt.

Q.   5, 6, 10 and 14?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I made a long putt on 6.

Q.   Kind of rattled in?
BRIAN HARMAN:   10, knocked it in there close.   14, knocked it in close.   So, yeah, this was a pretty clean day, other than the one hiccup on 17.

Q.   And so with the way it's been working, you didn't do what we call the marsh or the bog or the muck?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, the muck, whatever you want to call it, where you don't want to be.   Yeah, I was trying to hit an 8‑iron, I need to hit it good.   That wind is kind of teetering between east and northeast, and it just kind of stood up.   I was just trying to hit it straight and I blocked it a little bit and it was trying to draw back into the wind, it got stood up and got killed.

Q.   The wind was going right‑to‑left pretty hard?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, we had a little bit of help there.   Like I said, it just‑‑ if there was any help it was very little.   My ball was drawing up against it.   I picked the wrong shot for that hole.

Q.   You went to what they call the drop area?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, take a penalty, knock it in, two‑putted.   Just got to take your medicine at that point. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT