JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2014
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   Like to welcome Brian Harman, our third round leader here at the John Deere Classic.   Kind of take us through the round today and your thoughts going into tomorrow and then we'll have a few questions.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, today was great.   I struck it well.   Just really looking forward to tomorrow and keep hitting it good and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   What is your experience with the last group on the final day?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   I haven't played one.  
   
 Q.   How much are you looking forward to that?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, it should be fun.   It's better than not playing in the last group.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that playing with someone (Indiscernible) this course will help you?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I pay attention to what he's doing, but I'm not basing any of my decisions on what he does, so only thing I do is watch golf balls in the air to see which way the wind is blowing and things like that.   I feel like I've had a pretty good game plan all week, and I'm just going to stick with it.  
   
 Q.   No intimidation factor?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Obviously, he knows how to win here, so the worst I can do is learn a lesson, I guess.  
   
 Q.   How much does it help to play in the final group to see what your main competition is?   How much is that going to help you tomorrow?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, like I said, I probably won't be really paying attention to what anybody else is doing.   Paying attention to other guys isn't going to help me shoot a low score.   So I'll just be trying to figure out exactly what I need to do and try to hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens and make a putt or two.  
   
 Q.   I think you had over 150 feet of made putts today.   Just talk about just the putter?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I made two long ones that made up for most of it.   I had a lot of really good looks.   I was really more proud of my ball striking today.   I had some really good chances and hit some really good shots.   Just a good time with the putter to really get it dialed in.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I'm going back and forth in between it and the short putter pretty much all year.   But just kind of whatever I feel like that week.   I mean, I've putted a little bit with the belly putter in college and I made it to the TOUR with the short putter.   I had a chance in Memphis this year putting with the short putter, so I don't feel like it matters a whole lot.  
   
 Q.   Which putter were you using?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   The same putter I have now.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a number in mind that you want to get to tomorrow?   Are you going to watch the scoreboard at all?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   I mean, there is really no telling.   The wind could pick up and blow 30 tomorrow without anyone knowing, and it might take 10‑under to win.   You just never know.   I'm going to try to shoot the lowest score I possibly can.   If it's good enough, great.   If not, I'll be chilling on the boat next week.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I brought my passport.  
   
 Q.   We've got two guys in here that have won four times here in the last several years.   Do you think about that, just how fierce the competition is to keep your mind off what you're doing?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, well, they've played this tournament a lot more times than I have, so they've had a lot more chances on TOUR.   I'll give it my best tomorrow and we'll see if it's good enough.  
   
 Q.   Did you draw on anything from two years ago?   You were kind of in a similar position here two years ago.   Do you think about that?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I got to watch Zach win this golf tournament.   I was right there, and I felt like I was playing well enough to win a couple years ago, and it just didn't happen.   So, yeah, every experience you have like that is something you can draw from, for sure.  
   
 Q.   Does having the kind of success that you've had here make you want to keep coming back?   It seems as though you look at the guys that are on top of the leaderboard, they've been finishing here in recent years.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I don't see any reason not to come play this golf tournament.   I love this part of the country.   They have great beef here.   I love red meat.   It's got more of a small town‑‑ kind of reminds me of where I grew up, so it's not like a big city or anything, so I really enjoy that.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I did not.   I was over doing a tournament with Gregg Ontiveros for Group O.   He had his big outing for the Boys & Girls Club, so I was over there helping out with that.  
   
 Q.   Where do you get your red meat at?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   I've been eating at Juniors every night.   They've had some of the best prime rib or Duck City, Chop House is unbelievable.   Duck City I've eaten at too.   It's all good.   They have cows right around the corner so (laughing).  
   
 Q.   Do you think about renegotiating your deal with Jay?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   You know, Jay, for pulling a guy out of the crowd, how lucky to get such a great guy to do that.   But my man Scott, he's a pro.   He's been doing this for a long time.   So as much as I enjoyed having Jay on the bag, I'm glad to have Scotty back.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you'll send him a check?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   I've got his address (laughing).  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about (Indiscernible)?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I haven't played well the last couple weeks.   I've been really pressing and trying to just do too much.   Actually, my fiance and I decided to drive home from the Greenbrier, which is about a ten‑hour drive.   So just coming over here and hanging out for a couple more days I got some good work in and felt like I kind of found it a little bit.   To get off and play well Thursday kind of confirmed it.   I had a really good mindset.   It was nice to reset and it's just been very enjoyable.  
   
 Q.   Was there a point in the round today where you felt like you had the putting stroke working?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   It was kind of odd because I made a couple early, so I felt really good and then I kind of went into a little bit of a lull kind of mid round.   It looked like I made a lot of putts, because I made two long ones.   But I missed‑‑ gosh, I missed a bunch that I had inside 15 feet a bunch of times today and hit them really close.   So I felt like if I could have gotten a couple more of those to go, I could have hit a low one today.   But I'll save a few for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   It seems like guys played (No audio) this game better.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   It's always good to watch a couple putts go in.   Yeah, I mean, a guy making a lot of putts doesn't hurt, for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT