NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2014
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   2‑under for 6‑under after two rounds, are you thrilled with where you are? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, birdied the last three today, really didn't have much going on and just kept telling myself that something good was going to happen.   Definitely didn't expect to birdie the last three but been putting well so I'm excited for the weekend.

Q.   Talk about the last birdie?
BRIAN HARMAN:   It was great.   I mean, that last tee shot is just‑‑ No.9 tee shot is so tough.   I can't quite carry that bunker on the left so I had to play it out to the right a little bit.   Caught a good lie in the rough and just tried to hit a high 9‑iron and the putt was pretty straight, and it looked pretty good the whole way. 

Q.   You started out on the 10th hole in round two, looked like you were having some real decision problems in your second shot?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I laid it up too close.   I tried to smooth a 5‑wood off a tee and as often happens, you hit it right in the middle and it goes too far.   I actually probably hit it in about the worst spot you can be on that hole to that flag.   We're trying to figure out whether we play it short left or try to fly it toward the back of the green, and I got kind of lucky there with that ball stop but that's a great golf hole.

Q.   Pleased with how you played? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I'm pleased with the way I finished and the way I hung in there.   I could have packed it in early but I didn't and I stuck with it. 

Q.   No. 10, what's your overall strategy?
BRIAN HARMAN:   That's a secret, I can't tell you that.   We got two more days left.   I'll tell you Sunday afternoon.

Q.   Your putting, what do you attribute that to?
BRIAN HARMAN:   The last few weeks I really haven't putted well and so just kind of a rededication to getting back to where‑‑ doing my drills and doing everything that I need to get ready to putt well, and so just trying to make good putts. 

Q.   The sight lines on some of these tee shots out here‑‑
BRIAN HARMAN:   So many different shots to play off the tee boxes‑‑ the ball runs so much further. 

Q.   Do you think somebody else might try to copy what you're doing‑‑‑‑
BRIAN HARMAN:   Everyone's got a different opinion about it.

Q.   What are your goals this year on the course? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   You know, I've kind of gone back and forth‑‑ of course earn wants to win a tournament so my goal is to win, not to give shots away, just stay in the moment and just not give anything away because everyone out here is too good to give away shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT