WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2013
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How tough was it?
BRIAN HARMAN:   It was hard.   I mean they had to do what they had to to get some pins on the greens so we could play and thank goodness we had a little bit of break in the weather.   I'm just so happy we got to finish today.   It was a lot of fun out there.   At the same time it was a bear.   It was really hard.

Q.   At what point did you get into the round and say, "Hey, we might actually get this in?"
BRIAN HARMAN: You know, we were walking up, walking up 16, I guess, say, "Well, heck, every step we take is one further than I thought we were going to make it today so it's all good from here."

Q.   I talked to your parents in the gallery out there.   Nice of them to come up and buy your mom a steak tonight.   That's what she wants.   How nice is it to have them here?
BRIAN HARMAN:   It's great.   They left at 3:00 a.m. from Savannah to come up here.   I come from good stock.   I don't know what happened to me but they're sure all right.

Q.   You're in contention again on the PGA TOUR going into a Sunday.   What did you learn from today, what have you learned from the year that you're going to take into the final round?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I had a couple chances out there where I felt myself trying to hold on to what I had.   Let's let it go and see what happens.   I had some good stuff happen.   I'm going to just continue to do that, just free wheel it, be myself and see what happens.

Q.   Be nice to take a trophy back to Sea Island.
BRIAN HARMAN:   Sure would.   We'll see what happens.

Q.   What about the outlook for tomorrow, with everybody so bunched up, what's the approach?
BRIAN HARMAN:   You play every shot on its merits and try to make as low a score as you can on every hole and see where it puts you at the end.   You've got 18 more holes left.   That's all you can focus on.

Q.   You have to show a lot of patience in the final round?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Especially when the weather is bad and the pins are tucked really tough.   It can be frustrating because you can hit really good shots and end up 30, 40 feet away from the hole.   That happened to me a few times today. 
I'm sure it will happen to a lot of guys tomorrow and for the rest of today.   Like you said, stay patient and take your opportunities and hopefully you make one more putt than the second place guy.

Q.   You've played up here before.
BRIAN HARMAN:   Foot Joy Boys.   AJJ was big part of my life.   I played the mini tour events up here, too.   I love it up here.   I love this part of the country.   It's always fun coming back.

Q.   You know all the people, the restaurants and things to do here?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I'm a homebody.   I eat at the hotel every night.   I don't do all the crazy stuff.   I'll take my parents out tonight and relax.   I'm exhausted.

Q.   Did you feel a week like this coming?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I played well in Tahoe and changed a few things about how I was kind of approaching the game and I would have seen a round like this as kind of a burden, you know, just kind of hoping that I played well and not going out there and attacking and so I'm just trying to have some more fun and kind of play like I did when I was a kid.

Q.   More of an attitude adjustment than --
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah.   I've been hitting it pretty well.   Haven't gotten a whole lot out of it.   Just trying to enjoy the game a little bit more.   You're not guaranteed to play in the next tournament so got to take it for what it's worth. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT