CIMB CLASSIC
October 25, 2012
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good round, 64 today.   Just talk a little bit about your round. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I got off to a good start, birdied the third hole and never really looked back.   Putted well all day, drove it well.   It's a beautiful golf course.   I got it in before the real heat set in, so I'm happy with it.

Q.   What was the key for you out there today? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I think I putted really well today and just was seeing my lines really well.   Every time I missed the green, I missed it in the right spot and was able to get up‑and‑down.

Q.   You made three birdies during the round.   Was that the turning point for you?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I had a really good up‑and‑down on 6 or 7, par‑3, and it really kept my round going.   After that I felt a little more comfortable, kind of settled down, and I played well from there.

Q.   Did you expect to finish 7‑under today? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   You know, I try to not have any expectations when I show up and just try to play the best that I possibly can and not think about numbers or think about how many under you are. 
I've been able to have some low rounds this year on TOUR and just when I get it going, when the putter gets going, I usually play well.

Q.   So your plan for tomorrow? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Just to‑‑ I'm sure I'll be playing a little bit later, so maybe sleep in a little bit, then an early workout and try to feel as comfortable as I can by the time I tee off.

Q.   What do you think about your season so far on the PGA TOUR this year?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I've had a good year, had a good run in the Playoffs.   This is my rookie year on TOUR, so I thought I handled it pretty well.

Q.   This is your first time coming to this event in Malaysia.   Did you have any expectations?
BRIAN HARMAN:   It's a beautiful country.   I've enjoyed every minute of it so far, and everyone has been so gracious and so nice and welcoming, and it's been fun.

Q.   What do you think of the golf course?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I think it's good.   It's a good test.   There's some birdies out there if you hit it well.   If not, there's a lot of trouble. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT