JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2012
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You hit a shot today with your shoes off.   Hit a shot with the snakes probably on the back of your heels over at 9, and yet you got it around in 69. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I was awful proud of that one out of the water.   Actually came out and had a little bit of spin.   Sat right on top of a‑‑ I don't know if it was a lilly pad or what it was.   As you can see, I'm still kind of dirty from it. 
But, yeah, I played really well.   Got a couple bad breaks, and I figure if I'd made a few putts today I would be right in there.   If the putts start dropping, I think I'll be all right. 

Q.   16 and 17 were putts you had a shot.   The putt was just off the edge of the green at 16. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, yeah, I missed one on 14; hit a really good shot on 12.   I had a bunch of putts that just kind of lipped over the edge.   I made a mess of 9.   Other than that, had a really good day.

Q.   Ball‑striking you feel good about?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, ball‑striking is good.   Hit just a couple loose shots today.   I'll tighten that up tomorrow and make a few more putts and see if we can scare 'em. 

Q.   Only missed two greens.   Get the putts to drop you're back in it. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   That's right. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
BRIAN HARMAN:   It was a little bit different than what I thought when I stepped in there.   There is some something in that pond I was trying to get off my clothes all day. 
I don't know how the ball stayed where it was.   It was on top of like some algae or a lilly pad or something.   I was able to get a club on it.   I was pretty proud of that shot.   That was kind of fun. 
I've already done that about three or four times this year, so I'm getting a little better at it.

Q.   Overall a sold round.   You're right there.)
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I hit it good.   If I just made a few more putts.   I made a couple good ones.   Had it going on front for a while and made a mess of 9. 
But for my first time in real contention, I felt like I handled myself pretty well.   I'm proud of that. 

Q.   What is your game plan for tomorrow?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Make lots of birdies and no bogeys.   That's my plan. 

Q.   You want to get this one, right?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I do.   This one would be awesome.   I want to play the British, I want to get in the Masters, I want to get into Maui.   I got all these things in my mind, but it's still just one shot at a time. 
Best way to win a tournament is (indiscernible.)

Q.   You mentioned the other day you like the area a lot.   You're in serious contention out here. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, wish it was a little bit cooler.   Pretty hot out there.   Yeah, everyone around here has been so supportive. 
Got a bunch fans out there.   Not as much as Stricker or Zach, but I'm working on it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT