JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2012
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First off, talk a little bit about the delay, if that had anyaffect.   Obviously didn't have any affect on the way you finished, but just talk about playing there and then having to go out. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, it's tough.   It's part of being the rookie tee times we get.   We're the last ones.   We're the ones that are going to get the worst of the weather.
Yeah, they're just trying to keep us safe.   It was right on top of us there for a minute, so we definitely had to come in.   But they let us hit balls before we went out, so it wasn't a big deal. 

Q.   Right at the top of the leaderboard now.   Especially after a chip‑in like that to get you close up there, talk about your feelings going into the weekend.
BRIAN HARMAN:   I feel good.   Feel good about my game.   I stayed real patient today.   Was a little antsy to start out.   Just really wanted to get it going.   Made a nice birdie on No. 12, my third hole.   Just played good, solid golf.   Didn't try to do anything crazy.   Made a couple putts and just played well.

Q.   Anything in particular working for you, or just all‑around game? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   No, just all around.   Everything is just pretty good.   Been putting pretty good.   Hitting my driver well.   Staying in play.   Not anything crazy.   That's what you got to do out here.   You know you're going to make some birdies.   It's just all about not giving a lot of 'em back. 

Q.   Talk about the chip‑in on 9. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I thought I hit some really good shots on 7 and 8.   Didn't close out birdies there, and so that's just the course paying me back there.

Q.   What's your mindset going into tomorrow? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I mean, I play golf tournaments to try to win 'em.   Obviously a rookie I haven't locked up my TOUR card yet.   Obviously the knee‑jerk response is let's see if we can hang on and see if we can get a good finish out of it. 
I've never been like that and I don't expect to be like that at all. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT