JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2012
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did the course play out there today?   Was it watered a lot?   Was it soft?   Was it firm out there?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Greens are soft, but they roll really well.   The fairways are still pretty form.   I think it'll keep firming up as the week goes on.   Look for a big finish on Sundays.

Q.   You're a rookie, first time here.   What do you think the course, the venue?
BRIAN HARMAN:   I love this place.   Got some great food around here.   Golf course is really easy to get nut and out of.   It's a great track.
I'm from the south, so it's kind of nice being back in this hot weather and hearing some accents kind of like mine.

Q.   Did you play with guy from this area out at Pebble in the pro‑am?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, Gregg Ontiveros, Group O is a local company here, so he's out and got the full support out here.   It's been really fun.   I was here a couple weeks ago for an outing Boys & Girls Club, so, you know, getting to know this area little bit better.   Everyone has kind of taken me in as their own.   It's been fun.

Q.   Have you seen him this week, hung out at all?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, we've been eating dinner together and hung out out at Group O yesterday.   Hanging out with the company and seeing everything and seeing what's going on.

Q.   First off, just your start to the day, did you get off to a good start and get comfortable?
BRIAN HARMAN:   No, I got off to a terrible start.   I bogeyed the 1st hole and I bogeyed No. 5.   So I was 1‑over through six.   Wasn't playing well.
Like I said, I guess I knew that I had‑‑ I was swinging well and felt good.   Birdied the last three holes on the front nine and was just kind of off and running from there.

Q.   Any one of those birdies get you going?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I made a really good shot on 7, a long par 3.   Good shot in there to about 20 feet and made it right in the middle, and that's what kind of jump started me there.

Q.   How about the back nine?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Back nine I think I hit every fairway and every green and just made putts.   Hit it close twice and made two good ones, so just really, really sound golf on the back nine.

Q.   I know someone asked you about Ted winning last week, left‑handers kind of coming out this time of the year?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I mean, I've been watching right‑handers my whole life, so I forget I'm left‑handed.   It was good to see Ted win.   He's a buddy of mine and I was pulling for him.
Just ready to get my own, I guess.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT