THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2012
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me everything you can tell me about that shot on 8?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Oh, man, pretty fortunate, I got relief off the cart path.   I dropped it and looked at my caddie and I said, man, I can't believe I dropped it into that lie right there. 
But I had a little gap through the trees and had plenty of green to work with.   When it hit the green, I was like, well damn, that one looks all right. 
As it got closer and I was like, there's no way that thing is missing.   That was really cool.   That was awesome.

Q.   What club did you use? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Lob‑wedge.

Q.   And what was it like getting the high‑fives and the reaction from the crowd?
BRIAN HARMAN:   It was great.   My caddie said a guy was behind him and threw his beer up in the air and spilled all over him. 
That's why you play the game.   That's why we're out here; and to have that kind of support, and to have those guys freaking out, it was awesome.   It was awesome.   I'll go right back over and buy them another beer. 

Q.   This ride you've been on the last couple of days, a little bit of a roller coaster. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, yesterday was tough.   It was tough, and I got off to not an awesome start today.   I was struggling.   Wasn't in a good frame of mind.   Hit a really good shot on 2.   Hit a big, high hybrid that stopped 15 feet from the hole and I made it for eagle.   It was my first under‑par score of the day and that just gave me a little bit of confidence, and I just rode it all the way in, capped by that nonsense shot on 8. 

Q.   Do you feel like more people are cheering for you and calling your name the last couple of days? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, it's been good.   I got some fans yesterday.   I saw on Twitter there was a "free Brian Harman" movement.   That was awesome.   I thought that was hilarious.

Q.   What was it like having two partners to play with?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I had a lot of people from the crowd hollering out, "What's up, Solo."
I said, "Yeah, found me some friends today.   I was telling everybody yesterday, I was the Ty Cobb of golf, out there playing by myself.
I really wanted to get into my own little deal out there, and you know, for me, this is a major.   I feel like this is the fifth major and I wanted to be out there, just me and the golf course.

Q.   What did you learn about yourself today, being 2‑over for the tournament and then being able to rally, not only make the cut, but get to 3‑under and really put yourself in prime contention?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I've had a decently‑streaky year so far.   So I know that I have good streaks in me.   I was just hoping that one was going to show up before the day ended.   So I was fortunate that I got to play well in those last eight holes and turned out well.

Q.   Talk about the birdie on 9, because sometimes it's difficult, you make an unbelievable shot and then you kind of maybe lose focus a little bit but you obviously didn't have that happen. 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I had all intentions of laying up on that hole from the tee box.   I was just going to play it safe out to the left and lay it up and say, all right, we have been on a roller coaster the last two days, let's make sure nothing crazy happens on this hole.   I hit a great drive down the left side.   I look at my caddie, we have 240 to the front edge, and I'm like, man, I can't lay this 1‑up.   I'm like, oh, I've got to send it here. 
I got a fortunate break and it stopped right on top of the bunker, and it was a pretty decent up‑and‑down.

Q.   You and John, having the extra time by yourself yesterday‑‑
BRIAN HARMAN:   It was awesome.   It was awesome.   John is always ‑‑ not only is he my caddie, but he's one of my good friends.   We had an awesome day yesterday.   It was a lot of fun.   Had a lot of support out there.   It's been an awesome golf tournament so far. 

Q.   Were you playingping‑pong ‑‑
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, I think he was up 15‑13 in our sixth game, my caddie. 

Q.   Did you resume that game?
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, we went back.   He stuck me.   He got me. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit more about 2, like how that hole developed for you? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I had been pretty close to the hole all day and just had not made anything but made some really good pars, and hit it‑‑ I actually bogeyed 2 from the middle of the fairway yesterday, going for it in two, and I just hit a really good hybrid and it got up there and stopped, finally had one stop on the green out here and I was able to make a putt.   I putted a lot better today, it was a big difference. 
I made some 6‑footers today.   I've been working on them all week.

Q.   How has that been working out? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I've been pretty successful working on those. 

Q.   How was the pace playing with two guys yesterday and trying to maintain that, as opposed to hold steady by yourself? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yesterday was a little eerie starting out.   I get to my ball and I'm like, oh, okay, now it's my turn again.   So today I was in a little bit better rhythm.   But I still enjoyed playing by myself.   It was still really cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT