AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2012
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What were the keys to your round today? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I finally got some confidence out there.   I got off to a good start.   I started really good.   My caddie and I were talking a lot out there.   I had great partners.   My partners today were awesome.   So they made me feel really comfortable. 
I like this golf course.   It's one of those places where if you go out and hit it well, you're going to have a lot of good looks at it.   It's firm and fast.   You've really got to think your way around it.   I really enjoyed playing it.

Q.   So playing with the amateurs doesn't really bother you? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   No, it doesn't.   I love playing golf.   Golf gives you the opportunity to meet people.   I just see it as I get to meet two new guys.   And our guys were awesome, they really were.   They kept up.   They played fast.   Like I said, the guys that I played with back at home, a lot of those guys they keep up and they're good guys.   That kind of stuff.

Q.   Have you played Pebble before? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I played Monday for the first time.   What an unbelievable golf course.   I grew up on the water, so obviously being next to the ocean has a special place for me.   Just being able to look out and think of going fishing with my dad and stuff like that.   It's really awesome, really awesome.

Q.   So you came up the last couple of years on the eGolf Tour.   Talk about that progression of playing eGolf to getting through Q‑school? 
BRIAN HARMAN:   I think eGolf is a great Tour.   If gives guys that missed Q‑school, like I did, it gives them a place to play.   There are a lot of guys on the PGA Tour now that played on the eGolf Tour.   So there is a lot of talent down there. 
So I would not be surprised if some of those guys from the eGolf Tour end up on the PGA TOUR next year.   It's a great place to play.   I can't thank them enough for giving me a place to play the last couple of years.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT