TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 24, 2019
Kurt Kitayama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  After a hectic start to the season, must be nice to have a few weeks off?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, first break of the year pretty much, after a nine-week stretch, it was good to get my mind off golf a little bit and just get ready for this little stretch.   
 Q.  And with the travel, it must be nice to have some time back home?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, went back home to Vegas and hung out.  Didn't grind too hard right away and it was nice to have that little week off right away and then got back after it two weeks into the break.   
 Q.  Practising with David Lipsky, must be nice to have a close friend out with you on Tour?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, absolutely.  He's been here -- everywhere he's been, he's been before, so it's nice to have someone to travel with and ask questions, like where I should fly into, best options usually, and usually he books the hotel, so it's not too -- don't have to worry about that usually and once we're here, he knows where to eat, so it's good.   
 Q.  And the competition yesterday, who normally gets the better of those?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, he got me in the playoff there.  He's tough to beat in 21, but I'm getting closer.  I'm starting to compete with him, but it's good.  Helps me get better.   
 Q.  And you played the course this afternoon.  What are your thoughts?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, it's really good.  The course is in great shape and seems like it's going to be a tough test for sure with how narrow it is and the green complexes there.  It can be really tricky.   
 Q.  Are driver and putter this week the key?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, definitely.  Got to place it in the right spots and around the greens, you know, you might not be able to stay close.  You have to be able to lag putt or miss in the right spots and get up-and-down.   
 Q.  Is it quite nice on The European Tour that you get these different tests wherever you go?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, absolutely.  I think having different grasses, different layouts, new countries, just kind of helps you prepare for more different tests wherever you travel, so I think that's good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT