NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 13, 2019
Kurt Kitayama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Before we look ahead to this week, let's look back to last week, a near miss last week. You had an opportunity to win, didn't quite happen but a brilliant performance. How do you assess your play there?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Going into that final rounds, I didn't think I had a chance. I was really pleased with the final round and giving myself an opportunity to win. Obviously disappointing, but you look back it and to be able to have that chance, just got to look at the positives.   
 Q.  One of the things it's achieved coming tied second last year is it's put you ahead in the Rookie of the Year race. What would it mean to be able to capture that?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, it would be a huge. Previous winners like Brooks who have won it, they have had very successful careers.   
 Q.  This golf course, what are the keys to getting around Gary Player Country Club?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Stand below the hole. Played the Pro-Am yesterday, and there's a lot of slopes and left-to-right, back to front, mostly. So if you short-side yourself, it's going to be tough to get up-and-down.   
 Q.  Altitude here, but you grew up playing altitude. How do you go about dialing in your numbers for a week like this?  
KURT KITAYAMA: I like to go to the range and use my TrakMan. Set it to the temperature and altitude that we play at and just go through the bag and kind of see where every club is going to be flying, and use that to judge it on the course.   
 Q.  It's been a mesmerising season, two wins already, but three top fours in the last four weeks. What is it, right now, that is the key to your great golf that you are playing?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Staying patient. I think when I was struggling midway through the season, I think I was really pushing myself, putting a lot of pressure on myself to try and finish high and win, and now I just want to have solid weeks. Just not push myself, put a lot of pressure on myself. Just let it come to me, and it's working out really well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT