ITALIAN OPEN
October 12, 2019
Kurt Kitayama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A terrific 65, bogey-free around this layout. What satisfaction does that give you?  
KURT KITAYAMA: It was a good day. Missed a few greens but was able to get up-and-down and made some good putts. Playing bogey-free is always good, especially out here.   
 Q.  How tough is this golf course? If you're slightly out of position, it's quite easy to drop a shot or two. How tough is it, if you are missing fairways and you are missing greens?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, absolutely, it's tough, trying to play from the trees. If you can just get it up around the greens, playing lift, clean, put it in the fairway, just manage it, and limit yourself to a bogey at worst, but yeah, it can be really difficult.   
 Q.  What's been the best part of your game do you feel this week?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Probably my irons. I feel like I've been in pretty good control of my irons. Driver today was better. Just trying to keep it in play, really, and give myself a look at the green and take advantage of those.   
 Q.  What does it mean now to be in this position with another shot at victory in one of the big events on The European Tour?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yes, big event. So I think winning at any level, even smaller events, you still have to draw back on those memories and those situations, because the feeling is still going to be similar. Winning's winning. So just go out and do tomorrow.   
 Q.  Give us your assessment of how things went out there today.  
KURT KITAYAMA: I didn't hit the driver as well as I wanted to, but able to hit good iron shots still and give myself good looks.   
 Q.  Quality shots today, especially your short game around the green, something you've been working hard on?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, definitely. A part of my game I felt has been weak, and it's been a focus this year.   
 Q.  Great birdie putt on 10. Talk us through that.  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, I was talking to my caddie, like need to feel it, let it go out there, focused on speed and just dropped.   
 Q.  A couple wins early in your European Tour career. Does that give you confidence going into tomorrow knowing you've done it in the past?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, going to have to draw back on those memories and situations and use it for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT