ITALIAN OPEN
October 10, 2019
Kurt Kitayama
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A 66 to start the week, how does that sound to kick off The Italian Open?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Sounds great. It was a good day today. Just hit it really well and made a few putts.   
 Q.  How do you like this course, tree-lined, parkland, hosted The Italian Open before, five events on The Challenge Tour. How did you like it?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Not too hard obviously. Most holes seem to fit my eye. Just hit it well. I don't know, just kind of felt good out there. Very comfortable.   
 Q.  All came together. You're having an unbelievable season, a couple of wins, came early on. Have you had to reassess things and change your goals and expectations since then?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, definitely. I come from Q-School category, and set them higher. Sometimes it's tough for Q-School guys to keep their card out here, but after winning, it gives you a little freedom, too, to just kind of play freely. Not worry about, you know, finishing high and kind of be able to shoot for wins. It's been different.   
 Q.  Kind of a dream season. A couple of wins already. How do you put that into perspective, what you've achieved so far?  
KURT KITAYAMA: It's been crazy. Just take it all in. Just enjoy it, I guess, really, and just kind of enjoy what I'm doing. It's nice to know that having two years' exemption after this year, just kind of have fun.   
 Q.  What you've done so far, and this nice opening round, how comfortable do you feel in this position, big event, Rolex Series, opening with a 66 and in a great position heading into day two?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, definitely. Just try and use those past experiences from the wins. Obviously this is a bigger event. Just stay present, go one shot at a time. Not think about it being Rolex Series Event. Just stay relaxed as much as I can.   
 Q.  Opening round of 66. You must be pleased with that one?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Yeah, definitely. Hit it well. Everything came together. It felt good.   
 Q.  What kind of challenge does the golf course here offer?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Probably more off the tee, tree-lined, so it gets a little narrow. But I hit my driver well today obviously, and so just gave me a lot more scoring opportunities. A few more wedges, because it's playing fairly long with not getting any roll. If I can hit my driver well all week, I'll get more opportunities.   
 Q.  How are you enjoying your time in Italy?  
KURT KITAYAMA: It's been great. Spent yesterday afternoon touring the city. That was a lot of fun. When you come to cities like this with a lot of history, sometimes you get too caught up in all the golf, so it's really nice. I practised and then went into the city. It's been good.   
 Q.  After two wins, how have you reset your goals for the rest of the season?  
KURT KITAYAMA: Kind of changed them to higher goals, Race to Dubai and stuff. I haven't really thought about it too much, but you know, definitely it's in the back of my mind, like higher goals, trying to finish higher. But just trying to, you know, play my game, see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT