ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2019
Guido Pella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. MOUTET/G. Pella
6-3, 6-1, 2-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Tough match.  What are your thoughts on the match overall?
GUIDO PELLA: Well, of course it wasn't my best match, but I think I did my best.  I couldn't play my best tennis.  I was struggling with my body a little bit, especially on the back side.
So, yeah, I tried to do my best.  I think he played much better than me today, and that's it.
Q. What do you think about his game?  You played him once last year.  Is it a different player for you today in this game?
GUIDO PELLA: Yeah, of course he improved a lot.  But I think to play a French guy in Roland Garros is much different than maybe play in another tournament because they love to play here.  The crowd is very special for them.  So like I said, I think he didn't have anything to lose, and I think he played that way.
And I tried to do my best and, yeah, I think I couldn't do it.  I couldn't play my best tennis.  I couldn't serve so good.
In the end, I tried.  In that first set, I was 5-0 down and I tried to fight every ball, and it wasn't enough.  But I think overall he played better than me, and that's it.  In tennis, if you don't play good, the chances to win are very low, so even in a Grand Slam that you have maybe much more opportunities than a match of three sets.
But, you know, I couldn't do much more.
Q. Was there anything he did that maybe surprised you or is it just his level was that much better, he's improving and, like you said, playing in Paris definitely helped him?
GUIDO PELLA: No.  Well, of course I knew him from last year.  And I know he has a very tricky game because he plays a lot of drop shots.
When he's returning my serve, he tried to play deep down the line.  And I think I didn't have so much power in my strokes today.  So I think that was the key for him to maybe play his best tennis.
But I tried to do my best in those three hours, I think.  And most of the time I didn't feel comfortable with my game, and I think he played good because, like I said, he had nothing to lose.
And, yeah, he's young.  He's playing in Roland Garros.  He's French.  So, yeah, he played good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT