ATP CUP
January 4, 2020
Guido Pella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. PELLA/K. Majchrzak
6-2, 2-6, 6-2
Team Argentina - 1
Team Poland - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously a tough match. It was hot. Three-set match. How happy were you with your performance?
GUIDO PELLA: I'm pretty happy overall. First of all, because I think I played a very good match in the first and third set. In the second, I was feeling a little bit tired because of the heat.
But I think I served very good in the third set, and I fought for every ball. That's my game. So I felt very, very good on court.
Q. What did you think of the atmosphere after the match? There were some chanters chanting your name. How happy were you to hear that?
GUIDO PELLA: Well, I didn't know that Sydney have so many Argentinians. So it was a big shock for me. It was almost full, the stadium. They were cheering for me. So it was a very nice atmosphere for the first tournament of the year.
Q. I noticed in the team zone during the changeovers you were looking at the tablets a lot. Was there anything in particular statistic-wise you were looking at? And how did you like having that?
GUIDO PELLA: No, I was looking for specific points, because I think in a few points of the match I did a bad choice for a hit, so I was looking for that particular point, because I thought that maybe -- we don't know. I think it was a backhand cross when he broke my serve in the second set, and I think that was down the line. It's very good to have the tablet there, because you can look anything.
Q. How much does that help you during the match with your strategy? Is that just to say, hey, maybe I should have played this point differently to change your mindset moving forward? Is that how you look at it?
GUIDO PELLA: Yeah, yeah, of course. In every tournament of the year, we don't have that kind of stuff on court. So it's very nice to have the technology by your side, because I think the technology is very good for the sport because you can look anything.
So like I said, during the match I was looking for specific points and maybe some things that he was doing very good. I think that helped me a lot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT