THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 8, 2019
Guido Pella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. PELLA/M. Raonic   
3-6, 4-6, 6-3, 7-6, 8-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Milos said he got more tired as the match went on.  Before the match, did you know maybe he had a bit of a back problem and maybe as the match was longer you'd have more chance?  
GUIDO PELLA: I didn't know that.  I knew that he had problems in the past, but I didn't know if now he has problems now.  But, yeah, of course.  But my game is like this.  I have to play long and long matches.  That's the way that it is.   
I always try to fight every ball.  When I was two sets down, that was a very tough moment for me because he was playing really, really good.   
But after the third set I think I started to play much better.  And, yeah, and like I said, I tried to fight every ball.   
When I won the fourth set, it was not easier for me, but in a few set I felt he was starting to be a little bit down in his game, slower and so I tried to be more focused than ever.  I think that worked.   
 Q.  You got on his serve.  You were returning better as the match went on.  
GUIDO PELLA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Was there anything that you thought?  
GUIDO PELLA: Well, of course at the beginning of the match -- I never played against him, so I didn't know -- I knew that he has a massive serve, but I knew that if I play a long match, of course my game is going to be more, improve my game on his serve.  I think after the third set I started to return much better, and I think he felt it.   
 Q.  When you didn't make the first three match points...  
GUIDO PELLA: It was so bad (smiling).  I think when I lost the third match point I wanted to cry (smiling).  He was serving so good those points that I couldn't do anything.   
So it was a very tough moment for me, but I think I kept playing, you know.  Keep fighting every ball.  Then in the last match point, I don't know, he missed that ball, and I won.   
 Q.  How are you able to bounce back from the tough loss at Roland Garros and then two first-round losses or opening losses on the grass?  How were you able to get your confidence up to do this?  
GUIDO PELLA: Well, like I said, I like to play on grass.  Of course it's tough for a tennis player to lose first rounds, and to lose for me against David and then to Taylor, it was a very tough moment for me.  But I knew that my game was going to improve.   
Like I said in the past, the draw of Wimbledon was tough for me, but I think after the first match I started to play much better.  Against Seppi I think in the fifth set I start to play good.  And then with Anderson of course I had a great match.   
And now, besides the first two sets that his serve was unbelievable, I think I started to play much better.  I finish the game, the match, I think, in great form.   
 Q.  Where does this moment for you rank compared to all the other great moments of your career?  You have the crowd showering you applause when you walk off, making your first quarterfinal.  
GUIDO PELLA: It's a very nice feeling, because seriously, I never thought that I was going to do a quarterfinals in a Grand Slam.   
So it is a great feeling for me.  It's a great feeling that I feel support from the crowd and that that feeling is massive.  So I will try to keep doing my best.   
I have a very tough match in the next round, but I will keep fighting, keep playing, and if I can have some chances, maybe I will take it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT