US OPEN
August 27, 2019
Brayden Schnur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. PAIRE/B. Schnur
6-2, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What can you say about the match?
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: Obviously it's tough. The start, I didn't feel comfortable the first two sets out there. I'm not going to make any excuses. The courts are playing completely different than the practice courts over there. I just really didn't find my feet.
Obviously big tournament. Didn't feel comfortable the first two sets. So I think that played a huge role in me getting down. Then obviously he built a lot of confidence and started hitting some really good shots in the third set.
The third set I actually thought I played my best tennis in the match. I returned horrible all match, so that's probably the biggest part of my game I'm really disappointed about. I thought I prepared really well for this event. Every day I was practicing really well.
But I'm just not doing it in the matches right now.
Q. Faster or slower?
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: Night and day so much slower, higher bouncing. Every player will say the same thing. Obviously I practiced once on those courts there. It's a tricky situation. I'm not complaining or making any excuses. That's life. I have to know that.
But obviously a big reason also it's at US Open. I have had expectations for myself. Something new, being in the main draw of Grand Slams. I need to learn to calm down a little bit.
Q. How tricky was he to play against?
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: Yeah, he's super tricky. He just plays awkward tennis. He dropshots a lot. He plays slow on the forehand, hits big on the backhand. His serve some games he's hitting three aces; some games he's hitting three double-faults. He obviously played well. I think if I would have got off to a better start, it could have been a different match. But I definitely gave him confidence by not playing that well in the first two sets.
Q. Talk about the experience of being here, playing in the main draw.
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: Obviously pretty cool experience. These are the kind of tournaments I want to be in, matches I want to play. So, yeah, it's a great experience. US Open is awesome. All the Grand Slams are awesome, yeah.
Q. What next?
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: New Haven.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT