ROGERS CUP
August 5, 2019
Brayden Schnur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
T. PAUL/B. Schnur   
6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously not the result you would have wanted today.  Given where you started this year, how great was it to play in front of the Canadian crowd in Montreal?  
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: Yeah, it was great for the whole hour that it lasted.  Yeah, there's not much more I can say about my performance today.  Pretty disappointed.   
This is my favorite tournament to come back to every two years.  I have to wait two more years to come back here.  I had an hour of fun out there.   
 Q.  You've had a pretty successful year so far, getting into the top 100.  Where do you go from here?  
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: I'll go to Vancouver, then Winston-Salem, then the US Open.   
 Q.  Where do you feel your game is at?  What do you have to do to get tot next level?  
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: A lot of things.  A lot of things.  It's a hard question to answer.  I don't really have an answer for that right now.  I'm kind of lost for words.   
 Q.  You still have your doubles match to play with Peter.  Have you played with him before?  What is it going to be like, two fellow Canadians in Montreal?  
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: Yeah, we played a challenger a couple weeks back on the grass.  We actually played pretty well.  Hopefully we can play well and see what happens.   
I definitely think we have a decent draw, if we can play well.  Obviously both of us are singles specialists.  Playing doubles, we're just going to go out there and try to have fun.   
 Q.  What do you have to do to shake off a loss like today?  
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: It's a hard question.  I'm not really one to shake off losses that easy.  This one's going to sit there and sting for a little bit.   
Yeah, it's tough.  Sometimes it just takes going back on the practice court.  Other times it takes a night out with your buddies.  That's not really what I have, not really an option right now.   
Yeah, I guess it's back to the drawing board, try to forget this one as fast as possible.   
 Q.  Can playing in the doubles help?  
BRAYDEN SCHNUR: Yeah, for sure.  Obviously that will turn things around.  I'll just try to go out there, enjoy myself, yeah, enjoy the atmosphere.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT