NL DIVISION SERIES: REDS v PHILLIES
October 5, 2010
Edinson Volquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Edinson.  
  
  Q. With all you've been through in recent months, what does it mean for you to have this opportunity to get the ball in Game 1?   
 EDINSON VOLQUEZ: For me it's like something really big, because like you said, I've been -- I was out for one year and came back from Tommy John surgery. This is the first game of the playoffs, it's something big. Really big.   
  
  Q. The Phillies beat you guys 5 games to 2 in the season series this year, but four of those games were extra inning games and just about all of them were very hard fought. Do you feel like some people are underestimating your club going into this series? And talk about your club's confidence?   
 EDINSON VOLQUEZ: No, we're really confident right now. We have a very good team, and we feel like we can beat any team right now. You know, those guys right now, we're going to do the best we can now.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk about the challenges the Phillies' lineup presents to a guy like yourself? Obviously you've had a lot of success against left-handed hitters and they have some pretty good ones?  
 EDINSON VOLQUEZ: Like you say, they have a pretty good team. Like I say, we're going to play the best we can. I know they have a pretty good lineup. And like you said, success against lefties. And I have a pretty good idea what we're going to try to do.  
  
  Q. Is there any extra pressure for you to try and be even better than you normally are because you're facing a Doc Halladay?   
 EDINSON VOLQUEZ: No, no, I think we're going to have fun in this game because he's one of the best pitchers in the league. I've been in a situation like that before, and I've been pitching like five years on the road during playoff time. I think it's going to be crazy out there too. It's going to be packed and a lot of noise. I think it's going to be like a regular game for me.  
  
  Q. Do you think that's comparable to what you'll experience tomorrow, what you experienced in New York?   
 EDINSON VOLQUEZ: It's kind of different, yeah, because everybody's trying to get to the World Series. It's going to be a little bit different. But I expect to be fine.  
  
  Q. Is there any advice that you've taken to heart that any of your teammates, family, anyone that you've talked to at all has given you coming into tomorrow?  
 EDINSON VOLQUEZ: I talked to Bronson a lot. He's been in situation like that, pitching in the playoffs and the World Series and all of that. He taught me like be yourself. Just pitch your game, it's you on the mound, whatever happens, happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT