MLB WORLD SERIES: METS VS ROYALS
October 26, 2015
Edinson Volquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your excitement level for getting the ball in this first game of the World Series?
EDINSON VOLQUEZ: For me it's a great honor to pitch in this game, especially pitching at home.  It's a great feeling.
Q. When you look at the Mets, what do you think about a hitter as hot as Daniel Murphy?
EDINSON VOLQUEZ: He's been really good.  He's a great hitter.  He's been a great hitter his entire career.
We have to make an adjustment with him.  We cannot let him beat us.  We'll see what the plan is for him.  I haven't talked to the pitching coach yet, but I have to stick with the plan.
Q. This is such a big start.  How do you prepare for this, is it any different, sell yourself on the notion of just another game?
EDINSON VOLQUEZ: It's another game.  I don't have to do anything different than what I've been doing.  I've got to stay focused in what you're doing, especially this game, because this is a World Series game.  You don't have too many chance to make a lot of mistakes in those games.  So I've got to stay under control and pitch your game.
Q. This Royals team hasn't seen a lot of the Mets over the years.  You were in the National League for a while.  What have you thought about the progression of their franchise to get here and what sort of challenge are they as a whole?
EDINSON VOLQUEZ: They're good.  They've been waiting many years to have that team, and they're pretty good right now.  They've got a lot of young talent over there.  They're unbelievable.  They've got good arms, Harvey and Syndergaard, they throw hard.
It's a great organization.  It's a great team, too.
Q. How do you describe where 98, 97 has been coming from as of late?
EDINSON VOLQUEZ: I don't know, from the Gatorade (laughter).
A lot of energy help me a little bit more.  I think pitching the playoffs is more exciting.  And everything I pitch, everything I've got, that's what I've got.  I was throwing 97, 98 the other day.  I don't do that very often, but I think I've still got it a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT