THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 8, 2017
Sebastian Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Sebastian Munoz to the media immediate.  Sebastian, 2-under par 68 today.  Get us started.  Birdied 1 and then had a couple bogeys on 2 and 5.  After that it was bogey-free.  Maybe just give us a kind of synopsis of your day.
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, I think I had a good round today by the way I just hit the ball from the tee again.  A lot of missed fairways in the first nine.  Trying to get -- I think I was getting a little too quick, out of rhythm.
And then we kind of managed to settle in with a couple clutch putts, save par, and good chips.
After that, good surprise that the putter was hot on the 13 and 15, and you know we managed to save the day.
THE MODERATOR: Does the birdie on that 1st hole calm you down a lot?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah.  I mean, it was good.  I mean, it was like, Okay, it's feeling good.  You know, like the stroke of the putter was good, so we just kept going.
THE MODERATOR: Please use the mic if you have a question.
Q. Two questions:  One, what movie you going to watch tonight?  Is it going to be something to pump yourself up or just do you need to just keep doing what you're doing?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Well, I'm keeping it '80s this week, so last night I watch Rain Man.  I don't know what I'm going to watch today yet, but we're going to have to make a good pick.
Q. What's different about tomorrow as far as keeping calm?  Any different approach?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: No.  I am going to try to do the same thing.  I've had my phone off since Thursday.  We're going to keep it that way.
Just watch the movie, relax in the morning, have some breakfast, and get ready.
Watch some tennis.
Q. Can you compare this experience at all this week to the victory you had in Colombia on the Web.com Tour in terms of how your nerves were then and they are this week, all that?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, I mean, there are some things that I can relate.  The support of the crowd is great.  I feel like they generally want me to win.  Like I just feel the support, and that's also nice.  That's just how it felt back home.
Yeah, kind of a nervous -- I mean, I feel like I'm pretty calmed down out there.  I don't know what you guys watch on the TV, but I feel like I'm pretty calmed down, steady, and ready to hit the next shot.
Q. I think the good part about the nerves you're talking about is if you did seem a little bit jumpy you were able to sort of push that aside.  The drive on 1, for example, was way right, but you put it on the green and you nailed the putt.  You were able to put things aside quickly.  Is that a feature of your game?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, I feel like -- I mean, I try to play boring golf.  I try to hit the fairway and hit the greens.  Even though I try, I just seem to put myself into some trouble and then trying to make something happen and then kind of get on a good run, sometimes bad runs.
It's just the way it is.  I mean, I just keep it -- I try to keep it steady, but you just take what you can get.
Q. Tell me more about this phone off scenario.  Do you do that often?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: First time.  First time, and better.  Life is good.  Still in the 60s.  So I don't know.  I'm kind of liking it.
Q. You don't get the urge to check social media or friends's texts?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: No, not so far.  I'm with a buddy this week and he let me use his phone to call my mom and my girlfriend and maybe two or three people.  That's about it.
Q. Did you think today kind of the 1st hole was the key to your round?  Could have got yourself in trouble there.
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, totally.  Especially, I mean, just see the ball go in is just a relief, you know.  Just, yeah.  I mean, yeah, it was great.
Q. You had two bogeys on the front.  Got your shots back on the back nine, which I've been very good on again.  I mean, what was the key shot on the back nine to really get the rest of the round...
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: I feel like the key shot was the approach shot on 13.  I mean, I believe I had kind of like a bad lie.  It was like 186 to the front and I just swung as hard as I could with a 6 and we just got a great bounce.
Like kicked up and the putt that went in, it was just kind of like -- just switched the gears in my head and it as like, Okay, let's go save this round.
THE MODERATOR: How big is golf in your home country and how big would it be if you were to win on Sunday?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Well, I mean, I think it's good sizes.  I don't know how to measure those things.  Of course soccer and then cyclists.  I think it's growing.  I think we got like maybe 45 country clubs.  I mean, Camilo has done a lot for the sport.  I mean, he's won four times.
Before that, I mean, I think there was maybe one guy that had status on the PGA TOUR since.  He definitely made the jumpstart on it.  I think really good, but it's not going to being like what Camilo created back home.
Q. Are you going to look and see who is maybe behind you tomorrow at least before the tournament to see where you're standing?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: No, no.  I usually don't.  I mean, I can't check the app because I don't have my phone.  And then I'm just going to watch tennis so I'm not going to be looking if someone is making a run.
I mean, just whenever I see the scoreboard and just catch my eye I'm going to find out, but I'm not going to be looking for it.
Q. Is it okay if I say Davis Love is going for a win and he's four shots behind you.  He's is trying to become the oldest player to win on tour.
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: I mean, I think it would be awesome if he wins.  Is he 52?
Q. 53.
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: 53?  Yeah, I mean, it would be awesome.  He has to beat me and a lot of other guys, so we'll just have to wait and see what happens tomorrow.
Q. Do you have a relationship with Camilo?  If you do, what's it like?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah.  I met him -- I mean, I've known him a long time, but I met him on the Web.com Tour playoffs last year.  Since then I been trying to play practice round with him, kind of be beside him a lot.  He's definitely teach me a lot.
It's kind of like a support that I've had if I needed do, so I just want to be really thankful to him for what he's doing.  Just appreciate the guy.
Q. Had you seen Ferris Bueller and Rain Man before?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah.
Q. So you like them?  How are you choosing the '80s movies?  Are you going to watch Top Gun tonight?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: That could be a good suggestion.  Yeah, that's really good.  Yeah, I might do it.  I don't know.  I just wanted -- okay, so this is what happened:  So I was watching TV and there was a commercial.  I think Domino's commercial and they just do the Ferris Bueller thing.  I was like, Okay, I want to watch that.  I haven't watched in a long time.
And then it was, Okay, I want to throw in '80s.  There is the Rain Man.  I might do Top Gun.  I'll tell you tomorrow.
Q. Didn't think to go down to the casino then last night and try your own Rain Man effort?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: No, no, no, no.  I went down there on Monday.  Cleaned me out.  I'm staying out of there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT