THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 7, 2017
Sebastian Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Sebastian Munoz into the interview room after a 3-under par 67.  Currently stands at 12-under-par through 36 holes.
Sebastian, another solid day for you out there.  If we can get some comments on your round.
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, started pretty good.  Started feeling good.  I think I birdied -- yeah, I birdied the 10th and another quick birdie, so felt great.
Then when I made the turn I let a couple opportunities slide by and missed the fairways on the next four or five holes and put myself in tough places to make up and down; cost me two bogeys.
But then managed to close out with couple clutch putts and close out a good round.
THE MODERATOR: I know it's still early to go in the second round, but you currently have a four-shot lead.  If that holds up going into the weekend, just comment about taking the lead into the final two rounds.
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: I mean, it's fantastic.  I mean, anyone would take the position I am right now.  No regrets.  Excited.  Never had a four-shot lead.  I don't know what it's going to be at the end of the day, but whatever it is, happy.  Just trying to keep same game plan.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Today you weren't quite as accurate off the tee.  I think you might have had four or five fairways, but were able to grind out another good score.  Did that give you confidence going forward?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, totally.  Means my short game is good, my putting is good, that I'm getting the most out of my round.  That's about been a problem all year.
Excited to get the drive in the fairway for the next couple days.
Q. Just a quick follow.  Obviously you were in a great position at Memphis through the two rounds.  What did you learn from that weekend that you can take into this weekend?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: I feel like Memphis taught me that maybe I was caring too much, trying to hit too many perfect shots all the time.  You know, this week me and my caddie discussed it and we're just going to hit the same shot like if it was the only shot I had.  Just carefree with intention and not just trying to like smooth it there.
Q. A lot of people here score better on the back nine than the front nine; you really seem to like the back nine.  You're maybe 10-under on the back nine.  I haven't computed.  Talk about the back nine and how the course played in general.
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: The back nine, yeah, it's got two par-5s.  Start with that.  Got to like that.
Then it's got a couple tough holes; 13 is a good one, tough driving hole.  Then 11 is also pretty long.  I just managed to keep it simple on the tough holes and get my wedges close, dialed in.  So, yeah.  I didn't notice before you said it.
Q. You had such a great day yesterday, but it was a very quick turnaround because you played in the morning.  What were the emotions like stepping on to the 10 tee?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, it was great.  Yeah, I just finished late last night.  Had dinner, watch a movie, and go to bed.  Kind of like felt like it was the same round.  Kind of like connected them.  Didn't give me a lot of time to think.  I just got to do a very good job to distract me today.
THE MODERATOR: What movie do you watch last nice?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: I watched Ferris Bueller for American fans.  Great movie.  Yeah, today I'm going to try some falconry.  Sounds pretty interesting.
Q. What's the hardest part of taking a lead into the weekend in your mind, and how do you battle or combat or welcome that?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: I think the hardest part would be trying to control things I can't.  I can't control what they're doing.  The only thing I'm going to think about more is what I can do and the spots that I'm going to hit and, you know, my routine.
Q. I was going to speak to that routine.  Just after a two-day lead, do you just try to keep doing the same thing, go have dinner, watch the movie, that sort of thing, just try to keep yourself as relaxed as possible?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah.  Before Thursday round I went and did a bunker tour out here at the Greenbrier, which was great.  Yeah, I'm going to try to distract myself.
I'm here with one of my best buddies, so we're just going to hang out and watch a movie and be ready for tomorrow.
Q. You ever been 12-under through 36 holes anywhere?  College, Web.com, anywhere?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: I think college on the event -- on any first win, Squire Creek Louisiana.  Besides that, I can't remember.
Q. Speaking of college I understand the first few years you weren't that into it.  You were just getting your studies done.  What was the turnaround that kicked you into making golf more serious?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, basically I just went to college to kind of like escape Colombia.  Not escape, but like try to find a different thing, what I really wanted.  First couple years I just took it pretty easy.  I wasn't playing very good.
And then what happen was that Carlos Ortiz, he graduated on 2013, and then -- well, first my coach threatened to take my scholarship away for my senior year.  I was like.  Well, can't afford it so better play good.  So that started things a little better.
Then Carlos won three times on his first season in the Web.com and I talked to him and was like, Hey, man, I know you're good, but come on.  Like I can get you sometimes.  He was like, Yes, basically the same.  Just keep on trying.
So that really helped me kind of push through and realize I was good as well.  That's about it.
Q. So seeing him win was the sort of catalyst?  Like, Hang on a minute.  I can beat that guy and he's winning on the Web Tour; maybe I should take this more serious?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Exactly.  You got it.
Q. Just curious to know what, if any, reaction from your peers that you've gotten along the way?  We've heard on the course, Man, he's got quite the lead up there.  What have you heard personally?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, I mean, guys that I didn't know they know my game have come up and say, Hey, man, great round.  I'm like, Hey, thanks.
You know, things like that.  It's been great.  Couple fist pumps here and there.  It's been awesome.  I like it.
THE MODERATOR: Sebastian, enjoy falconry this afternoon.  We'll see you tomorrow.
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Hopefully.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT