THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
Sebastian Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Sebastian Munoz, welcome, with 9-under 61, which I believe is probably your low round your career -- on the PGA TOUR at least, and I know from the Web.com last year.
Ten birdies and one bogey, talk a little bit about your round and what the keys were today.
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Hello.  Thank you for waiting.  I know was pretty late, but glad you guys could make it.
Yeah, today felt really good.  First thing that comes to my mind is that I had like a putting lesson with a friend yesterday, Gonzalo Fernández-Castaño.  He helped me figure out some stuff and definitely worked.
Had a great chance on 1 and I missed it.  Just kind of like take it easy, and then I got on a four-birdie streak, which was pretty good.
And then, you know, just keep on making birdies, pars pretty steady.
Got to 12; had like a 45-footer and I (indiscernible) for par.  I mean, that kind of put a little weight on me.  On the next hole I made a bogey.
So after that I was thinking, Well, this could have been a really good round, so kind of put me back into relax mode and the birdies showed up again.
17 had a great look for eagle; had a lip out.
On 18 I knew I had to make it.  But I mean, I just chose to make the smart play.  If the ball flew maybe six feet longer would've been really close.
Just get what you can take.
THE MODERATOR: You talked about your putting.  Is that one of the things you've been working on recently?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah.  I mean, I feel like I'm a good putter.  This week, I mean, probably yesterday at 3:00 p.m. I had no idea what I was going to do.  I didn't feel comfortable?
I just talked to my friend for ten minutes and things kind of clicked.  It was a good surprise.
THE MODERATOR: What's the transition been like?  You played the Web.com Tour last year, and then coming over to the PGA TOUR this year, what are the biggest differences you've found?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Wow, we're spoiled.  The way they treat us up here is great.  They treat us also pretty good, but here is just like the next level.  I'm really joyed, really grateful for the things that the sponsors and the people, the volunteers and everything everyone does for us.
I mean, yeah, last year after mid-season was not really good for me on the Web, so I just learned how to deal with it.  Coming into this year I had bad status, so it was a lot of just sitting down and seeing golf being played without me in.
I just take it easy, you know, one tournament at a time, and do the best I can every time I show up.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. What was your previous low?  When you start smelling 60, what starts rattling between the ears there?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: My previous low was 63, I think.  I mean, yeah, I tied it in Memphis.
Yeah, I just remember I just told my caddie like, Man, if we didn't three-putt on that par-5 I'm pretty sure we would've shot 59 today.
It's just one of those things.  He just told me, Hey, man, stay present.  We can still do it.  Just be patient.  Maybe not this time, but another time will present itself.
Q. You just touched on it, but you got your tour card but were 46th on the Web.com graduate list.  That's hard to get into a tournament at all, isn't it?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, very.  I had two starts in the Fall Series; one of them I played pretty good, and the other one I missed the cut by one.
Yeah, I only had one chance to add some money for the first reshuffle, and can't really get out of the hole.
Q. Can you give some more specifics on what he told you about the putting?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah.  So basically I was -- whenever I looked at the ball, I'm up at the putt, you know they always told you, Hey, you have to look at the ball.
Yeah, but somehow my eyes were tracking where my putter was going, you know, trying really hard to be a perfect stroke type of thing.
He told me, Hey, man, just look at the front of the ball and just try to make contact with it.  Just so I don't kind of like push it.  Just make a good flow.
So, yeah, it worked.  I mean, I just did that and it was the only thing I was thinking about.  I was not thinking, Hey, you know, make the perfect, how you say it -- you know what I'm talking about, right?  The perfect semicircle.  Yeah, just one thought and it worked.
Q. You talked about not getting that many starts and being right around 200.  Obviously this has come at a good time for you, right, to try to solidify yourself in this FedExCup racket?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah.  I feel like I've been playing pretty good since San Antonio.  I mean, I just think I've had like four, five starts so I felt pretty comfortable.
I know I'm in a tough spot, and just trying to make the best out of it.  Not trying to think too much into it how lucky or bad things are going.  I have the chance to play, and here I am.
Q. What's your thought process going into tomorrow's round?  How do you follow up a 61?  Do you shoot 60 or go bogey-free?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: I have no idea how to answer that really.  Haven't even had time to think about it.  I mean, I guess I'll just keep it one shot at time.  It's going to be really tough, but that's what we're going to try to do.
Q. Does it just seem like yesterday you were Conference USA individual champion?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, it was -- yeah.  That was like a little more than two years ago.  Yeah, I had a good -- college treated me well last couple years.  My senior year got two wins, and that definitely give me the momentum to turning pro.
I mean, my whole college career I wasn't even going to try to go pro until I proved myself that I can win.  Once you win you basically start believing and moving forward.
Q. What did you think of the course?  There were a lot of birdies out there to be made for everybody.  You had ten yourself.  What's that going to take tomorrow?  What is the leaderboard going to be looking like with as many birdies as these guys are putting in, including yourself?
SEBASTIAN MUNOZ: Yeah, I think today the conditions are great.  The greens were rolling awesome.  You got quite a lot of wedges in the hand.
I don't know.  I mean, could have 12, could be 17.  I mean, it's a tough answer.  We'll see tomorrow.  One day you'll know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT