NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 23, 2010
Jameer Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are you not feeling the pressure in some weird way?   
 JAMEER NELSON: I don't know about that. We still have pressure. The only thing we can control is Game 4. We know the first three games are out of our hands right now. We can't do anything about them. We want to prepare ourselves to play the best game we can.   
  
  Q. What can you change from what has happened, Jameer? Just take last night.   
 JAMEER NELSON: We've been a good team all year long. We can't have a drastic change the way we had it over the last two weeks just out of the blue. We still can play great basketball. We will tomorrow.   
  
  Q. What have the Celts done to you that has changed this basketball team?   
 JAMEER NELSON: They've done a great job of doing a lot of things. You can't just put your finger on anything. The biggest thing is we've been beating ourselves. Effort situations and, you know, just mental breakdowns.   
  
  Q. Were the guys in a good mood when they got to practice? Or did that develop throughout the whole thing?   
 JAMEER NELSON: I think you feel better about yourself once you start practicing. Before practice I was -- I mean, a lot frustrated. Guys can tell you I was frustrated. And heated or whatever. But it's over.   
 That's why you have teammates. You have coaches to help you realize you can't do anything about things in the past. You have to learn from them.   
  
  Q. Can you put a finger on how it all kind of unraveled last night? You had --  
 JAMEER NELSON: You can't put your finger on one thing. It's a numerous amount of things we could have done a lot better. The main thing is we have to take care of ourselves. We have to play basketball the way we know how and do things we've been doing all year individually and collectively. Like I say, we've been beating ourselves a lot in certain areas and just having those mental breakdowns in crucial points of the game.   
  
  Q. The broadcasters during the game said things like the Magic quit. How do you counter that in going into Game 4?   
 JAMEER NELSON: Like I say, we can't dwell on things that happened in Game 1, 2 and 3. It's about us preparing ourselves and coming out in Game 4 and really believing. You just take this thing one game at a time.   
  
  Q. Is that the most disappointing night you can recall having --  
 JAMEER NELSON: Of course, it's definitely disappointing. Like I said, our effort wasn't there. Film says a lot. We can complain and say things during the course of a game. But when you sit down and you watch the film and you see things, like I said, that's the mental toughness we've been lacking the last -- the first three games.   
  
  Q. What do you do to get that mental toughness back?   
 JAMEER NELSON: We have it. We have it. It's not a fact whether we had it or not. We have had it all year long. We have to go out and, like I said, believe and do things the right way.   
  
  Q. Jameer, stats say this is not who we are.   
 JAMEER NELSON: Not at all. You guys know who we are. It's not the team that you saw win 59 games during the course of the season and win the first two series. Those things are behind us as well.   
 Like I say, we have to prepare ourselves and put it out of us and just put those three games that we just lost behind us and play the best Game 4 we can.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT