NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 17, 2010
Jameer Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 JAMEER NELSON: We knew we had to come with a more serious mind-frame. Not saying we weren't serious about a team that we're playing, but just more focused and more attention to detail and just regroup. I mean, take a step back and look at film and see what we did wrong. You know, we didn't do too many things right.   
  
  Q. How much more meaningful is this playoff experience for you after what you went through a year ago?   
 JAMEER NELSON: I'm just seizing the opportunity in the moment. You don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. I just take what happened last year was one of those things, a freak accident. And playing some of the best basketball of my NBA career and all of a sudden boom, I'm out of it.   
 Not necessarily that I ever took anything for granted, but you always think if you're on the court, you're going to play. Guys want to seize the opportunity.   
  
  Q. Do you think the the way you opened the second half, did you guys need that? You personally, you had eight points right away and kind of had a lot of energy there.   
 JAMEER NELSON: Yes, we just have to play with a lot of energy. One through whoever steps on the court. Anybody who steps on the court has to play with a lot of energy. Play to their max and just go out there and leave it on the court. There's no reason to pace yourself at all in these games.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible) -- can you talk about trying to crack their defense?   
 JAMEER NELSON: That's the way we play. We play inside-out, whether it's penetration or kicking it to the three-point line. We have so many three-point shooters we use that as one of our strongest tools. We weren't able to get as many open looks as we would like to have gotten. But like I said, I thought we -- I don't know what that was, but maybe he's thinking the same thing I'm thinking. I thought we can do a better job -- we'll do a better job of the things we should have done and the things we talked about we didn't do well at all.   
  
  Q. Were the lack of open looks a function of their defense or what?   
 JAMEER NELSON: We were a little indecisive as a team and as individuals at times. But their defense, you give them credit. They played well and they played extremely hard.   
  
  Q. Matt said this is a good thing, that having lost is a wake-up call.   
 JAMEER NELSON: Wake-up call. Wake-up call. You go back to square one. You refocus and there's not a lot of things we need to change or anything like that. We just, like I said, one thing the biggest thing is play hard and following the game plan.   
  
  Q. The missed free-throw putback (Indiscernible) that actually worked?  
 JAMEER NELSON: The funny thing was I wasn't supposed to go in. It wasn't my play to go in. That time to score as a point guard, you figure you go in and you get the rebound and you try to put it back in. If they get the rebound you are going to end up fouling anyway. So you might as well go in there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT