88TH MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2017
Robinson Cano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
American League - 2, National League - 1   
 Q.  Robbie, who is your guest up there, and where does this rank for you in everything you accomplished in your career?  
ROBINSON CANO: This is my little girl.  Her name is Galia Sofia.  This is my son.  Tell him your name.   
ROBINSON CANO, JR.: Robinson.   
ROBINSON CANO: And you know, it's always good to be able to accomplish something great, especially in front of my family.  I remember that I tell my dad, I'm not picked, like the last one.  If I play, it's great.  If not -- you know, because I didn't know the rule changed.  Now you don't have to win to start the World Series.  When I found out, I said, I might get an at-bat.  Now it don't mean anything.   
I really honestly like that way.  That way you be able now to joke around, make the game more fun, like the way it used to be before.  That's what people and fans love now these days, especially joking around with social media.  Honestly it's a blessing.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  Can you talk about what it means?  You've been heroes in other games before.  You've done this before in regular season events.  What does it mean to win such a game like this, you're the hero, your home run does it, before such a large crowd in a TV audience in millions?  
ROBINSON CANO: Well, this is the second time I hit -- I hit a walk-off in the ninth inning in New York.  This kind of the same feeling, you help the team to win the game.   
You come here, like I said, you come here and as a kid you watch Griffey and all those guys that come to the All-Star Game, winning MVP.  You want to get that feeling.  I already got it once for the Home Run Derby.  I want to have this feeling.  All of them feels different.  It feels great.  Like I said, thanks for the fans that really voted for me.   
 Q.  Did you know it was a home run when you hit it?  
ROBINSON CANO: Not really.  Because, I mean, my first at-bat I took a pitch down the middle, then I missed the other one.  I didn't do anything, I wasn't trying to pull anything.  Now when I knew I had to face Wade Davis, a guy that throws hard, cutter.  Threw me one for a ball, and another I was like, oh my God, you have to get your head out front, and be able to handle the breaking ball.  I was able to put a good swing.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  Pre-game eight Latin-born Hall-of-Famers threw out first pitches.  You took part of that with Juan Marichal.  What does it mean for you to come through on a night that you did that before the game and during the game?  
ROBINSON CANO: It means a lot.  Those guys are really, I want to say, start this game for the Latin American players.  Guys that really made this game so fun and exciting, made fans come and watch, and opened the doors for us.  That's something that I see Pedro Martinez, Juan Marichal, Cepeda, the best second baseman to ever play this game, Roberto Alomar, Rod Carew.  It's something -- to catch that first pitch and say hello to them and being in that picture, I just can't wait to get to social media and get that picture and put it on a frame in my home.   
 Q.  How did the quad feel when you rounded the bases?  And also what did you think of Nelson's picture taking at home place?  
ROBINSON CANO: The quad feels the same.  But honestly, I would say a little better.  I don't know if you saw me limping a little bit.   
That picture was funny.  I really liked it.  That's why I said this game is fun.  I know a lot of us liked that, including myself.  I was telling Nellie, man, Joe West has 5,000 games.  That's a lot of games.  I mean, how many games he missed?  Maybe none.  He was like, "You know what, you're right.  I'm going to take a picture." I tell him, "How are you gonna take it?  The game started.  You're going to have to wait for the game over."  He said, "I don't know how but I'm going to take that picture."   
It was funny when he told me that he told Joe, "I want to take a picture with you."  He was like, "Oh, come on, get in the bat (box)."  And Yadi said, "Yeah, give me the phone."  And he took the picture.  That was one of the best moments in the game.   
Now I want to take one, too.  Because he always asks me for my dad, because he was the one that caught my dad's first game in the Big Leagues with the Astros.  He always said, "How is pops?"  And maybe he will call me those balls low and away off the plate (laughter).   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations to the whole family.  Thanks to the city of Miami.  It was a fun event.   
ROBINSON CANO: Gracias.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT