NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 15, 2006
Jerry Stackhouse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Take us back to the hard foul on Shaquille, how did you see the play and tell us about it. 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  Exactly what it was.  It was a hard foul.  I mean, he was going to the basket.  Always want to -- in fact, when Shaq is going to the basket, we want to try to make him go to the free throw line and earn it. 
 Just a hard play. 

 Q.  How do you turn this series back around? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  Well, I think, you know, once we look at the tape -- and I think we got the shots we wanted.  We just didn't knock down shots tonight.  Obviously they played extremely well.  They made -- they made all their shots.  They made a lot of plays and had contributions from a lot of different guys. 
 When all that's said and done, we had cut the lead to ten.  I had a three that rimmed out, maybe possibly cut it to seven.  Came right down the next possession, Dirk had a three that was out.  Then, you know, possibly a four-point game right there.  The game got away from us a little bit after that, but I thought we fought hard to get back into the game again in the third quarter. 

 Q.  Where is your confidence level as a team? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  It's still high.  The shots we're taking, we're going to consistently live with the shots we get.  We know that we're better shooters, we're better percentage shooters than 31 percent as a team. 
 So we feel that we continue to get the looks, obviously we've got to find a way -- our offense kind of, you know, fuels our defense.  It should be the other way around, but that's how we've been all year.  Our offense fuels our defense, and when we're not able to be efficient offensively, we're not efficient defensively. 
 So we've got to find a way to get our offense going and be able to knock down shots and be able to get a smooth rhythm offensively.  I think that will translate into us being a little better defensively.  And obviously you've got to give the guy credit again.  Dwyane Wade came out, he jumped up and made shots on us with good defense.  Shaq was active again.  And then they got contributions from Posey -- who else -- Posey was good.  Walker had a few baskets late.  But, you know, that's who they are. 

 Q.  Dirk had a tough night, was it something that they were doing against him, or was it just one of those nights? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  He had one of those nights.  I had one last night, or two nights ago, where the ball, you know, didn't do what we wanted it to do.  I mean, it was a little better tonight. 
 I think once you have a game like we had last night where we were up, you know, you may have a little bit of a hangover, but I think hopefully we got that hangover game out of the way.  Got a couple of days to prepare.  Maybe step away a little bit, come back and have a little renewed energy on Saturday, and you know, come back -- they are at home.  This is a tough place to win.  This team has lost one game at home in the playoffs, and we are hoping that we can add one more to that total and put ourselves in a good position.  This is a best-out-of-three series right now and it's the first one to get two games. 

 Q.  After having a game like this, would you rather have one day off instead of two days off as far as getting back quicker? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  No, I think, you know, we'll let it be what it is.  You know, it's two days and like I said, we'll get a chance to step away for a day and not have to have that hangover like we did last time.  Then just come off fresh, I think that will be positive for us. 

 Q.  Confidence-wise for Miami, do you think you guys may have unleased a monster confidence-wise? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  I mean, at this point -- I mean, playing at home, teams are going to be confident.  We know that they are a dangerous team, and they have got two great players.  But I think we're still confident.  You know, we had our best player have a night like he struggled tonight.  All of us didn't play great tonight.  And, you know, like I said, it was a ten -- we fought our way back to a 10-point game and we had a couple shots that we missed an opportunity to get even closer.  Didn't work out for us. 
 We scrap this one up as a tough loss and get ready for Sunday. 

1 

J. Stackhouse - Post-Game - 6.15.06 
2 
 visit our archives at www.asapsports.com  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT