NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 8, 2006
Jerry Stackhouse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about the play that you went to the hole and got the nose injury and what's the status? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  I'm still alive.  (Laughter). 
 It was just a hard play.  I think Shaq was in there protecting the basket and protecting the lane.  We were driving, trying to put pressure on their defense and just -- I don't know what I hit, whether it was an elbow or whatever, but it was just a few stitches and I was ready to go back. 
 Q.  Can you talk about Jason's performance tonight and what did he do differently tonight that he wasn't doing in the previous series? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  I just think J.T. got looks tonight.  He got some good looks and he's comfortable with his shots that he's been working on and practicing on.  From his standards and probably everybody's standards for J.T. now, he struggled a little bit in the Phoenix series so, he wanted to come out and make amend that this series.  I think he got himself off to a great start. 
 We were moving the ball and when he caught the ball and had any daylight, he was jumping up and knocking down shots.  That's what we're going to need more of in order to continue to beat this team.  We know how they are trying to play guys when they get on post, they are going to double-team so we just have to swing the ball and continue to make shots. 
 Q.  Just wanted to ask you what you thought as far as Josh and Dampier on Shaq tonight? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  Those guys did a great job of trying to make Shaq catch it off as far as he could.  With him being 300-some-odd pounds, they are not going to keep him off the block every time and when they do get him in a bad way, it's up to our defense to get down there and get them some help, force rotations and things like that. 
 Those guys did a commendable job tonight, not only I think on the defensive end, but, you know, forcing Shaq to run with that on their defensive end, while putting pressure on the offense, even though they are maybe not the focal point of our offense, just getting up and down the court and making him work a little more to get back is helping our overall game. 
 Q.  Do you feel like with Dirk and Josh both having pretty poor games by their standards, you guys kind of got away with one tonight? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  It's the Finals, man, everybody's stepping up and playing.  We don't worry and -- we know guys -- going to be stretches where the ball may not fall in but they do other things.  They competed on the defensive ends, both of them had double-figure rebounds.  You have to look at the whole. 
 Obviously Jason bailed us all out.  As a team we didn't shoot the basketball great but Jason bailed us out.  It's a team win, we look at it as everybody that was on the floor contributed, Griff, early on in the game, him being able to get a few buckets here, get some rebounds, everybody contributed. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT