NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
June 3, 2006
Jerry Stackhouse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  I've asked a couple, I've asked Avery this and also asked Dirk, but talk about the resiliency of this team being able to get through some of the things you guys have been able to get through? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  Yeah, I think, you know, we definitely showed that we've been a team that fought through adversity all year.  We had -- I missed the first 20 games, 20 some games of the season, then we had other guys that were injured throughout the season.  And we were still able to just hold everything together.  And I think we -- that built a lot of character for our team throughout the year, and it just, you know, climaxed in this moment in this game. 
 I think we were down, we knew they were going to come with a burst early in the game.  And we feel that we could withstand that burst and still be around in the second half, find a way to get a couple stops, we could find a way to get this game. 
 Q.  Can you just talk about, you know, your thoughts going to the Finals and, you know, the playoff run so far facing Miami? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  It's just unbelievable.  It's unbelievable feeling to be able to -- the hard work throughout the years.  I mean, this is my 11th year, and just having been on teams that have not been so good, teams that, you know, had a chance and just couldn't get over the hump and finally be able to get over the hump to get to the Western Conference Finals, I wouldn't change it for the world. 
 I think my course and how it's happened for me has been a perfect route, you know, so now the only thing left for us is to go and try to get four more. 
 This wasn't our goal.  Obviously this feels good.  I mean, this is a huge stepping stone to our final goal.  But when we started in training camp, our goal was to win the championship, and so that requires us getting four more wins.  We know we've got a tough task ahead of us. 
 You know, we've got, you know, a team that's got a lot of momentum, that's got two great players who -- and real nice supporting cast, but we feel we're going to go in and it's going to be -- it's going to be a battle.  And maybe the best team wins. 
 Q.  You're obviously such a big part of this.  But talk about the depth, especially in a game like tonight where everybody seemed to have foul trouble? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  Yeah, this was an important game for us.  I think everybody contributed.  I mean, we had guys like Marquis Daniels who really hadn't, you know, played much at all this whole series, but he's been a guy that's been live on the bench that's encouraging everybody.  That's the strength of this team. 
 You know, everybody knows that when the playoffs come, the rotation shortens a little bit.  But you know Avery makes a point to make sure that everybody stays ready.  The eight through the 12, 13 guys, he's working those guys out.  He's working them out, making sure they're ready. 
 Obviously Damp hadn't been big in this series because of the style of play.  But he should be well rested and going to get a lot of time in this next upcoming series. 
 Q.  What clicked for you guys in the second half? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  I just think defensively we were able to mix it up on them a little bit.  I think they -- they got off to a good start.  They got off to a hot start.  They had guys making shots, and all of them, Diaw, was you know unbelievable earlier.  We were able to get him under control a little bit. 
 But it was our defense.  Once we were able to get some stops and push the ball back to the other end, you know, Dirk got going, and JT got a few baskets and I was able to get going in the fourth quarter. 
 So it was all-around team effort.  Josh made some big shots for us, and Griff, you know, he may not ever be a guy who is going to have big numbers in the game, but he does so much dirty work, so much little things that makes us win games. 
 Q.  This team has had some rough history in the past and how does it feel for you to be part of its first NBA final run? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  Well, yeah, it's been, you know, I think it's about finding the right mix, and I think, you know, it started with Mark, obviously he had a vision when he bought this team.  And, you know, tinkered with it a few years, he'd probably be the first to tell you that he had to learn some things once he took over this team to find out what he needed really to get to the next level.  He's a smart guy.  He's not a billionaire by accident.  And he found the right pieces to make it work. 
 Obviously a huge piece of it was having Avery, bringing him in and having him just mold everybody and mold all the egos and mold all the talent that we had. 
 And here we are.  You know?  It didn't take, you know, three or four years.  Obviously last year hurt losing to this team at home in six games.  This year we were able to return the favor a little bit.  So we just feel good.  Feel really good.  I mean, I just thank God for this opportunity.  Like I said, thank my family and my wife at home.  I love y'all and we're coming back home to big D. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT