NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 25, 2006
Jerry Stackhouse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JERRY STACKHOUSE:  Rebound and we gotta focus on getting back. 
 Q.  Practice defensive transition, can you sort of replicate the way Phoenix runs the breakers or is it just a matter of finding somebody? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  Yeah, I mean that's what it is.  You gotta go back and kind of, you know, have -- if there isn't somebody in your area you gotta pick up the guy in your area.  I think matchups are out the window in this game.  You can wind up on anybody.  I mean obviously the point guards, probably the one that's going to be matched up the most, because Nash is like the first guy that they're looking for out of bounds for the point guard, got an opportunity to match up with him. 
 And everybody else pretty much needs to just get back and find somebody.  And we did a pretty good job of that.  We didn't do as good a job of that in the first quarter, but I think for the most part of the game we did a pretty good job with matching up the guys. 
 Q.  Avery was talking about the transition defense a million times to us.  How many times did he tell you guys that in practice? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  We heard it a lot.  We know it.  It's not -- I mean everybody, it's so funny, it's like the victory that we had the other night in San Antonio, I mean how that felt.  You feel good about it but you feel so disgusted when you lose a game like we did last night.  It's a feeling is a lot worse than actually before from winning.  So we don't feel good right now at all. 
 So we're anxious to get back on the floor. 
 Q.  You guys are adjusting to them.  How do you make them adjust to what you want to do you guys are making adjustments to how the Suns play, but how do you make it so they have to make adjustments too? 
 JERRY STACKHOUSE:  They don't want to make adjustments.  They don't want to (inaudible) I mean I think they -- they are content with they're trying to outscore us.  I think as far as the velocity of what we come with, I don't think they really care.  They just, Josh take any type of shot you want to.  Good shot.  We have to have more discipline instead of taking the good shot, get a great shot which we can get. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT