ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 29, 2009
Joan Benoit Samuelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. As we saw before the one goal here is obviously to break the record here which is 2:52, I think?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I believe the age group. I'm not sure it's 2:52 or 2:53 for the New York City Marathon. I have the 50-plus for the trials.  
  
  Q. For the workout?  
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: But New York's a difficult course, so we'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like if it is 2:53 in that range?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I don't know. I'm not even going there. I put a lot of pressure on myself before the trials to break that 2:50 barrier, that 50-plus. This is more about celebrating 25 years since the Olympic run, and the 40th Anniversary of the New York City Marathon. To me the celebration is to get to the starting line.  
  
  Q. Will you be starting with the elite women?  
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: No, I won't be.  
  
  Q. So you won't be running by yourself, then?  
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Right.  
  
  Q. Is your 2:49 a World over-50 record?  
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I don't think it is the World. I think it's in the marathon. I'm not sure.  
  
  Q. Who is going to pace you? What was the ultimate decision on it?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I'm running. Going to the starting line, and whoever runs with me or whoever I try to catch.  
  
  Q. However, Lance Armstrong said he would really like to? What was your most recent race?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I ran the Half Marathon at the Nike Women's Marathon. Not this past weekend, but the weekend before, but I ran with someone. My last serious efforts were a 10K in Boston, and Columbus Day, Monday. That was a 1:29, and then 1:22 a Half Marathon in Toronto.  
  
  Q. Do you remember ever flashing back to hitting a kid in the Bronx in this race many, many years ago?  
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Yes.  
  
  Q. Do you still remember that?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I'm glad I didn't see that coming, because I probably would have broken every bone in my body.  
  
  Q. So you hit everything sort of at the same time?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I didn't even see him. He didn't see me, and I just went up and came down.  
  
  Q. Could you talk a little bit about your training now, Joan? Have you moderated that over the years?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: My training has dropped off. The amount of mileage I've been carrying has dropped off considerably in the last several years, basically, since I became a mother. Often times I put my career in two segments - B.C. and A.D. - before children and after diapers. I used to plan my day around my running and now I plan my running around my day. So obviously priorities shifted.   
 The children are both off in college now. So the nest is empty, and I don't think that's been reason to increase my mileage, but I've been carrying around 80 miles for the last -- since I really decided to run New York -- between 70 and 80 miles. That's the most I've carried in a long time.   
 And I've done a lot of travel. Since September I've been to Tokyo, Toronto, Chicago, San Francisco, and Boston, so I've maybe carried that mileage through all that travel.  
  
  Q. And all the traveling is to races?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Races or related running events.  
  
  Q. And I'm sure you've been asked this many times, but what keeps you running and why?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: There's always a goal out there. I mean whether it's a goal that -- I mean, it's really about, you know joie de vivre for the sport. You know, it's been part of my life for so many years. It's like I never used to drink coffee. Now, I drink coffee. I think that's been a performance enhancer for me (laughing). Chocolate is good as well.  
  
  Q. Why did you change? Why have you started?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Why?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I guess I'm getting older. But, you know, I would liken it to people who need their coffee. I don't need coffee in the morning, I like coffee in the morning. But I sort of need a run to get my day going is what I was trying to schedule the events of the day and prioritize what's important to accomplish during the course of the day or the week.  
  
  Q. So that's when you do your run is in the morning?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Most of the time, yes.  
  
  Q. I was down at the Indoor Nationals this year and saw your 3000 you ran there. I was impressed. There aren't very many people in those meets who run really seriously when they were young, especially, not at the Olympic level. Actually John Tuttle was there. But why do you think it is that most people at your level when they're young tend to stop racing seriously?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I think they burn out. I think, you know, to me the key has been a balance. And I've never focused solely on my running. I've always had something else going. You know, I've never subscribed to supplements or nutritional supplements or things like that.   
 I think it's because I eat a well-balanced diet which includes chocolate (smiling). And that holds true throughout my life. I mean, you know, I have a lot of different interests like I try to accomplish probably more in a day than most people. But that's all part of the equation in order to have a balance in my life. I think that's the only thing I can suggest.  
  
  Q. Since you never overdid it, you never had to drop?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: No, I mean, you know, it's just part of my day. Okay, I've had my cup of coffee, which for me is really on my run because I don't brew coffee at home. If I'm on the road, I'll have a coffee. Or if I'm going to a meeting, I'll have coffee. But it's not like I can't get my day going without coffee. And I can get my day going without running, but my day's a lot brighter if I run.  
  
  Q. Other than before the trials, have you avoided the usual impact related problems that a lot of people get? That a lot of people that have run for many years get?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Yes, I haven't really had any. You know, I had the Achilles problems, and right now I've been dealing with a hamstring. And I've been dealing with it since the spring, and I just can't shake it. And that is bothersome. But, you know I guess I need something to keep myself from getting too confident.   
 You know, I feel that with every step. I've lost power in that leg on several training runs and usually it's restored within a mile or two. And I'm just hoping that if it goes on Sunday, it will bounce back with a stride or whatever. But it's part of the aging process.   
 But as far as impact-related problems, I've been lucky. You know, I don't have osteoporosis. They say that the impact sort of combats that disease.  
  
  Q. Have you taken any particular precautions that have helped you?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I've just tried to balance everything I do in my life.  
  
  Q. What are the ages of your kids? What are they doing nowadays?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Our daughter's 22, and our son's 19.  
  
  Q. What are their names again?  
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Abby is our daughter, and Anders is our son.  
  
  Q. What do they do?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Abby is a senior at Bates College, and Anders is a sophomore at Boden College, and my daughter's running at Trinity on Sunday. Fortunately the timing is a bit of an issue (laughing).  
  
  Q. What is your son's name?  
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Anders.  
  
  Q. After you had the kids, remember you had that back problem that caused an imbalance in your leg sometimes went weak on you?  
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Yes.  
  
  Q. Have you outgrown it?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: You know, I don't know if any woman who gives birth outgrows the pelvic issues associated with a pregnancy. It's, again, a balancing act. And I've been able to compensate. You know, I compensated for the knee before the Olympic trials. I compensated for the Achilles. I've compensated for the pelvic issues which I think, you know, is probably the hamstring issue.   
 I've been plagued with hamstring issues since the children were born. Sometimes I go through periods where it's not an issue, and other times I do. Right now it's a bit of an issue.   
 If you ask any marathoner, they're going to tell you they're dealing with some issue. It's the nature of the sport.  
  
  Q. Do you do therapy? Do you get physio?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I do. I get massage and up until last -- well, I even got in the water last week. But I try to swim in the ocean after my runs because that really helps me to loosen up. Just the simple art of kicking, more specifically the breast stroke, and that's been great.   
 But now the water's a little too cold, and I can't be bothered with getting in the car and driving to a swimming pool. That's why I run. It's so accessible. You can do it anywhere at any time. I can't be bothered with health clubs and going to facilities where you can recreate. I think that defeats the whole purpose of what it is I do.  
  
  Q. Have you had much analysis of your stride done over the years? Has anybody ever tried to tell you you're doing something wrong?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Oh, yes.  
  
  Q. And what specifically? Is there a common complaint about it?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: No, it's just unorthodox. I mean, people know who it is when I'm out there running.  
  
  Q. Yeah. I mean, does anybody say it could be more efficient?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Oh, yes, I think. You know, especially many years ago, you know, they would take it out to pasture, so to speak.  
  
  Q. You're oblivious to it?  
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Yes.  
  
  Q. When you go to the start line now what demands do you place on yourself mentally?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I try not to place any demands on myself out there. You know, it's a celebratory occasion. I've never really been able to enjoy the sites during the marathon. Not that I'm going to be looking, you know throughout the course, but I'm just going to enjoy the fans and the runners who are running with me. And we'll see what happens.   
 I mean it's, you know, I just got an email from somebody who ran the Marine Corps Marathon, a friend, who said, What a gift it is to be out there to run at our age; isn't it? It's truly a gift. It is a gift. Especially somebody mentioned the age group runners who come and go and the people who ran when they were young. So many of those people aren't able to run. Some of it is by choice, some of it is by injury, and some of it is because their passions have changed.  
  
  Q. Do you have a few more thoughts every now and then about politics, and are you advising your Senators on the upcoming health care vote?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I have spent a little time in Washington. I'm very proud of the main leadership right now. It's been suggested, but I don't think so (laughing).  
  
  Q. When you're in Washington, what are you doing?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: You know, I have been down on behalf of physical fitness and environmental issues. You know, to me, running is pure sport. And I think sustainability of health and wellness is directly linked to sustainability of natural resources in the environment. And I think runners can make that perfectly clear through their passions and what they do on a daily basis.   
 I've clocked close to 140,000 miles during my career, and I feel as though I've been a human drama in the climate change. And I can see the changes in the ambient air qualities, in runoff. I see these changes, and they are changing. And, you know, anything I can do to bring attention to the fact that we all need to make changes in our daily lives, our professional lives, our family lives to curb climate change is something I feel like I can talk about and be passionate about.   
 You know, we've been afforded in our generation wonderful opportunities and we've left our mark in some good ways and some negative ways. And, you know, my husband and I have two children who will be taking the reins for the next generation. You know, it's not the races I've left behind that I've won or set records, it's my commitment to making this planet sustainable and as environmentally sound as it can possibly be for the next generations.   
 Just being able to go out and run in Central Park this morning, being able to run around the Imperial Palace in Tokyo. I mean, these green spaces and these clean air spaces are very important.   
 When I was running around the Imperial Palace they had the no smoking signs because that is the one place you can go, and they were stenciled on the sidewalks where people can go and recreate, and that's important.   
 I found Tokyo much more livable this past trip than I did several years ago. You know, it was hard to go out for a run. So people are getting it. And people understand what we need to do. It's just -- it's just it's so timely right now.   
 I think people are slowly, slowly realizing that we have a finite period of time to turn this around. And if we don't, and I would hope that runners understand this and can help, help with the movement to slow it down faster than the general public thinks it needs to be slowed down.  
  
  Q. What active role are you playing in this effort?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I'm not really playing an active role. I'm just, you know, if I'm asked to go someplace to speak on behalf of the greener environment or green planet, I welcome that opportunity. I've found it in my hometown. And we're working with athletes for a fit planet to make it as green as we possibly can. I know, you know, New York's doing the same thing. Most road racers are because they understand the connection.   
 And I think, you know, if our sport can lead in this direction and with this program of making events greener. And I know most of the stadiums and venues for the big professional sports are implementing all sorts of different procedures with green teams and things like that. I thinks that's very important. It brings awareness of the issues and problems to a population of people who might not look at it seriously.  
  
  Q. Does it surprise you that after 40 years of the running movement that about three quarters of Americans are obese or overweight as well as kids, because the message hasn't gotten there, has it?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: No. And I can't tell you how many times I get on an airplane and the armrests are already pulled up because the people beside me are spilling over in my space (smiling). But it is an issue. You know, I was driving home from Logan Airport a week ago, and there was this traffic, this backlog of traffic in the breakdown lane. I couldn't understand what was happening. And somebody said, Oh, that's that new restaurant that just opened.   
 And I hadn't even heard about it called Super Sonic Foods, or something like that, where everything's oversized. And, I mean that's compelling enough -- a compelling enough draw to get cars to lineup to get in the door.   
 So with all the budget cuts now in public schools, you know, PE is one of the first programs to go and obesity is a huge issue. It starts with education. I wish there were some way.   
 I mean, Tim Burns just did this big series on National Parks. And if we could open up our state parks and state recreational areas to people on food stamps to get them to understand the correlation between healthy eating and exercise and physical activity and things like that. I mean, it's not just nutrition; it's physical activity. So to exclude people from an opportunity to participate actively in some pursuit is certainly not in our best interest as a country. And we have a lot to be proud of.   
 But to see the costs associated with obesity and diabetes, especially in the generation we want to inherit a healthy planet, it's just all -- it doesn't make sense. That's why I said earlier, the two are really inextricably linked.  
  
  Q. Could you talk about Paula Radcliffe, what makes her great? And what you admire about her?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: Her steadfastness to the sport. I mean, she's, you know, she's obviously passionate about the sport. She wants to see how far she can push herself. I mean, there are many similarities.   
 You know, she's still looking at time -- and I'm looking at time as well -- but she's looking at world record times, and world best times for the year, et cetera. I'm looking at how close can I get X-number of years out to the times that I was running in my heyday.   
 So I admire her qualities, her tenacity, her passion for the sport, her commitment to the sport. And she, certainly, I think helped in the resurgence of domestic running in our -- as far as providing inspiration for the American women who are coming up through the ranks today.  
  
  Q. Should she win in London in 2012, would that mean she'd run in Great Britain or in Los Angeles?   
 JOAN BENOIT SAMUELSON: I think so. That would be great if she could do that. I mean, she'll be, you know, I don't know if she'll ever run another 2:15, but I certainly think she's capable of winning an Olympic Marathon.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT