UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA DAVIS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2018
Keelan Doss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
UC Davis - 10, Stanford - 30   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
KEELAN DOSS: Stanford came out, played a lot of one high, had a lot of one-on-one looks today.  At times they clouded, but I think it was more situational, but they had a good game plan, and they're great players, and it was fun playing against them.   
 Q.  Compared to what you expected today (No microphone.)  
KEELAN DOSS: Yeah, going into every single game my mind-set visually is I'm going to go out there and do my thing, you know what a mean?  Stanford is great team.  They have great players.  Our goal is just to focus on how we play that, and if we can control that, then we can control how the game goes.  The expectations, I wouldn't say we met them, what we were thinking about beforehand, but it was a fun game to play and glad we got to do it.   
 Q.  How do you guys gauge football in the locker room?  There were a couple of third down conversions away, couple of fourth downs away (No microphone.)  
KEELAN DOSS: We're going to go back and watch film obviously, and they're a great team, like I stated earlier, and coming out here and playing against them, I feel like we got a lot of "swag" as you say and a lot of "mojo" going into next week, competing against the No. 9 team in the nation, one of the best teams in the nation, and just going against that and competing against that this game.  We will go back.  There are obviously things you gotta get better at still, and we're going to look back at it and there will be certain plays that we know we could have converted on, like you were saying, but at the end of the day it's going back to what we do and getting better from here.   
 Q.  You were targeted 25 times in the game today.  Was that the game plan?  
KEELAN DOSS: Yeah, so the game plan going in was get the ball out pretty quick, obviously with the great defensive line and see what happens.  That's how it played out.   
 Q.  There were a couple of balls that were thrown behind you.  Was it more or less just like missing your mark or miscommunication?  
KEELAN DOSS: Like I said the D line, obviously legit.  There was one play, one missed communication, but besides that, man, I think the ball was thrown pretty accurately all day, and it's just my job to make that play.   
 Q.  How do you put the loss into the season going into the conference play?  
KEELAN DOSS: Well, like we said, we go back, watch film, see what we can get better at.  We're going to use that momentum from this game and carry it over.  I thought we played Stanford pretty well.  Our defense had an hell of a day.  They were causing turnovers, playing pretty good, and we're going to go back and watch film and carry this momentum over through the next couple of weeks.   
 Q.  Can you talk about what happened just before halftime (No microphone.)  
KEELAN DOSS: Yeah, so the call was a vertical, just a go route, 4th and 15, if I'm not mistaken, and the call was to go deep, and I seen beforehand they came and cobbled me with a linebacker over there, so I was thinking just getting through a little honey hole right there, and Jake threw a perfect ball, and I was able to get the ball and come down with the catch.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Keelan.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT