TICKETCITY CACTUS BOWL: WASHINGTON v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 31, 2014
Ryan Simmons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   What makes James so good?  
RYAN SIMMONS:   He's really athletic.   His athleticism, his strength, his size, just the way he fills gaps, makes plays is something that helped out a lot.   He's blocked kicks on field goals, stuff like that.   
We want to give everybody a great note to finish the season off.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Washington.)   
RYAN SIMMONS:   They're very balanced.   There's really not much you can put your finger on and say, They're going to do this or that.   They do a lot of different things, a lot of different looks we haven't seen.   We've watched film pretty much every day.   We've watched pretty much everything.   
Four‑down fronts is usually what we look for.   You can kind of expect some of those things to show up.   You just never really know.   You just got to do your job.   
   
 Q.   When you watch the film, what things stick out to you?  
RYAN SIMMONS:   No.4, No.70 is a hard runner.   No.12, their quarterback.   Everything about their whole offense.   They have a bunch of guys out there who make plays.   
They fit in the scheme well.   They definitely execute.   
   
 Q.   Justin Phillips' performance, impressive.   
RYAN SIMMONS:   It's very impressive.   Justin, he's a guy that's still learning.   For him to go out there and continually play, not really worry about the last play, whatever he messed up on, he just kept playing, kept making plays when he needed to.   
He's definitely been beneficial for this defense with the injuries and stuff like that, so...   
   
 Q.   Specifically what does he bring to the table skill set‑wise?  
RYAN SIMMONS:   Oh, man, he's athletic.   One of the faster guys in the linebacker corps.   He makes plays.   He's a hard‑hitter.   He brings it.   
He's not shy to make a tackle.   He's always flying around.   He's willing to make that play.   
   
 Q.   Back in fall camp Coach Spencer talked about seeing some flashes from him.   Early on, were you seeing that, too?  
RYAN SIMMONS:   When I saw his film in high school, that's when I knew.   When I seen him, got here, it kind of confirmed he can play with anybody.   Definitely a great player in my eyes.   
   
 Q.   When you look at Washington on film, who do they compare to offensively?  
RYAN SIMMONS:   I say similar to us.   But as far as another team, maybe Baylor.   It's not the same type of plays.   They do a lot of different things.   They're very balanced.   Baylor is very balanced.   Fast‑tempo offense.   
They do some of the same run schemes, carryovers with the spread offense.   Passing plays are usually the same.   But they can do many things.   It's something you have to be aware of.   We just have to do our job.   
   
 Q.   Oklahoma State wins this game if...   
RYAN SIMMONS:   If we have fun, play with maximum effort, control what we can control.   
   
 Q.   How do you think your defense has progressed over the practices you've had?  
RYAN SIMMONS:   We've definitely progressed.   Lot of looks we never seen.   It's just things we have to control.   Not worry about what the offense brings us.   
We've definitely zoned in, gotten a good upper hand on what they do, a lot of reads we need to make.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT