BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2018
Garbiñe Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. VICKERY/G. Muguruza   
2-6, 7-5, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough match out there.  Up in the second set and then it sort of got away from you.  Was that her raising her level or do you feel like the errors just started to mount for you?  What happened?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: It was a very tough match, I would say that.  I think a little bit of both.  I think she really came back playing much better.  I think she -- you know, at the game of 3-1, she started playing much better, and she kind of believed a little bit more and start hitting better shots.   
And maybe I did couple mistakes here and there, and she, you know, took advantage of that.  And with the match, I think she was raising her level more and more.   
 Q.  Did you find it difficult to kind of match that level or did you find that tactically it was difficult to adjust to kind of how she had maybe elevated her game?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, I think I was playing good.  You know, I just think that I'm going to learn a lot from this match.  I'm going to watch it and I'm going to see what went wrong.   
I think it's very important because, today, I felt I was in control, and, you know, it slipped away a little bit from me.  So I will definitely watch it and see exactly what happened.   
 Q.  You had a tough start to the year.  How frustrating is it to come here?  This particular tournament people either play very well or go out really early.  No middle ground.  How frustrating was it?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, it was a little bit sad, because I really -- Middle East was good, but the conditions here are different.  And, yeah, it's a little bit frustrating.  I felt I was playing good.   
And I'm going to just keep working hard and learn from this match and then to the next one.   
 Q.  When the second set didn't end in a tiebreak, was it hard to adjust for the third set?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I think she played very well those key points there, and she took the second set.  And I think in the third set it doesn't -- the score doesn't really match because we were playing a lot of rallies and good points.  So I felt like, you know, a lot of key points went her way.  Yeah, I think it was a tough match.   
 Q.  She doesn't have a ton of experience playing top players.  A lot of us haven't seen her play that much.  Can you kind of talk about her game particularly once she started to elevate her game a bit, what made it difficult?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yeah, I watch her play a little bit.  I think she has a great physical skill.   
And, you know, I just think that when players with not a lot of experience play against top players, they are very motivated.  They kind of elevate always their game.  I think today was a little bit the case.  She was getting a little bit more excited, and the key points went her way, and she was getting more into the match and, at the end, she had a lot more confidence.   
Me maybe making few mistakes help her also to advance a lot in the score, but, you know, I think she earned the match today.   
 Q.  We spoke earlier this week about the depth of the tour and why No. 1 is skipping around a little bit, and you're saying these players can pop up at tournaments.  Is this the kind of player you're talking about on any given night?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Exactly.  Like we always say that there are so many players that can be dangerous, that can be motivated and have a great day and face an opponent where maybe they don't have a lot of pressure and play good.  You know, and maybe the top player exits early.  And we have seen this so many times, and maybe today was a little bit like that.   
 Q.  You had a lot of great success the last couple of years, second Wimbledon and all that.  Also been quite a number of early losses you have in tournaments.  How can you reduce that number?  Do you need to change anything or will that be part of your game because of the style you have?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think I have -- with time, I'm improving a lot, trying to advance in the tournaments and be always in the last rounds.  I think I have improved that.   
But I think just today, for sure, closing the match and maybe key points here and there that I have to adjust.  Like I said before, watch the match and see myself and see what is going on exactly.   
But for sure it's very important in the tournaments to kind of -- these first rounds where you face people that maybe you don't know or they just have a good day and to try to advance in the tournament.   
 Q.  What were some of the things that Sam told you when you called him down?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, to keep doing my game, you know, try to be aggressive, try to work for the point.  You know, she has a very good skills, physically, so she gives a lot of balls back.  Try to be patient, you know, and keep behind her all the time.   
Yeah, pretty much that.   
 Q.  Working with Sam and Conchita, how do the two of them see your game?  Do they see things differently?  How do you balance the two voices and apply them on the court?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, for sure they do not see differently.  I don't think that would make sense.   
No, I think it's a great combination, have them both.  I know Conchita since I was very little, and Sam has been my coach quite some years now.  It's great to have them and see them outside and helping me.  They both have so many experience that it's important in some moments.   
 Q.  Given the first set, there were a lot of long rallies.  Did that have you consider maybe a different strategy knowing you didn't want to be in a baseline rally with her, those long shots?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I'm not afraid of long rallies.  You know, I'm aggressive player.  I don't care if I had to play 20 shots.  I'm okay with that.   
When you have somebody that has this style of game, she's going to give you a lot of balls.  You know, I'm happy to make her work hard and to, you know, to be there and to fight for the longer points.   
You know, I don't have a game also to serve and volley or serve winner.  There is some points like that, because I have that also.  But I can play in a different ways.  I don't know.   
 Q.  Indian Wells is one of those tournaments where a lot of people will double up and do the doubles.  Obviously you have to cut back a little on your doubles.  Are you thinking of ever picking it back up again?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I thought about it.  I was -- I wanted to play Brisbane doubles, and it didn't work.  I just had two years where we played a lot of singles/doubles and it is very tough.  I really admire the people that play singles and doubles all the time.  They stay late.  It's very difficult.   
But, you know, my singles ranking improved a lot, and, you know, I wanted to concentrate a little bit.  And I don't know.  Here and there I try to play but a little bit less.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT