BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
December 31, 2017
Garbiñe Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An Interview with:   
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are you feeling coming into the 2018 season about anything?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I didn't even realize, but I'm starting again.  It's very fast, especially when you have a long and intense year.   
So I took a lot of holidays and trained where I saw Courtney, came to visit me.   
But, no, it was good.  I'm fresh and I'm happy that I'm starting another year.   
 Q.  You feel like a full California girl now?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I've been there for a while now.  And, you know, I like the energy, especially the coast.  And it's very energetic and it's good for a preseason because you need that around you.   
 Q.  You had flight issues getting here?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I was very upset because I went in this airline.  And, first of all, it was a little bit delayed.  And so then I got there and after two hours flying, like, to the Pacific -- or I don't know, whatever sea it is.  I don't know -- they tell me that -- the captain announce, like, we have an emergency.  We have to go back to L.A. because we are losing fuel and the radar is not working so we are blind.   
So I'm, like, it took two hours to realize that this was, you know.  And then they canceled it because, obviously, it was dangerous, but that's it.   
It's a lot of adventures.  I'm lucky that with all the traveling I do, I don't have that many issues.  So that's not bad.   
 Q.  Were you frightened when that announcement came through?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: No, No.  I'm like, Okay.  Let's go back.  There's nothing I can do, just get upset and that's it.   
 Q.  How long did you have to wait to get on a new flight?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: The next day.  They canceled it and then the next day we -- a little bit earlier, but one day.   
 Q.  Tennis players tend to be very controlled, very you know, they need things to be the way they want them.  So when you have those sorts of changes, those last-minute where you thought you were going to get here one day but now you're going to be later, how well do you deal with those sorts of changes?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Depends.  In this case, I came with a lot of time and I was actually happy that I got one day of rest after the preseason.  So that wasn't a big deal.   
But there are some times where you don't, you know, make it and then you're a little bit rushed.  It happened to me before.  But in this case, it was good.   
 Q.  So with your preseason training since I have seen you last, how did it go and what was the main focus for those remaining weeks in L.A.?  Was it primarily fitness?  How much were you balancing the fitness side of things with the hitting on the court and making any changes to your game?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: You know, when I have a period of time where I can really work, I usually focus a lot on the fitness side, because I'm constantly playing and I do the adjustment during the year.  I don't wait to do a tennis adjustment, you know.   
But in the fitness side, you need a little bit extra time to get ready, get stronger and, you know, that was my focus.   
 Q.  How do you feel in terms of goals and hunger for 2018?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Everybody keeps asking me, like, what is now my goal, and there is nothing in particular.  You know, I want to be able to be in big stages, play good matches, eventually hold few trophies if I can.   
But more of the same, you know, being good, very good, I guess.  Yes.   
 Q.  It's pretty good to have "being very good" be the same goal.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I want to keep the goal.   
 Q.  How do you view the Australian swing in the context of setting your year up and how do you approach this time of year?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: The Australian swing is interesting because everybody comes from a period of time where a lot of training and you put new things in your game or -- you know, it's a little bit difficult.   
So I'm excited to go back to start as good as I can and that's it.  I'm not really thinking too much.   
 Q.  You're getting the band back together with Carla this week with doubles?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Yes.  You know, I always liked doubles.  I had a moment -- we had a moment where we were really motivated to play, you know, for Singapore.  And after we both improve a lot in our singles career, we kind of took a little bit easier.   
But now we thought that in the first tournament it was fun and it was a good way to get few extra matches if we win, so that's good.   
 Q.  It's the first week but the Number 1 ranking is on the table.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Oh, my goodness.  No, Just joking.   
 Q.  So you said before that anybody who says that they don't care about it is crazy and lying.  So how much is that at all weighing on your mind this week or is it not?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Not really.  I know it's going to be a tough year.  There's going to be a lot of consistency in the players.   
And, no, I'm not thinking.  You know, it's in the back of my mind to be able to train and have a lifestyle to become the best, but I'm not here thinking the points.   
You know, it's just a mindset that I want to have.  I know it's always in game, and it's going to be for the rest of the year maybe in game.  So that's it.   
 Q.  What have you done to your lifestyle to change it to get yourself a No. 1 lifestyle?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I don't know the secret.  You just, you know, work as hard as you can, every detail.  You don't take nothing as a light thing or a joke.  You know, everything is very important and you put the silly things aside.  You don't have time to waste kind of.  Not that I had before, but it's just even more professional or strict, you know.   
 Q.  Did something happen to make you start thinking that way or that's just something that you learn or did someone guide you in that way?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: It's a progression.  You know, when you are younger and you want to be a good player, you learn.  You improve little things.   
And now you know that there's not a lot of room because very small the differences, but it's a progression with the years and with the objectives and, yeah, you find your way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT