ROGERS CUP
August 9, 2017
Garbiñe Muguruza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/K. Flipkens   
7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The first set, you think it was a little hard for you, the 7-5?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: It was hard.  I think that I had a lot of opportunities during the set, and I felt like I didn't use them.  So, you know, I just tried not to be very frustrated, tried playing, you know, concentrating and thinking that I will have another chance.   
So definitely was very important the first set for after, keep playing the second set.   
 Q.  It seemed like a similar match against Kirsten in Australia.  Did it feel like that to you, knowing how important that first set was in both of those matches?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: I know that in every match the first set is very important.  But, you know, when you have such a talented player, you know, very different style, you want to make sure that you don't lose the concentration or you're very focused.  You just want to have everything under control.   
So like I said, before I felt like in some moments I'm like, Didn't make it.  But I knew that if I would finish playing like this, more will come and that make the difference.   
 Q.  Just before the first set ended, you called out your coach.  Just generally, what are some of the reasons why you call out your coach and what are you kind of looking for when you have those exchanges?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, it's always good to have the eyes of someone outside of the court.  Because you're inside and you're just, like, running and sweating, you know, very into the match.  You don't realize maybe some things that your coach from outside does.   
And I think, you know, you call him in important moments just if he can help you that extra minute, few words that might open your eyes a little bit.  So I think it's very helpful sometimes.   
 Q.  Just to follow up on that, we don't have volume, when I was watching your match didn't have volume.  So what were some things that Sam told you during that exchange to help you?  Because I think you went on to serve for the first set.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Basically, I've never won a match here in Toronto.  And I felt like I was missing too much maybe and, you know, he was making me calm a little bit, calm down.  You know, it's normal.   
And it worked, you know.  I felt after that I missed a little bit less.  It's not magical, but I think it helped me those words.   
 Q.  You've had some ups and downs in your career.  What's been your key to maintaining confidence after having a rough stretch?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I think I always have ups and downs.  And what keeps me, you know, concentrated is just making sure that I train hard, that I come to a tournament and I'm ready to play.  It doesn't matter what happens after.  You know, everybody wants to win.   
But me feeling that I did my homework and I'm here, I'm ready, I'm ready to play.  After the game is the game.  But that's already helpful.  After, if you win, it makes you more confident, of course.  But first step is just to feel that you have done everything you can to come to the tournament.   
 Q.  Talking about this being your first win in Toronto, just how different are things for you now on the court now compared to maybe this time last year after the French and maybe feeling a bit more pressure?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I'm concentrating a lot on working hard, being very humble, not taking anything for granted.   
Which most people think that if you win a Grand Slam, you know, you have that extra confidence, so much confidence that you're going to win matches by, you know, miracle.  In fact, it's not like that, because you have all these opponents that they just want to beat you, and they're playing very well as well.   
So, you know, just going out there, forgetting about everything and going for the match a lot.   
 Q.  Following up on that, I mean, when you won the French, obviously it was harder to have a break because Wimbledon was coming up right after.  How much did having that time after Wimbledon to decompress, do your media obligations on Chelsea Handler, things like that, how does that help you prepare for the stretch of the season?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: When I won the French Open, right away I had to compete and it was the first Grand Slam.  It was a lot of emotion.   
And I feel right now that I'm a better player.  It doesn't mean I have to win or lose.  But I do feel different, no matter what happens.   
And I did take a few days off, not a lot.  Because I would rather have a few days where I like to do some media, some fun stuff that I enjoy as well.  But I went right away to train and I'm like, You know what?  I don't want to wait a lot.  I want to go on the court and keep playing.  And, yeah, play Stanford, play here and all the tournaments.   
 Q.  You beat her in the Wimbledon final but was Venus Williams a player that you looked up to growing up or kind of idolized growing up?  Because you similarly have a very powerful game.  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, she's been around for a very long time, so for sure I have watched her, you know, since I was a kid.  And still, you know, she's still playing so it's -- yeah, I did.  I did watch her and I knew that she has lots of years in the tour.   
 Q.  You mentioned being frustrated in the first set.  How do you kind of stop that frustration there and not let it carry over into the rest of the match?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, this is my every day.  You know, we deal a lot with frustration because we miss a lot of shots.  We make a lot of shots.   
So, you know, I'm kind of used to it.  So just when you miss a shot, you have ten seconds to forget about it and play the next point.  So I just -- it's quick like changing the page and, like, whatever.  Next point.  Being just very cold with myself, not getting very emotional if I do a mistake.   
 Q.  Looking forward to the next round, what do you think you need to do better to get off to a quicker start in the match?  
GARBIÑE MUGURUZA: Well, I still don't know my opponent, but I know they're playing now and I've played with one, one time.  The other one, no.   
I'm not thinking a lot who is my next opponent in particular.  I think I'm trying to improve my game, you know, because I didn't play a lot of times during Toronto.   
So I'm just taking care of myself and my game.  And no matter who is in front, that's not going to change a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT