U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 1999
Dave Eichelberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Well, yeah I am kind of surprised that the scores were not any lower.  I guess most of the low scores were early today.  Guys in the back, I don't think -- well, I guess it was like Hale's group before anybody shot under par there.  None of -- nobody in the last three or four groups, I don't think did.  But it really wasn't playing any  more difficult, I didn't think.  I could just -- pressure of the end of the final two rounds coming to bear, I think, more than anything.

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Oh, yeah.  Kind -- somewhat surprised you can shoot 73 and still be in the same position I was starting the day.  I don't think that will be true tomorrow.  Surely, it will take something under par, but we will see.

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Really, the first really bad swing I made all the tournament was on the 3rd hole.  Pulled 8-iron into -- hit left of the green, then went in the water; made double-bogey there.  And then just kind of tried to hang on and make pars, which I was able to do.  And then knocked it on in two on No. 11.  2-putted for a birdie.  Then hit it about two and a half, three feet at 12 for birdie.  At that point, I was really back in good shape at 4-under and feeling great about the day.  Then just kind of, once again, hit a bad shot going the other way.  Lost it to the right there on 14, trying to cut a 7-iron in, and overcut it and made bogey.  Then 15, I don't know what happened there.  I was trying to -- had like 171 to lay-up to the top of the hill and was going into the wind, and hit a 6-iron and get up there.  And it had gone all the way down to the bottom where -- really had a difficult pitch into the 15th green.  Pitched over the back, and then took three to get down from really not a very difficult spot.  So that was really -- that particular instance was something that kind of -- was throwing the shot away at that point.  Then really the best putt of the day at 17 for birdie. So, you know, that got me back to where I am.


Q.  How long was that putt?

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Oh, 20 feet.


Q.  17?

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  5-iron, 20 feet past the hole.


Q.  How have you done in past Open championships, both in the regular Tour and --

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Oh, let's see.  Senior Opens at  Pinehurst, I shot 69, 69 the last two days, to kind of come from back in the pack to maybe 12th or something.  Then at Olympia Fields I was, I believe I was second place starting the last day, wound up finishing about 5th there at Olympia Fields.  So those two have been the best.


Q.  Were you aware by how much Dougherty had a lead at one point on the front 9?  Did you look at the board at all?

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Not really.  I was aware, looked like at one point he was, I think, 8, and best anybody else was two, maybe at that point.  I am not sure.  Somewhere close to that.


Q.  Did you think anything at that point, I mean?

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  No, we still had half a tournament to go at that point.  So just kind of keep plucking along.


Q.  Have you felt like you have the game, the Open-style game?  Is this a tournament that you always thought you could play well in?

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Well, not really.  In the past there have been times when I was playing at my best, if that had been an Open come along then I could have done well.  But it just seems like when the Open has been around I have never been really on top of my game.  There at Olympia Fields I was, I felt like I definitely had a chance to win that one and right here, just recently the last month I really haven't been playing that well at all; been struggling with everything all the way really as late as Wednesday here with the practice round really; didn't play well, but something started there Thursday morning just with the driver.  I have been able to get a shot in play where I am playing with a driver that seems to be keeping me in the fairway and hitting a few good iron shots every now and then.  Feel like I have got a pretty good chance at it now.


Q.  The weather conditions changed today.  Talk about how that affected the play and the scores?

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  I don't think it really affected that much.  It was just a slightly different wind direction some of the holes were playing different, but all and all, really, I didn't feel like it was that much different than the other days, just about the same amount of wind and just a little different direction.


Q.  You had what you have to call an up-and-down round but you kept bringing it back; you were able to bring it back. Obviously this has got to be good for your confidence.

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Absolutely.  Finishing with a birdie on 17 helped a lot.  Like I say, I was just sorry I made those late two bogeys there on the front nine -- back nine, but all and all, I am pretty confident with my game; especially the driver, which has always been something I have had a little trouble with. So I am feeling good about tomorrow.


Q.  Because it is an Open course do you still have to be real patient tomorrow?

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Oh, yeah.  Lots of patience and just try not to be discouraged by anything bad early.  So hang in there. 


Q.  Tomorrow you are going to be paired with Bruce Summerhays and you will be right in front of Irwin and Dougherty.  How do you like your pairing playing with Bruce and how do you like where you will be playing right in front of those two?

DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Well, that is okay if I play well.  I mean, Bruce of course is a great guy to play with so that's really not anything one way or the other.  If I had my druthers I'd rather be the man with the one-shot lead, I think, playing in that last group, just gives me one more little mistake or something you can make that the other guys don't have.  I will take that lead when I can get it.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT