U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 1999
Dave Eichelberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Oh, it was pretty much the same as yesterday.  Drove the ball well; was hitting it either on the green or right in the fringe or just short.  I am trying to really make sure I don't take enough club to get over the green or off to the short side because you are in big trouble here if you are long and I have been short of the green a lot and putted up the hill which has been okay and that is kind of the plan I have been sticking and it has been working so far. 
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Highlights.  Both days the front nine I have been just kind of grinding pars.  Yesterday I parred every hole.  Today same thing only made about a 25-footer maybe on the 8th hole for a birdie. It was the only straight putt I have had all week.  Pin was kind of in between two hills.  It just looked like a trough going up from where I was; made that one.  11th hole birdied both days, was off beside the green and chipped close both times.  Today I also, on 12, I had about 18- to 20-footer right behind the hole that I made.  I 3-putted 13.  Say 3-putt, I hit on the green and it backed off, you know, like this much in the short fringe and I putted up the hill and 3-putted on that hole.  It was the only bogey today I really hit the 15th green in two and 2-putted for birdie.  And then like the last three holes all hit short on -- well 16 and 17 hit short and came back and you know, chipped close for par.  Then 18, I was just in the short fringe pin-high to the right.  2-putted from there. 
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  No, it didn't really seem -- seemed pretty much the same as it was yesterday.  I didn't notice any difference. 
 

Q.  You have been playing very steady golf and you have been really working on your game.  But it seemed to me that you had a lot of confidence in your putter today.  Would you talk about that?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Just I feel really confident from the short distances I guess more than I do the longer ones.  Just for some reason the feel is there here these two days.  I have had days where it is -- I am out there; you can't make anything.  But for one of the reasons I have yet to determined 40 years I am playing, sometimes it is there; sometimes it is not and it has been there so far. 
 

Q.  Didn't you play 63 U.S. Amateur here in town?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Talk about anything you remember about that  Championship.
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Yeah, I remember winning my first two matches and then got beat be John Lotz in the third round.  That is about all I remember. 
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  At Wakonda.  There was an article in the paper this morning that I think there is like four people, five here that were in that tournament. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about what it might take to catch Ed?  He is playing so well.  Is he going to have to help you guys back up a little bit or can you turn on the birdie machine and catch him?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  If he keeps playing like he is -- I mean, if he finishes 14-under for the tournament that is going to be really tough.  You usually don't think that second round leader is going to really double their score.  So you know, I don't know.  I am just going to keep grinding along playing the same thing I have been playing and hope for the best. 
 

Q.  You are a pretty big hitter.  Have you found any holes out here that you could be aggressive on if you had to; if you needed them?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  To me mostly the wind direction makes a difference as to what I am really trying to do with it off the tee.  With the wind as -- boy, just right there in your power-house, where I kind of feel like it is kind of -- you are downwind and slightly right-to-left; then I really let it go. When it is more cornering into you or from the side or something like that, I am not quite as -- don't try to put as big a swing at it and I am really kind of steering it out there somewhat - when I am not just right downwind. 
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Very enthusiastic.  As big of crowds as I have seen in any senior golf tournament that I have played in.  I think this is probably the biggest crowd I have played in front of.  Very respectful.  They clap for the good shots and don't do anything for the bad ones, so, they know the game. 
 

Q.  What would staying in the hunt for this tournament and even winning it means for you at this stage in your life?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Oh, it would be the biggest thing I have ever done in golf at this point.  Getting your name on a USGA trophy, I mean, to me, that is a pretty big deal, so it would be really big. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT