U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 1997
Dave Eichelberger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Well, overall, today was a positive one.  I guess even par at an Open is not too bad.  I was a little disappointed in my play right there at the end, but the 3-putt at 16 and then bad drive at 18 where it kind of left me over behind the tree where I had to hook it from a side-hill lie to get it on the green and didn't pull it off.  Really, other than that tee ball at 18, I didn't hit too many bad shots there coming -- oh, the last 9 holes anyhow.  So pretty happy with the state of my game altogether. 
 

Q.  Please.
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Go over it hole by hole? 
 

Q.  Please.
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  First hole, boy, I hit just a gigantic 3-wood.  I was just off the fairway in the short collar along the fairway and was kind of  sitting up there nicely in the grass and hit a 3-wood about 270 yards right on the green and 2-putted for birdie to get off to a good start.  The 3rd hole was -- missed the green left and chipped up out of the high grass about 10 feet, made that for a par, so that was good.  Then bad drive at 4, and couldn't get it up from there to the green and made bogey there.  5, I hit what I thought was just an absolutely perfect shot that was going right in the hole, and it went over the back of the green.  That's really the only time I knocked it over the green all week.  I kind of tried to make sure I've stayed below the hole.  Then after that, I hit mostly pretty good shots.  Missed the green at 8, but a good bunker shot got me a par.  Made about a 10-footer at 9 for birdie.  12th hole, I'd driven it in the left woods there the first two days.  Today, I hit a 3-wood off the tee and into the fairway and hit a 6-iron about 5 feet for a birdie.  13, hit it in up very close there, maybe 12, 15 feet, made that for a birdie.  Then kind of came close at 14 and 15, almost  birdied both of those.  16, just left the first putt a little short. If I would have just hit it harder, I think it would have curled right up by the hole, but I was left with about a 4-footer there that it lipped out for a 3-putt.  Then the bad drive at 18 left me where I couldn't get it on the green and bogeyed there. 
 

Q.  Just being a couple down, knowing that you can make birdie - you probably have more birdies in three days than anyone else - do you feel pretty confident yet?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Oh, still very confident.  If I could just keep that ball near the -- drive it near the fairway, the irons have really been the best part of my game this week.  I hit a lot of good iron shots, so I feel like I can give myself a lot of birdie opportunities and my putter has been going okay.  So I feel like I can get that low round. 
 

Q.  David, when was the last time you were in this position in a major this Tour --
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  I've never been in this position in a Major.  Never really played well in Majors at all on the regular Tour.  I'm not sure how many Opens I played. Probably 15 or 20, and the best I ever finished was  maybe 15 to 16th place.  I played in eight Masters and never -- best finish there was about 18th, and just never played well in the PGA.  So my Major record is not too good. 
 

Q.  Is there an explanation for that?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  No, none that I know of. 
 

Q.  Dave, you were struggling a little earlier this year.  What has turned your game around?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Well, just right here in the last about three or four weeks.  Driving the ball is the main thing that's turned around.  I had a streak there where I was pretty wild with the driver.  Just couldn't get it within 10 yards of the fairway.  I mean, I was past the rough.  I was out in the trees and near the boundaries, so that caused a lot of problems.  But here the last three, four weeks, the driver has really been a lot better.  And it just seems like that's kind of gone down through my game.  The irons are better and the putts are better. 
 

Q.  Do you have any swing changes?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  No.  I piddled around with my stance somewhat is the only thing I've changed.  I've kind of -- I'm not sure how to explain it -- just, I was standing too closed with my driver. I tried to open up slightly with the driver.  That  seems to have helped. 
 

Q.  David, next question would be:  If you haven't been here before, are you going to be full of butterflies, a little nervous?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Oh, I'm sure.  Leading or near the lead going into the last day, quite a few butterflies, I would expect to.  I mean, any other tournament where I've been leading or near the lead, getting on that first tee, there definitely were butterflies.  I'm sure this one will be no different. 
 

Q.  Would you go to the 3-wood tomorrow if you would say down the stretch, the last 9 holes to make sure you hit the fairway even if you give up some distance?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  I did that today.  Let's see.  I hit the 3-wood today off No. 2 and No. 3 where I've been hitting the driver.  I hit a 3-wood on 12 and 13 where I've been hitting the driver.  That was today.  I'm not sure -- maybe like 16, to me, you just have a driver there.  17 or 18, I could see possibly hitting a 3-wood, but I still -- I feel like I could still knock it in the bunkers on both of those holes even with a 3-wood.  You'd have to go to a iron to lay up short of  the bunkers.  I don't know.  I can almost knock it over that bunker on 18 on the right with a driver, so just -- I might stick with playing -- what I used today seemed to work pretty good.  Let's see.  I hit the driver on 1, 7, 16, 17, and 18. 
 

Q.  Knowing that you're playing in the second-to-last group with John and Graham ahead of them, if you were to match a score figuring it's a three-person race.  If you were to match your score a hole ahead of them, would you liken your chances that way.  In other words, you figure they could not birdie 18 and stand more of a chance of bogeying 18?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  You mean if we were tied going into the last hole? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Then -- I'm not sure. 
 

Q.  I'm sorry.  My question is:  Say if you were all three minus 2 and yet you had finished 18, would you like your chances standing there watching Graham and John play 18?
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Well, I'd rather be minus 3, but, yeah.  I mean, I'd take a chance, you know.  I mean, it's a hole you're definitely more likely to bogey than you are to birdie.  So, yeah, I'd like my chances.  
 
DAVE EICHELBERGER:  Okay.  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT