BUICK CLASSIC
June 21, 2003
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Skip, thanks for joining us. 
SKIP KENDALL:   You're welcome. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You're keeping pace with Briny out there pretty well and I know there are some nasty conditions.  Maybe we could talk about your day today and your thoughts about going into tomorrow, playing a lot of holes tomorrow.
SKIP KENDALL:   Yeah, tomorrow will be a marathon.  It's not like we haven't done it before, though.  So, you know, we are all in pretty good shape.  I think we'll have no problem doing that. 
You know, it will be a marathon.  But looking forward to it.  I'm in good shape, I'm playing well, and right now, I know who I have to chase down and hopefully we'll be there coming down the stretch. 

Q.  How difficult was it today during that period of time that you played?
SKIP KENDALL:   You know, really, I thought it was fine.  There was only, maybe one really heavy downpour that we played through and then it stopped.  It only lasted maybe ten minutes at the most.  So it really was not bad at all.

Q.  How about the mental part, the stopping and starting? 
SKIP KENDALL:   The mental part of it?  Well, you realize after being out here for a long time that you can't control the weather and it's just something that you're going to have to basically put up with.  It doesn't change anything.  I'm still two back and starting tomorrow the way I started today.  Although, tomorrow we're going to have to play 29, 30 holes tomorrow. 
You know, nothing really changes for me.  I mean, I feel like I'm still playing well and go get'em. 

Q.  Where were you when you actually stopped? 
SKIP KENDALL:   I was in the seventh fairway.  Had not hit my second shot into 7 yet.  We all were.

Q.  What's the latest you've had the lead or been very close to the lead in a tournament?
SKIP KENDALL:   Probably last year at Disney.  I think going into the last round, Chris DiMarco and I were very close.  I'm not quite even sure  -- I don't remember.  We played together in the last group.  I can't remember exactly what the actual score was.  That was probably the last time that I was real close, anyway. 

Q.  Do you have a feel for, Briny is in a similar situation to you, has not won yet and has not held a lot of leads, now going into the last round, what kind of mindset do you think he may have going in, holding a lead for the first time going into a final day if you put yourself into that position?
SKIP KENDALL:   I don't really know how to answer that, other than we all play out here on the PGA TOUR.  We are all good players.  I think when you're playing well and you have the lead, especially coming down the stretch, I don't think that really is going to affect too much on how you're playing because when you're playing well, it's easy. 
I know maybe trying to get your first win is not but I know when I come down the stretch, I've lost in two playoffs, but to get there, I actually played some pretty good golf, but I was playing well.  And it didn't really  -- as far as nerves or anything, I just wanted to make more birdies.  I knew I had to make a birdie in San Diego on last hole to get into the playoff; I did.  I shot 30 on the back side of another tournament to get into the playoff.  Actually, I held the lead and I was caught.  So when you're playing well, even though you're going for your first win, no one's scared out here.  We're going to go ahead and try and do it. 
Because we don't get there as often, that's our fault.  We should be getting there more often.  I know I should be. 

Q.  But you obviously  -- you're second among active players with starts without a win, 277.  Does that wear on you at all and how do you keep with, that carrot hanging there, how do you keep it going like that?
SKIP KENDALL:   You know, you hear it all the time.  You hear it from friends and family all the time, too; not only you guys.  I don't know what to say.  I'm kind of shocked, too.  I feel like I should have won already.  I know I can win.  I've done it before on every other level.  I know my time is coming.  I feel like my best golf really is coming, even though I've been out here ten years, I feel like I'm improving. 
I know in the last few years, I've kind of gone the opposite way on the Money List but I still feel like my game is improving.
Somebody asked me the other day, what's been your highlight in golf so far and I said, well, stay tuned because you're going to see it, because I don't feel like I've had it yet.  I've had some nice things happen to me and I've played some good golf.  But really until I win and possibly win multiple events, and I really believe that's going to happen; then ask me.  That's what I told the guy.  Because I really feel like my best golf is yet to come.

Q.  Does it become a weight or a burden the longer you go?  It seems like a large hurdle to get over. 
SKIP KENDALL:   I haven't let it become a burden.  I think you can.  I have played some nice golf and I've been close.  You know, really, I think I got into this, too, to make some money, provide for my family, and that's worked out very nicely.  I'm very happy with what I'm doing.  Sure, I want to win.  I want to win as much as anybody.  Hopefully that will happen but I'm in the going to get hung up on it. 

Q.  I imagine you've played many some bad weather; what's the worst weather you've played? 
SKIP KENDALL:   When I was growing up, we used to  -- obviously, in Milwaukee growing up, you can't really play much before April.  So we used to get orange golf balls, and when I was growing up they were pretty popular because obviously if the white balls ended up in a snow bank, we could not have found them, so orange balls were the thing.  Obviously it was cold when we did play golf and the orange balls were a necessity starting off the year so early.

Q.  Obviously you guys are used to stopping and starting but at the same time, being in the position that you are in, is this a momentum-killer?  Would you rather just be out there playing?
SKIP KENDALL:   Well, it wasn't like I was 5-under through six holes, but I think, sure, I would have liked to have played today.  I felt comfortable out there.  Swing was feeling good.  I was putting it well.  But again, hopefully that will carry over till tomorrow and I'll feel the same way and go out there and make some birdies. 

Q.  During the time between Memorial and here, when you were back home in Orlando, did you have a chance to work out at all? 
SKIP KENDALL:   I do work out a lot when I'm at home, yeah.  Really, this particular time, I didn't do too much.  I really just spent a lot of time around the house with my family and my son and just really relaxed, more than anything.  I couldn't touch a club for almost two and a half weeks. 

Q.  No fear of running out of gas? 
SKIP KENDALL:   No.  Especially if I'm coming down the stretch for the win, I'll be on adrenaline anyway.  I'm in good enough shape that that won't be a problem.

Q.  How about your finger, are you worried that that will last you the whole day? 
SKIP KENDALL:   I'm not worried.  I think it's fine.  It's still tender and everything but it's not going to bother me tomorrow. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT