THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 8, 2002
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  How was today's round?
SKIP KENDALL:   Well, actually, it was pretty long.  It only took about 30-some hours to play because we started yesterday.  I played real solid.  Had a little hiccup on the last hole, but very happy with the round, though. 

Q.  Tough second shot? 
SKIP KENDALL:   Yeah, I hit it in the fairway bunker, but it rolled through and I was on the bank and didn't have much of a lie, or a shot, for that matter.  Didn't make it much better after that.  So, unfortunately, that's the way it ended up, but that's all right.

Q.  How are course conditions? 
SKIP KENDALL:   Well, it was perfect yesterday.  You know, obviously with the rain that we had yesterday, last night, it's real soggy, real wet out there right now.  But, the course is in beautiful shape. 

Q.  How hard is it to play 16 holes yesterday, and then trying to gear up for two holes?
SKIP KENDALL:   Well, obviously, you don't want your round interrupted.  But you have no control over that.  So, you know you just try to come back and do the best you can. 
You know, I hit two really solid shots into 17 and made birdie.  Hit kind of a poor tee shot on 18, and ended up in probably the worst position I could have ended up in. 
So unfortunately that's what happened on 18.  But you do the best you can.  You just come out, you try to play the holes in your mind the night before, and hopefully, produce those shots in your mind on the golf course. 

Q.  A finish like that, every shot is important.  Like Dudley had to come out and make one putt.  Guys are on the green; is that the hardest thing about the rain delay, that sort of thing is going to happen, where you've got one hole to go or two holes to go and it interrupts a really good round?
SKIP KENDALL:   Yeah, especially when you can't finish that day.  I think it makes it even harder when you've got to sleep on it and stuff.  I had a little 3-footer to make on 16, alone, for birdie.  So I had to think about that all night, too. 
But I came out and hit some really solid shots and made the putt on 16. 
Hit two really solid shots into 17 and made birdie there. 
Then, you know, 18, I didn't, I didn't do what I wanted to do.  But that's golf, too. 

Q.  Is your preparation the same for two-plus holes as it is, say, for 18 when you get out in the morning? 
SKIP KENDALL:   Well, you go through your normal warm-up, but then I tried to hit the shots that I knew I was going to have into 17 and 18.  So I tried to play those shots on the range beforehand. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT