BUICK CLASSIC
June 9, 2000
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SKIP KENDALL: I seem to be getting off to kind of slow starts. Both days, I shot 1-over
on the front side, and I seem to be getting -- if I can only take what I did today on the
front and what I did yesterday on the back and put them together. But it turned out to be
nice rounds, anyway. I guess I need a little time to warm up or something, I don't know.

SKIP KENDALL: I started on 10. I hit it in the left rough and made bogey. Hit it in the
green-side bunker and didn't get it up-and-down. Bogeyed 17. Had a real easy sand wedge
in. I think I only had 86 yards to the hole and the pin was right on the front of the
green. I tried to get it close and hit the front edge of the green and spun back about 10
yards back into the fairway and didn't get it up-and-down. Hit driver, driver on 18 into
the green-side bunker. Probably made about a 10-footer there for birdie. No. 3, I hit
7-iron probably 25 feet left of the hole and made a nice putt there, a left-to-right
breaker. No. 5, par 5, hit sand wedge in probably about four feet made the putt. No. 7,
hit sand wedge probably about three feet; made it. And then, No. 9, hit driver 3-wood just
short of the green and chipped up to about a foot. 

Q. Is this a golf course that you've played well on before or you feel suits your game?

SKIP KENDALL: You know, I've always felt like it suits my game, but I have never played
that well here. Maybe one good tournament -- decent tournament, maybe three years ago. You
know, finished about 20th or something. But last year I came here and I played terrible.
Missed the cut by a ton. But I feel like it's a course that does suit my game. You've got
to get the ball in the fairway here. The rough is deep. I think I only missed the first
fairway today and that was it. And, you know, just be patient. You know you've got to hit
a lot of greens and you know you have to putt well. I feel like I'm doing some of those
things right, anyway, right now.

Q. Is that what keeps you coming back every year?

SKIP KENDALL: I love it. Yeah, the golf course is great. I wish I would have gotten
into Pebble. I think it's great preparation for the Open next week. I think it's very
similar, as far as texture of the greens and putting a premium on hitting the fairway.
Unfortunately, I didn't get in next week, but try to make the most of it this week. 

Q. What are you going to do next week with a week off?

SKIP KENDALL: Well, I'll probably be watching my peers on TV. Have some fun; play with
my son. Big old cocktail in front of the TV. 

Q. How much did you miss by? 

SKIP KENDALL: Two, in Atlanta. 

Q. Do you think the course by Saturday and Sunday will play anymore difficult, drier,
faster anything like that?

SKIP KENDALL: I think so. I think always when you have the course dry out, especially
the greens, it always plays harder. That's just the way it is. Balls tend to roll out in
the fairway instead of plugging, and shots into greens are a little more difficult because
they are firmer, and then the green surfaces get a little faster. So if it does that,
which it looks like it's going to, it probably will play a little tougher, which suits me
fine. I hope it gets -- I hope, for me, I hope it dries out a lot. I feel like that's a
better part of my game than having a course play real wet and soggy. 

Q. What's your philosophy in terms of when you're midway through and you're up and
around the top of the leaderboard, do you try not to think about what may transpire over
the weekend, or the end of the rainbow so to speak, perhaps a win?

SKIP KENDALL: Oh, sure. But I've been out here long enough to realize it's only halfway
done. A lot can happen on the weekend. A lot can happen on the last day. I just want to
continue to play well, and hopefully I will be there down the stretch. You always want to
be, and hopefully I will be. But it's too early -- I've learned that unless I'm coming
down the stretch the last nine holes on Sunday, it's not even worth talking about, because
half the tournament is only over. It's like half-time, you know. It's a long way to go. 

Q. Have you had some prior experiences as a younger guy where you did maybe get a
little tantalized? 

SKIP KENDALL: Oh, sure. I think everybody has. I've been in this position and played
well and I've played poorly. So just take one day at a time and one shot at a time. Go
from there. I feel like I'm playing pretty good. So, hopefully I will be there this week. 

Q. Is it different for you knowing that you're not playing next week than for the guys
who might be thinking about what they have to do this week to get ready for next week?

SKIP KENDALL: That's a good question. I don't know. I think, you know, knowing that
you're in next week, it might be in the back of your mind. But I don't think it's going to
take away from playing this tournament. I mean, everybody here wants to win; otherwise,
they wouldn't show up. It is good preparation, yeah, and maybe guys want to peak next
week, but, you know, I don't think David Duval or Mickelson or any of those guys are
coming here not to win. 

Q. Still, in an intangible way, could you be perhaps a little more hungry than those
guys because maybe this is your week, so to speak?

SKIP KENDALL: I don't think so, really, personally. Those guys want to win just as much
as I do. I don't think so. I hope they are all thinking about next week, though. 

Q. How well do you know J.P. Hayes? Did you guys play a lot of golf growing up together
at all? Do you have any kind of relationship with him now?

SKIP KENDALL: Sure. Absolutely. There's four of us on TOUR that all grew up playing
junior golf together in Wisconsin, and J.P. was the winner here a few years ago. Steve
Stricker and Jerry Kelly -- although, Steve is not here this week. We're all within two
years of each other and we all grew up playing together. Yeah, the relationship still
exists, yeah. 

Q. Did he tell you how he won --

SKIP KENDALL: He shot the lowest score. That's what he told me. That's exactly what he
told me. Although, he had to beat one guy in a playoff, but that's what he told me. I
don't think there's any tricks about it. Just got to go out there and do it. 

Q. Did you guys have any great duels in Wisconsin, you and JP?

SKIP KENDALL: Yeah. I think maybe not stroke-play so much. But I remember playing
against him in Wisconsin match-play one time a long time ago, and I think he got me like
2-1. He'll probably tell you 5-4, but I think he got me by 2-1. Although, I think I've got
more state titles than he does. Ha! (Laughs). I could be wrong, though, too. I think Steve
has got us all. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT