THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 10, 2000
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SKIP KENDALL: Okay, for all you wonderful people, five people in the interview room
here: No. 11, I hit it on the back fringe which wasn't too far away probably 20-foot putt,
made it. 16, the par 5, I hit 3-wood in there just right of the green and probably chipped
up to about a foot. 17, I hit 3-wood, 8-iron probably about five feet. And 7, hit a
9-iron, not a great shot, probably made a 30-footer there, kind of a nice putt. Bogeyed
the 8th hole. Hit it in the left bunker and just didn't get it up-and-down. Missed about a
10-foot putt for par.

Q. One of the things that some players are fond of telling us is that when you contend
and don't win that it is part of a learning process. I am wondering if last year's THE
PLAYERS Championship was-how much you learned from that and was that your biggest
disappointment in a tournament far or would it be Buick?

SKIP KENDALL: I don't think -- I tend to view things the other way. I don't think
anything is a disappointment, to be quite honest. I was there. I was there. If I would
have played a better back 9 you never know, but the course was playing awfully difficult
and last year, at least at THE PLAYERS and it was fun. I had a good time. I view things
the other way. I just -- I look at everything as a positive and you just go on. I finished
second at Hartford last year and if it wasn't for Brent, I actually set the tournament
scoring record there. But I lost by 3. I played my butt off there and just someone played
better, hats off, you know, nothing you can do. But I just want to keep getting there, to
be quite honest. Like I said, yesterday, I feel like the more times I get there, I am
going to pull one off one of these times. Unfortunately it has been a little bit too far
and few between how many times I do get there. So I am working on that. Haven't been off
-- haven't gotten off to a great start this year and I have really worked hard last couple
of weeks and it seems to be paying off.

Q. How differently did the course play?

SKIP KENDALL: I think the wind was blowing just a little bit harder today. It did play
a lot more difficult. It seemed like, especially with the holes coming back in, probably
14 through 18 - except for 17 - and when you turn around coming back on No. 6, yeah, those
holes played awfully difficult. It was kind of a cross, too, left-to-right and in, so it
wasn't just straight. Those holes especially played a little bit more difficult. Even the
first three holes, they had pins tucked over bunkers and the wind was either right-to-left
and down or dead down. It was impossible to get the ball close. I mean, the balls were --
you'd land five feet short of the hole, it would go all the way to the back edge. You had
no chance. Just the way it played today, the way the wind was, you had to take what you
could get.

Q. In those first three holes after how low the scoring was yesterday, maybe there was
message?

SKIP KENDALL: Actually I started on the other side.

Q. Okay.

SKIP KENDALL: It would have been the same thing obviously if I would have started on
that side, I would have realized probably going to be a little bit more difficult today at
least if those pin placements were going to be the same as they were the first three
holes. It probably still is not blowing as hard as it usually does here and, you know, I
am kind of happy to see that, actually.

Q. Did those pin placements surprise you at all for a Friday?

SKIP KENDALL: Oh, no. Not at all. It just -- they just happen to occur right in a row,
I think. I hit a little lob wedge in on the first hole, my best could I hit it was about
30 feet, and No. 2 I probably had -- I had wedge into No. 2 and best I could hit it was --
I hit it like 50 feet past the hole, my ball landed five feet short of the hole. Dead
downwind like that, it was impossible. No. 3 finally I laid it where I could hit it a
little bit right of the hole that way I was pin-high, but I probably had 20, 25 feet
coming back up at it.

Q. You said last week you saw some things even though you didn't play well that made
you commit this week. What was it that encouraged you?

SKIP KENDALL: Just the things I have been working on. I have told a couple of people I
have probably practiced more in the last two weeks than I did all of last year. I really
worked hard last couple of weeks. My body actually can tell that too. I saw some good
signs last week, I hit some -- finally I hit some quality shots. I didn't score as well as
I would have liked. I missed the cut, but I saw some good things happening and I went home
Friday night and Saturday through Tuesday, you know, I mean, it was non-stop. I just
worked my butt off and I am starting to come around.

Q. What specifically are you working on?

SKIP KENDALL: Basically just sequence. I was just out of whack in that respect and just
the order in what I was doing, just was out of sequence. Just doing a lot of drills.

Q. Is there any different kind of approach or mentality when you look at the top of the
leaderboard and you see a veteran like Hal Sutton there or if not Hal, somebody who is a
proven winner out here?

SKIP KENDALL: No. Doesn't matter who is playing good. If I am playing good, I am going
for it. I don't care who is up there and I am sure they don't either.

Q. Does the guys who were not on the Ryder Cup team last year, since that, has there
been a little bit of -- have they been afforded a little bit more respect or a little bit
more awe because of what they did in that event? Does it motivate you to try to get one of
those?

SKIP KENDALL: Yeah, it is always a goal of, I think, everyone out here. Sure, you'd
like to represent your country in either of Ryder Cup or The Presidents Cup. We knew those
players were great players before that happened. They shouldn't have made it as close as
they did. But the Europeans played great, so you can't -- in Match Play and as we have
seen in the past few years, or in the last five or six Ryder Cups, you can't, even though
on paper the Americans look a lot better, you never know who is going to win. That is why
we play the games. That is what makes it so great. But all those players are already great
players. I mean, I am happy we won. I don't know if I view them any differently than I did
before the Ryder Cup, though. If that is what you meant?

Q. Yes.

SKIP KENDALL: Okay.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT