THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 9, 2000
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SKIP KENDALL: Shucks. Number -- let's see No. 3, problem is I can't remember the holes
out here. No. 3, I hit 8-iron to about ten feet, made a good putt there. No. 4, hit wedge
probably about ten feet again, nice putt. No. 6, hit 8-iron about ten feet again, seemed
to be about the range. No. 7, 9-iron probably about three feet, though, hit a good shot in
there. 11, hit 7-iron probably two feet. 13, pitching wedge, twelve feet. 15, 3-wood and
probably about a 45-foot putt that I made there. That was a surprise. 16, just hit a
little lob wedge about two feet. 18, I actually hit it just short of the green in two,
missed probably about -- probably three and a half, four feet just up the hill there -
easy putt, one of the easiest ones I had all day and missed.

Q. When the wind doesn't kick up around here, is the score susceptible --

SKIP KENDALL: Absolutely. Just like we had today, you could see all the low scores out
there. Today virtually no wind for out here, anyway, a little 5, 10 mile an hour wind is
probably 10 or 20 less than what it usually is. The course is -- I just got here last
night. I hadn't played the course yet so it was in wonderful shape. Greens were perfect. I
think with the lack of wind, that is why we are able to really get at some holes, with the
greens being so solid, make some putts.

Q. You didn't have a practice round at all?

SKIP KENDALL: No.

Q. What kept you?

SKIP KENDALL: Well, it is a long story, you want to hear it? Originally wasn't going to
play here. I committed probably 15 minutes before the deadline last week Friday. I missed
the cut at Doral and I had an outing to do yesterday in Orlando where I live. It was set
up six months ago and so I just worked on my game, went home last Friday night from Doral
and just worked on my game up there and came down last night after I did the outing.

Q. That is not too long.

SKIP KENDALL: Probably a little more to it, but that was the short version.

Q. Who was the outing for?

SKIP KENDALL: IBM basically. It was IBM corporate.

Q. How much?

SKIP KENDALL: How much? That is as much as you guys are getting.

Q. Do you naturally do that?

SKIP KENDALL: Really never. This was a first. I had been playing very poorly. I am off
to a very slow start this year. I have probably practiced more the last two weeks than I
did all of last year. Really working hard on my game and when I missed the cut at Doral
last week, I really did see some positive things happening even though I missed the cut. I
felt Friday -- fortunately, I played early so can come in by 5 o'clock, although, I think
there was another thing where you can commit later after the round -- but anyway, just
talking with my wife and caddie and just decided at the last minute to play here just to
get some rounds in and to keep trying to get across on the golf course with what I have
been working on practicing so hard on.

Q. Have you played here in the past? Do you like this place?

SKIP KENDALL: I played here in 1997, 1998. I think I made money in 1997; that is where
they had that weird cut where I couldn't play on Sunday but I actually made the cut, but
couldn't play. 1998 I didn't play well here. Then I didn't play here last year.

Q. You said you have been playing poorly lately. What have you been --

SKIP KENDALL: Mainly just golf swing has been just out of sequence, I guess, is a good
way of putting it. Just not doing things in the right order and just been really working
hard on doing some things to get it back in the right order and that is the short version.
So far at least today -- I had been really struggling with iron shots, mainly -- well a
lot of times really this year, I think I am way off in fairway percentage which usually,
that is one of my strengths. But just all out of sequence, felt like I was doing a dance
up there hitting a golf ball. It is getting lot better, though. Back where it should be
anyway.

Q. With the field this week being -- missing a lot of the top-30 players, do you regard
this maybe as a bigger opportunity to make a good run --

SKIP KENDALL: What I have learned in my years on Tour is that no matter who is here,
everyone is a good player and it is still almost takes the same score to win regardless of
who is here. I don't care where we are playing and who is in the field, everyone is good
out here. So I don't -- you know, because Tiger, David or whoever is not here, still going
to take the same score to win, I think, personally. Look at the scores out there right
now, I mean, my gosh, is everyone under par? Sure seems like it.

Q. How hard is it to win on the Tour?

SKIP KENDALL: Well, I haven't won yet, so it seems very difficult. I think it is a
matter of -- I have come close in the past for me, I just haven't given myself enough
opportunities to win, I think is what I'd really like to do. I am not really hung up on
winning. It is my performance and I know if I can do the things that I need to do to play
well, then I should be pretty close. One of these times, if I keep knocking, I am going to
pull one off. I know that. I know I have the ability to do it. It is just, you need to
have four good days, you know, some of the bigger guys, bigger names like you are talking
could play not be on top of their game and still have a chance to win. For 95 percent of
us we have to be pretty much be going on all cylinders; get some good breaks.

Q. Did you watch the ending last week?

SKIP KENDALL: I saw highlights and I saw some of it. Franklin is a good friend of mine
and actually talked to him Saturday night and right afterwards and, you know, -- like I
told him, he didn't lose the tournament, he got beat. I mean, if Jim Furyk shoots par on
the back side, he wins by 4. What can you do? He just -- hats off to Jim. He just played
awesome.

Q. Does that show how hard winning is too because even if you have the week of your
life someone can come out and shoot 30 on the back and still --

SKIP KENDALL: Again, Franklin, we are pretty much in the same boat. He is a great
player. No reason why he can't do it again. And I don't know if I'd necessarily call it
the week of his life, I mean he can do it. He can do it this week.

Q. Are you excited about The Masters?

SKIP KENDALL: Real excited. It is every kid's dream to play in The Masters. I always
had this little silly thing that I would never go there until the first time playing is
when I would go there and it was kind of a silly little thing and so I am real excited.
Never been there before and real excited about.

Q. Will you be taking a trip up there for a practice round?

SKIP KENDALL: Talking about it, yeah. I am not going to play the week before in Atlanta
so I was thinking about maybe after THE PLAYERS Championship going up there, maybe that
Monday or something and then going home and then after seeing it kind of working on it for
a week or so, then going back.

Q. Were you surprised by your play today because you had not seen the course, because
you hadn't played any practice rounds earlier in the week?

SKIP KENDALL: Well, this is a course typically that I haven't played well on. I don't
know if I am necessarily surprised. I felt like I was playing -- I am starting to play a
lot better, a lot better than I had on the West Coast and that is, you know, really why I
came. I came to play well and do well, obviously, but more than that, I have been working
so hard that I just wanted to see some of that on the golf course and I did today. I think
that was the most important thing to me. I have really been putting well. I just haven't
been giving myself the opportunities because my iron-play has been -- I was going to say
something, but -- poor - erratic. I really hit some good iron shots today so it was nice
to see.

Q. Maybe better to see a course less to show up, hit it down the middle --

SKIP KENDALL: Well, it worked today. I have played here before so it not like I have
never seen it really, to be quite honest. Nothing has really changed, I don't think, in
the last couple of years except I am staying 50 feet from the clubhouse. That was a
surprise. But the golf course seems to be about the same. But it is in wonderful
condition. I can't say enough about it. It is in great shape. Although I was the second
group off today, so we will see what the guys say this afternoon. I am sure they will say
the same.

Q. Are you expecting the wind to kick up?

SKIP KENDALL: Usually does. I was surprised that it didn't come up a little bit more.
Usually 10, 11:00 starts blowing pretty good here - really hasn't. Our 18th hole played a
little bit into the wind, but virtually nothing compared to what it usually is. Am I
wrong? Usually blowing 25, 30 here and if we had 10, 12, 15 mile an hour winds on the last
home, I am sure that was it.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT