CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
August 1, 1999
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SKIP KENDALL:  No. 2, I made a nice putt there.  Probably 20 feet down the hill back at it. Just hit a little sand wedge into the green.

SKIP KENDALL:  Yeah.  I hit a really good tee shot and hit a wedge in and hit it about probably three feet.

SKIP KENDALL:  No. 12, again, it was playing a little bit downwind.  Hit a good tee shot, wedge to about 15 feet.

SKIP KENDALL:  15, I hit driver.  Probably hit my best tee shot of the day and it finished up probably 15 feet, 18 feet from the hole; so I had a nice eagle opportunity there, but made birdie.


Q.  At what point did you think you were basically playing for second?

SKIP KENDALL:  I think, you know, obviously Brent got off to a great start.  I'm not sure exactly what it was, but every time I looked up he made another birdie.  I knew the back side, pretty much, you know, unless something really drastic happened to him on 15 through 17, that we were playing for second.  All of us.  I mean, he was already 20-under par, I think, early it seemed like.  And at that point I was probably six back, at least, or even seven back.  And I had made a few birdies.  So I pretty much knew we were playing for second place.


Q.  Can you speak to (inaudible) this course, or was it considering the conditions?

SKIP KENDALL:  I don't know.  I played really well.  15-under par on this golf course, I'm very pleased with.  You know, I think it goes to show that any guy on any particular week can come out and play his best and win.  And you, know my, hat's off to Brent. That's just awesome playing.  And for his first win, it's incredible.


Q.  Skip, what do you think separates the guys that win a lot on the TOUR and the guys that are still trying to get there? 

SKIP KENDALL:  Not much, really.  You know, I played with Justin Leonard today.  I had never played with him before, and I always wanted to play with him. You know, you watch someone like that, and you realize that there's not much separation.  You know, you could see maybe a different kind of focus.  Maybe something that some guys don't possess.  But, you know, I played just a little better than him today, and, you know, it just -- it does go to show that if I'm playing well or if Brent's playing well, we can beat the Justin Leonards and the Davis Loves and the David Duvals.  I think it just comes down to performing in the pressure situations.


Q.  David Duval was Mr. Runner-up for a while and now he's either 1 or 2 in the world.  Have you seen a change in him, watching him the last few years?

SKIP KENDALL:  Gosh, I played with him in the Nike TOUR back in '94.  I think as a player, he's gotten much better.  He was always great.  You know, he could have easily have played on TOUR right away.  I see a different -- his personality, he seems much calmer.  More determined.  I'm not going to say back in  '94 on the Nike TOUR that he was floundering a little bit, but I don't think he wanted to be there.  I think he expected to be on TOUR.  And he got on TOUR, and there was no one -- there was no doubt that he was going to play well.  And winning was just a matter of time.  And he's obviously done that, now.


Q.  Skip, did what happened to Van de Velde a couple of weeks ago enter your mind on the back side, when he had such a big lead?  Did that cross your mind that this could happen to Brent?

SKIP KENDALL:  I don't think.  So unless you do something really weird on holes 15 through 17, I don't think this is the kind of course that you're going to make huge numbers, at least I don't think so. Brent hits it long enough where he didn't need driver off those tees anyway.  I don't know what he was doing.  I didn't get to see.  I heard he hit it in the water on 17.  Even hitting in the water, you're not going to get worse than double-bogey.  He had such a big lead, it didn't really matter.  I don't think it's quite Carnoustie.


Q.  Is it any consolation to know you shot a course record for your 72 holes?

SKIP KENDALL:  Considering what I've done here in the past, I'm pretty happy about it, actually.  You know, I just hope that one of these weeks, you know, I come out on top.  I'd like to win my first tournament. And I feel like I'm on the verge of really doing something special, and I hope it happens in the next few weeks.  But it's nice to know -- I had no idea what the tournament record was here.  I had no idea.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT