PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY BANCO POPULAR
March 12, 2010
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Skip has three birdies and an eagle through the first seven holes. I think he got through the number 10 hole, which would have been his tenth hole through the tournament. He's fared well through the start and stop. Can you talk about what it's been like the last couple of days and how you've been able to get off to such a good start?   
 SKIP KENDALL: I'm not sure actually. Every day seems like groundhog's day right now. I'm waking up at the same time and trying to get in position at the same time each day. Unfortunately, mother nature's not really cooperating.   
 You know, my family's here. Just having fun. We're having a good time over at the resort. It's nice to have my family out. It doesn't happen all the time, so having a great time with them. And I think I'm just maybe a little bit more relaxed and we're having fun.   
 I've only played nine holes, so I'm on the 10th green. There is a long way to go in this tournament. I don't know what's going to happen in the next few days with the weather. But so far, for nine holes I've played well, and hopefully that will continue.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the course and the problems with it being wet and playing long? How do you adjust to that?   
 SKIP KENDALL: Well, actually when we got out there this afternoon it was actually dryer than I thought it would be. Maybe the extra couple of hours that we waited to get on the course really helped. I'm not sure. Maybe it was the helicopter they brought in. I don't know how long it hovered, but that's what I heard. But it was actually dryer than I thought it was.   
 I think the officials did a good job of setting up the course. You know, some of the tees were put forward a little bit, so obviously that helps someone like me. And it really certainly wasn't overly long at all.  
  
  Q. (Asking about weather delays and having to play possibly into Tuesday.)  
 SKIP KENDALL: Well, I don't think it's a problem. I think, again, we've been through this drill enough to realize that you can't control the weather. So you just have to deal with it as best you can here. You know, playing on on Monday is something we know we have to do if we want to try to play 72 holes and possibly even going into Tuesday. I don't know if that will happen or not, but I'm sure that's a decision that will be made by the event and by the officials.   
 I guess you know something that I don't, so (laughing). But anyway, you can't control that. You just got to play one hole at a time. The old cliche, when they tell me it's over, it's over. That's all I can do.   
  
  Q. What about playing and starting two times tomorrow?   
 SKIP KENDALL: Well, for me I'm only going to play probably nine holes ask then I may not play again. It's the guys that have the afternoon tee times the first day that are going to have to keep going. So it's going to be a long day for them. And if I even play anymore golf tomorrow, that might be a surprise. I'm not sure.   
 It's going to be a long day for the guys that have the afternoon times on the first day. Again, we'll have to play on Sunday. We'll have to try to play our second round, and then probably repair and play again.   
 So it will be, for me - provided everything goes well - it will be a long day for me on Sunday. You know, I'm in good shape. Might be older, but I'm still in great shape. So I'm looking forward to it. I don't mind playing a lot of holes. Maybe some guys do, but it doesn't affect me at all, so...   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the highlight of your day?   
 SKIP KENDALL: Well, I can't say it was the first -- well, the second shot I hit, because I actually didn't even see it. The first day it was pretty dark. I mean, it was real cloudy, so I hit my shot, I saw it take off, and I had already handed my club back to my caddy. You know, there was one person up by the green and his arms were flailing. So obviously I knew I hit a really good shot or it went in. Obviously it turned out to be a really good shot.   
 You know, that's kind of a thrill. You don't hit many 7-irons in the hole to start your round off. Then to follow that up this morning with I hit my first shot on 11, the par 3, just over the green. Then to follow that up with chipping it in. And then coming back in the clubhouse, I took a lot of heckling from the guys. Are you not going to use your putter today? How's that putting lesson I gave you working out? I took a lot of heck from the guys in the locker room. It was all in fun though. It was really fun.   
 But you know, that was a great way to start the day and start the round. But overall I hit some really quality shots out there. I like the way I'm playing right now, and hopefully that will continue.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT