U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 17, 2009
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How different was today for you?   
 SKIP KENDALL: I played pretty solid today. I hit a lot of greens. I hit a lot of fairways but didn't give myself the opportunities that I had yesterday. Had very few real close birdie putts, and made a couple of them out there, but you know, it's tough to make putts from 20, 30 feet all day long. Hopefully it will inch a little closer tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Talk about 18 and going for it.   
 SKIP KENDALL: It's kind of an in between, either going for it or laying up and giving myself a good yardage in. I didn't come here to lay up, so you know, I hit a pretty good shot out of the bunker and that's kind of the putts I had all day long, i just couldn't get it into the hole.   
  
  Q. You must be pleased to be in contention going into the weekend.   
 SKIP KENDALL: I'm pleased, but I think you'll see obviously the guys in the afternoon I think with a little lack of wind today, unless it comes off, I think the scores will be pretty good today. So I'll probably plummet a little bit, but hopefully get it back tomorrow.   
  
  Q. But you didn't lose any ground today.   
 SKIP KENDALL: Well, so far, but I think you'll see, obviously with the lack of wind right now, I think the scores are going to get real good, and I hope not, but you never know.   
 But again, I'm going to have to play some good golf. I need to shoot 3- , 4-under every day, to stay up there. But we'll see. We'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. There's a chance this could be the last Milwaukee tournament, hope not, but could be. No Wisconsin golfer has won it. What would it mean for you to have a crack at it?  
 SKIP KENDALL: I think for any of us to win it would be monumental. It would be incredible. This is our major for all the guys from here.   
 I would hate to see this tournament go away and I sure hope it doesn't; you ask anybody out here playing this golf course.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT