BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 25, 2004
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Skip, for joining us for a few minutes.  You battled it hard out there all week.  You played tough and came down to one last hole.  Why don't you just make a couple of comments about your week and your emotions right now, and then we'll go into questions. 

SKIP KENDALL:   Well, the week was great.  I played my heart out.  30-under par.  You always know that's about what it's going to take, or somewhere in there.  So I'm very pleased with that, pleased with my play. 

Emotions, you know, it's hard to take.  Glad I was there.  Coming down the stretch, I battled and came up a little short.  But, you know I'm going to try hard next week and the week after that.  So, going to keep going. 


Q. How did you find the speed of the greens and was that a factor in your last round? 

SKIP KENDALL:   Greens and conditions were beautiful all week.  I can't say enough about this tournament.  You know that the courses are going to be in fantastic shape.  That's just part of the week.  The weather is usually really good.  Greens are usually perfect, fairways, everything.  So you know that coming in.  They were perfect.  They were beautiful out there today.  Speed of the greens were, I guess to answer your question, they were, I would say, relatively fast today but not uncontrollable.  They were nice.  They were really nice to putt on. 


Q. About an hour ago, Jay Haas compared you to the Michael Jordan of the NBA.  Do you have any response to that, off the cuff? 

SKIP KENDALL:   I'm not really sure what that means. 


Q. It was a compliment. 

SKIP KENDALL:   Well, comparing myself to Michael Jordan, yeah, I would say so.  I feel like a Spud Webb out here more than Michael Jordan. 


Q. Can you describe 16 and 17, and also, what sense did you have of where you were in relation to Phil on the board during all of that? 

SKIP KENDALL:   The shot into 16, I was actually kind of between clubs.  I had 93 yards to the hole and it was a little downwind.  So I'm right between lob-wedge and sand wedge.  But I knew that if I hit the lob-wedge, it might come up a little short and then rip back off the green.  So I had to go with the sand wedge and it came off perfect.  I aimed it just right of the hole and I used the bank there to bring it back down to the 11.  So it just came off perfect. 

The shot on 17, I was trying to hit a hard wedge.  It was 140 yards, a little downhill, but I really felt like it was the club.  I know it was the club.  I just came off it a little bit, tried to hit it maybe a little bit too hard.  Just wasn't a good shot.  It wasn't in a very good place. 


Q. Did you have an idea where you were in relationship to what Mickelson and Haas and Triplett were doing?

SKIP KENDALL:   I was playing with Jay so I knew where he was.  I really didn't other than  -- I glanced at the leaderboard a couple of times.  You know, finally I think on 15  -- well, maybe it was 16, I saw my name up on top.  That was kind of nice to see, actually. 

Then I proceeded to make birdie on 16.  So that was nice.  But, yeah, I kind of knew where I was.  I knew I had to make some birdies coming in.  I know 18 you can reach in two, so I really felt like if I could go par, birdie on 17, 18, I might have a shot. 


Q. Can you describe the shot on the playoff hole?  And what kind of lie did you have off the green there? 

SKIP KENDALL:   Well, I just tried to take my 5-wood right at the hole.  I knew it was perfect distance for me.  It was like 244.  It was about a 215 carry over the left side. 

You know, just got a little aggressive, I guess, but I had to.  I pulled it just a hair.  The lie was kind of so-so.  So the problem was, I kind of had to pitch it into the bank and up and over and then it goes down again.  So I liked my position better the previous time that I played the hole.  It was a little easier shot, kind of where Phil was in the playoff than where I was. 

The ball, I hit it pretty good, it just didn't come out as fast as I thought it would because the lie was sitting down a little bit.  Of course it took the hill and went to the right and didn't make it up the hill  -- well, got on top but went to the right.


Q. When you had the lead earlier, we heard about the situation where you cut your finger.  How long has that been healed and how long have you been 100% rehabed from that?

SKIP KENDALL:   Finger is fine.  I probably went back  -- that happened toward the end of last May.  I played with a different grip for about three months.  So by September, I was back to my normal grip and back on track.  So it's 100%. 


Q. We were talking about how tough this one is to take, and you've been in a couple of playoffs before with a couple of close finishes, how is it different from the others just emotionally? 

SKIP KENDALL:   It hurts.  You know, I don't know what to say.  I think that I'm getting older, too, and I feel like I'm still progressing as a player, though.  I feel like my best golf is still yet to be played.  People sometimes ask me, well, what's been your highlight in golf?  I say, "Stay tuned."    Because I think it's going to happen.  I know it's going to happen.  I know that I have the game to win out here.  Just got to get over the hump somehow.  And it was an almost today. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Skip, can we go through your birdies and your eagle? 

SKIP KENDALL:   No.  2, I hit a 5-wood just over the green and had a decent lie.  It just caught the chip really good and it trickled right at the hole, looked like a putt going at it, and it went in for an eagle. 

6, I hit it just short of the green in two.  I didn't hit a very good third shot but made about a 15-footer from the fringe. 

8, I hit lob-wedge probably about four or five feet. 

11, hit my second shot way right of the green.  I was fortunate to get a drop off the cart path over there and catch a good lie.  I hit a pretty good pitch shot to about ten feet and made a nice putt there. 

15, I hit 9-iron just left of the hole just a little short and probably made about a 15, 18-footer there. 

16, sand wedge, real close. 

Then 18, I hit 5-wood just right of the green.  Chipped up close. 


Q. In the time that you had to wait between the time you finished and Phil finished, did you think at all about the other two playoffs that you had lost and kind of thinking that you were going to get it this time, any thoughts like that? 

SKIP KENDALL:   Not really.  I was just trying to  -- I knew the playoff hole was going to be 18.  I was just trying to stay in the moment.  I wasn't trying to look back, look forward, what if, kind of thing.  I was just trying to stay in the moment, keep my rhythm and just roll some putts.  I wasn't really trying to think about anything else too much.


Q. When you got to that lie on 17 and it was obviously way above your feet, probably at your waist, did you think that you had a chance to make par?  What would your percentage of par have been at that point before you hit it?

SKIP KENDALL:   I was just trying to get it, really, anywhere on the green. 

First thought was visions of hitting it right in the canal because it could have come out any direction, anyway.  I didn't want to leave it short of the green because that was pretty deep rough there.  I knew I just had to somehow flip it up and get it on the fringe or just on the green and let it trickle down there.  It really came out well.  It's just so fast going down the hill, I couldn't stop it.  It was about the best shot I could have hit.  I hit a good putt there, too.  Just caught the right side of the hole. 


Q. How tough is playing that hole, because it's bitten some other people, too, Tim Herron notably recently.  How tough is that hole given the circumstance, the situation, what that hole is like, obviously very narrow? 

SKIP KENDALL:   17? 


Q. Yeah, what is it like trying to win a championship and play that hole, particularly?

SKIP KENDALL:   It's not a really difficult shot.  I'm standing there with wedge in my hand.  Under the circumstances, I really feel like I should have hit a better shot.  I mean, it was a poor shot.  It's one thing if you would be standing there with 3-iron in your hand, but I only have a wedge in my hand.  So it's anywhere just right of the hole and let the ball funnel to the pin or to the hole. 

It was right there, right there in front of me. 


Q. How long was the putt there? 

SKIP KENDALL:   It wasn't that far.  It was probably only about 12 feet or so.  Had a real good line on it, just up the hill, a little left-to-right break.  Hit a good putt.  Just didn't go in. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Skip, for joining us. 


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT