BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 22, 2004
Skip Kendall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  You had a 63 yesterday at PGA West and you followed up with a 68 at Bermuda Dunes to stand at 13-under and in good shape through two rounds.  Talk a little bit about today. 

SKIP KENDALL:   Thanks.  I played a real solid round of golf today.  I feel like I left a few out there, but, you know, overall it was real solid.  I wanted to try to give myself a little bit of a cushion tomorrow going into what I think is the most difficult golf course, La Quinta. 

So, again, I'm happy with today.  But I would have liked a few more.  Got a little greedy here, I guess. 

TODD BUDNICK:  You started the day with the two birdies and then it sounds like maybe things didn't go exactly the way you would like for the rest of the way. 

SKIP KENDALL:   I really didn't hit it real, real close, and the opportunities I had, I felt like I hit some pretty good putts.  I really couldn't get the ball in the hole.  I didn't play the par 5s real well today.  I think I was 1-under on them, made one birdie out of the four here.  Had some decent opportunities to make some birdies on all four of them and only made one.  So that was a little disappointing. 

But again, overall, it was pretty good.  I'm pleased with it. 


Q. Is 68 a disappointing round on any of these golf courses, even trying to follow-up a good round like you had yesterday? 

SKIP KENDALL:   Well, you know, again, you have to go so low here to have a chance to win.  I feel like I'm playing pretty well.  And 68, you know, while I'm satisfied with it and I played very solid, again, you really have to try to take it low here.  The wind seemed to lay down pretty much here today.  I was expecting it to be a lot breezier.  I don't feel like I really took advantage of the opportunity that was at hand today. 


Q. You mentioned La Quinta might be the course that would be the toughest.  What is it about that course that's tougher than the other three for you? 

SKIP KENDALL:   Well, I think it's the toughest for everyone.  You know, I played a really good round of golf there last year.  I think I shot 66 and had a really solid front side.  You know, really, overall, I think it's the toughest of the four courses and, you know, you really  -- you've got to really think your way around there.  It's got a little bit more length and I think the par  3s might be a little more difficult, as well. 

It's a good golf course. 


Q. Do you feel this puts more pressure on you now to shoot a lower number at La Quinta? 

SKIP KENDALL:   Well, you know what, I'd really like to play just a real solid round of golf tomorrow and try to get it, obviously, somewhere in the 60s.  And knowing that I have Indian Wells on Saturday, where, you know, obviously I think the lowest scoring of any of those courses is there. 

I have played some pretty good rounds there, too.  You know, obviously anything in the 60s I would be pleased with and who knows if I can get it going just a little bit, somewhere in the mid 60s would be a great round of golf for me there. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Can you go through your birdies and the bogey for us? 

SKIP KENDALL:   Sure.  I started on 10.  I hit driver off the tee there which I've never done before, but I said what the heck and got it way down there.  I only had a sand wedge in.  I hit it about five feet, I think, and obviously made it. 

The next hole I hit driver, sand wedge about a couple of feet from the hole. 

I bogeyed 14.  I hit it in the fairway bunker to the left and hit it just short of the green, chipped up about, probably about four feet or so and really hit a good putt, but it lipped out so made bogey there. 

18, I hit a 5-wood back over the back middle of the green and chipped up to about ten feet and made a nice putt there. 

3, I hit driver, sand wedge probably to about 15 feet or so right behind the hole.  Made a nice putt there. 

6, hit 3-wood, 7-iron, probably about 20 feet or so and made a nice putt. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Skip, for spending a little time with us and good luck tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT