NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 17, 2010
Michael Leighton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. As the Playoffs move on, is it easier for you to be like the guy in the shadows? The guy that people aren't going to talk about? Do you like that?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Yeah, obviously, I don't mind it. We have a lot of great players on our team, and, obviously, there is a lot of focus on a few of those guys. So if I can slide under the radar and do a great job and help my team win, that's fine with me. I'm all right with that.  
  
  Q. When you think of the journey that has brought you to where you are now, have you had any moment to reflect and just kind of go, wow, I'm here, I'm playing in the Conference Finals?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Yeah, you know, I've tried to think about it a little bit, but I don't want to get caught up in it right now. I think when this is all done, I'll look back on it, and definitely embrace it a little bit more.  
 But right now I have a job to do. I'm just trying to focus on playing well.  
  
  Q. Usually when a team wins 6-0 in a playoff game or 6-0 period, they're happy with the way they played. But it seemed every guy we talked to last night, including coach, was not satisfied. What do you think that says about this team who has won five in a row and scored six goals last night?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Well, we know that obviously the next game might not be 6-0. We know they're going to come out harder, and we know we have to play a little bit better. That game could have easily been 2-0. We got a couple of good shots that went in.  
 So we're just, you know, looking ahead to tomorrow. We know it's going to be a different game tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You said last night that Jeff had helped you really sort of alter your style. What exactly has that been and what's gone into that? What are the changes?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Well, I think the main thing was, you know, to always be ready for shots. If there's a pass, he wants me to beat the pass and be set for a shot instead of moving while the guy's shooting the puck.  
 So that and, you know, making one save and being in position to make a second save. That's where I think has done a big part for he me is on rebounds. I'm right there, or if not, if I'm stretching, I still have an opportunity to making it instead of being two or three feet out of the net and not having the opportunity to stretch out and make that second save.  
  
  Q. Is that hard? Not saying you're old, but is it hard to make those kinds of adjustments maybe later in your career as opposed to maybe when you're a young guy?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: No, I don't think so. I'm actually, you know, a lot of goalies say that they just go out there and try not to think too much where I actually -- I consider myself a thinker. When I'm on the ice, I'm doing stuff. You know, if I do something wrong, it just clicks in my head right away and I say I can't do that next time. Or me and Reese have been working on a lot of things in practice. You know, it obviously carries over in the game. But there are situations that do happen that I think we'll try to stay on top of it.  
  
  Q. All through your career whether you were a back-up or whether you were trying to make it, it's all about making the most of your opportunities. Talk about how you've been able to do that here. You had the injury, it looked like maybe you weren't going to play, and Boucher was playing so well. And now, boom, you get thrown in and you have this opportunity?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Yeah, it's obviously, it's a great opportunity for me. It helped me a lot last year backing up Cam Ward, getting in the Conference Finals, and being a part of that and seeing what it's like. I think that's definitely helped me out a lot.  
 So I kind of expect, you know, what's happening. I know it's a big deal, and obviously I'm in a different situation now. I'm getting a chance to play, and that's what I want. Obviously, I'd rather be playing than sitting on the bench.  
 You know, with Bouch getting hurt, I really just thought I was going to be sitting on the bench the rest of the Playoffs and watching him, and doing what I did last year. But for me it's a great opportunity, and I just want to take advantage of it.  
  
  Q. To follow that up, you've bounced around. Teams have had you, maybe not wanted you, and now you're making a case definitely in this off-season that teams are going to be very interested in you all of a sudden?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Yeah, I hope so. I'm not looking that far ahead right now. Just, obviously I want to, you know, have a good playoff here and go from there. In the summer we'll see what happens. But it's been nice to travel around and play for different teams, but it would be nice to stay with one team and get my family there and get a house and have some stability.  
  
  Q. I know your focus is on the Finals and getting to the Stanley Cup Finals. But do you ever think in off days like today that you are auditioning for a job for next year?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: I think you're always auditioning. Obviously, you want to play great throughout the season. For a player, they want to score 50 goals to help them for next season. The Playoffs are obviously kind of an extra added on to that.  
 So, you know, I was happy with the way my season went. Obviously, the injury hurt me quite a bit, but get thrown back in there and get an opportunity to prove myself some more.  
  
  Q. Towards the end of the regular season Paul Holmgren was asked about next year. Do you have an idea who is going to be back, who is not? I think he used the phrase I've got a pretty good idea. Do you think that's changed given what's happened since the end of the regular season until now?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: I don't know. I've heard a lot of rumors about them possibly getting another goalie in here. You know, that's up to the team. As long as I have a job somewhere, I'd like to stay in Philadelphia, but I'm not thinking about that right now. I'm just worried about what's going on and hopefully that will work itself out at the end of the season.  
  
  Q. Isn't it kind of odd that you almost find yourself in a position where every one of these rounds you're having to prove yourself again and again?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Yeah, I guess that's what kind of happens with goalies. If you look at Halak and the way things have gone in Montreal, I think he's had a great season. You know, he's had to prove himself over and over again. You know, there are still questions about whether it's him or Price sometimes. I think he's finally stood out and they're finally saying he's the guy. So I'm hoping to get to that point where I get to a team that says, you know, you're the guy. I had an opportunity here and I enjoyed it.  
  
  Q. You bounced around from the beginning until now. How do you keep going? You're going from team to team to team to team, how do you keep your focus? How do you keep striving? How?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Obviously, my goal is to play in the NHL. It's not to play in the AHL or go to Russia. My job is to do my best and try to stay in the NHL. That's my dream, so I'm living it right now. I obviously want to stay here. I'd rather play another ten years here than go down and play in the minors for another ten years.  
 I'm just trying to stay positive and work at my dream. You know, turning 29 soon and not getting any younger, but goalies they say develop as they get older. So I'm hoping that that's true with me, and I just keep getting better.  
  
  Q. This is the high point of your career so far, what were some of the low points along the road getting here?  
 MICHAEL LEIGHTON: Well, the low point was probably the year I played in Chicago. I played 34 games and the lockout came. Then the next year I was released from Chicago and then sent to the minors and traded to Buffalo. Played the whole year in Buffalo, and that was kind of a down year for me. I didn't know what was going to happen after that. I didn't have a great year. The team didn't do very well.  
 After that I considered going to Europe, and then I signed with Anaheim that year as I free agent. That helped me out, and then went from there. That was the year I kind of got tossed around from team to team.  
 I'm just trying to stay positive. I've obviously played for a lot of teams and some people look at it and say, hey, that's a good thing. Everybody wants you so (laughing). I'm happy to play for those teams, but like I said, I'd like some stability. I'd like to stay with one team. I'd love to stay here.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT