HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 24, 2019
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: All right, thank you everyone.  Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for meeting us in the media center here at Siam CC.   
I am so excited to present to you our 2019 Honda LPGA Thailand winner, Amy Yang.  You have won here three times, every other year.  How meaningful is this win for you?   
AMY YANG: I mean, this is a special tournament for me.  I love coming to Thailand.  I love to play Honda, playing out here.   
Just enjoying it so much.  I think that's helpful to play better, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Before you guys made the turn there was the lightening delay.   
AMY YANG: Yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: You had a string of birdies going into the turn.  What were you thinking?  What was going on in your mind?   
AMY YANG: You know, I just was just telling myself just be patient out there.  Honestly I was a bit -- very nervous out there starting off the game.   
Just be patient, do your best.  Just when nervous thinking rise, just let it go.  (Laughter.)  I enjoyed it, yeah.  It was a good week.   
THE MODERATOR: This week was very hot and humid, as it is every year that you've probably competed here.  What is your advice for players that maybe are struggling to go adjust to the heat and playing and trying and keep focused?   
AMY YANG: I'm sure they do well, but what I do is just drink a lot of water and just use umbrella.  I'm sure everyone does that too, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: For you, what do you think was the turning point in your round?  At one point you were tied for the lead with two other players very close behind.  Tell us about what was the turning point for you.   
AMY YANG: I would say 16 par-3, that big putt.  I think that was like a big putt to finish.  Also 17 and 18 was not an easy hole to finish.   
I think that was like good turning point.   
THE MODERATOR: Great.  Any questions from the media?   
 Q.  Were you holding your breath on the 18th when Minjee was putting?  
AMY YANG: Oh, no.  I don't know, I wasn't thinking.   
 Q.  The course is so difficult for Thai players.  How did you manage to putt is well on this course?  What's your secret weapon?  
AMY YANG: You know, I've been hitting very good, you know, very well this week; giving myself lots of good chances.  Also, I putted so good.   
I think when those, hitting and putting like works well together, the score goes low.   
 Q.  Did you know that you win a tournament at least every two year?  Why is that?  
AMY YANG: I don't know.  Even my friends ask me, too, and I really don't know.   
I do my best all the time.   
 Q.  When you leave Thailand what would be special in your mind?  
AMY YANG: Special?   
 Q.  In your mind.  
THE MODERATOR: What will you remember?   
 Q.  About Thai food; did you enjoy anything?  
AMY YANG: Oh, yeah, I had to have some Thai papaya salad I leave last night.  I enjoy food here so much and I love the place.   
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions?   
 Q.  What about next week in Singapore?  
AMY YANG: Oh, yeah, it's also a great tournament.  I enjoy going there, too.  Just like this week, I'm just going to go play my best.   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations again.  We know you have to go catch your flight, so great job and good luck next week.  (Applause.)   
AMY YANG: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT