ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 27, 2018
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So how would you sum up your day?  You must be very pleased with how you played.
AMY YANG: Yeah, I'm happy how I played today.  I didn't make any huge mistakes out there.
Q. You've had -- the past couple of tournaments you've played in, played really well, you finished T11, T3.  What do you think has been clicking for you?
AMY YANG: What has been working well?
Q. Uh-huh.
AMY YANG: You know, I injured my arm early this year and had to take some time off, and I just didn't have -- just couldn't practice much, and I didn't have a good momentum playing, and it's getting better and, you know, the more I played, I feel like I'm getting more good momentum going on, and also, you know, I'm hitting it good, and I'm playing very consistently.  I think that was why it was going well.
Q. I know you've probably talked about it before, but what was the injury?
AMY YANG: Oh, yeah.  It was I think you call it tennis elbow.  Yeah, I had tennis elbow on my right arm.  And when it started, it was really bad.  I couldn't lift anything with my right arm.  But it got quickly better maybe in a couple of months.  I still have it a little bit.  Like I have to ice it and put some gel on it every night.  And you know, it's much better, and it's getting better, yeah.
Q. Does it still bother you at all?
AMY YANG: Yeah.
Q. A little bit?
AMY YANG: I couldn't hit many balls or -- like this week it's a little bit hard for me to hit off the hard grounds, but doesn't -- it's not getting any worse.  So I think it's a good thing.
Q. So just overall how you felt about your first two days and putting yourself in a good position.
AMY YANG: You know, I played -- I hit a lot of good shots and played very consistently out there, and I think the good thing was I didn't make any like huge mistakes:  And obviously I'm putting good, too.  So I think, yeah, that was it.
Q. Anything -- 18 you had the great obviously.  The third shot, but any other shot in your mind stick out today?
AMY YANG: Not today.  Not today.  I made six birdies, but three of them were reachable par-5s, reach in two and two-putted.  Other than that, I made some like 15, 16-footer putts.
Q. So just pretty average day?
AMY YANG: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT