BMW LADIES CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2019
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q: Comments on the third round?
AMY YANG: Compared to the previous two rounds, I was able to lower my score from early on in this third round. Overall, I was hitting well and putting better than the past few weeks.
Q: It rained the first day and then it was quite windy during the second round. Any difficulties?
AMY YANG: Of course it is not easy to play in the rain or in the wind… but I managed to avoid making any critical mistakes.
Q: You seem to play especially well in Asia. Why is that in your opinion?
AMY YANG: I personally like coming to play in Asia. So perhaps I play better because I enjoy coming to Asia.
Q: What part of your game would you like to shore up, going into the final round?
AMY YANG: I’m quite happy with my performance today. I did make a little mistakes here and there, but nothing I couldn’t fix. I think I played quite well so I hope to keep up what I was doing today.
Q: The competition on the leaderboard is quite tight right now. I believe you don’t have a lot of experience being in such a tight race? How will you tackle the final round?
AMY YANG: Is it a tight race right now? I think you need to focus on your own game so that you can take charge of the way your game is going.
Q: There are a lot of fans out there. Does that help your game?
AMY YANG: Sure a lot of people recognize you and they root for you. That definitely helps.
Q: Thoughts going into the next round?
AMY YANG: I think I played better every round so far. So instead of setting a grand goal I will just focus on playing my best.
Q: A word to your fans?
AMY YANG: Surprisingly many fans recognize me and are rooting for me so I would like to thank them and I hope I can repay them for their support by playing well.
Q: You have just finished the third round, in your opinion which hole on this course is THE determining hole? It is a tight race, which hole do you expect to see some drama tomorrow?
AMY YANG: I think keeping up the momentum is important on this course. I can’t really single out one hole… with golf you just never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT