HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 26, 2017
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by Amy Yang, now a three-time winner on the LPGA Tour, twice at this event.
How does it feel to be back in the winners' circle?
AMY YANG: You know, it feels great, especially coming back here in Thailand and play another win, my third one, here.  So happy to be back and feeling great.
THE MODERATOR: You've had so much success on this course with the two wins now, six top 10s total.  What do you like about this golf course so much?
AMY YANG: Yeah, first of all, I love this place.  I love coming back here.  Golf course is just suiting my game well, so I always like to come back.
THE MODERATOR: You haven't won for a couple years.  How does it feel to finally have another win under your belt?
AMY YANG: You know, I tried really hard to win, and it was great to have won.  I just -- I won't stop working hard.  I'll just keep working hard.
THE MODERATOR: Any questions?
Q. Do you have a plan for the next tournament?
AMY YANG: Yes, I'm going to play in Singapore.
Q. You ready to play there?
AMY YANG: Yes.  I have good finish last year in Singapore, although we play different courses.  So can't wait to see the course.  Also enjoy that place.  It's always my favorite start of the season coming to Thailand and Singapore, so really looking forward.
Q. (Question regarding the weather conditions.)
AMY YANG: You know, honestly, it's been tough like mentally and physically, but I really tried to stay focused out there.
Q. Which hole did you like most?
AMY YANG: Which hole?
Q. Yeah.
AMY YANG: I like 1 and 10.  Also 18.  16 and 17, coming in there, it's pretty challenging out there.  I like this course.
Q. (Question regarding returning to defend her title next year.  )
THE MODERATOR: Do you plan to come back here next year and defend?
AMY YANG: Yeah, of course.  Of course.  Yeah.
Q. Do you have a coach?  Do you work with a coach?
AMY YANG: Yes.
Q. How often do you see your coach?  When you need your coach, what are the things you focus on?
AMY YANG: You know, I have a coach.  He's in Orlando, Florida, and his name is Tony Ziegler.  I been working with him a little more then two years, I think.
We been working on (indiscernible - noise interference) and it's been going really good, yeah.  I been hitting the ball very solid this week.  Can't wait to talk to him.
Q. Could you tell us more about Ariya.
AMY YANG: You know, she's a great player.  She's the best player from Thailand, and also like one of my good friend.  I like to play with her.  I really enjoyed playing with her last two days.  She's good.  I like her.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
AMY YANG: Yes, I have been playing good, you know, hitting a lot of good shots and making good putts.  I had good momentum going on.
It wasn't easy with the weather delay and the wake up early in the morning.  That part was -- I think that was what I did well.
Yeah, it's good.
THE MODERATOR: We'll wrap it up.  You have your parents here.  What did it mean to share this experience with them?
AMY YANG: You know, can't thank enough how much love and support getting from them.  They were there for me.  I don't think I would sitting here today.
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations again.
AMY YANG: Thank you.  (Applause).  Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT