BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 17, 2019
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Amy, good to have you with us. Welcome aboard.   
AMY YANG: Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR: Why don't you give us an assessment of your performance today.   
AMY YANG: Okay. My swing felt very stable out there today. I hit a lot of good shots, like a lot of solid shots out there, and gave myself a lot of good chances.   
My putting was working really well today. That helped shooting lower score today.   
THE MODERATOR: If you don't mind, we're just going to open the floor for questions. Thank you.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) (Regarding 2009 performance.) Especially with the shot on hole 9 was really perhaps one of the best. What do you make of it? How did you make it happen?  
AMY YANG: The third shot?   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
AMY YANG: Yeah, that was about 75 yards the pin, and I played my 58 wedge. Usually my 58 goes about 80ish, so it was pretty full shot with the wedge; has a lot speed on it. Yeah, contact was good.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) You been to China many times to compete. What do you make of it? Are you accustomed to the local food here, the weather, and also the course condition?  
AMY YANG: How was...   
 Q.  Weather, food, and also the service, the course.  
AMY YANG: Oh, it's been really great. I love coming to Shanghai. Hotel is really nice and the lot of restaurant around. Been really enjoying this week. Golf course is in great shape.   
I'm really enjoying this week.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) You been doing pretty, as you use the word, stable throughout the LPGA Tour right now. Stability perhaps is your toke. How do you maintain this stability on LPGA Tour right now?  
AMY YANG: Stability?   
THE MODERATOR: Stable, being so stable as far as your performance on LPGA Tour right now.   
AMY YANG: Oh, okay. Just working hard. (Laughter.)   
THE MODERATOR: Okay. Any secrecy?   
AMY YANG: You know, I been really looking forward to play this Asia swing and been really working hard before coming here. Just really looking forward to play. Yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Okay.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) Actually, checking out your record right now, your four LPGA titles were won in Asia. Is it because you're Asian and familiar with the surroundings, or because of other reasons?  
AMY YANG: You know what, I don't know, but I do know that I'm really enjoying. (Indiscernible.)   
 Q.  (Through translation.) Would you say that, as you mentioned, perhaps you're enjoying this tour, this stop in Shanghai, this kind of joy will indirectly suggest or hint that you might have a good result here? So this kind of joy that you have will actually indirectly tell you that you might have some good result in Shanghai.  
AMY YANG: I mean, like if you're enjoying it's helpful to have fun on the course, and when you're having fun you'll play better.   
So, yeah, really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  (Through translation.) Well, we didn't mention that actually that by July this year you have already hit your age of 30. In Asia, perhaps Asian women feel like this is already a challenge. Would that be a test to you as far as your physical condition, the way of hitting, the range of hitting, for example distance-wise? Or if so, how do you adjust it to keep your good form?  
AMY YANG: You know, I think it's just numbers. I don't feel any difference. Yeah, I still have my distance.   
THE MODERATOR: Good.   
AMY YANG: And when I practice at home I still have my, how can I say...   
THE MODERATOR: Desire?   
AMY YANG: Yeah, I think it's just numbers. As long as you keep like, how can I say, physical healthy, I think you can go further longer, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: I guess that will wrap up the press conference. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Best of luck for the rest of the week.   
AMY YANG: Thank you. (Applause.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT