OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 16, 2016
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What's this experience been like for you so far? 
AMY YANG: It's amazing. Never thought about Olympics, golf in the Olympics. I didn't know how it's like. I was so excited, kind of nervous coming, arriving in Brazil. And I watched last week, some of the men playing, and feel so excited about how we get to play next week. 

Q. It's not easy to qualify. You must be pinching yourself that you get to do this. 
AMY YANG: Yeah, it was very hard. A lot of great players from South Korea, and I had to really focus and work hard till the cut. I'm happy to be here with the other girls. 

Q. Have you gotten to meet other athletes from other sports? 
AMY YANG: I would like to but I'm staying in a different apartment. We rented a place so I'm staying there. I don't get to meet many, but maybe later this week. 

Q. Do you want to go to some of the other events? 
AMY YANG: Yes, I want to. I have to check the schedule. 

Q. So what would you want to go see? What would be your favorite sports or maybe a Korean athlete to you look up to?
AMY YANG: I wanted to see archery, but they are done, right, already. But I would like to see track and field, gymnastics. But I think the gymnastics are done. Not as many left.

Q. What would you say about the golf course? How do you like it? 
AMY YANG: It's great. The grass, they are in pretty good shape. Around the greens, it's pretty tough. But overall the golf course looks very good. I like it. 

Q. Sunday the men were here. I don't know if you got to watch the final day out here. When you saw them standing on the podium with their medals, did you think that could be you? What were you thinking? 
AMY YANG: I was playing, so I was following them, but I hear all the loud screaming. I saw them in pictures standing on the podium. Yeah, it would be like, how can I say, it would be‑‑ I want to be there, and it would be the best thing in my life and my golf career to do it. So I'm looking forward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT