U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2016
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Did 1-under hurt you too much or is that okay still just the plus 1?  
AMY YANG: Being plus 1 today?  No, no.  It's not -- it was hard to play out there.  The wind started, picked up by the time we teed off first tee.  It's been tough round out there, so 1-over still -- I mean, I'm in contention, so it's not hurting that much.   
 Q.  The game is solid, you think?  
AMY YANG: Yeah, yeah.  It's so windy out there, it wasn't easy.  I had to try to save pars up-and-downs quite a lot, but I save it.  I save some good up-and-downs.  I'm still hitting it good.  So I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Do you have to be a little extra aggressive tomorrow perhaps or not?  
AMY YANG: Not if the weather is like this and the course.  It's tough out there, so yeah.   
 Q.  You will stay the course and let others --  
AMY YANG: I'll just keep trying to do what I've been doing.   
 Q.  Which would be more important for you to win, this tournament or a gold medal in Brazil?  
AMY YANG: Wow, both are big.  Both first places are very important.  It's hard to decide.   
 Q.  Which do you think in Korea would be -- which do you think people in Korea would be more excited about, you winning this or winning gold medal?  
AMY YANG: I think it can be both.  The last couple years, I had a couple second finishes, past few years.  And also Olympics is -- the Olympic games, golf in Olympic games in 112 years, so both of them are huge for me.   
 Q.  So you are not going to pick?  
AMY YANG: No, no.  I can't.   
 Q.  Are you having fun?  Is this fun?  
AMY YANG: Yes.   
 Q.  Or is it work?  Fun or work?  
AMY YANG: It's fun.  It's fun.   
 Q.  What's the most fun?  
AMY YANG: Most fun?  I'm enjoying this nervousness out there.  I like to play golf, so I know what it takings out there tomorrow.  Just got to go out there, trust what I've been working on and continue what I've been doing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT