BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 17, 2019
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Excellent opening round, 67, and I hear you're back with your old coach Tony Ziegler. What difference has he made to your game?  
AMY YANG: During this season, yeah, I went back to Tony and I kept a lot of -- he made me think less on the course and more focus on target stuff. So kept a lot of things simple.   
 Q.  We've always said you've got one the most rhythmical swings in golf. How do you keep that beautiful rhythm? Is there anything you say to yourself?  
AMY YANG: We been working on thinking one, two, three during my swing just to keep it simple so I don't think about a lot of technique stuff during the swing.   
 Q.  It certainly worked today. You played fantastically well. Also, I notice that you're carrying your own yardage book. For a number of years you had your caddie crunching all the numbers. Now you've put the yardage book back in the bag and back in your pocket.  
AMY YANG: Still not calculating numbers, but I wrote down some notes that I need to see before the shots just, yeah, to remember better the course.   
 Q.  Here with Amy Yang, first round 67. Wonderful way to start any tournament. A bunch of birdies, just one bogey. You have to be thrilled with how you played today.  
AMY YANG: Yeah, I'm happy how I played today. My swing felt very stable out there and hit some lot of solid shots out there and making some good putts, so it's been a good round.   
 Q.  Lots of good putts. Perfect scoring conditions. A lovely day. Was there any hole that particularly stood out to you, or were you just having a good day out there on the golf course?  
AMY YANG: Just I try to be like patient out there and do by best one shot at a time and that's it. I enjoy it here.   
 Q.  You already have one win this year in Thailand. I know we're still just on Thursday, but what would it mean to you to add a second win to your list this weekend? It could happen.  
AMY YANG: I mean, it's bit early I think. Yeah, we have 54 more holes to go. I been working hard, so I would like to see some good results in this Asia swing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT