KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 2016
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about how much difference the driver made today versus yesterday.  What was it like for you out there?
AMY YANG: I had a tough time hitting fairways the last two rounds, especially tight course like this, you miss fairway, hard to save par.
But today I was hitting it more solid and also putt more solid.  I had a great day.  It's so important to hit fairways.
Q. When you're hitting your driver better like that, everyone says on this golf course you have to stay patient, don't force too many birdies.  Is it hard to stay patient with that happening?
AMY YANG: Yeah, I try to stay patient last two rounds.  I played really well.  It was much better.
Q. You played yourself into position in this championship.  What will be the game plan be for tomorrow?
AMY YANG: Well, maybe not to think so much.  Just going to focus on one thing at a time.  Also be patient, that's most important.  That's it, yeah.
Q. You said driver, much better today?
AMY YANG: Much better.
Q. What did you change, what did you tweak?
AMY YANG: No, just wasn't thinking so much.  I think I tried so much, so hard, to play good.  I just let that go, whatever happens.  I played much better than last two rounds.
Q. You played really well this year, you've had four top-3 finishes.  What do you think has been kind of keeping you breaking through that?
AMY YANG: Just putting.  I needed to make important putts out there.  I remember I missed quite a lot of them and just missed the chance.  But it was good experience.
Q. You said you let it go, whatever happens, happens.  Tomorrow you're in contention now?
AMY YANG: Yeah.
Q. Can you take that same attitude tomorrow?
AMY YANG: I know, you know, I will.  What can I do, you know?  That's the only thing I can do.  Just let it go, be patient, have a good time.  Hard to do it out there with a tough course like this, but.
Q. Obviously Mirim plays great, but the connection with your caddie and mental coach, as well, what was that?
AMY YANG: Swing coach.
Q. Who is that?
AMY YANG: Tony Ziegler, he's in Orlando.
Q. She wanted a change little bit.
AMY YANG: Yeah, I asked her if she wants to go see Tony, and also she was looking for a caddie.  We are good friends.  I asked my caddie, Dave, and he helped.
Q. How long have they been working together now?
AMY YANG: This is the first week.
Q. How long had you been with him?
AMY YANG: With who?
Q. With your swing coach?
AMY YANG: Oh, Tony?  Oh, almost two years, I think.  But Mirim had worked with him several months, like few months, three, four.
Q. Did you start working with Tony right before your win, the season right before?
AMY YANG: Yeah.
Q. You took some time off, that off-season, started working with Tony?
AMY YANG: Yeah.
Q. You seem comfortable on the major stage, your name is always up there.  How comfortable are you coming into these events?
AMY YANG: I mean it's -- I get nervous, too, out there.  It's a natural thing.  And just try to accept it.
Q. How much preparation did you do for this course, particularly?  Did you have practice rounds before this week or just show up this week?
AMY YANG: I just show up.
Q. Dave is helping you with yardage?
AMY YANG: Yes.  And he also helping me reading putts.  And I just started lining up a couple weeks ago, and we've been working together in putting good.
Q. Have you looked at a leaderboard, how do you think it's shaping up for tomorrow?
AMY YANG: Yeah, I saw it.
Q. Lydia?
AMY YANG: Lydia, yeah.
Q. How do you think you fit in there?
AMY YANG: I'll just -- I won't think so much tomorrow.  What can I do?
Q. Would you rather be chasing them tomorrow or having the lead?
AMY YANG: I like how I am right now for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT