HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 27, 2016
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm with Amy Yang who had a sensational finish.  She tapped in for a birdie today.  Tell us about your day today, Amy.  
AMY YANG: I mean, it wasn't the round that I was expecting.  I struggled a little bit.  But to finish with a couple of birdies, I was still hanging in there, trying to do my best.  Yeah, just it's okay.  I'm looking forward to playing again tomorrow.   
 Q.  Absolutely.  Tomorrow is the final round, but tell us, you say you struggled a little bit today, what did you struggle with?  
AMY YANG: Just couldn't make some putts like I should make and the tee shots, like a couple 13 and 14 that went into the rough, I got one flier out of it and it was hard to get on the green.  It was just not a good break.   
 Q.  Yeah, and the sand seemed to be your best friend today.  You found the bunker a few times today as well.  
AMY YANG: Yeah, yeah.  Oh, I shouldn't have.  That wasn't good.  That should have been the place.  But, you know, I think I did good, you know.   
 Q.  Yeah, you got out of those bunkers really well.  So how will you prepare for tomorrow?  How will you approach tomorrow's final round?  
AMY YANG: Tomorrow it will be a brand-new day.  I'll just come out with a fresh mind and do my best.  Whatever happens, I'll just accept it.   
 Q.  Of course you're the defending champion here.  You are hugely popular.  Look at the crowd support here.  How much does the crowd support do for your game out there?  
AMY YANG: Oh, it's a lot.  Today we had a lot of Korean people out there cheering for us, so I really appreciate it.  It really helps me a lot.   
 Q.  How's the back?  You said it was a little tight.  
AMY YANG: Oh, it's all gone now.  She has magic hands.   
 Q.  Magic hands, that's awesome.  So everything's good and you're feeling totally healthy?  
AMY YANG: Yes.   
 Q.  Anything else from today that stuck out?  What were the birdies that were key do you think?  
AMY YANG: Oh, just the last two holes it felt nice to have a couple birdies.   
 Q.  How big was the finish to get a birdie there to go into tomorrow?  
AMY YANG: Oh, I mean, it's better.  Yeah, two shots is a huge difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT