HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 26, 2016
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're the leader after shooting 3-under today.  What was it like out there for you today?  
AMY YANG: I mean, I struggled a little bit on the front, two bogeys straight, but I think I stayed patient well, got through it well.  I'm happy with today's round.   
 Q.  A really important birdie there at the 9th hole.  I saw you give a little bit of a fist pump; you were very, very happy with that.  Tell us about your birdie at 9.  
AMY YANG: Yeah, after struggling for eight holes, it was a good birdie to turn the momentum.  It was a real good one.  I think the best one for the day.   
 Q.  As you mentioned, it was a slow start.  You went out in 36.  What did you tell yourself as you started the back nine?  
AMY YANG: I mean, you know, nine more holes, it's a lot of golf.  I focused on what I was doing with my swing and just relaxed.  I had more holes to go, so yeah.   
 Q.  I know you said earlier that you were not as happy today with your putting as you were yesterday.  How did that feel?  
AMY YANG: I mean, just on the front nine a couple holes, yeah.  But back nine was -- I could putt more solid, made some birdie putts, and yeah, happy with that.   
 Q.  You start the weekend with a one-shot lead.  How will you approach tomorrow's round?  
AMY YANG: You know, one shot is not much, and two more rounds is still a lot of golf.  I'll just keep patient.  It might be a challenge, but I'll do my best.   
 Q.  What's your goal for tomorrow?  
AMY YANG: Just got to do one shot at a time, keep focusing on keeping it simple.  I won't think too much about what's going to happen at the end.   
 Q.  You know how to win this tournament because you're a past champion.  What are you going to do this weekend to be a champion again?  
AMY YANG: Like I said, it's just -- there's so many great players on the LPGA Tour, and it's a great golf course.  Just need to do just my golf, focusing.   
 Q.  After the back-to-back bogeys, how did you bounce back?  Did you think it was unraveling there or did you give yourself a little talk?  
AMY YANG: Yeah, it was a little frustrating.  I three-putted --   
 Q.  On both of them or just one?  
AMY YANG: Just one.  The first bogey, I missed a shot from the fairway, and that's okay, but the second one was a three-putt.  I never want to do that.   
 Q.  How long was your birdie putt on 15?  You took the outright lead at 9.  
AMY YANG: Oh, that was like five feet, five, six feet.   
 Q.  And then the birdie at 12, how long was that?  
AMY YANG: Par-3?  Oh, that was about 18.   
 Q.  That was longer?  
AMY YANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  Was that the longest putt you had today?  
AMY YANG: For birdie?   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
AMY YANG: Yeah, I think so.   
 Q.  What about for par?  You had a longer par putt?  
AMY YANG: No, I don't think so.   
 Q.  So 18 was about the longest?  
AMY YANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  How did you play off of Lexi and Q?  Have you played with them at all much?  
AMY YANG: It was the first time playing with Q.  Yeah, I enjoyed.  She's a great player.  I had a fun time with her, like talking.   
 Q.  Did you guys play off each other at all?  You, Lexi and Q are all at the top of the leaderboard.  Did you try to feed off each other?  
AMY YANG: Yeah, we just played our game, not playing against anyone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT