HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 25, 2016
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's not easy to go into a tournament to defend your title, but you've started brilliantly, 66 today, 6-under.  You had an excellent opening round today.  Tell us about it.  
AMY YANG: I mean, a lot of things went really well today, but especially my short game and putting was solid.  You know, it's always good to have a bogey-free round, and I'm happy to start with a good round.   
 Q.  There was a lot of wind earlier today, especially in the early morning, but I think you had the best of the conditions today because the winds tended to die down later in the afternoon.  
AMY YANG: Oh, it was a little bit windy starting, but I couldn't really tell the difference during the round.  It was okay.   
 Q.  This is the second time you're going into a tournament to defend your title.  How different is it for you to go into a tournament to defend your title compared to a different tournament, a regular tournament?  
AMY YANG: I mean, compared with regular tournaments it's a little bit more extra pressure, but I would just focus on what I'm going to do next, not really putting pressure on myself much.  Yeah, not much, I'll just keep doing what I'm doing, focus and be patient.   
 Q.  Were there any nerves early on?  
AMY YANG: There was a little bit.  I mean, yeah, I rested for two weeks, and also coming back here as defending champion, so a little bit.   
 Q.  You're very well positioned after round 1.  You'll go into round 2 two shots back of the leader, Lexi Thompson.  What will your game plan be tomorrow?  
AMY YANG: Be patient.  We have three more rounds.  There's a lot of golf left.  I've done so many good things, I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing.   
 Q.  Did you have two chip-ins?  
AMY YANG: Yeah, I did.   
 Q.  What holes were those on?  
AMY YANG: It was on No. 10 and No. 14.   
 Q.  Have you ever done that, two chip-ins on the back nine before?  
AMY YANG: Maybe one other, yeah.   
 Q.  Most recently now.  
AMY YANG: Yeah.   
 Q.  Very solid back nine; did you see Lexi turn in her 8-under and then you thought, all right, let's go, let's get some birdies?  
AMY YANG: I mean, I saw her shooting 8-under, but we are not finishing today, so all I was wanting to try to do was just really focus in the moment what I'm doing, so that's what I've been working on over the winter, and I think I did very well today.   
 Q.  Did you think you did a good job blocking out the extra -- you said there's a little bit of pressure?  
AMY YANG: Yeah, but I think I really did control it, yeah.   
 Q.  How long was your par save on 16, the putt there?  
AMY YANG: It was about 13, 14 feet.   
 Q.  How big was that?  You looked relieved.  I saw you kind of fist pump.  
AMY YANG: Yeah, it looked really good on the way, and it died, it went in on the side door, you know.   
 Q.  How much break was that?  
AMY YANG: Oh, it was about a foot.  Yeah, it was a good par save.  I'm so happy to have 6-under, bogey-free round.   
 Q.  I know you said patience for the rest of the week, but anything game plan wise with your game?  Do you need maybe a little tweaking, anything different?  You said the short game was really good.  
AMY YANG: Yeah, I had a little muscle pain this morning.   
 Q.  Where, back?  
AMY YANG: My back, yeah.  It bothered me a little bit, but these ladies in the locker room, they gave me good treatment.   
 Q.  A little massage?  
AMY YANG: Yeah, so hopefully that goes away soon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT