HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 24, 2016
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome in our defending champion here this week at the Honda LPGA Thailand, Amy Yang.  Amy, thank you for joining us.  How does that sound, coming in as defending champion?  It obviously has to feel pretty good.  But what's different this week coming back to an event as defending champion?  This is just your second time doing it.   
AMY YANG: I know, it's a little -- it feels a little different.  I'm excited.  I took a couple weeks off after Ocala to prepare for this tournament, and I'm always enjoying this place, and it's good to be back.  The course is in great shape.  I'm so excited, looking forward to playing here.   
THE MODERATOR: I've seen your poster just about everywhere, seen cut-outs of you.  Is that something you that surprised you or something that you're used to now?   
AMY YANG: I mean, like no, it's first time.  This is my eighth year.  I came here eighth times, and this is the first time I see me in the hotel.  It feels a little weird, but I like it.   
THE MODERATOR: You're welcoming yourself to the hotel; you come in and there you are waving to you.   
AMY YANG: Yeah, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Let's talk about last year.  What do you most remember about your victory?  Obviously a very exciting week for you, just your second win on Tour.  What do you most remember about that week?   
AMY YANG: You know, it was just a big win.  My first win was in 2013 in Korea, then since then I haven't won for over a year.  I remember that after my last putt, all my Korean friends, they were celebrating, and it was a great moment I will never forget.   
THE MODERATOR: How important was that to get your second win?  Obviously your first win in Korea, that was amazing, but to get win number two to show that that first one wasn't really a fluke, how important was that to you, to show that you can win more?   
AMY YANG: I mean, I'm trying to do my best every week, just same as each week, try to do my best.  To win the second one was a great feeling, great for my career.   
THE MODERATOR: Was it a little harder than the first one do you think, just to get over that hump?   
AMY YANG: Yeah, I got a little nervous on the last day, but it was a good experience.  I'd love to do it again.   
THE MODERATOR: How much does that experience help you do you think?  Coming down the stretch I know you were neck-and-neck with Stacy and some others.  How much does being in the hunt help moving forward?  How much do those experiences help you?   
AMY YANG: Oh, a lot, better than no experience.  Like I know what's the feeling now, so I can concentrate more on my game.   
 Q.  There's a lot of Koreans who play golf in Thailand in the winter.  Are you expecting a lot of your Korean fans to be here this week?  
AMY YANG: Yeah, I saw there are so many Korean galleries last year.  They came to watch all of the players out here, and I'm sure there are plenty again.   
 Q.  So it's like a home match for you?  
AMY YANG: I want to play great for the whole country of people.   
THE MODERATOR: It feels a little bit like home?   
AMY YANG: Yeah, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Now, obviously you've won here; what are some of the keys to winning here?  What were some of the keys for you last year, and what are the keys do you think to keep a successful track here?   
AMY YANG: I mean, to win again?   
THE MODERATOR: Yeah.   
AMY YANG: Not much special.  I mean, it sounds so simple, but stay in the moment, like one shot at a time, like that's the key for every week, each tournament.  That's what I'm trying to do.   
THE MODERATOR: I want to talk to you a little bit about Crown, UL International Crown and the Olympics because that's a huge story line all year this year.  The competition amongst the Koreans is very, very tight, so tight, six players in the top 10 in the Rolex Rankings, nine in the top 20.  You guys have to look at that every week and think, ugh, I have to play my very best to have a chance.  How important is it to make those teams for you, and how big is that for you?   
AMY YANG: I mean, starting off the season to earn a spot for the Olympics was my goal, one of my goals, and it is -- like you said, it's tough to make it, but just like each week I will come, try to do my best, and I'll do my best to earn a spot.  It would be such a huge honor to represent Korea.   
THE MODERATOR: I know the UL International Crown, how big are both the Olympics and Crown back in Korea?   
AMY YANG: Yeah, that's --   
THE MODERATOR: A lot of talk?   
AMY YANG: Yeah, both of them are top four from the country.  It's a huge thing to play on such the big stage.  You know, I've been practicing hard and I'm feeling pretty good, so I'll just keep doing what I'm doing.   
THE MODERATOR: Other than the Olympics, what were some of your goals to start this year?  Did you have any other specific goals, whether it was wins, anything with your game?  What was the outlook coming into the 2016?   
AMY YANG: Yeah, I mean, this year, 2016 the Olympics is going on for like -- since how many years?   
THE MODERATOR: Two years they've been doing qualifying.   
AMY YANG: I mean for golf.   
THE MODERATOR: It has been away for over 100 years.   
AMY YANG: Yeah, so that was one of my goals, and I was also -- another goal was winning a major championship.  I always want to do that.   
THE MODERATOR: Is there one in particular that you would want to win?   
AMY YANG: I mean, all five are really, really good tournaments.   
THE MODERATOR: So you'll take any?   
AMY YANG: Yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: You've had three additional top 10s here in addition to your win.  Do you feel very comfortable on this course?   
AMY YANG: Yeah, I like it.  I like this course, how it just -- it looks -- I mean, the course shapes, fits on my eye like really good.  I just like it so much.   
THE MODERATOR: I know there's a really great list of winners here, Suzann, Lorena, Inbee, Ai.  When you look at the list of winners and you see your name at the top of it right now, how cool is that to see?  Obviously it's hard to win here and you've done it.  What do you think about when you see that list and you see your name added?   
AMY YANG: I'm just feeling so honored to be listed with all those champions.   
THE MODERATOR: Well, best of luck this week.  Thank you for coming in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT