U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2015
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE TROSTEL: It's my pleasure to introduce Amy Yang.  Amy shot rounds of 67, 66, 69 and 71 for a 72-hole total of 273.  That's 7-under par.  Amy had 19 birdies and an eagle this championship.  It is her second runner-up finish at the U.S. Women's Open and her fourth top 5 finish and fifth top 10 finish in the last six U.S. Women's Opens. Things got really exciting down the stretch.  You missed a few putts, but then on 16 you hit a great drive when the tees were moved up.  Can you talk a little bit about the 16th hole?   AMY YANG: 16th hole, yeah, I saw the leaderboard actually on No. 15, and I knew I really had to hit good drive to the green.  And I had to make that downhill two-putt. I've been hitting it good, so I felt good about the tee ball.  My putting was struggling a little bit yesterday and today, but I had to trust it.  It was cool.   MIKE TROSTEL: Then you go to the 17th hole and you hit a 6-iron.  Did you know where you stood on the 17th hole against In Gee where you were on the leaderboard?   AMY YANG: Yeah, I actually saw it.  I really tried hard last three holes, final three holes, just to get there.  It was tough.   MIKE TROSTEL: On 18, your lie in the rough, were you trying to go for the green or were you trying to lay up short in front?   AMY YANG: I actually did.  And lie was pretty -- too much grass behind the ball.  So I went for the green, but I thought maybe it's not going for the green.  But it end up leaving it good distance and good angle to the pin.  So thought I had good chance to save par.   MIKE TROSTEL: You hit a good pitch shot, it spun back a little on you.  Then on the putt, it just missed to the left.  Did you think you hit a good putt or did you pull it a little bit?   AMY YANG: I hit a good putt.  I aimed about a cup to the left side and all I could think was just never leave it short.   Q.  Do you have any regrets?  Are there any particular shots that you would like to have back today?  AMY YANG: Yeah, I did my best out there today, if I can work on a little bit more on my putting.  Putting I've been a little bit disappointed today.  But I did my best and I think I did well today.   Q.  You've been so calm all week, everybody's commented on it.  Did you feel just as calm this afternoon when In Gee was climbing up the leaderboard or were you nervous as things seemed to get away from you a little bit?  AMY YANG: Well, I was just keep try to calm down.  I think if I get too like try to do something, I don't think that would work.  So I just keep calmed down and do best I can do every shot.   Q.  On 18, your second shot, was that a 5-wood?  Were you actually laying up there?  I know it kind of squirted to the right on you.  How far were you to the green on your third?  AMY YANG: It was about 195 and I had 19 degree rescue, and I was just -- lie wasn't good, but I was hoping to get there, anywhere in the front.   Q.  The next shot?  AMY YANG: The next shot was 62 yards.  I hit that 60-yard shot on No. 15, and I tried to do the same but a little bit shorter, and then spun back because of the hill.  I should have played a little bit firmer.   Q.  The front nine was very steady, kind of like the whole week was for you.  The stretch between 13 and 15, there was a little bit of a struggle there for you.  Was it a mechanics, a swing mechanics issue that you felt like you were having or was it just something that just happened, you didn't feel right?  Can you explain to me what those three holes were like for you?  AMY YANG: I hit it good, just couple tee shots pulled it to the left.  But mostly putting, yeah, I missed couple of short putts and that cost me a lot.   Q.  Do you know In Gee Chun at all?  And if so, have well seen her play before in Korea?  AMY YANG: Yes, I knew her few -- three or four years back when she was amateur.  I met her first time in Taiwan.   Q.  What do you think of her game?  AMY YANG: Her game?  She's a great player.  She is a good player since amateur golfer.  And she won many times already in Korean Tour, as well, so definitely I'm sure she's a good player.   MIKE TROSTEL: Had you ever played with her before?   AMY YANG: I think I did somewhere, but I don't remember.   Q.  Your eagle on 16, it was an 11-foot putt.  How important was that for you at the time during your round to bring yourself within one of Chun?  And what did you think of the really short layout of the hole today?  AMY YANG: I actually like that when they put tee box forward.  And I already had practiced going to the green during the practice round.  It was very important to me that I had to make that putt and just happy that I did.   Q.  Do you think some day this tournament will be yours?  You keep coming very, very close.  AMY YANG: Yes, it was another good experience.  It just didn't go as well as I thought, but I learned another great lesson here.  And it's going to make me better player, improve my game.   Q.  How difficult was that rough off the 18th fairway?  A lot of players seemed to struggle with that?  AMY YANG: Yeah, it was very sticky.  My ball was sit down a little bit low and I had so much grass behind the ball, so I didn't think it would get to the pin, but maybe somewhere near the front.   MIKE TROSTEL: Amy Yang, 7-under par, 273, another runner-up finish.  Congratulations on a great week.   AMY YANG: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT