U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2015
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE TROSTEL: It's my pleasure to welcome Amy Yang into the media center.  With rounds of 67, 66 and 69, for a 54-hole total of 202.  That's 8-under par and a three-stroke lead over Stacy Lewis.  The three-round total of 202 is the second lowest 54-hole total in the U.S. Women's Open, second to Juli Inkster's 201 back in 1999. Congratulations, great round.  Let's go through your card a little bit.  You had a great start with your birdie on the first hole.   AMY YANG: Yes, I started great on the first hole.  But my putting and short game were a little bit off today.  But I hit the ball well all week and gave myself a good chance out there.   MIKE TROSTEL: Still were able to hit 15 greens, even though the ball-striking was off little bit, and you birdied the 13th hole for the third day in a row, the par 5.  What about that hole has kind of come to your liking?   AMY YANG: I don't know.  Just feel comfortable out there.  That hole, I hit good tee shots every day and good second shot, so I had easier third shots going into the greens and that helps.   Q.  Now, you'll be playing the final group tomorrow for the third time.  You played in the final group in 2010 and again last year in 2014.  How will that past experience help you tomorrow?  AMY YANG: I don't know how it feels out there.  I'll try to hit one shot at a time and do my best for every shot I hit.   Q.  How do you feel that the course played today compared to the first two days and do you think it's been a very good test for a U.S. Open?  AMY YANG: They're tough.  All three rounds were tough conditions out there.  But maybe today the greens were more faster, so a little bit the speed was off.   Q.  What do you expect tomorrow?  AMY YANG: Tomorrow?  You know, I'm not thinking so much, so I'm just going to go do my best.   Q.  Did you feel at all today like it was a match play situation between you and Stacy?  Was there any idea that it was just the two of you?  You seemed to match every shot that she hit.  You seemed to put one inside of her?  AMY YANG: No, no, I didn't think like it's -- I didn't really think like that or anything.  I don't know, I just focused on my shots and thinking not so much about anything else.   Q.  What tricks do you have to keep the nerves low on Sunday?  How do you keep calm?  AMY YANG: How?  I'll listen to music and just -- I know it's big playing in final group, but I will just trust what I practice.   Q.  Will you sleep in?  AMY YANG: Yes, I will sleep in.  And I sleep really well.   Q.  Congratulations on another great round.  Traditionally Saturday is known as "moving day" but I followed you on the back nine yesterday and it seemed like that's when you really made your move.  I believe you birdied three holes in a row and really stretched yourself from the competition.   Talk about the patience that you had to have today, not a lot of birdies, not a lot of bogeys, a lot of pars, a little bit of a different round than yesterday.  Talk about the patience you had to have today to be able to play the way you did.  AMY YANG: I knew right away, like after a few holes, just the putting speed was a little off.  So I knew I had to be really, really patient today.  And I think I did really well.   Q.  It was mentioned that this will be your third time in the final pairing since 2010.  What lessons have you learned from those other two experiences that you will put into practice tomorrow?  AMY YANG: It was good experience the last two -- the final group experience.  Me and my coach, we prepared.  We practiced hard.  I'll go out there and I'll just do my best, like what I practice.   Q.  Every time Stacy came close to you, you answered her with a birdie or a par save.  How important was it to keep doing that throughout the round?  AMY YANG: I don't know, I'm just not thinking so much anything like that out there.  I just try to hit one shot at a time the best I can do.   Q.  Who is here with you this week?  Family and friends?  And are you talking to your coach at night?  AMY YANG: Yeah, I've called him every day after the round.  And my mom and dad are here and my dog.   Q.  What's your dog's name and what kind of dog?  AMY YANG: Bori, B-o-r-i.  It's so happy to see her after the round when I go into the room and she is so happy to see me.  Just that makes me release all the stress all day.   Q.  What kind of dog is it?  AMY YANG: Cocker Spaniel.   Q.  You've come so very close to winning major championships, can you imagine what the feeling might be or how important it is to you to win one, if you come through tomorrow?  AMY YANG: I don't want to think like too much ahead, but it would be a great thing to my golf career.   MIKE TROSTEL: Amy Yang, 202, 8-under par, three-stroke lead.  Best of luck tomorrow.   AMY YANG: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT