U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE TROSTEL: It's my pleasure to introduce Amy Yang.  Amy with rounds of 67 and 66 for a 36 hole total of 133, 7-under par.  The 133 total is the second lowest score over the first 36 holes at the U.S. Women's Open and the lowest since Helen Alfredsson shot 132 back in 1994. Amy, you've been in the top 10 in four of your last five U.S. Women's Opens, you've had a lot of success in this championship.  What is it about the Women's Open that brings out the best in your game?   AMY YANG: I just enjoy it out here.  And I know the golf courses are very tough.  And make sure I be patient on the course.  Just enjoy the tough condition golf courses.   MIKE TROSTEL: Seems like you were patient today.  Started on the first hole, birdied 4 and birdied 9.  Then you got in a groove on the back nine.  Can you take us through the four consecutive birdies 11 through 13?   AMY YANG: I'm hitting it very solid throughout the week.  And it's important to keep the ball on the fairway, especially this big, long rough.  And I had good fairway regulation yesterday and today.  Yeah, just mostly my swing was really good.   MIKE TROSTEL: Seems like you're putting well, as well, third in putting through 36 holes.  Some of the players struggling with the greens.  They seem like they're a little slower than you might think for a normal Women's Open, but you're putting very well.   AMY YANG: Yeah, it is a little slow and soft.  But I make sure I practice before.  My first thing is to get the speed first when I get to the golf course.   MIKE TROSTEL: You've done that great over the first two rounds, 29 putts today, 28 the first day.   Q.  Last year in the final round with Michelle Wie on Sunday how much will having done that help you this weekend?  AMY YANG: A lot.  It's better to have that experience than never experience that before.  It's different out there and I know what kind of pressure that is like.  It will be tough but I will be patient and work on it.   Q.  How were the green speeds today compared to yesterday?  AMY YANG: You know, I played -- I played in the morning yesterday.  It was a little slower.  But it was maybe a little more slower this afternoon with the spike marks.  But everyone is playing same condition.   Q.  You hit some wonderful iron shots on the back nine, is iron play the strength of your game this season?  AMY YANG: It has been always.  My strength is maybe driving the ball and then other things.   Q.  Could you just tell us what clubs you hit on the four birdies and how long the putts were, just run over those four birdies in a row, please?  AMY YANG: 11 I hit driver, 7-iron to the green and it was maybe ten to 11 feet.   MIKE TROSTEL: 12 is the par-3 over the water.   AMY YANG: I hit my 9-iron, I had about 125 shot and it was maybe six feet. And par 5 I hit 54 wedge to the green and it was about six yards, about 18 feet.  And I had 8-iron.   MIKE TROSTEL: Amy Yang, 7-under par, 133.  Best of luck on the weekend.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT