HONDA LPGA THAILAND
March 1, 2015
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome in the 2015 Honda LPGA Classic champion Amy Yang into the interview room.   Amy, how does it feel to hear that?   
AMY YANG:   Oh, my gosh, feels great.   I don't know what just happened today.   I was actually so nervous out there, but I tried to focus, do my best one shot at a time.  
It feels sweet.  
MODERATOR:   How do you calm your nerves when you're out there knowing you're in contention?   
AMY YANG:   I tried to tell myself this is a practice round.   So I'm trying to keep calm myself out there.   
That's it, yeah.   
MODERATOR:   Talk about the crowd and the support that all of LPGA Tour was shown this week.  
AMY YANG:   Oh, yeah, a lot of people were out there like all weekend.   Actually there was quite a lot of Korean people out there all supporting me, so I appreciate about it.   Yeah.  
MODERATOR:   A number of your friends on tour ran out and dumped water on you after it ended.   Did the water feel good?   
AMY YANG:   Yeah, it was good for second and then was so cold.   They brought very cold water out there.   
But it's so great.  
MODERATOR:   Did it mean a lot for them to show their love and happiness for you?   
AMY YANG:   Yeah, means a lot to me.   We are good friends together and we travel together every week.   Means a lot, yeah.   
MODERATOR:   Earlier this week you said that you took an extended off‑season to work on your mind and body.   You came back ready to be in contention.   Is this what you envisioned, and does it feel satisfying?   
AMY YANG:   Yeah, I worked hard in this off‑season and I really wanted to come back and play well.   (Laughter.)     
It came earlier than I thought, you know, but it's good.   It's great.   I'm going to keep working hard.  
MODERATOR:   It came earlier than you thought, but you've also had four Top 10s and a win here in Thailand on this course.   What about this course makes you play so well?   
AMY YANG:   I think this course suits me well.   I don't know, I just felt so comfortable out there.   Except also nervous.  
But I enjoyed so much.  
   
 Q.   What was it like playing with Stacy and Sandra in the final group today, the pressure?   
AMY YANG:   Yeah, it wasn't that easy to play final round with great players.  
I had great experience today and so much fun.   Yeah.  
MODERATOR:   I asked you out there, but wondering if you've had a chance to think about it now.   The swing on hole 14 and 15...   
AMY YANG:   14 and 15?  
MODERATOR:     Yeah.   Talk about your approach and how you felt during that.   
AMY YANG:   14 is par‑4, right?   Yeah, I pushed my driver to the right a little bit, and I think it just bounced, went into the trees.   
But I had good angle to go for and also green slopes right to left.   So I had good chance to go for green, but I pulled it slightly and went into the bunker.   Bunker wasn't easy.   It had quite a lot of gap between bunker to the green.   There was a lot of sand.   
You know what?   I try to make par, but if not, I have four more holes to go.   That's all I thought.   
MODERATOR:   Then finally, just talk about the feeling that you had when the final putt dropped, the big smile on your face.   What did it feel like?   
AMY YANG:   Oh, I was so nervous.   Honestly, yes.   But I saw the ball fall in and I thought feels like it's dream.   It's a great feeling.  
MODERATOR:   What will you do tonight to celebrate?   
AMY YANG:   My friend is actually coming from Korea, my best friend.   We are arriving like half an hour like difference.   I don't know.   
MODERATOR:   Go our to dinner?   
AMY YANG:   Go out to dinner.   Maybe stay up up all night.   I don't know.  
MODERATOR:   Any questions for Amy?   Congratulations.   Well‑played this week.   So happy for you.   
AMY YANG:   Thank you so much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT