HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 27, 2015
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations on a super round.   I saw a fist pump on the 18.   A rare display emotion for Amy Yang.  
AMY YANG:   Yeah, I had a chance to go for two and that line wasn't very easy, but I did best I can do over there and made a good putt for birdie.   It was good.  
   
 Q.   Well done.   It was a very good finish.   Round of 66.   Many highlights in that round.   Talk us through the 10th hole, another eagle.   
AMY YANG:   Yeah, I hit second shot down near the green.   I hit 43 yards to the pin.   I thought I hit it pretty good.   It just went it.   I don't know.   Just went it.   It was miracle.  
   
 Q.   Not a miracle.   I think just a great play.   You made some very good up and downs, but this course certainly suits your eye.   
AMY YANG:   Yeah, I think so.   Plus I'm playing good right now, hitting the ball good, so I feel confident.  
   
 Q.   2015 has been good for you.   Really good start and great finishes.   
AMY YANG:   Yes, I trained hard this winter.   I'm really looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   6‑under, 66.   You must be pretty happy with that?  
AMY YANG:   Yes, I am very happy.   I been hitting it good all week and I also make some good putts.   Some lucky shots, too.  
I'm happy with, like, how I played today.  
   
 Q.   You had I think three top 5 finishes in three of your last four events dating back from Fubon, Taiwan.   You've had an extremely good run of results.   What has changed in these months for you?   
AMY YANG:   I started work with new coach this winter, and alsoI think the biggest thing is that I'm wanting to play more serious golf.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You are chasing Stacy Lewis now.   You're in second going into round three.   How do you approach tomorrow?  
AMY YANG:   Not going to think too much.   You know, just going to eat well, rest well, and get ready for tomorrow and Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Follow up:   You said you started working with a new coach.   
AMY YANG:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Who's the coach?  
AMY YANG:   Tony Ziegler.  
   
 Q.   Anything in particular you two worked on?   
AMY YANG:   He helped me fix my tendency, like long‑time tendency, so I feel pretty confident about play swing right now.   
   
 Q.   So you started with him in the off‑season, so after Fubon?  
AMY YANG:   Yes, after Fubon.  
   
 Q.   So playing well in Fubon.   Anything that happened there that made sense for you that made you go on this good run?   
AMY YANG:   Oh, that's long time ago, isn't it?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   October, right?  
AMY YANG:   October, yeah.  
I think just the rest.   I took about a month off and I don't know, I thought about a lot of things.   I really wanted to play golf while I'm resting.   Just more mind control.  
   
 Q.   So you missed playing while you were resting?  
AMY YANG:   Yeah, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You said during the interview you wanted to play more serious golf.   What does that mean?   Were you not trying before?  
AMY YANG:   Well, I mean, I almost wanted to not‑‑ I mean, I was‑‑ you know, sometimes you get tired of what you're doing.   I think that's what happened to me last year.   That's why I decided to finish season earlier, too.   
But over the winter while I'm resting I wanted to play more golf.   Finally my mind changed and I wanted to go back there and play in contention if I can.  
   
 Q.   Yeah.   You seem happy.   You're smiling.   Is that how you describe yourself now?  
AMY YANG:   Feeling happy, yes.   I'm just happy what I'm doing and enjoying every day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT