U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2014
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIKE TROSTEL: We would like to welcome Amy Yang to the interview room here at the 2014 Women's Open.  Amy a 2-under 68 today.  Six birdies and four bogeys.  A great round.  The second best round of the day behind July Lee Inkster's 66.  For a 54 total of 2-under, 208.  Rounds ever 71, 69, and 68.  Tied with Michelle Wie through three rounds here at the Women's Open. Amy, you lead the field with 13 birdies, you had six more today.  Take us through your round.  You started with a bogey on 1, but then you birdied 2.AMY YANG: Yeah, well I had a really great round today.  I started with bogey, but I hit two birdies straight after that.  Kind of started like up-and-down, but later towards the back nine I was hitting the ball much more solid, like better than yesterday. I think I putted really well, too.  I'm really happy about my round today.MIKE TROSTEL: When you made birdie on 2 what did you hit in or do you remember what club or how far your putt was?AMY YANG: I don't remember that.MIKE TROSTEL: Okay.  The third hole, you birdied for the third day in a row.  So it's certainly a hole that you like.AMY YANG: Third?MIKE TROSTEL: Any memorable shots that you had?  You birdied 2, 3, 5 and 6.  Any shots that really stick out from your front nine?AMY YANG: Shots were pretty good, but I think I putted really well.MIKE TROSTEL: You made a great save on 16 from the bunker.AMY YANG: 16?  Yeah.  It was a little tough bunker shot, because it had like a fall in front and another fall behind the pin, so I had to control it really well the distance.  I hit it a little long but I made a good putt.MIKE TROSTEL: You've had two top-5 finishes in the Women's Open including a runner-up in 2014.  You'll be playing in the final group tomorrow with Michelle.  You played in the final group in 2012 as well.  What do you think you learned from that experience, playing in the final group of a Women's Open just two years ago.AMY YANG: Still working on it, but I'm much better at controlling my emotion and controlling the nervous feeling.  I think it's going to be a fun round.  I'm also good friends with Michelle, so I think it's going to be a good round.MIKE TROSTEL: We'll open it up to questions.
Q. How much do you think having been in that position at the two previous U.S. Women's Open will help you tomorrow?AMY YANG: Because I already experienced how it will be like, so I think I will control my feelings well and stay patient.MIKE TROSTEL: What have you found with this golf course that has fit your game?  How much do you like this golf course.AMY YANG: I really like it.  It's tough around the greens, but I like tough conditions golfing.  I think it's really a good course.
Q. A lot of people will be rooting for Michelle tomorrow as an American.  How do you deal with that?  Does that add any pressure to it?AMY YANG: I had that experience quite a lot about it before, so I'm pretty calm about it.MIKE TROSTEL: You said you're pretty close friends with Michelle.  How have you got to know her over the years?  Just from playing with each other.AMY YANG: Yeah, just on TOUR.  Traveling together and playing together.MIKE TROSTEL: All right Amy Yang, thanks very much.  Good luck tomorrow.AMY YANG: Thank you.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT