LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 20, 2013
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome our 2013 LPGA KEB HanaBank Championship winner, Amy Yang, into the interview room. 
Amy, you've had to wait quite a long time.   How does it feel? 
AMY YANG:   I have been waiting for this championship for a long time, and I'm really (indiscernible) get it in my home country.   I think still I can't believe. 

Q.   What are you going to do to celebrate?   Anything fun?   I know your dad is here with you. 
AMY YANG:   My family members and friends are all waiting outside, and I should celebrate with them. 

Q.   In regulation play before the playoff, what was working well for you out there today? 
AMY YANG:   I think I obtain the confidence in shots and as well as putting.   Putting was really going well this week. 

Q.   Could you explain about your game play in 18th hole. 
AMY YANG:   It's been quite long time since I played in the playoff, so I was a little bit nervous.   My drive shot was a little bit go to the right, so it is typical in the rough.
It was in deep, ball was in deep, so I didn't think that I should use longer club.   I use 8‑iron, but the problem is that my caddie said there is 162 yard before green, so I wasn't able to‑‑ I don't think that I should use my second iron, which can go 170.
But still I think that I should use the longer‑‑ I need to do the longer shot, so that's why I used the club which can go far. 

Q.   My questions is, before your success in the playoff, what was in your mind?   And also, after you succeed, who was in your mind first? 
AMY YANG:   As the game approaches the end, the green has been gettingvery fast, and also long putt was many.
So I just want to focus on the line and the speed.   When putt drop, I thought of my family who were with me all the time. 

Q.   As far as I know, you practiced a lot, until the sunset compared to other players, so that's why when we see the championship it's your tears a lot.   What was first thing in your mind when you obtained this victory?   Second question is, this is the first time in three years Korean players has won this game.   So what's the significance and meaning to you of this victory?
AMY YANG:   First of all, I don't think that I practice a lot.   Rather I should focus on quality practice.   I look back on the things that I've been (indiscernible) about, sort of swing, so I practice swing.
And also, I didn't know that it's first time in three years Korean player won the victory, so it's really meaningful and I'm very pleased to win this game as a Korean player. 

Q.   Are you going participate in Taiwan Championship? 
AMY YANG:   I'm not going to attend unfortunately, because I need to attend the championship hosted by my sponsor. 

Q.   You're full of emotion, and I can see the tears in your eyes yet.   So you are the person who has a lot of tears and emotion?
AMY YANG:   Yes, I am, a little bit.   When I feel frustrated and feel sad, I usually cried a lot in front of my parents.   A little bit ashamed to tell you, but it is true. 

Q.   Many people surrounding you said you are really nice and kind, bit compared to other players you lack fierceness and intensity.   You went through a slump two years ago and you overcame.   What about any kind of opportunity for you to overcome that slump? 
AMY YANG:   I think I suffered a lot until last winter and earlier this year.   I cried a lot in front of my parents, so I felt really sorry for my parents.
But sometimes I want to escape the situation, and on extreme condition I thought that I should quit it.
But thanks to my family members and people surrounding me, I was able to overcome this slump. 
Before that, I just looked in front and seriously practice and practice until sunset.   But now I change my attitude.   I really step back and take a rest, and that's the good opportunity for me to turn around.

Q.   Out of four championships you obtained two in Korea.   So that's why you can be successful in Korea?   And the second question is that you obtain the first championship in LPGA.   What is your next goal?
AMY YANG:   My next goal is to obtain next victory.   That's my goal.   The championship that I earned before it happened was a (indiscernible) golf course.   I think I'm familiar with the grass and courses here, and that has been‑‑ has played in favorable to me. 

Q.   Both of your parents are very good in sports.   Your father is a national canoe player, so that also works well for you to do this success? 
AMY YANG:   Yes, I think so.   That scene is working in my success.
Also, both of my parents have good build, and they also have a lot of knowledge about sports, especially my mother.   She takes care of my health and exercise. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT