LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 18, 2013
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   I'd like to welcome Amy Yang into the interview room.   Amy, thanks for coming in.   Nice round, up there on top of the leaderboard.   What went well for you? 
AMY YANG:   It's been a long time since I played in Korea, so I had a lot of family and friends around me.   So in the beginning I was a little bit nervous, but later on I had better concentration and focus on the game, and so (indiscernible). 

Q.   Amy, you are from South Korea, how nice is it to be home in week? 
AMY YANG:   It's really nice.   This is‑‑ since last winter, I wasn't able to come home.   So I can see my family and also I can eat as much as I want to.   So it's real nice.

Q.   How many families do you have out here watching you this week? 
AMY YANG:   It's about 20 people from my family.

Q.   Amy, we were talking on the way in.   You're feeling a little sick right now.   How tough was it to play out there?   Were you able to just stay focused? 
AMY YANG:   In the beginning during practice, I didn't feel well.   I think I got a cold.   I took some medicine and I think I'm getting better.   So just I had a runny nose, but other than that I'm okay. 

Q.   Amy, you haven't won out here, but you've been up there an awful lot.   Has that been frustrating to you at all or do you put it in the back of your mind? 
AMY YANG:   (Indiscernible) up until now, and I think that I will do well and I think (inaudible).

Q.   (Inaudible)?
AMY YANG:   I'm not sure of the reasons why.   I'm trying hard and working hard, and I never thought that I cannot do that and I cannot win.   I try to be positive every time.   And maybe I sort of missed some (indiscernible), but I think it would be better in the future. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
AMY YANG:   I think that you maintain the score and if the weather allows, (indiscernible) what we can expect probably can be achieved.   I think (indiscernible) is very important.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT