SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2013
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is that the best you have ever felt like you played in one round?   That was pretty solid?
AMY YANG:   Yeah, I would say it was a great round, you know?   First of all, it was a great round.   But I've shot 10‑under before, but it was the Mini Tour, but this is my best on the LPGA Tour, and it feels great.

Q.   You've been playing pretty well.   The past couple events were solid finishes.   Do you feel like you're going in the right direction or how did you feel coming into this week? 
AMY YANG:   I felt really good.   I finished top 10 last week in China.   I worked with a few other coaches through this season, so I was a little confused with my swing, but I stick to one coach now, and my swing got much better and I feel great.

Q.   How many coaches did you work with?   How many this year? 
AMY YANG:   I'd say just mainly two, but back and forth.

Q.   So two switching back and forth was too much to handle? 
AMY YANG:   Yeah, both of them are good coaches, but just they are different, and that was kind of hard, yeah.

Q.   Coming off such a great round for tomorrow, what do you try to match that you did today?   Obviously, it will be difficult to match, but what do you want to try to do the same? 
AMY YANG:   I'm going to eat some lunch.   Go back to the range.   Make sure I'm doing the right things again and practice some more speed putting out there and get some good rest.

Q.   How are conditions, heat, humidity, everything was a little wet?
AMY YANG:   You know, this is the weather I'm usually practicing in.   I practice in Orlando, and I'm used to it.   It was really hard because it was too hot, but course conditions were great.   They had a lot of rain yesterday.   I mean, it was still good out there.

Q.   This is the fourth year of this event, three South Koreans have won it?
AMY YANG:   Oh really? 

Q.   Yeah, all three past years have been South Korean winners?
AMY YANG:   Oh, yeah, yeah.   I remember now.

Q.   So you could try to keep that tradition going, obviously.   What are you trying to do to still working on your first win?   Really I know it's something you said you want to breakthrough.   Do you think it will come around the corner? 
AMY YANG:   You know, I had a little tough time this season, so I struggled a little bit.   I'll still keep trying hard and go for it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT