KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 2012
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome our current leader Amy Yang into the interview room.   Congratulations on a great round out there today, 6‑under par.   Can you take me through the day and how the course was playing and what was working well for you? 
AMY YANG:   You know, 6‑under par, it was a great day.   My game felt good.   Everything was working well.   I think especially my putting was worked better than other tournaments. 
I had a couple shots like went into the trees, and it was hard to play, but I had some good par saves and good birdie putts. 
THE MODERATOR:   We were talking about the greens and how beautiful they are this week.   How nice is it to be playing on those greens, and do you just notice a difference in your putting when you're able to play on smooth greens like that? 
AMY YANG:   It's great.   It's great speed, too, and it's holding where I aim to, so it's comfortable.
THE MODERATOR:   We didn't see a lot of low rounds this morning.   There was a couple but not many.   What do you think was the key to you being able to shoot such a low number this afternoon? 
AMY YANG:   First I was trying to make fairways and then be on the right side of the green if I'm going to try to play smart, and it worked good. 

Q.   You haven't won yet out on the LPGA Tour, but here you are after the first round leading a major.   What do you think when you think major championships, and how much would it mean to you to have a major title by your name? 
AMY YANG:   It would be a really, really great thing in my life.   It would mean a lot for my golf career. 
THE MODERATOR:   I know you won at a very young age on the LET, on the Ladies European Tour.   What did you learn from that victory capturing that so young, and has it been tough playing out here for so many years and not getting that victory yet? 
AMY YANG:   Well, I think the win was‑‑ I was so young, I didn't know what happened until I get older.   Yeah, I'm trying hard every week and every year. 
THE MODERATOR:   Do you feel like each year, too, you just progress a little bit more where you feel like you're getting more comfortable out there on the golf course and more confident as the rounds get closer and you've been up near the lead, the top of the leaderboard, getting more comfortable with everything? 
AMY YANG:   No, I think it feels the same, still a little nervous, but I think it's a good feeling.   I can concentrate better. 

Q.   Have you ever felt like this golf course was a good golf course for your game, that you should shoot those kinds of rounds, or is this a surprise? 
AMY YANG:   I feel‑‑ I like this golf course, and I feel good about this golf course, too.   I've been hitting the ball better, putting feels better.   I like it. 

Q.   What's it like out there‑‑ not that you played with her today, but just competing with Yani, what is the feeling about Yani on the Tour right now?   Is she beatable the way she's playing? 
AMY YANG:   You know, she's very tough to beat right now.   She plays so great.   Her game, like I've watched her play, and her swinging good, and she's hitting the ball so good.   Short game around the green and putting.   She's a really great player, and it will be tough to beat her right now. 

Q.   I was reading, it looks like your mother was a javelin thrower. 
AMY YANG:   She was.

Q.   Have you ever thrown one?
AMY YANG:   No. 

Q.   Why not?   Does it scare you?   Is it scary?
AMY YANG:   No, I don't know.   I can't even throw my ball like 30 yards, no. 

Q.   You've come very close to winning in the United States or on the LPGA, but you've won other places.   You've won internationally but not on the LPGA Tour, but you've won nice events in Europe and other places.   Is there a difference between winning here, or would there be a difference emotionally for you to win in the United States as opposed to the other international wins?   Is the competition tougher over here?   Would it mean more when you've beat fields that are this deep when you look at all the players that you're competing against?   What would it mean to you to win an LPGA event? 
AMY YANG:   You know, playing on the LPGA Tour was my dream like since I started to play golf, and I always wanted to have a win on the LPGA Tour.   I think the difference‑‑ all the greatest players are here playing on the LPGA Tour.   I think it's more stronger field, and I think I have to be mentally more stronger. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much, and best of luck for the rest of the week.   Thank you again for joining us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT