SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 4, 2011
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Amy Yang into the interview room. Congratulations on your round today; now 5-under for the tournament. Can you talk just a little bit about your round today and what went right for you? 
 AMY YANG: You know, the course played a lot harder this year and the greens even firmer. And with the wind, it's tough to play, but this morning we had less wind than yesterday afternoon. I think that helped a lot. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. With the less wind, was it just easier to pick the right club, easier to control the ball? How did the less wind affect your game? 
 AMY YANG: A lot shorter, I think it's more. It's still difficult because around the green area, even with my 58-wedge downwind, I have to play for like 5 to 10 yards shorter to let it roll. But without the wind, especially like longer holes, I think it played a little shorter today.

 Q. Is there a specific example of a club you had to pull yesterday compared to today that was significantly different? 
 AMY YANG: Yeah, like some holes I had to use like 6/5-iron into the pin, but today using a 7/8-iron is a huge difference.

 Q. Amy, yesterday with the wind, were you proud after you got finished with the round that you could shoot 71 given the conditions, and did that help you today go out with like a freer mind? 
 AMY YANG: Yeah, it helped a lot. I mean, it was blowing so hard yesterday, and all I tried to do was like make fairways and greens, and good speed on the greens. Yeah, they gave me more confidence.

 Q. When you're going into a round and you're five shots behind the leader and it's 54 holes, do you say I have to go low today or do you say I have to continue playing my game? 
 AMY YANG: Never really thought I have to go really low today. I mean, we had still 36 holes left. 
 I was thinking if I can do just like yesterday, it will be good. And luckily, the putts were falling today.

 Q. One of those putts was on 18 that you made. 
 AMY YANG: Yeah, that was lucky. I think I had like two of them today.

 Q. How far was your putt? 
 AMY YANG: It was only 7 steps, but it was off the green.

 Q. What were your thoughts about going into tomorrow in contention? You're going to be somewhere near the lead. What are your thoughts about going into tomorrow in contention? 
 AMY YANG: It will be a little nervous, but I think better chasing somebody from behind. Like, I like better behind than chasing somebody.

 Q. How come?
 AMY YANG: I don't know, maybe because -- I don't know. I just feel like that way better.

 Q. Amy, were the green speeds the same today as yesterday or a little different? 
 AMY YANG: It's same, but really fast.

 Q. When is the last time you contended in a tournament? 
 AMY YANG: Oh, that was -- I think that was Alabama. Yeah, in Alabama, yeah.

 Q. Did you play the last day? 
 AMY YANG: The last day wasn't good. I think I shot like 2-over or something like that. So I was kind of up there and went back.

 Q. Is that a lesson you'll take into tomorrow, like maybe do something a little differently to maybe play better tomorrow? 
 AMY YANG: You know, I'll just try to think -- how can I say, just like have -- I don't know. When I think like I'm the top something or near the leader, I get a lot more nervous than I used to, so I'm trying not to think of it. I think that will help. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT