LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 5, 2010
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You got off to a little bit of a tough start, but did you rally back and make it exciting in the end?  
 AMY YANG: I mean, I wasn't really nervous that much like yesterday. But oh, just made, how can I say, I just made a weird shot on the third hole. It was helping, you know, the second shot, it was about 110 helping down, really hard. I thought my 54 could get there but as soon as I hit it, it knocks it down to the water. That was a tough hole. I think that was the toughest.   
  
  Q. Then you hit your next shot over the green into an awkward lie?   
 AMY YANG: Yeah. It was a 75-yard shot which I normally practice with 58. I just went over really hard, I don't know why.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about how you did bounce back?   
 AMY YANG: The back nine? You know, I just thought, you know, after nine holes, I lost five strokes. I just thought, just nothing more I can lose, so, yeah, I just try to play.   
  
  Q. Can you describe 8?   
 AMY YANG: Oh, this one, hit a 3-wood tee shot and I think it was 165, 6-iron. It was blowing left-to-right hard. But yeah, so I aimed like about ten yards left and it started almost to the pin. I was hoping no more wind, take it to the right, but luckily, just went straight. My caddie, Greg, gave me a good line. He just went on the line, straight into the hole.   
  
  Q. What were you thinking when Maria hit into the sand? Did you have another shot, did that cross your mind?   
 AMY YANG: Like after she --  
  
  Q. When she was in the sand on 18 and you made the putt, what went through your head?  
 AMY YANG: You know, just still have a chance. So I just better make a good stroke on my third shot.   
  
  Q. What about her putt?   
 AMY YANG: Her putt? You know, she made the putt. She did a really good job, so, yeah.   
  
  Q. When you leave here, what do you think about more, the quad that kind of took you out of it, or do you take away, proud of the fact that you were able to come back and fight for it at the end?   
 AMY YANG: I'll think about both.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT