LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 4, 2010
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   HEATHER DONOFRIO: We are here with Amy Yang, leader in the clubhouse after three rounds at the LPGA Tour Championship. You are holding a one-stroke lead over Maria Hjorth. You got off to a bit of a rough start today and seemed to calm down, and you birdied the last hole to regain the lead. Talk a little bit about your round.   
 AMY YANG: It was just -- I couldn't really control my game today. I was just off somewhere. Everything, even I just try to do like safely, make the fairways and the greens, I couldn't even do that. It was so tough. It was so tough, especially in the morning, the front nine. Yeah, it was a tough day.   
  
  Q. All of that aside, you're still leading the tournament. You never even led a round until this week, so to lead after all three rounds, how does that feel?  
 AMY YANG: It feels good. It will be a little nervous when I have to play tomorrow, final round. But it feels great. It's good, yeah.   
  
  Q. There's only I think five or six people under par out there. Why do you think it's been so tough for everybody to shoot under par?   
 AMY YANG: It's about the course conditions, you know. The rough is very long and thick and especially the greens were very tough. And some holes are really long, too like control, to go to like better side of the green.   
 I think that's why.   
  
  Q. Great finish on the last two holes. Can you tell what clubs you hit, the tee shot and the approach and just how you feel about having such a great finish to the round?   
 AMY YANG: What can I say? On the 17th, I hit a 7-iron, yeah, just normal 7-iron to the green. It was a slicing wind. I saw the players before, they were in the right-side bunker, or the left, and I just try -- because my ball flight today was a little going to draw, so I thought if I just aim to the pin that would be good for the wind, and it just worked out good.   
  
  Q. And what club did you hit into 18?  
 AMY YANG: I teed off with 3-wood and 6-iron into the green.  
  
  Q. And how far was that 6-iron?  
 AMY YANG: My 6-iron goes 170 yards. The distance was 186,185. It was long, but greens were really firm, so I could just, you know, hit the shot, land it like short of the pin, like ten yards, just roll it up there.   
  
  Q. At the ANZ when you won that, did you take the lead into the final round?  
 AMY YANG: Not sure. I think I did, yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you remember how you felled going into the final round, and do you think you'll be able to draw positively on that experience tomorrow?   
 AMY YANG: I'm not sure, because when I start today, it was more nervous than the last two rounds. I think it will be, I hopeless nervous tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Why do you think that you were more nervous today than you were in the final round of the two that you've won?   
 AMY YANG: I think because I think I've been in this spot before, and you know, a couple of times I've been in the last group or near the last group. But every time, like third day, fourth day, couldn't have the good round. So I think that's why.   
  
  Q. What would getting your first LPGA win here in a Tour Championship mean to you?   
 AMY YANG: It would feel great. You know, it's also a place where I'm staying with my family. It's only taking 15 minutes to my house. And you know, not just this tournament, but like even with the others, I get a win, it would be great.   
 HEATHER DONOFRIO: Thank you, Amy.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT