LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 3, 2010
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   HEATHER DONOFRIO: We are here with Amy Yang. She shot 2-under par and is 7-under par for the tournament and currently leading the LPGA Tour Championship.   
 Can you talk a little bit about your round today?   
 AMY YANG: You know, I teed off at 8:30 today. It was really cold in the morning. Because of that, it was tough conditions in the morning. The front nine was a little shaky, but I finished with four birdies on the back nine. It was fun.   
  
  Q. And were the greens the same as they were yesterday, same speed?  
 AMY YANG: I think it's getting hotter, like it's getting firmer. It's getting more faster, and especially the morning with the wet greens. If you miss the green, you have to chip it, but the first bounce always skips, so it was tough.   
  
  Q. You said it's getting a little harder, a little faster but you have a five-shot lead. What are you doing that other people are not doing?   
 AMY YANG: I'm just trying to -- because the course setup is so tough; I'm just trying to play it safe, play against par.   
  
  Q. Did you take any extra steps to stay warm this morning?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, I got a lot of clothing on this morning. Just nothing special. But I knew that it's going to be really cold, yeah.   
  
  Q. I realize we are only halfway through the field today, but are you surprised to find a five-shot gap between you and the next golfer?   
 AMY YANG: Well, yeah, it is. It is the first time leading on a tournament it is very surprising, it's the first time I'm doing that.   
  
  Q. And did you expect some of the afternoon golfers to come up and get close to you or even catch you?   
 AMY YANG: Yeah, it can be, because it's a lot warmer out there, and seeing, you know, more good players coming. So yeah --  
  
  Q. Just to make sure I have it straight, are you saying that this is the first time you've held a lead -- well, you held the lead yesterday, too.   
 AMY YANG: Oh, I mean, for the tournament.   
  
  Q. Is this the first time that you've had a lead in the second round?   
 AMY YANG: Yes.   
 HEATHER DONOFRIO: Yesterday was the first time that Amy has ever held a lead in the LPGA event. But she did win a tournament when she was 16 on the LET.   
  
  Q. And to follow up, what would it mean to you, I know you still have two rounds to play, but to get your first victory, what would that mean? How would you feel about winning your first tournament?  
 AMY YANG: Oh, I'm not sure, because we still have two more rounds. It's golf. You never know what's going to happen. I'm just going to try to do what I did the last two rounds. I'm just going to do my best.   
 HEATHER DONOFRIO: You made a trip to the World Golf Hall of Fame a couple of weeks ago, and you were able to see Se Ri Pak and Juli Inkster's memorabilia and their exhibits. Has that made you want to win or become a Hall of Famer.  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, yeah, it was a great trip to the Hall of Fame. I saw all the players, men and women, and you know, saw their pictures and their lockers. You know, it was so great. Yeah, it made me want to be there one day in the picture.   
  
  Q. Can you tell me a little bit about your win on the LET, where and when, and with your winning at 16, how surprised were you to get a professional win that quickly?  
 AMY YANG: I don't know, it was in Australia, the Ladies Masters. It was for the Ladies European Tour event.   
 I got a sponsor's invite, and I don't know, I think I was too young to know what winning a tournament meant.  
  
  Q. That one had a lot of LPGA players in it, Karrie Webb usually plays that, and who else?   
 AMY YANG: I don't know who else was in there.  
  
  Q. I guess the end question is, you had to beat a pretty good field to win that event. Did that give you confidence to come out and take on this tour?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, it did. It did. But still, after that, I had to finish high school. (Laughter) So it was some -- there was a gap of time between that, but it is usually always helping me a lot.   
 HEATHER DONOFRIO: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT