LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 2, 2010
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Amy, just tell us how you played today.   
 AMY YANG: I just tried to make par, every hole, because as you know, the fairways, the rough are longer and thicker, and the greens are fast and very slopey.   
 I just try to play safely.   
  
  Q. And the greens, how did you find the greens?   
 AMY YANG: Oh, I think it's a little faster. It's a little more faster than practice greens. I think first hole, I putted pretty long, first putt went past really long.   
 But during practice round, I saw them cutting and rolling the greens, so I knew that, yeah.   
  
  Q. For somebody that was just trying to make par on every hole, you found a fair amount of birdies?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, I mean, my coach, Tom Creavy, is here, and you know, my swing felt good today. I think it helped a lot, because, you know, all of the greens, you have to go or you can't really go. Depends on the pin positions.   
 But, you know, swing felt good. It helped me a lot. I just tried to make a par and once in awhile hit a really good shot near the flag, was lucky.  
  
  Q. So you share a coach with Se Ri and in Korea, a lot of people call you Little Se Ri, so how does that feel to be compared to such a legend of golf?  
 AMY YANG: It's good, but not just, you know, because of coach, a little look like Se Ri, from far away, especially.  
 I think it's a great thing. I like her, yeah. (Giggling).  
  
  Q. You just try to go out tomorrow and again try to make par on every hole?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, especially the cold weather tomorrow, I have 8:00 tee time. Another safe game, yeah.   
  
  Q. You had a later tee time today, but did it affect you at all, the weather?   
 AMY YANG: Yeah, because I played -- teed off 11:40 because of delay, 20 minutes. You know, as the day goes on, the wind died down a little bit. It was better, yeah. We could play better conditions.   
  
  Q. How much has Se Ri meant to you and the other younger Korean women players? I was in Korea a few months ago and everybody I talked to, they just all point to her as such an influential figure?  
 AMY YANG: To me, she's really a legend golfer. From like ten years old, I've been watching her play, and I've been watching her winning. I really wanted to meet her when I'm playing junior golf.   
 It would be same for the other girls, too.   
  
  Q. What is it like for you this week with so much of the attention on two other players from Korea trying to get Player of the Year honors? Does it take a little pressure off of you?  
 AMY YANG: I'm not sure, I never thought about that. Yeah, but you know, I'm okay, because all I try to do -- it's the last tournament. I just want to finish a good year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT