LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 11, 2010
Amy Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round today: 7-under, 65; tied for the low round of day. What went well?   
 AMY YANG: You know, there was chance of thunderstorm today and it was windy. It wasn't really easy condition. It was tough condition, yeah.   
 But I just enjoyed my game. Everything was working well. I felt really good about my game, yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you think the wind affected your game at all today?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, it was tough, but I try to enjoy it, you know. If it's like right to left, aiming a little more right, letting wind takes it.   
 It was fun day, yeah.  
  
  Q. The eagle on 6...   
 AMY YANG: Oh, yeah.   
  
  Q. Walk us through the distances and clubs and everything. I guess there weren't many clubs.   
 AMY YANG: I think it was 195 in front of the green. Really lucky shot, like rescue. I actually aimed little more left, but it went -- I pushed a little bit, but it ended up in really, really good spot.  
  
  Q. Like five feet away?  
 AMY YANG: No, like more than that. Like six, eight.   
  
  Q. Eight feet? Okay.   
 AMY YANG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You mentioned the wind, and you ladies have probably played in a lot worse wind than this. I know people talk about the Kraft Nabisco. Did you play?  
 AMY YANG: Oh, no. I didn't play.   
  
  Q. Okay. They talk about that being... What's the windiest -- for an LPGA tournament, can you remember maybe the worst you ever had to...  
 AMY YANG: I think that was Hawaii last year. (Laughing.) It was really, really windy. Just couldn't play.  
  
  Q. Did you have trouble like even staying over your ball? I mean, I don't know how...   
 AMY YANG: We just couldn't hit the putt and hit the shot, just ball striking. But today wasn't that bad. So glad, yeah.  
  
  Q. In terms of midway through a tournament, at least this year, is this -- you're one shot off the lead -- is this kind of the best spot you've been in like midway through?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. Yeah, I mean as far as kind of being halfway home, being in contention, is this the best situation you've been in in a while?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah. I mean, actually I haven't really been in the top like last year. But from the match play, the tournament before, we had good finish and good confidence about the game, yeah.   
  
  Q. Did you make my adjustments for the wind?  
 AMY YANG: No, if it's like hard right to left or left to right, just letting it takes it.   
 So just try to enjoy my game. I think that's important.   
  
  Q. You said from the match play last...  
 AMY YANG: Oh, yeah, last tournament.  
  
  Q. The last tournament, you played well there and then you kind of carried it over to this week?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, yeah, yeah. After that, I really felt good about my game.  
  
  Q. What changed for you?  
 AMY YANG: Um, just -- how can I say? Just feeling good about it, you know, good confidence. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you know M.J. Hur? Do you know her very well?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, yeah. I knew her from when we were really young, like 12 or 13.   
  
  Q. Oh, really? I didn't know.  
 AMY YANG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Because you'll probably play together tomorrow, so that'll be kind of cool?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, it will be fun tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Do you Jiyai Shin very well at all?  
 AMY YANG: Yeah, yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. I know she had to have her appendix out. I just didn't know if you were very good friends with her.   
 AMY YANG: Yeah, we're kind of good friends. I really feel sorry about what happened to her. I hope she can come back soon.   
  
  Q. Yeah. I think she will.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT