KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2019
Sarah Burnham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How special is it to play in this tournament in front of this home crowd, how was it for you?
SARAH BURNHAM: It was so cool.  Something I'll never forget.  I never experienced so many fans and support out there.  Just like it's really thank you to all the Minnesotans out there.
Q. When will you give yourself a chance to sit back and kind of take it all in over what all happened this week?
SARAH BURNHAM: I don't know.  Probably just tonight.  I mean it's on to the next week for another event so quick turnaround and I'll look back on this a long time as I get older in life.
Q. What did you learn about yourself and your game this week?
SARAH BURNHAM: I think -- I mean I didn't play my best game out there, I know that.  So I know I can just compete with the best in the world and if my game is on one week, you know, I could be up on the leaderboard.
Q. Making consecutive cuts, is there a confidence that comes with that?
SARAH BURNHAM: I think so.  It only makes me more confident back to back cuts that I've made.  So, yeah.
Q. What do you take away from this experience out there in your game today, what do you take with you today?
SARAH BURNHAM: Just the people I played with.  I think this week and last week in general, just really good experience.  It's my first Major.  I didn't obviously play the best I could but it's just experience overall was good.
Q. Find a Major was really different than normal?
SARAH BURNHAM: Little tougher, definitely.  This is a hard course.  They had a Ryder Cup.  It's really cool that we're able to play like the same course that the men were.  So it's nice.
Q. Lot of talk this week about No. 16.  Lot of players struggled with No. 16.  Is there anything about that hole that makes No. 1 --
SARAH BURNHAM: Really long.  I'd say No. 1 and 12, they're just a bomb.  They have some tough pins, yeah, the first couple days on Hole 1.
Q. Do you have a favorite part of this week, anything that sticks out the most?
SARAH BURNHAM: Probably No. 17.  I made three birdies this week there and just the crowd and everything supportive and then my 18th hole today was really cool.
Obviously I didn't play that well but everyone just kept giving me all support.  I can't thank them enough.  Think it's cool I'm here and so do I.  It's so cool to have them.
Q. What does it mean to just represent Minnesota golf at a Major?
SARAH BURNHAM: Meant a lot.  I know Minnesota, we don't get a lot of events each year so I knew I really wanted to play in it.  Just to be able to get my card and play in the Major in my home State meant so much to me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT