KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2019
Sarah Burnham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How you got in and where were you when you heard?
SARAH BURNHAM: So I was actually in East Lansing back at my apartment because I just graduated in May.  So I still had my apartment until August because I was at the Meijer Classic, which was like an hour away.
I knew about 7:30 p.m. and I was so excited I screamed and I was like, "Oh, my gosh, I can't believe I get to play in any home state."
Q. Did you text your agent?
SARAH BURNHAM: Yes.  I was thrilled.
Q. First hole, how nervous were you?
SARAH BURNHAM: I didn't feel too nervous and then kind of from there I just -- I don't know, I just felt a little nervous pressure throughout the day and -- but it was fun doing it, even though I didn't make a lot of, and have the crowd supporting me.
Q. Two real long ones.  The fourth one, playing partner made one right before that.  Did that help a little bit?
SARAH BURNHAM: Yeah.  I mean I saw hers go in so I was like maybe I can make mine, too, and it happened to go in.
Q. I'm guessing you have played out here in high school and stuff like that.  Does it help that you played here or is that so far ago that --
SARAH BURNHAM: I probably haven't played here in six years and just a little different.  It's a lot longer but it's also -- the pin placements are a lot harder today than I remember back then.  That was definitely a challenge.
Q. How about the group on 17, give you some encouragements?
SARAH BURNHAM: That was like one of the coolest moments I experienced.  I mean even though I was kind of down today, that kind of lifted my spirits up a lot.  I was just so excited to make that long putt in front of all those people.
Q. 11th hole when you go in the bunker, pulled out like a hybrid.  Take off too much there?
SARAH BURNHAM: It was just kind of on like a downhill angle.  I caught the top of it a little bit.  So, I mean I think I could have done it, I just needed to bend my feet down a little bit more which, unfortunately, I didn't but it's all right.
Q. You looked really confident on 10.   Great drive and second shot perfect.  Did you think you were going to get something rolling there?
SARAH BURNHAM: I was just looking forward to the back-9.  Again, it didn't turn out the way that I hoped but I still had a fun time out there.
Q. Being the new kid on the block, what were your goals coming in to a tournament like this?
SARAH BURNHAM: Well, originally my goal was just to make this tournament, to play well enough to get in here and I guess just to make the cut out here and play well.
I wasn't actually very happy with my round today but I know it's tough out there.  Even sometimes I hit a wedge and it just roll off the back of the green.  That's what got me kind of frustrated.  I just have to learn how to play a little bit --
Q. Did you talk to anyone about how to handle Major tournaments and Major golf?
SARAH BURNHAM: I played in the U.S. Open in 2013 when I was a freshman at Michigan State so kind of through that experience, and then I'm playing with these girls every week.  It's pretty much the same except the course is harder than last week, obviously.
Q. Playing 6800 yards.  Is that longer than Women's Open, too?  Seems like it's a really long course.
SARAH BURNHAM: I think it's about the same.  I don't know.  It's pretty similar for Majors to be that long.  It stretched out -- it's not like I can't handle it or anything such as like you're hitting longer irons more often than in a regular LPGA event.
Q. 2009 were you here for the Tiger?
SARAH BURNHAM: I was actually standing on the 18th tee box when they teed off and I think that's kind of the hole -- I don't remember correctly but maybe Yang pulled ahead.  I just remember seeing Tiger.
Q. By that time you're probably thinking you want to play golf professionally?
SARAH BURNHAM: It didn't even cross my mind to become a professional golfer until I was probably a sophomore in college.  I never really thought I would be good enough to get to this level but I just kept working hard at it and now I'm here.
Q. What did you shoot with your dad, you were 13, you beat him.
SARAH BURNHAM: I have no idea, honestly.
Q. Do you remember beating him for the first time?
SARAH BURNHAM: It was out at Pleasant Acres.
Q. Close?  Did he take you down to the end?
SARAH BURNHAM: Maybe.  Maybe it was a couple strokes.
Q. Who was out here, Michigan State?
SARAH BURNHAM: Basically my family, friends, high school coach, people from my golf club at Rush Creek.
Q. I saw at least a Sparty.
SARAH BURNHAM: Yes there were Spartans out here.
Q. I didn't know if teammates or something?
SARAH BURNHAM: No teammates this week.  They were out last week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT