DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 6, 2003
Alastair Forsyth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you for coming in.  7-under par 65, great round, tournament leader, one ahead of Ernie Els - not many people have managed that this year.  Tell us a little bit your round.
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Basically, I felt stronger  -- shooting a good score, and the difference, really, between the rest of the season and today was I putted a lot better.  I've been really struggling on the greens all year.  Just putting  on the different surfaces and everything like that, the greens in Asia, Africa, things like that, that's made a big difference. The greens here were perfect.  I gave myself a lot of chances all day and took seven of them.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  We'll take some questions, please. 
Q.  How is the course playing this year?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   It's pretty similar.  The greens are a little bit softer than normal.  They usually get them quite firm.  I think someone said they had a bit of rain last week, which will soften them up.  The ball is running in the fairways, which is nice, so you've got  -- the greens are still pretty firm so you're still using longer irons, but playing really, really good. 

Q.  Has that round been coming for some time?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Yeah, definitely.  All season I've been playing -- tee-to-green I've been playing really well.  Just a little trouble on the greens and that was the difference today.  I'm not making as many birdies - I was not saving par and easy up-and-downs, missing a lot of short putts.  That was really the difference.  I was still having four or five  birdies and shooting 2- or 3-under, I kept my bogeys off my card and that's the difference.

Q.  Tell us about the second shot on the sixth?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Yeah, I had it in the fairway and that's felt like I had a little 5-iron  -- but I had a 5-wood and I couldn't even clear the bunker and  -- just perfect and it could land like that.  I got a lot there, but it's one of those things when things go right -- sitting at the top, not that many times I've been the leader.  I'm delighted. 

Q.  Have you changed your putter?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Same one.  Last year,  the same all last year and was very, very consistent last year. So I didn't want to panic.  I was hoping  -- I was pretty sure that it would come back , and today it did, so hopefully that's the way it was. 

Q.  Are you in the field next week? 
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   I'm still in the field at the moment.  I'm thinking about pulling out but haven't done it yet. 

Q. Are you talking to friends about going?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Obviously, you hear what the government has said, warning people not to go over.  I don't feel obligated, I think for the sake of one tournament over the year, I think is probably not worth any risk involved.  I'm sure everything will go fine.  I'm not sure they would be taking us there if there was any problems, but I just don't fancy it. 

Q.  Ken Schofield is up there today and if he said everything was okay would you go?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   No, I've pretty much decided I'm not going.  So I think  once you've got it in your head you are not going and then you're not.  I'm pretty sure they will go ahead but I just  think if anything happens, I just don't know what the results will be for us getting home or getting flights or if there are any flights or if we got stuck there, things like that.  It's not worth the risk. 

Q.  Does the fact you are exempt make a difference?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   I don't think so.  Right now I think  I got off to a reasonable start as well.  So I wouldn't be worried about it.

Q.  Are most people you have spoken to going to pull out like you?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   50/50.  Well, I spoke with some guys who have no problem at all and 100% sure they are going to be playing, and I feel other guys are in the same boat as myself.  I just don't think it's worth the risk. It's the difference between playing 28 or 29 tournaments in a year, is it worth the hassle of what might happen?  So I think a lot of guys feel the same as myself.

Q.  Do you find yourself watching CNN?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   A bit over my head, knowing exactly what's going on.  I've pretty much made my mind up.  I haven't cancelled yet but pretty much made my mind up.

Q.  The friends you have spoken to - are they here or at home?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   People in general, people here, people at home, they have their own opinions.  I think certainly more people are encouraging people not to go than they are to go.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Let's go through your card.
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Started on the 10th.  The par  5, two drivers just left of the green, chipped it to about five feet and holed that. 
17, 3-wood, lob-wedge and about 12 feet. 
18, I laid up short of the water, lob-wedge  -- actually hit it in the hole and bounced out to four feet. 
2, 3-wood, wedge and hold a 25-footer there. 
3, driver, 3-wood on the green and two putts from five feet. 
5, 7-iron to about four feet. 
8, 5-iron to about four feet. 

Q.  Are you confident in this position? 
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Yeah. 

Q.  Playing in bigger tournaments now  --
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   I think most people must be, yeah.  Obviously, because being confident  -- I feel I don't get overly confident, certainly far from arrogant or anything like that.  It felt like quietly confident.  I don't know exactly what you mean there  -- you know, obviously Ernie Els, sitting there in second place. Anybody would be daft at any level, to say, oh, it doesn't matter who is behind you. Obviously if Ernie Els is sitting there it's a different ball game especially the way he has been playing. That's part and parcel of playing on the Tour and playing bigger events the bigger names are going to be playing.  It's the same old story, if you want to win you have got to beat everyone. 

Q.  Having now served your apprenticeship are you looking for bigger things?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   I think not just winning last year but I'm having a pretty good year, as well.  I definitely have a lot more confidence about myself this year.  As I say, I've just been waiting for that good round to come and it came today.  So just hoping I can build on it. 
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Well played.  Thank you very much. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT