WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 13, 2002
Alastair Forsyth
Paul Lawrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:   Paul, Alistair, great round today.  You really came flying out of the blocks over the front nine, but just seemed to lose momentum over the closing holes.  Your thoughts on today? 
PAUL LAWRIE:  Front nine we played extremely well.  We didn't really have an awful lot of work to do. We hit a lot of good shots early on.  Didn't hole many long putts because we hit good shots.  So a great front nine. 
I hit a poor second shot at ten and we made par there.  And then we made bogey at 13.  That kind of stopped the momentum a little bit.  We had good chances at 14, 15 and 17 but didn't make the putts. 
I think overall it was a good day. 
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Yeah, I would just go along with that.  The front nine we played nicely tee-to-green, straight down the middle.  We were 7-under but we didn't hole any big putts.  We were close all the time.  13, that stopped the momentum.   We had good chances at 14, 15 and 17, which we're still right up there, so have to be happy with the day's work, really. 

Q.  What would you be doing if you were not here now? 
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Nothing.  Absolutely nothing. 

Q.  Sitting at home?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Just sitting at home, yeah.

Q.  When did they call?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   Last Wednesday.  Wednesday morning, yeah. 

Q.  Were you practicing at the time? 
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   No.  It was first thing in the morning.  I was still laying in my bed.  I haven't played since October, so I had to start practicing a little bit again.  Obviously glad to be here. 
Q.  Amazing transformation  --
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Amazing a difference a year can make in golf.  I think there's such a fine line between doing very well and not doing well, losing your card.  I think in golf, I think it's a prime example, knowing I was a better player than I was a year ago.  Things have gone well for me this year and last year, yet there's very little difference. 
Q.  Did you both quietly fancy yourselves this week?
PAUL LAWRIE:   Well, I think there are a lot of good players.  Obviously, yeah, I kind of thought if we played well and holed a few putts, obviously you can do well.  You certainly can't be overconfident because there's a lot of good players here.  But I think quietly, if you play the game you know you can play, you can win anywhere. 

Q.  How much experience do you have on is this type of rough?  Not that you've been in it much. 
PAUL LAWRIE:  Well, from my tee shots, quite a lot. (Laughing).
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:   As much  -- probably as much as most guys, really.  I think when you travel so much, you get used to playing on grainy greens and different types of grass all the time.  Obviously it is awkward, but I think since the Tour goes to Asia, South Africa, Australia, essentially all over the world, I think everybody is getting more and more used to it.  It's not as such a big deal as it used to be. 

Q.  Your last nine holes today and your first nine today add up to 58 shots.  Have you had anything like that before? 
PAUL LAWRIE:  Well, yesterday afternoon again  -- but the front nine we didn't play badly.  We or out 2-under and didn't make my putts.  The back nine we started to hole a couple and we played well.  Then the front nine again today.  I know it sounds a bit together but really it didn't feel like that.  We didn't hole many putts.  But the two nine together is obviously, what's that, 14?  That's fantastic golf, it really is. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT