THE 3 IRISH OPEN
May 16, 2009
Alastair Forsyth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ALASTAIR FORSYTH: Good round, controlled the ball well tee-to-green, which is obviously one of the toughest things out there with the wind blowing the way it is. 
 Found it difficult putting. Obviously putting in the wind isn't easy, either. With not cutting the greens between rounds I saw the ball rolling and I found I couldn't get the ball to the hole all day. I just couldn't trust myself to hit it hard enough. Therefore, didn't have any chance of shooting any better, but all in all a decent day.

 Q. Certainly consolidating, keeping the score in that kind of fashion gives you a chance?
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH: Still there. Still a couple of guys a few shots ahead. Go into tomorrow depending -- see what the weather does. Played well the last couple of weeks and hopefully another decent week and a decent finish.

 Q. We were speaking in Seville a few weeks ago, and it was a work-in-progress and you were delighted with the way it panned out, things have settled quite nicely?
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH: Consistency has been very good. Three Top-10s my last four tournaments, struggled the week in Spain, and apart from that, it's been very consistent and so far this week it's been the same.

 Q. Does is surprise you a little, bearing in mind you didn't expect it to happen?
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH: I've just been working away and it's been the game is feeling pretty good on the range and I'm taking it on the golf course now and that's the difference.

 Q. Imagine this is a course you like? 
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH: Yeah, it's a good golf course. It's very, very tough conditions obviously but yeah, it's fantastic golf course and we're coming again here the next two years, which is great, hopefully just get better weather.

 Q. What are your thoughts on the leader Shane Lowry?
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH: Good luck to him, well done. Fantastic. If he goes on and wins it, absolutely hat off to him. He doesn't take any prize money off us; he can do as he wants. Fantastic and he's obviously really enjoying himself and hopefully does well tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT