BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2007
Alastair Forsyth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Toughest day of the week?   
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH: Absolutely it is pretty tough out there with the wind having got up the way it did. We were okay for much of the front nine which is where I made most of my scoring with the four birdies. The wind definitely picked up on our back nine so the guys who are going out later in the day are definitely going to get the hardest of the conditions. It is very tricky out there, no doubt about it. But the difference for me today was the putting for me. I had only 23 putts out there today which is much better than it had been. And it is not just making the birdie putts, it is making the eight and ten footers for par that really help your round along.   
  
  Q. When did you actually finish?   
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Well we were off at 11 in the morning so we finished off just before three o clock, just after the leaders had gone off.   
  
  Q. What did you do when you'd finished?   
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  I just went straight back to the hotel. I didn't really fancy going to hit balls when the wind had got up like that as it would have done my swing more harm than good and as I said earlier my putting felt really good today so I didn't think I had any work to do on that either so I just went back to the hotel. I went back to my room and decided to watch a few DVDs of The Sopranos which I've got in a box set. I never saw it on the television, I've just picked it up on DVD but it is really brilliant, I am at Series Five now and it is one of those when you really get into it that you keep watching and watching so I was watching them when I was moving up the leaderboard I suppose!   
  
  Q. Talk about your round?   
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Well I made four good birdies on the outward half and then I bogeyed the two hardest holes on the course on the way back in.   
At the 14th they've brought the tee forward a little bit but I was still hitting driver and five wood in there but I just went right of the green and didn't get up and down. At the 17th I came up just short of the green and had quite a tricky chip and didn't get up and down there either. But it was good to birdie the last, hitting a nice pitch shot close.   
  
  Q. This makes up for your second round 73?   
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Yes a little bit. I wasn't really firing on all cylinders there and got off to a bad start when I was out on the back nine in 39. But I hung in there and kept battling which was good and to come home in 34 for one over was pretty pleasing in the end.   
  
  Q. I know you wouldn't wish any ill on anyone but I suppose you won't be too bothered if it gets even windier this afternoon?   
 ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  No, it can blow all it wants; I won't have any complaints at all!   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT