BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2005
Alastair Forsyth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Well played today.  A year ago it was another Frenchman singing Flower of Scotland on the last day, maybe nice another Scotsman doing it this time.
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  It would be nice.  It was nice to go out and actually shoot a good score rather than just talk about it.  The golf has been good.  I think conditions here have been absolutely perfect.  I don't think you'll get it any easier, so, who knows.

I don't think 10 under will be the leading score at the end of the day but hopefully I won't be too far away.  As far as I'm concerned, I'm delighted the way I've played last two days, and it's just been nice after being a top seed and just making the cut to get a good score at the end.
Q.  Did you find it inspiring that so many people recognize you; is that pressure in itself?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  You want to do well for them as well as yourself, but I think you have to try and do the best I can, just not look and keep my head down because obviously some you recognize, somebody is trying to wave at you or something like that.  It is good, you know if you've had a good shot, an extra cheer at the green and stuff, that is nice.
Q.  You've been saying all week that you're hitting it better. Why is that?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  I've been practicing very hard and I've worked on a few things.  Just wasn't swinging the club all that well the last three months or so.  I feel like my iron shots, I'm still struggling off the tee, but I felt like my iron shots have been very good.  Every single one has been in the middle of the club.
Q.  Do you feel a 64 was waiting to happen?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  To a certain extent, yeah.  I would be more happy if I could just put four solid rounds together.  Obviously shooting 64 is great, but obviously, yesterday I shot 68, and if I could shot four rounds like that I would be delighted.  That's all I'll be thinking about over the weekend at the moment.  The way things have been going this year, just as likely I could shoot 77 tomorrow.  Just keep doing what I'm doing, and I'll be happy if I can put another two solid rounds on the books.
Q.  Do you find you are playing without feeling self-conscious about the changes now?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Yeah, probably since the BMW Championship at Wentworth.  I've really been putting technique to the back of my mind and just been trying to play.  It's been taking a lot of time just to trust it.  Even at the moment, I still feel like the driver, I feel a lot of fairways I'm still missing it one way, but that was always my bread and butter before.  That was one of the things I've lost this year, but I've got it back at the moment and if I can get it in the fairway, it's just a case of makes some putts.
Q.  You had some key moments at the sixth and seventh?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Two or three    I was really probably just go at the same tree.  The worst case scenario would be drop down and 90 yards or something to the flag.  I thought if I could just miss it, I could get it down to the front edge.
Q.  What club?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  5 iron.  Just a low one.  I only had 150 yard to the front of the green.  Just kicked under the trees.
Q.  Given that Scotland has few great Sportsmen at the moment, does that make things harder?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  I think if you listen to it, it could.   If anyone, the Aussies, you know how many good players there are down there.  No disrespect, but we don't have a Colin Montgomerie at the moment.  He's not far off obviously himself, but apart from him we haven't had anybody like that in a while.  And obviously he had a fantastic run, no disrespect to what he did to win back then, but it's getting harder and harder to win every year.  Those guys win it    I think that's more the reason for it than anything else, the fact that we've not had any winners.
Q.  As Monty gets older, is the door opening to the younger players?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  It is, definitely.  It's getting harder and harder.  I mean, you can see the big names now, you know, in Europe they don't ever win tournaments; it's first time winners almost every week.  That just tells you the strength and depth of those guys coming on.  They win on The Challenge Tour and they win once and that happens all the time because everyone's getting better.  I think, except for Els and Goosen and people like that, there's no one really dominating in Europe.
Q.  Do you think if you're game's good enough to be in that group?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  When my game is good, I can prove that I can compete against the best.  It's doing it over four rounds and doing it consistently.  That's the thing I've always lacked.

You know, I had the chance at Valderrama last year to win one of the biggest tournaments and people say I was unlucky, but maybe I just didn't put four rounds together.  That's really always been my kind of downfall as far as winning tournaments.  I have three rounds in the 60s and one 74 or 75, and that's something I'm trying to put right.
Q.  Is it mental or technical?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Probably a bit of both.  I think it's a bit technical, as well.  When you get used to shooting bad scores, it comes easiest to expect it.  It's tough when you're having a bad round, shooting 75 every other day, it's tough to actually believe that you're going to shoot 65, 66, whatever, the next day.
Q.  This is not the most testing of driving courses. Does that help?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Definitely, there's one or two that I've had a bit    a good example, K Club last week, if you miss a fairway by three yards, you have an 8 iron or wedge out.  Whereas here, you have the same tee shot and you're still in the fairway.  So it does give you a bit of an advantage.  You can afford to miss a few.
Q.  Is youg game better now than when you won?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Short game is better, longer off the tee.  Probably in most departments of my game, yeah.
Q.  You wre close at the fifth
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  I thought it was going to be really close.  But obviously, you have 108 yards, but you feel it's going to be close from the tee.
Q.  What do you expect the winning score to be?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  You could be knocking on 20 under if it stays like that, maybe not, but obviously    it could be.  You could be looking at that.  This course doesn't really offer much defense if it stays like that.
Q.  What driver do you use?
ALASTAIR FORSYTH:  Callaway FT 3.  Since I started using it, I've been hitting a bit further.  My old one, I was driving it very well, but I'd just get the odd one where it just goes off the planet, basically.  If anything, one or two a round at the moment, so that's an improvement.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT