ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 4, 2021
Taylor Soule
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Syracuse 67, Boston College 61
 Q. Taylor, I just asked Coach just about coming back on back-to-back days and playing a second game.  What was that experience like for you guys here in Greensboro, being able to come out on the second day and have to respond in less than 24 hours?
 TAYLOR SOULE:   I think that personally, it was really great just to be playing.  I know the whole team could definitely say the same thing.  I was really proud of how we played yesterday.  And obviously coming into today, you just have to have a clear mind and just stick to the game plan.  Obviously it didn't work out the way we wanted it to.  I think today was a huge mental day more than physical because we work a lot during the season with Katie and Coach in practice on our conditioning, so when it comes to tournament time our legs are okay.
 I just think we fell short a little bit on the mental side of things.
 Q. I asked your coach a similar question, just like heading into your senior year, what are your goals and hopes for both yourself and the team?
 TAYLOR SOULE:   For the team, I just want to see everybody just improve from the great player they are now to someone who's really unstoppable.  Everyone across the board has the capability to do that.
 I know Coach was just saying in the locker room, I bet she told you guys, but just honing in on the little things that make a player great, so whether it's in the weight room, at practice, getting that work in when you might not necessarily want to, but you do it anyways, and it's really just an hour a day, hour and a half a day, just little things here or there, a different decision that you make that end up making you that great player.  So I think coming into next year, coming into my senior season, I also want to make some of those changes.
 So just continuing to get extra work in in the gym, just keeping my mental health strong, staying positive.  I'm really excited for next season.  I'm really bummed that we had to end on a loss like this, but we have everyone coming back next year, and so I know we're all going to come back a lot stronger and smarter next year.
 Q. With something like that where you lost your summer last year and this year, hopefully you'll have it, is there an element that you take a little bit of time off or do you just dive right back in, make the most of it, or start working right away?
 TAYLOR SOULE:   I mean, it depends on who you're asking, if you're trying to figure out how much time we're really going to get off.  In all seriously, whatever time we get off, for me personally, at least, I just know I want to keep my conditioning up.  You never want to be that player that says they want to take two weeks off because we've had this whole season and their legs are tired and then you come back and Coach is yelling at everyone at practice and your legs can't handle it.
 Regardless of how much time we get off, I just am going to definitely look back on this season and see where I can take things away in a positive mindset and see where I have to improve on some certain things.  So just working off-season-wise if we get this summer, and even if we don't have a summer, just work on extending my jump shot and just keeping my body as fit as I can.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT