WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2009
Alex Bogdanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/A. Bogdanovic
  6-3, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Pretty disappointing. You were in there each set. Just didn't work out for you. 
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. I felt I played a good match out there. Just when it came down to crucial points, games towards the end, you know, I made a few mistakes. He obviously took advantage of that. 
 And I think when you play at such a high level, it's just difficult to kind of -- you know, he takes advantage straightaway, and, you know, the set is over. 

 Q. Eight years in a row now, isn't it, that you've not got past the first round? How does that feel?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Well, it's difficult. Obviously, it's tough. I come here every year expecting myself to win. You know, it's obviously the eighth year. I can't get past the first round. 
 But you look back at the draws I've had. They haven't been easy: from, I don't know, Escude, Sargsian, Nadal, Berdych. These guys are all top players. Obviously, champions, as well. All you can do is just go out there and, you know, do your best. 

 Q. Was there ever a time in those eight years that you thought you should have got through?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: I think maybe one winnable match. I think I played one year Kevin Kim. That was definitely a winnable match for me. The other matches were pretty tough. 
 One year I played Guccione. When you get a guy that serves as big as him, it's difficult to kind of match that. 

 Q. I think you have the worst record of any man here. How does that make you feel?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Well, you know, I'm not really concerned about that. You know, I go out there every year, you know, trying to win my match, do my best. You know, it doesn't matter if I lose eight times, ten times. 
 But, you know, when you're against players like Federer, Nadal, I don't think -- it's just tough matches. What can you do? 
 You know, like maybe if I'm back here next year, or I qualify, or if I'm in with my ranking, I could play Federer again. You know, it could be nine times. I'm not really concerned about that. 
 It's just every year I'm making progress, if I'm getting better, what the things I need to work on.

 Q. Do you think you are getting better?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: I think I am. Definitely every year I'm getting better and stronger. This is giving me confidence just to keep working hard and keep believing that I can get myself back in the top hundred, where I believe I deserve.

 Q. Twelve months ago we sat in this room after your last defeat, and you said you were determined to keep coming back until you did win. Is that still your mindset?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Yeah, definitely. I mean, you know, all year round I keep working hard, you know, busting my balls all the way round just to win my match, get my ranking up, to play in tournaments like these, the best tournaments in the world. I'm still really motivated. 
 Today's defeat, it's difficult. But Tomas was a better player today. No doubt about that. But I know I'll be back here.

 Q. Do you enjoy it here?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: I do. I do. It's the best tournament in the world, and the atmosphere is just unbelievable. And, you know, looking back from my eight defeats, every single match I've enjoyed out there. 

 Q. Why do you do so badly then? Why do you never win here?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: As I said, look at my draw. Look at the players I've played. You know, I think all the players I've played were higher ranked than me, and that's why I get a wild card, because my ranking's not high enough. 
 When you're up against Federer, you know, Nadal, Berdych, Escude, all great grass court players. You know, all you can do is go out there and fight for every ball and do your best on the day. 

 Q. There has been some questioning about the fact that you get a wild card all the time. Do you ever think to yourself, Oh, don't give me a wild card, let me try and qualify? Do you ever have that in your mindset to ease the pressure in some way?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Well, no. I mean, I've been criticized for how many wild cards I got. But, you know, to be honest with you, you know, they set the rules. You know, they set the criteria. I think their criteria was inside to be 250. 
 You know, it wasn't my decision, you know, to get a wild card there. Obviously they made the decision. All I can do is go out there all year round, you know, travel, work hard, and try to win my matches and to see. 
 If I didn't get one this year, you know, yeah, I would have been in the qualifying. That's as simple as that really.

 Q. So you'll be back next year?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: I'll be back next year, for sure, yeah.

 Q. Does it bother you that you get all this stick?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: No. I mean, it's difficult. People criticize me for the wild cards. But I believe if someone's working really hard, doing their best, and you know, they come short every year... 
 You know, I think I was British No. 2 for a long time, you know. If I was like 5 or 6, then obviously I don't deserve a wild card. But if I'm out there, you know, and there's no one else better than me, then, you know, whether it's 8, 9, 10, you know, maybe one time I get a good draw, win a few matches, you get a momentum, anything can happen, you know. 
 People can just -- they see -- they say I lost first round, but when you lose against players like Federer, Nadal, all these guys, it's easy just to criticize.

 Q. What do you think you'll do if and when you do finally win one? Have you pictured that moment?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Obviously, it would be a great moment for me. I'll be happy. But, you know, you don't live to win just one match here. 
 Like next week, two weeks, I've got a tournament in Manchester. My goal is to go out there and win my first round in Manchester and slowly build my way up to the top. 
 Even if I come here next year and win a match, you know, it's not a big deal. It's not just that one match; it's a long journey for me.

 Q. What about the Davis Cup? You didn't get picked. 
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Yup. 

 Q. What are your views on that as the No. 2, not getting picked for the Davis Cup? 
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: That's up to John. Obviously I've played a few Davis Cups. It's his decision, really. There's a lot of good players coming up. Obviously, Josh has been playing really well. James has been playing really well. 
 I think it's fair for them to have a shot, as well. I've played too many. And John knows how I play, you know, if I can play as well than other guys. 
 But, you know, if he chooses them, then fair enough, because they've been playing well, as well. 

 Q. You're in the men's doubles. Will you be entering the mixed doubles as well?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Yeah, I've signed in with Melanie South.

 Q. You'll have three shots at it this time?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Yeah, it's always nice to play as many matches as possible. It's the best tournament in the world. I really enjoy playing here.

 Q. How many years do you think you have left in you?
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: I mean, I'm 25. You know, people -- you know, who knows? I could be back here for another five years. You know, if I get injured, you just don't know. 
 But I'm still motivated. I still have my goals. I want to keep working at it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT