THE ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 9, 2008
Alex Bogdanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. SIRIANNI/A. Bogdanovic  
6-3, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Alex.   
  
  Q. That was a pretty disappointing result. What are your feelings?  
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Yeah, it was difficult out there. I mean, obviously all credit to him, he played well. He qualified; he won three matches on the grass. For me it was my first match on the grass. So it's always difficult any first match to play.   
 You know, I felt like I didn't serve too well today. I think that was one of the areas I have to improve, especially playing on grass. I had my chances early on to break, and I didn't. I don't know how many breakpoints overall I had, but I didn't take any. That's difficult, especially on grass. When you create chances, if you don't take them, it's difficult.   
  
  Q. Obviously looking at sort of the tournament last year, you had a pretty successful tournament. Going out first round must be disappointing.   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Yeah, you know, last year I managed to win two matches. Unfortunately this year, I lost to a guy, you know, he played better than me today. I think he deserved to win.   
 But, you know, for me, it's just a matter of bouncing back. I've been working hard with Brad. Hopefully this hard work will pay off somewhere down the line. Maybe not next week or the week after, but somewhere two or three months down, I'm going to start to see results come.   
  
  Q. Where are you now versus where you were a year ago? How do you feel about where you are now?  
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: I feel like I've improved a lot of areas in my game. Physically I'm a lot stronger. The thing me and Brad have been working on is being aggressive. There's this one thing, if I don't do that, you know, I've got no chance.   
 Over the last few months, I've been playing well. It's just a matter of results. Today unfortunately I was kind of disappointed, especially to lose to a guy where you feel like you should have beaten him. But it's something I've just got to deal with.   
 I have Nottingham coming up next where hopefully I'll play qualifying, get a few matches before obviously the big Grand Slam, Wimbledon.   
  
  Q. How has that switch affected your take on the game, working before with Peter Lundgren, his abrupt departure from the LTA, now working with Brad?   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: You know, I've really enjoyed working with Brad. He's been fantastic, the experience he brought to me. I know it's only been five months that we've been working together. You have to thank the LTA for that opportunity. I couldn't afford him myself. It is expensive. I'm not sure how long his contract is, how long more we're going to be working together. I've just been enjoying it. We've won working really hard. I just hope the results will definitely come somewhere down the line.   
  
  Q. You mentioned you're playing Nottingham. What are your expectations there?  
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: I think for me it's just to get as many more matches basically before Wimbledon. Hopefully I'm definitely going to play quallies. If I can qualify, that will be a good thing for me, a good week, just go from there really.   
  
  Q. Regarding doubles, are you playing in Nottingham?  
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: I will try to play doubles with Ross Hutchins in Nottingham, and also Wimbledon as well. I'm not sure, he might be playing with Haas. We're still not quite sure.   
  
  Q. Fitness-wise, you feel good?  
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC: Yeah, yeah. I mean, touch the wood, this year has been good for me. Obviously last year I had kind of disappointing -- the back injuries, the shoulder, that took a lot of confidence away. Now I feel pretty good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT