WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2007
Alex Bogdanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  He's a big guy with lots of power.   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  Yeah, huge serve.  A little bit disappointing obviously, but it's always tough to play somebody like that.  You know, he had a big serve, and there's not a lot I could have done.   
 It's not easy to play someone with a big serve like that because it just doesn't give you that much rhythm.  He obviously puts pressure on you, and it's always going to be a tough match for me.   
  
  Q.  The third set he ripped a return back off a bloody good serve.   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  Yeah, you know, and that's how it goes sometimes with guys who have a big serve like that and maybe don't move as well from the back.  I've got to just go for some shots, and hit two great winners at 30-All in the third set.  That's it, that's how he broke me.   
 I've just got to take the positives out of this because I felt like I tried to change a few things up.  I had a few break points and just unfortunately couldn't take them to kind of turn the match around.   
  
  Q.  It must have been a difficult few days for you.  You were telling us at Queen's how much Peter worked and everything.  Can you just talk a little bit about how it was tricky.   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  Yeah, it was very tricky.  Obviously I only heard yesterday.  It was difficult because obviously we worked really hard between me and Peter throughout the whole year, and to come down to a big Slam is just for me is a shame that he wasn't just there to watch me.   
 I think that was really difficult.  But, you know, I think he'll be okay, and we're going to go back to work after this tournament.   
  
  Q.  Have you spoken to him?  Has he told you what he's planning to do and just assured you that everything will be back on track soon?   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  Yeah, you know, we spoke yesterday and he's sorting things out.  You know, maybe he'll take a few weeks off, I'm not quite sure yet.  But definitely obviously he'll be back and I'm sure everything will be okay.   
  
  Q.  When he's not there does it reinforce what he's brought to you in terms of not just presence but like a comforting face in the crowd?   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  Yeah, definitely you've always got someone in the corner that you can look at and it just gives you so much belief out there.  Today I was also very thankful I had a lot of guys behind me.  Brad, Paul Hutchins was there.  Paul Anacone and the family, and I had a lot of great support.   
 It was just a shame that Peter couldn't be there.  But I'm sure there will be a lot of Slams that we're going to be together.   
  
  Q.  Did it disrupt you in any way?   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  It was difficult, but I tried to focus as much as possible just to -- I had a job to do, and that -- today was a difficult match for me, but all the guys, the whole team behind me helped me a lot, and it wasn't -- I didn't lose because of that.  The guy really served big today.   
  
  Q.  And now what's --   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  I'm playing doubles tomorrow.  I'm still here.  You know, but for my next tournament, for singles, will be Newport.  I'm in Newport, so there's still one more grass court tournament left.  I'll be here practicing and trying to get some good hits.   
  
  Q.  The ballboy was a bit strange in the first set, the incident with the ballboy.  Have you had that before?   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  No, no.  The ball went up and he thought the point was over, and he obviously just ran across.   
  
  Q.  Sorry if you've been asked this already, but your reaction to the news about Peter?  What was your thoughts and where do you go from here?  Do you just wait until he comes back?   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  Yeah, I only found out yesterday.  You know, I didn't really know exactly what happened until I spoke to him.  But I'm sure everything is going to be okay.  Obviously, unfortunately he couldn't be here with me today, but I think things are going to sort out, and we're going to go back to work.   
  
  Q.  Josh Goodall was quite critical about the timing of all the announcements and everything.  What are your feelings on that?   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  It's just really tough.  Sometimes you just don't know when it's going to happen.  You just have to kind of focus on what you're doing.  I think it was like five minutes before he had to walk on it happened.  You're going to have that a lot.   
 That's not going to be the last time.  There will be a lot of things like that that are going to happen.  It's difficult, but you've got to find a way of just going out there and fighting and competing.   
  
  Q.  Do you think a decision could have been made after Wimbledon?   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  Well, it was a difficult decision.  I can't really say because I don't even know what exactly happened, so I can't mention that.  But for him, obviously it was difficult for him, and he was two sets down and it was good for him that he stopped and he had a day off to come back.  Unfortunately, obviously Lopez played a good third set, as well.   
  
  Q.  Will you speak to Peter?  Will you contact him?   
 ALEX BOGDANOVIC:  Yeah, I'll speak to him tonight and stuff, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT