TCS NYC MARATHON
November 4, 2016
Diane Nukuri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me about your mileage.  What do you put in, and how long is your buildup here for this?  
DIANE NUKURI: After the Olympics, I ran a 10K, I took a little down week where I didn't really do much.  Three times in that week, I did a 30-minute stretch because I knew I had about three months to get ready for this.   
 Q.  How much time off after the Olympics?  
DIANE NUKURI: About a week off.   
 Q.  That's kind of standard.  
DIANE NUKURI: Yeah, it's kind of hard to go from that and then go home and start running 80, 90 miles that week.  So I just took a down week where I just did what I wanted, just relaxed.  Then when I got back home, I didn't have to start over, so I started 60, 70 miles that week.   
Since I had a really good, consistent year, and I started racing in actually February when I was in Japan.  So I knew I had a pretty good year with strength and speed.  So I just kind of did about 100 to 110, and I did some cross-training as well, biking, elliptical, and was in the weight room a lot.  So I feel like it would be a one.  It would be my first marathon of the year.  So I'm a lot more fresh than I would have been the year before or something like that.   
So it's been good.  But then again, it's so long.  You just never know, but I feel like I'm prepared.   
 Q.  Your best 10K is what?  
DIANE NUKURI: On the track?  31:28.   That's what I ran in Rio.   
 Q.  What place did that get you?  
DIANE NUKURI: 13th.   
 Q.  That was a pretty solid PR, as I recall.  
DIANE NUKURI: Not bad, yeah.  I was pretty happy.   
 Q.  You probably feel that you're in the best shape coming into this?  
DIANE NUKURI: For sure.  I feel like every year I've gotten -- you can't do everything.  If you want to do weight lifting and all these things, you can't do it all at once.  But I felt like it's been a progression every year.   
 Q.  Do you have a pace in mind that you're comfortable -- let's assume there's no headwind.  There might be a mild one, but I don't think it's going to be big because the temperatures are cool enough you're going to have at least a cornering wind, which you can tuck in behind people.  What pace are you comfortable running at out of the box, so to speak?  
DIANE NUKURI: I think I'll be comfortable around 5:30, 5:40.  I should be able to feel comfortable.  My PB is 2:27.50, and it wasn't the best day.  It is what it is -- in London last year.  I feel like I'm a better runner.   
 Q.  What was that an average of?  I can look it up.  But 5:30?  
DIANE NUKURI: Around 5:40.  5:40 is like 2:28, right?  Yeah.   
 Q.  It's something like that.  So you think in theory, under perfect conditions -- and this is a tougher course than that -- maybe 2:26 or 2:27 is where you are?  
DIANE NUKURI: On a great day, I think I can run around 2:26, 2:27 here.  It's a tough course.  I remember three years ago when I did it, we went out, and I ended up running 2:30.  I would like to think I'm a better runner than I was three years ago.  But I feel like at least 2:27, 2:28, but you never know how the race plays out.   
 Q.  When you run a 10K and you're running road races and so forth, what do you weigh?  What's your weight at that time?  
DIANE NUKURI: Honestly, I don't -- I can count how many times I weigh myself, but maybe 130, 128.   
 Q.  And do you drop any weight for the marathon at all?  Do you get a little lower?  
DIANE NUKURI: I think so.  I mean, I always feel like you do a lot more, obviously, but we also have to make sure we eat a lot.   
 Q.  I get that.  
DIANE NUKURI: I think it's more like the strength.  Yeah, I probably feel a bit smaller before the marathon.   
 Q.  What's your height?  
DIANE NUKURI: I'm like 6 foot tall.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT