NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 29, 2014
Michal Rozsival
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you weigh the pressure of winning a hockey game, but also having the confidence you can win it?  
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   I think it all comes from the character in the room, the personality we have on our team.   There's always been belief.   We know we have the right tools on the team to do anything.   
We believe in ourselves.   Even though we had our backs against the wall, you know, we were never short of unbelief.   I think that's what it is.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding changing of the lines.)   
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   I think it was kind of surprise to all of us.   I mean, it worked, right?   Still give up four goals, but we end up winning the hockey game, which is the most important thing.   
Sometimes things like that can spark something in a hockey team.   Whatever it did or didn't do, it doesn't matter.   The end result is the most important thing.   
   
 Q.   You got to see Brandon Saad a couple years.   How would you rate how his game has steadily improved and his performance last night?  
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   Yeah, Brandon, definitely what I saw last night in him was probably one of his best games I've ever seen him play, just the way he played with so much confidence.   Looking at him, he looked like he wanted to be the guy, the guy that makes the difference in the hockey game.   He did.   
He was strong on the puck.   He was skating.   He was being physical.   He did everything, you know, through to the end to help us win the hockey game.   
It's a big improvement last year.   When I saw him last year, he was a quiet guy in the locker room, feeling everything out.   But, yeah, this year he has been playing great.   He really elevated his game in the playoffs.   
   
 Q.   One game at a time, but talk about having the confidence of going into the building and winning tomorrow night?  
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   I mean, yeah, we all feel pretty good after winning the big game yesterday in such a fashion, double overtime.   We feel like we have the momentum on our side.   If we can have the same start as we had last night, it would be nice.   
It's going to be tough.   It's always tough building to play in.   But, you know, we're all exciting to go there.   We just need to win another one.   
   
 Q.   Corey was good down the stretch there.   What needs to happen defensively to stifle this Kings team?  
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   I don't know.   Looking at both series, a lot of goals being scored.   I don't know what needs to be happening.   Definitely maybe try to be a little more physical in the battles, winning these battles.   Sometimes it bounces, sometimes it's not.   
I don't really know.   At the end of the day, it doesn't matter.   We need to win the hockey game, whether we get five or ten goals.   If we score 11, that's fine.   
   
 Q.   Seemed like you were having difficulty clearing the crease of loose pucks.   Is it more difficult these days because of what they're doing or what you aren't doing?  
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   Yeah, I don't know.   I think that's their game plan.   If you look at it, they try to throw a lot of pucks into the crease, into the feet, kind of crash the net.   They scored a couple goals like that last night.   
Sometimes as a defenseman or a forward, you're lucky to find the puck and clear it, sometimes you're not.   Just kind of keep it simple.   If you have the chance, muck it out into the corner, that's the best way to do it.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
MICHAL ROZSIVAL:   Yeah, I mean, we've always tried to help our forwards offensively.   We ask them all the time to come back and help us defensively.   I mean, it's got to be two‑way street.   
We have to, you know, do the same thing for them to kind of try to jump up and create different looks for their defense.   It loosens everything up a little bit, it seems like, so that's what we're trying to do.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT