NEW ALBANY GOLF CLASSIC
September 28, 2000
Mardi Lunn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARDI LUNN:   Hit a 6-iron to maybe 10 feet there and holed the putt.  5, that was a 7-iron.  That was also to probably about 10 feet.  Got it just on the very front edge in two and holed about a 90-foot double-breaking putt up and over and around.  It had to be  -- the pin was on 29 yards, and I was like two inches off the green.  So that's close to 90.  85, 90 feet. 

Q.  So what do you think about this place?  You played well here -- obviously you did last year? 

MARDI LUNN:   I love the golf course and coming back with such good memories of last year, and even not having not played that well, it's just nice to get on a golf course where  you've played well and you've putted well.  You sort of feel very comfortable.  I think that was a big key for me today.  I felt very comfortable just from the time I started out.

Q.  Is it more relaxed for you toward the end of the year as you come here and you know the year is almost over?

MARDI LUNN:   I think so, yeah.  This year has been sort of a funny year for me.  I haven't really felt like I wanted to be out playing golf.  I really wanted to -- I bought a house, my first home.  And so every time I've come away, I've always wanted to go home.  So I guess maybe this year, it's the last tournament and I know I'm going home to spend the longest amount of time in my new house.  Maybe that's the reason.  Maybe it's because I do know I am going home on Sunday night.  And it's the end of the year.  I've got nothing to lose this week, because, you know after this week it's all over.  It's in  Port St. Lucie down in Florida. 

Q.  Just wondering, have you ever hit a putt that long before?  90 feet is  -- it's hard to even use a putter  --

MARDI LUNN:   In the British Open this year, Royal Birkdale, the pin was on 33 yards and I holed a putt from the front edge there.  It's amazing because this year I really have made no putts and it's just out of the blue something like that happens.  I had a lot of 8-, 10-, 12-footers today, before that putt, and just never -- hit a lot of lips and they just wouldn't go in. 

Q.  Shooting what you did today a lot of people would say, and a lot of people have said there are 54 holes left, but considering the way you played last year, do you think this is a sign that you're going to be there the whole way this week because of how you can?

MARDI LUNN:   I hope so.  If I can hit the ball like I did today, I would hope to be in the running on Sunday.  I don't think I missed a fairway.  I think I only chipped once.  I probably missed two greens, and one was just on the fringe.  And as I said, I've got such good memories.  I think I was like 15- or 16-under last year and finished second.  I mean, who knows, we'll see if I keep playing and just roll a few putts in, I do think that I will be there on Sunday.

Q.  Annika has said that she would prefer to see the course dry out so that some of the shots get more challenging instead of just sticking.  What would you prefer?  Would you like to see the conditions stay as they are or get a little tougher? 

MARDI LUNN:   I tend to agree with Annika.  If it would dry out a little bit, it does make it a little more challenging.  There are some pins out there that if it does dry out a little bit, you have allow for the elevation, which way it is going to run.  But today, you pretty much could fire at all of the flags.  If it could dry a little bit, it would become a bit more testing, as it was last year. 

Q.  You would prefer that over a soft course?

MARDI LUNN:   I don't know.  Having not played that well, it is nice to hit a shot;  and if it is heading near the pin it is going to stop near the pin.  But it's six of one, half a dozen of another.  If it dries out, you have to change your game plan, and if they get more rain, whatever, you can fire at the flags.  Either way, you and your caddy have to decide where you want to land the ball and go from there. 

Q.  You've talked about your mother being with you.  Is she with you now? 

MARDI LUNN:   No.  She is not here this year.  She is in London with my sister.  She's coming over  -- I pick her up on Tuesday in Florida.  Hopefully I'll have something nice to tell her when I pick her up. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT