AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 17, 2018
Kevin Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Keith, just off to a good start.  You had some good form coming in here and talk about your round today and the course conditions.  
KEITH MITCHELL: It was pretty, pretty benign on the front, wasn't much wind.  The front seemed to have some getable holes on par-5s, and some of the par-4s.   
I was able to take advantage of those which helps because No. 10 through 13 are really tough holes especially with the hole locations today.  So just playing those holes even par I felt like I actually gained a shot or two.   
Then just finished strong.   
 Q.  Pretty nice grouping out there, everybody playing good.  Feeding off that must be nice thing.  
KEITH MITCHELL: Definitely a good vibe when you have three guys contending in the 1st Round.  So, that was helpful.  We chatted up and our caddies had a great time.  We didn't have any negative vibes out there.   
 Q.  Speaking of, what kind of talk was there amongst you guys in terms of the course throughout the day?  
KEITH MITCHELL: We weren't really talking about the course as much but we did -- I remember one time we were concerned why there might have been some negative feedback on the golf course because I didn't find any.   
I loved it, it played fair and it played tough when it needed to.  So, I'm a big fan of this tract and I think the other guys are as well.   
 Q.  It doesn't seem to favor anyone.  
KEITH MITCHELL: I don't think so because there's so many different clubs you have to hit off the tees.  That makes it -- you know, brings everybody in the field, gives everybody an equal shot and if you want to stay aggressive and hit some more drivers there's a lot more risk.   
We had to lay back a little bit today.  I didn't hit my driver as much as I wanted to.  We played to the right spots and took advantage.   
 Q.  You obviously like it.  What do you like most about the new tract?  
KEITH MITCHELL: I like the way you have to play off the tee in terms of angles of the fairway.  If the flag is on it right side you might need to play up the left side of the fairway.  Sometimes that brings in more trouble but gives you a better angle to the green.   
You have to play angles off the tee.  On the tee box we're looking where the flag is on the green and decide which club to hit.   
 Q.  What did you think of the double green?  
KEITH MITCHELL: It's not really a factor because you're a wedge in one and 5-iron in the other.  No rough.  I think it depends, different areas it might be different but today it wasn't.   
 Q.  When you saw the tee times coming out you saw you're first off, did you think that was going to be an advantage given the weather and heat?  
KEITH MITCHELL: Definitely because of the heat.  But we are going to play in the afternoon tomorrow which looks like it's going to be just as hot if not hotter.  I'm glad we took advantage of our morning round today because tomorrow will definitely be a physical grind.   
 Q.  Keith, tell me about the 1st Round going low and especially the fact that each guy in your group was able to get to 6-under par in this 1st Round.  
KEITH MITCHELL: It was fun when that happens.  I think that's the first time something like that happened to me.  It definitely helps.  Lot of positive energy going around.  Took advantage of the morning conditions where there wasn't much wind.  I'm sure it's going to get a little bit firmer this afternoon but glad we did that.  Play in the afternoon tomorrow.   
 Q.  Your evaluation of this venue because not something we see on regular basis on the PGA TOUR.  
KEITH MITCHELL: I think it's fantastic.  Makes you play different golf shots that you normally wouldn't on a golf course where you try to hit it in the fairway and hit to the fat part of the green.   
You're trying to get angles on the tee, hitting different clubs off the tee depending on where the flag is on the green.  Some shots around the green you have to bump it instead of flop it.  I really like the way this course played because there's so many different options.   
 Q.  How much were you able to feed off of each other and each other's success?  
KEITH MITCHELL: It was fun.  I don't think I've ever had that happen to me in a tournament round out here on Tour.  There's a lot of positive energy going on so pretty easy to talk to the guys that are playing well because obviously are a little happier and not frustrated.  All three guys doing that, we had a great time out there just chatting and walking up the fairways.   
 Q.  What were your impressions of the course and the way it played today?  
KEITH MITCHELL: I thought it was awesome the way so many different options you could play off the tee, you were determining what the line was and that kind of figured out what club you were going to hit off the tee.   
You just like the way there's so many different ways to play this golf course because it really doesn't give any one person an advantage other than someone that has -- executes well and has great strategy.   
 Q.  You talk about so many options.  How do you not overthink and overanalyze when you're presented with so many choices?  
KEITH MITCHELL: You do a few times.  I just had a simple wedge shot from the left side of the fairway today and we were talking about slopes and where it falls off and the wind and how far we need to land it.   
That's what this golf course does to you.  You really need to have a game plan before you step on the tee and that helps you in terms of decision-making because, if not, there's so many different ways to play it you can get lost and end up playing the wrong shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT