LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 25, 2020
Danny Musovski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Los Angeles Football Club 2, LA Galaxy 0
Q. Can you talk about what kind of run you saw when you saw the ball get into the midfield and when you saw it go out and what went through your mind finishing that play?
DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Yeah, Diego got the ball pretty deep in our half.  Didn't get a lot of space to run it behind and he played a great ball.  I just looked up and saw the keeper was coming out.  So you know, in those scenarios as a striker, you know you need to chip that it's hard -- because you don't normally have a time to hit a window or hit a corner.  So I tried to lift it up and yeah, it went in.
Q. When we you got the goal obviously to win it, did it feel a little bit sweeter because of that and how pumped were you to get that goal today?
DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Of course, you know, whenever you can score in a derby game, that's big time.  We know that the fans want us to win this game so much and yeah, to get the goal to win the game and, yeah, it's a good feeling.
Q. You mentioned the fans.  I don't know if you were with them, but after the game, you went out to the gate area and acknowledged them, those that were outside.  How important was that for you guys and how much do you appreciate that there's still support and you're still recognized?
DANNY MUSOVSKI:   We appreciate that so much.  That was so awesome to see something like that.  There was so many of them and they were just cheering us and singing.  That was a special moment for me and for the team to, see that.  We've been missing their support.
Obviously you know the fans, they mean so much to this club and to see that, yeah, that was just a really special feeling.
Q. Congrats on scoring your goal today.  With so much offensive talent with this team, and obviously Bob Bradley came opponent here and talked about how great you are with both feet.  When did you find out you were going to start over BWP, who is essentially the start striker for this team?
DANNY MUSOVSKI:   We kind of pieced it together in training, but I find out the day before the game.  Bob was just down with the line, and so that's what I found out.
Q. What was your initial reaction when you saw your name on the starting lineup?  We know this is such an important game.  And second, the team has you, BWP, Carlos with a spectacular goal.  How important to have so many strikers and a good momentum for the whole team?
DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Now is when we want to hit our strides to get all these guys back from injury and international break, and the guys that were gone, contributing, we all want to be hitting on all cylinders right now.  Of course I want to start.  I think every player on the team, everyone in that locker room wants to start.  That's what makes training so competitive and that's what keeps a good environment on the team when everyone is competing and everyone wants to be the best.
Yeah, that's good, and we have a lot of offensive weapons on this team, and like I said, we want a good stride now when it's most important in these last few games and going into the playoffs.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT