LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 13, 2020
Danny Musovski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Los Angeles FC - 4, Portland - 2
 THE MODERATOR:   Danny, talk about, just to start off, you came in and scored your second MLS goal.  Can you kind of walk us through that play there?
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Yeah.  So Mark had the ball.  He got free in the midfield and I think he was looking to play Diego at first and Portland's defense did a good job of cutting that pass out and I just did a good job of holding my run and Mark played a good ball through and then I just wanted to slide it in the far right corner.
 THE MODERATOR:   Can you just, after, obviously, having a few losses, can you just talk about the mentality that overall the team took to come into this match and came out with the win, obviously.
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Yeah, I mean, I think Bob said it.  We just need to play through it.  That's the only thing we can do.  We were in a bit of a rough stretch and we just want to bounce back.  The only way you can do that is game by game.  So that's the only thing we can do and I think we did a good job of that today.
 THE MODERATOR:   Great.  Questions, please.
 Q. Congrats on getting your second goal.  Last time I asked you about your stock growing with scoring a goal.  You scored your second coming off the bench.  What's your mindset knowing that your role is going to be coming off the bench?  What's your mindset?
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   I don't think it's so much coming off the bench is my role.  I mean, I just, I think I try to play the same whether I'm starting or whether I come on the bench.  You just kind of give what's presented to you on the field.  So, yeah, I mean, I just take it like that.  And it's good when you can score goals as a forward, so, yeah, it helps with confidence and, yeah, just helps me want to keep doing that.
 Q. Wanted to ask you about your comfort level as you continue to practice with the team, playing games.  It looks like your holdup play is coming along and you're able to take advantage of some of the opportunities you've gotten in front of goal.
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Yeah, I mean, it always helps, like I said, to score.  It helps with the group.  And then part of it is in training.  I'm building chemistry each and every day.  So you get to know the guys, you get to know the players, what their tendencies are, what runs they like, so you kind of need to learn on the fly.  So that's what I'm trying to do.  And, yeah, but it's practice by practice and game by game type of a scenario.
 Q. What do you think was different in comparison to the last two games?
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   I'm not sure, to be honest.  I would say mentality.  We came out with a good mentality this game.  And then I think the second half we came out strong.  We wanted to get that shutout in the second half and we did.  That was a point that we stressed at halftime.  So but, like I said, it's game by game.  I don't really think that the adjustments were that much different compared to the other games, but, yeah, it was just a good mentality.
 THE MODERATOR:   All right.  Thank you.  And with that Danny, thank you very much.
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Thank you, guys.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT