LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 27, 2020
Danny Musovski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  LAFC 4, Seattle 1
 Q. Do you want to start with your overall thought on the match in?  To get a chance to get out there in this kind of game when it on the line, what did that mean for you, and talk about that goal that Diego scored near the end.
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Yeah, I mean, anytime you can come in off the bench, your job is to provide a spark for the team.
 So Bob called me in, I think it was around the 80th minute, and that's what I was think, bring high energy, press high up the field.
 And then yeah, Diego played the ball into my feet, and I knew he was taking off, so I tried to give him like a layoff and he did well with it and put it away in the back of the net.
 Q. I'm just curious, with so many moving parts in that attack, what is it like for you just being able to step in and just fill in holes, just being able to step in that transition and just really help out?
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Yeah, I think we have that team mentality that it's next man up.  We all train hard.  You know when your number is called, you have to go in and perform for the team.  There's no transition period.  We're in a tournament and this is a must-win game.  So everyone needs to step up.  And I know that being a center forward on this team, you're going to have a lot of chances with the midfield we have behind us.  They are so talented, they work so hard and their vision is so great.
 So I just know that if I put myself in those good opportunities, I'm going to get chances, so yeah.
 Q. I know you hold yourselves to a high standard and compare yourselves to what you're capable of, but how much of a factor is the idea of revenge for last year's playoffs going into this game?
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Could you repeat that?  I didn't hear you.
 Q. So I know you guys hold yourselves to a high standard on your own, but how much of a factor was the idea of getting revenge on Seattle for what went down last year?
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   That was a big thing.  I mean, he think we did try to treat it like any other game, but obviously with how last year ended, we did want a little bit of revenge.  I don't know if that's the right word, but we wanted to come out and get that one back, and we did.  And we came out, and it was good to get those goals at the end to kind of solidify that.
 Q. You're coming from a system that's pretty high-pace, as well, with Reno, the affiliate with San Jose, so you know how to play in that type of high-intensity, phrenetic type of press and attack.  What it like for you to come into this system with Bob Bradley, and playing with Reno, did that help you adapt quicker?
 DANNY MUSOVSKI:   Yeah, I can think that did help because we did press really high with Reno.  But here it's a different type of press.  There are little things hike that, that we had in preseason that we were working on, but at the end of the day the principles are the same:  Press high, step to the man on the ball.  It just little things that Bob asks differently than Ian Russell, my coach at Reno.  This transition has been good, but yeah, it has helped a lot coming from Reno with that high-press system.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT