DU MAURIER CLASSIC
July 29, 1999
A.J. Eathorne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  I am in a lot of pain.  It was too much in a short period of time.  By about the 6th or 7th hole, I figured out kind of a breathing rhythm thing where I could breathe in on the backswing and breathe out, kind of ended up sounding like Monica Seles at impact.  I don't know if anybody heard it. Seemed to work.  I think that is the plan for tomorrow.  My coach Dean was on the bag this week, and he said it sounded like it was a little bit of a Lamaze class out there: Breathe in, breathe out.  Okay.  Oh!  Okay.  So whatever works, I figured it out on the backside, managed to get a couple of birdies.  But I think we will just have to apply the same for tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Was there a time where you thought maybe you should pull out of this; in too much pain?
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  I am not one to give up.  It takes a lot for me to give up at any one time.  I knew there was something in there that I could pull out and get through, and I guess putting forth the challenge to me.  And I feel I have conquered it somewhat, being able to shoot 6-over on the front and then even on the back.  I am just looking to maybe improve that a bit tomorrow. 
 

Q.  I watched the 3rd hole, I mean, there was a couple where you couldn't get through.  It was painful.  You hadn't figured out the breathing by that point, I assume.  What was going through your head?
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  I was more thinking:  What are you doing?  It shouldn't hurt this much.  Or there has got to be something you can do, because we had worked on a few things yesterday in the trailer that strengthening the muscles and in a certain way that it won't hurt too much.  And I am trying to relax with the hands and the arms and let them go through.  But I think on the 3rd hole I was still trying to figure out how to get it in the fairway -- kept going into the rough, and beating myself up really.  I don't know, I think I had a few moments there where I thought:  Oh, I have got to pull out of everything right now.  I should pull out.  Then there is always the other part on my right shoulder saying:  No, it is okay. You've got to.  You can come back from this, no problem.  I think he won -- that side one. 
 

Q.  What does getting a deal like this mean as a player in terms of risk of feeling too comfortable with?  You have always been a real hungry individual.
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  This just make me more.  That way I get to continue on and pursue other aspects of professional golf.  I mean, going out and meeting more people in the women's clinics or maybe at tournaments or with juniors, that makes me hungry to give them my knowledge that I have right now and being able to spread it through to them.  That is a huge opportunity for me.  I guess I could say I like to talk; that is a great way to share what I have.  
 

Q.  Can you believe what sort of happened to you in the last 14, 15 months when you consider you just got out of school?
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  Yeah, a lot of my friends are a little shocked by it.  But I don't know, I guess I am lucky.  I have had a lot of good things happen to me the last year or so and I guess it came with hard work and I believe that I had a good attitude and good goals setting in order to get there.  So I just need to continue that and maybe another 14 months I will be that much better.  So I just keep moving in that direction. 
 

Q.  Impressed by the number of sponsors; it is kind of impressive...
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  I have got great agents.  They are wonderful.  (laughs).  They sell the good part of me.  No, I am quite happy with it.  They are definitely companies that I would want to associate with no matter what, as far as clothing, Roots Golf, I have always worn Roots clothing. Ping clubs, I have always played Ping.  They are kind of natural -- ClubLink is the next step, I guess, in my career that I can expand on not only play golf, but teach it and be part of a growing industry.  So everything is kind of natural.  I just happened to be there at the right time and be involved with some really big companies. 
 

Q.  You are not just representing; you are also a consultant; aren't you?
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  The Roots thing? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  Kind of like a test dummy, I guess you could say.  Does this fit?  No it doesn't.  It is good, it gives them an opportunity to try something out for a year; whereas they  -- in another year or two, we will say, okay, we have tried that out; we have tried that style and we know it works.  It was good for me.  It was good for them. 
 

Q.  The specifics of the deal, do you have the ClubLink logo on the bag?
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  For this year we are putting it on my, I think, left sleeve and for next year we will have it on the hat, the front location and the bag.  And, the bag this year too. 
 

Q.  Do you need a break?
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  Yes, I need a break.  I am taking next week off and not quite sure about the British, but I will see in the next couple of days how I feel. 
 

Q.  If you look at Lisa Walters' injury, does that concern you?  She wasn't expected to be out as long as she has been, was that --
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  It is a totally different injury, I think.  I know what mine is.  It is a lot of muscles and just needs rest, for them to settle down.  It is sort of one spasm after another through the upper back and lower back right now.  I think another a week or two off and some intense therapy will knock that out and I will be back. 
 

Q.  Mentally everything is okay?
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  Oh, yeah.  No problem.  It is fighting -- the two are fighting right now, but I think the mental part is  winning. 
 

Q.  Not bad for a test dummy.
 
A.J. EATHORNE:  (laughs). 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT