CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2007
A.J. Eathorne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   A.J. EATHORNE:  It was a bad day, but it's better to have a bad day on Sunday than have the whole weekend off.  I'm just happy to be done.  Unfortunately didn't play the way I wanted to.  My putter needs a stern talking-to.  I've tried everything.  I think I might try left-handed -- just kidding. 
 I'm just going to have fun, just keep going and hitting it well. 

 Q.  Started out well with a birdie on 3. 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  Yeah, I've been hitting it good.  I just for some reason fell apart for three or four holes there and went to tap it in on 18 -- 9, and just brain dead or something, missed the cup and had a double, and it was just too hard to come back.  I don't know really what happened. 

 Q.  Do you feel you lost a bit of an edge then after that? 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  Yeah, I think I started feeling a little bit of an edge, just a couple bogeys in a row gets you down.  You really want to get a good charge going, and who knows.  I think the inner body got a little hot, and I couldn't cool down enough. 

 Q.  Is it difficult on these greens, though, to get anything going?  They just seem to be beating the players down. 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  They're very tough greens, and they're putting some pins in places where they're on mounds.  They're tough putting out there, and I think everyone is having trouble -- well, everyone except Lorena.  She never has trouble. 
 Yeah, it's a great golf course and it's a tough challenge. 

 Q.  Do you feel like they're trying to figure out a way to challenge Lorena on the greens? 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  I don't know, it's hard to get her challenged, she hits the ball so close.  It's just a good test of golf out here. 

 Q.  How do you finish off your day now?  What do you do now? 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  I just have lunch and relax.  A bunch of us are on a flight at 6:00 and we head to Portland and get ready for the next week. 

 Q.  Will it be nice to come watch Alena, see how your -- 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  Yeah, we'll see if she can bring it home.  Obviously she's not for another couple hours, so I can relax and go shower and maybe pop on a couch somewhere and watch her where it's warmer. 

 Q.  Final thoughts on the Open here, how Edmonton -- 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  Edmonton did a great job.  CN put on a great event, and I hope for the Stollery situation, I hope everyone is doing their Miracle Match and putting their money in.  Again, CN has done a wonderful job putting it on, and Edmonton was a great host because you couldn't find better people than out here. 

 Q.  Do you think they could do anything better? 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  Make my ball closer to the hole, I don't know.  Make the cups bigger. 
 No, they've done a great job.  Maybe a little warmer, but we know we can't control that.  We always have fun up here in Canada, and I've heard nothing but great things. 

 Q.  On a positive note, you owned the third hole. 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  I liked the third hole.  I don't know why, I liked cutting over the corner and I got it going.  It's my kind of thing, I like hitting over stuff.  Hitting over trees or hitting through trees, I guess that's sort of my thing. 

 Q.  Do you know what your average drive was there? 
 A.J. EATHORNE:  Not really, no.  On the average I had -- I went for it a couple days and just laid up today, but obviously it was a good plan either way. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT