MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 7, 2005
A.J. Eathorne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  A.J., thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  Back to back 69's, you are 4 under.  We're going to play 36 tomorrow.
A.J. EATHORNE:  Perfect.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Before we take questions, take us over your round today.
A.J. EATHORNE: 
On No. 4, I had a birdie.  I had 9 iron in there, stuck it to about eight feet.

Then on No. 6, I had a 9 iron in there as well.  I got that to about eight feet, made that.

7, got to probably    only had a 85 yard sand wedge in there.  That was to about five feet, made that one.  And then, struggled along there.

I had a three putt on 12.  I hit a 7 iron in there.  Only 25 feet and just hit a bad first putt.  That wasn't very fun.

14, just a 7 iron in there short and chipped it to about five feet, again and just didn't make it.

15, had a lob wedge in there, only about 55 yards, put it to about five feet and made it.  That is it.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Talk about playing 36 tomorrow.
A.J. EATHORNE: 
36 is going to be tough.  If it does rain tonight I think it will be tough on the walk.

Last week we got a lot of rain in Nashville.  A lot of us noticed the rain softened this course up.  You have wash your feet the whole time.  I think I am in good enough shape.  People in good shape will hold it all through.  Hopefully you can pace yourself.
Q.  A.J., talk about how you were able to get it back together on 15.
A.J. EATHORNE: 
I think I started thinking ahead of myself.  That is one thing I have been working on a lot this year, to slow down and go shot for shot.  I felt comfortable out there all day.  I got quick on a few swings.  My caddy and I laughed and said "forget that."  Just enjoy it shot for shot and we happened to birdie that par 5.  After that it was like, "Okay, stop thinking.  Just enjoy it."
Q.
Is your caddy related to you?
A.J. EATHORNE:  She is actually a former player:  Lisa Kiggans.  She has been caddying a couple of weeks out just for fun.

We have had a great run so far.  She just caddied last week and this week.  Everyone keeps coming up to her and going, "It must be you, Lis, must be you."  No credit, no credit.

She just kind of ran out of steam, didn't want to play anymore.  This seems to be a little bit of fun for her.
Q.  Spell her name for us.
A.J. EATHORNE: 
Lisa K i g g a n s.
Q.  How did you hook up?
A.J. EATHORNE: 
She was on the Tour for 12 years.  We were best friends for probably six of those.  This is my 7th year on Tour, that makes sense.  Everyone says we look like sisters.  Our pony tails are the same.  Every week we get that.
Q.  Who was your caddy before that?
A.J. EATHORNE:  I kind of had a jumble of people, which is kind of fun and in the same respect it is tough, but it means to focus on myself and not to rely so much on a caddy.

I always get my own numbers.  I don't have to rely on somebody or rather blame them.  It is all my fault.  That helps a lot by putting the pressure on myself; you have got it, whatever you decide is perfect.  Just make that decision from the start.
Q.  When was the last time you came in?  I know it's been a while.
A.J. EATHORNE: 
It's been a while since I was in here.  You know, like I said yesterday, I have been working this winter on a few things.  My grip was a big change.  It was on of those things you can't get ahead of yourself.  It is a good change.  You have got to wait for it to catch up with you.  I try to be patient and practice hard and hopefully it comes and just hitting it well right now, like I said, just trying not to think anymore and letting it happen.
Q.  You mentioned being on Tour for seven years.  If you see your name on the leaderboard does that carry added pressure with it?
A.J. EATHORNE: 
 The last few tournaments I got up there a couple of times, you get the butterflies, and for some reason this week it feels okay.  It feels like the right place to be.  I am getting used to it, being up there every now and then, hopefully more this year and we will see where that takes us.

It is kind of fun seeing it up there.  It is fun when people watch you.  They say "I watched you all day today."  Usually that only happens in Canada.  It was fun out there today.
PAUL ROVNAK:  That is great.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT