MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 6, 2005
A.J. Eathorne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PAUL ROVNAK:  So you stayed dry, how nice is that?
A.J. EATHORNE: 
 Actually it's funny, there are a bunch of us staying in a condo and we felt sorry for these guys being out there in that.
Q.  Did you really?
A.J. EATHORNE: 
 We really did.  Actually I enjoyed my sleep in and all the rest of that.  I had to get up to see how much it was raining outside.

But you always know that    it is a long year and some days you are going to have the bad side of the pairings.  Fortunately I guess I got the good side and didn't have to get up and mud it around.  I am happy they got the opportunity to start again tomorrow.

If you have a good round, I had a good round yesterday, and you're kind of like, "Whew, this is exciting."  You know, it is a tough day for them, but you never want to hope bad on anyone.  So at least we get to start again tomorrow and just kind of keep playing.  It is a new day.  You never want to have anybody play in rain like that.  I am glad that they got to come in and dry off and warm up.
Q.  Now, you will like have 36 hours off.
A.J. EATHORNE: 
 Yeah.  That is fine.
Q.  It's kind of weird, isn't it?
A.J. EATHORNE: 
 Yeah, It is weird.  It is just like any other day; you have to focus and make sure that your game plan is the same.  Today it is more like it is a day off, so we'll do stuff that we normally don't get to do, like go shopping and watch movies.
Q.  What are you going to do?
A.J. EATHORNE:  Just do that.  I think there is a bunch of us going to shop and spend our non earned money and just take advantage of it.  Take a relaxing day go work out.  I don't know.  There will be some people that want to do that.  For the most part just relax and get focused again for tomorrow.
Q.  Since there is a break in the routine, do you lose focus at all or anything?
A.J. EATHORNE: 
 No.  No.  I am    you know, when you are off the golf course, that is what you don't want to do is focus on what your round is.  Today it seems like we should all be sleeping.  That is what the weather seems like, it putting us to sleep.  That is probably what half of us will do.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT