JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 29, 2008
Unho Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tell us about a very good day?   
 UNHO PARK:  I had a pretty solid ball striking day. Putted well apart from a couple of three putts from the edge of the greens but apart from that, I was really happy with how I hit the ball today.   
  
  Q.  What was the difference between today and yesterday?   
 UNHO PARK:  I Today, it was probably the same as yesterday. But I putted a bit better today and holed a couple of long ones. Pretty much the same.   
  
  Q. This is a bit of a change after last week's missed cut?   
 UNHO PARK:  Last week I played at the SAIL Open and missed the cut. I was struggling with my swing but since missing the cut, I've been working on my swing on the range and watched a few of the good players here. Watched Vijay Singh for a while and a couple of friends hit shots and I tried a few different things on the swing and it started working.   
  
  Q.  Does it help watching other players?   
 UNHO PARK:  I think it does. We've played golf a long time but you're always learning things. Things creep into your swing and they need ironing out. Sometimes you just need a little reminder.   
  
  Q.  Did you enjoy the opportunity to watch some of the to players at the range?   
 UNHO PARK:  Definitely.   
  
  Q.  Do you like the golf course?   
 UNHO PARK:  Actually when I played the practice round, I didn't like it too much as I wasn't hitting it that well. The fairways are rather narrow and the greens are quite similar to last week and I putted badly last week. I don't know, things just turned around. Hope I can carry on the last two days.   
  
  Q.  Is this course more of an American, European-styled course than your typical Asian course?   
 UNHO PARK:  A typical Asian course will be wet and soggy and you have to carry the ball most of the time. Here there is a lot of run out and it's good for guys like me who don't hit it that far. It evens out.   
  
  Q.  You are pretty good discipline wise and strategic wise?   
 UNHO PARK:  For the last couple of days, I have been. You never know what can happen at the weekend.   
  
  Q. You're not going to get ahead of yourself are you?   
 UNHO PARK:  I'm going to try not to. Temptations are always there, to take driver off at some tees and be bold at some putts. You just have to be disciplined.   
  
  Q.  When was the last time you were in contention?   
 UNHO PARK:  It was probably last year at the Johor Open. I was leading the second round as well. But I tripped like a dog. Hopefully that won't happen this week.   
  
  Q.  What did you change with your game after last week?   
 UNHO PARK:  I was watching Vijay on his backswing and he keeps his head really still. He doesn't sway or slide on the backswing and I tried to do similar like that as I move a lot on my back swing. I just tried to stay more steady and it's working.   
 Birdies   
 2nd - D, punch shot below branches to 3 feet   
 6th - D, 5w, 2 putts from 30 feet   
 7th - 3w, sw, 10 feet   
 9th - D, 8i, sw, 10 feet   
 10th - D, sw, 6 feet   
 11th - 7i, 7 feet   
 12th - 3-putt bogey from edge of green   
 15th - 3-putt bogey from edge of green   
 17th - 5i, sw, 5 feet   
 18th - D, 3i, two putts   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT