TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 31, 2019
Jordyn Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 45, Montana State - 10
Q. You shut them down early and basically the whole game. Can you talk about that?
JORDYN BROOKS: Yeah, I'm proud of the defense, the way we came out today. We had a couple hiccups here and there but overall I think we played pretty good defense.
Q. In terms of early on where the defensive line was kind of winning that battle in the trenches, how much did that help you guys momentum-wise just to set the tempo?
JORDYN BROOKS: It helped a lot because everything starts up front. So the better the D-line plays the better the defense plays so a big shout out to those guys up front.
Q. How much does that help you guys as a linebacking crew just knowing that you have those guys up in front taking up those spots, it kind of frees you guys up to make tackles as well?
JORDYN BROOKS: It's a confidence boost, just knowing that those guys are going to be where they need to be every play.
Q. (No microphone.)
JORDYN BROOKS: Yeah, that was predetermined. We just wanted to kind of confuse the quarterback where we were fitting or if we were bringing somebody off the edge or not. It's just something we do within the game plan.
Q. How well do you feel that the other team, their offensive line, will get you ready for conference play?
JORDYN BROOKS: Not sure. They kind of run a different style of offense than what we'll see in the Big-12, so we just got to keep playing.
Q. As far as defense though you guys did pretty well, you gave up a couple plays, what do you guys got to do differently to maybe get better for next week?
JORDYN BROOKS: We just got to watch film and learn from our mistakes and make sure we don't make them again.
Q. (No microphone.)
JORDYN BROOKS: He stepped up pretty big for us today. He was kind of banged up during fall camp and he had a kind of like ups and downs during fall camp but I think he did pretty good for himself today.
Q. Throughout camp you talked about the new guys and new workouts. How do you think it paid off in today's game?
JORDYN BROOKS: Knock on wood I don't think anybody got hurt. Just getting us stronger. Going in I think we felt the best that we have felt since I've been here at least and that's all that all goes to Coach Scholz and his staff and getting us prepared.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT