TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 26, 2019
Jordyn Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are you kind of expecting from Montana State this weekend?
JORDYN BROOKS: Just have after watching film with coach all week they do a lot of stuff on offense to really get you out of place, spread the defense out. So I just expect them to just do a whole bunch of trick plays or anything of that nature. Coming out fast.
Q. What's impressed you about Tyrique Matthews about camp?
JORDYN BROOKS: The most impressive thing is not what he's done on the field it's his approach to the game as a young'un guy. He's only been here for a couple months and since he's been here he's just been asking me questions about the defense, just been trying to get better and it's definitely showed up on film. I expect him to play a lot early in the season.
Q. You started off as a freshman just going out there. Have you given him any words of wisdom?
JORDYN BROOKS: I just told him to hold on. It's fast out there. That's why I told him, just stay watching film and get familiar with the play book, so it will slow down for you.
Q. What's the biggest benefit to playing alongside Riko?
JORDYN BROOKS: He's a smart linebacker. He really helps me out with getting the defensive front set and I think that his physicality in the game just helps a whole lot in the run game, it just makes our linebacker corp that much stronger.
Q. Is there just a different mood around the building this game week now, after you kind of been playing against yourself for months.
JORDYN BROOKS: Yeah, there's a lot of excitement around the building. Going through fall camp it can get easy to just come in here a little lollygagging or whatever. But it's game week, everybody's excited, I can't wait.
Q. From your perspective, after the first game what will be some things that you see either in film that will make you feel like the defense had at the end of the day?
JORDYN BROOKS: We got a blueprint, we measure our success. So if we hit those numbers and our goals that we set for this week, that's how we'll know.
Q. Coach said that you may be one of the most exciting things about camp has been the linebackers. What is it about that group that has really allowed you guys to flourish this year?
JORDYN BROOKS: I think it's just what we do, the system allows the linebackers to really play free and make a lot of plays across the field. And we have a lot of good linebackers. We got a lot of young guys, but they're catching on and it's really showing up right now.
Q. When you look at that quarterback/linebacker for Montana State, how much do you think back about playing against Joel Lanning at Iowa State and how do you use that to kind of strategize against this guy when he comes in?
JORDYN BROOKS: Yeah, it's kind of similar. Running quarterbacks. And going from linebacker to quarterback we have seen it before, so we should be prepared.
Q. Did you change anything about your, when it came to like nutrition or your training regimen or like working out this off season or has it been pretty standard to years past?
JORDYN BROOKS: No, it's definitely changed a whole lot. With David Scholz coming in here, at first I was kind of rebellious. The old staff, we just didn't have the same food in here, it was just a whole different diet and a whole different workout plan and it really changed my body. I feel the healthiest I've been since I've been here.
Q. Did they have a specific goal for you to get leaner or anything or just like a product of the strength and conditioning staff?
JORDYN BROOKS: Yeah, the goal was to get me leaner, staying around 235, 240 range. But the way we did that was we have skin folds, so it let's you know if you're eating junk or not based on the numbers and we did that the whole off season and that really helped me.
Q. Coach mentioned how you were kind of a quiet person off the field. How have you adjusted your, maybe the way you act at practice to embrace that leadership role you now have?
JORDYN BROOKS: Just understanding what position I'm in now. A lot of young guys on the team need somebody to look up to and they need to hear somebody speak up when it's time to speak up. That was something that I had to get used to with Dakota leaving, Jah'Shawn leaving, those were the guys that we were listening to, so now stepping into that role just getting adjusted to it right now, just getting started.
Q. What's the best advice that Dakota gave you about being a leader? What's the best piece of advice he's given you?
JORDYN BROOKS: He's just told me just lead by your actions really. Because like you say, I'm a quiet guy, so if they see you doing the right thing and being productive and producing, naturally they will follow.
Q. You mentioned the blueprint earlier and kind of certain numbers that y'all want to hit. Do those categories stay the same or is it specifically for your opponent?
JORDYN BROOKS: No, it's the same for every game.
Q. Can you share some of those categories?
JORDYN BROOKS: Yeah, we got TFL's, we want to get nine or more TFL's a game. We want to get five sacks a game. And we want to be 70 percent on third down. And in yards after contact -- all the things that lead up to success while playing good defense.
Q. Do you have a turnover mark or target?
JORDYN BROOKS: Yeah, we want three or more takeaways every game.
Q. With those blueprints so to speak is it a little bit different from last year because you kind of know what you're trying to get into or you know what those goals are going into the week.
JORDYN BROOKS: Yeah, I think it's really been productive because we celebrate our success as well. So any time we get a turnover or a TFL or a sack we call it out and the whole defense calls it out. And then I think just gets more players hyped and just we want to reach that goal. If we set nine this week, let's go get 10.
Q. What is it going to be like to finally get out on the field now and kind of go against someone else other than your teammates?
JORDYN BROOKS: It's going to be exciting, man. Being the last year, it is my last first game, first, last first opener here at Jones stadium. It it's going to be exciting, I can't wait.
Q. Going back to Dakota, do you guys talk a lot?
JORDYN BROOKS: Yeah, I talk to Dakota about it the other week. I seen him make a play against the Cowboys, blew somebody up in the back field. But, no, that's my guy, I just always ask him questions, just ask him how he's doing, he's one of my best friends.
Q. How is he doing?
JORDYN BROOKS: He's living the life, man. Living the life. Yes, sir.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT