TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2018
Jordyn Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jordyn.   
 Q.  Jordyn, give us your thoughts on Alex Barnes and that Kansas State run game.  
JORDYN BROOKS: I think they have a solid run game.  He's one of the better backs in the league in my opinion, so we definitely have to come prepared this game.   
 Q.  How do you think you did against the run this past week compared to Oklahoma a couple weeks ago?  
JORDYN BROOKS: Say again.   
 Q.  How do you think you guys did against Texas, against the run, compared to what you did against Oklahoma, and what you guys need to improve on going into this week?  
JORDYN BROOKS: I thought we improved from Oklahoma.  We just gotta take it one week at a time, just get better, because I think Kansas State has the second best O-line.  Oklahoma is first.  We have to come prepared.   
 Q.  Obviously it's tough not to have Dakota in the lineup, but what have you and Riko been able to do to step up for him in his absence?  
JORDYN BROOKS: Next man up mentality, and Riko knows that.  I think he's been prepared the whole season, rotating in and out with us, so it was nothing new.  I don't think we lost anything there.   
 Q.  You mentioned K-State's offensive line.  What about that group makes them a challenge?  
JORDYN BROOKS: They're big, experienced, strong, they got all five that came back from a year ago so they know what they're doing and they're disciplined so we have to be prepared.   
 Q.  For you individually how do you feel like you've progressed this year from last year, and even the year before?  
JORDYN BROOKS: I just think my -- mentally, you know, just knowing, my awareness, knowing what play is coming and little things like that, and that just comes from experience, you know, and coaching.   
 Q.  Jordyn, did you ever catch yourself and feed off the energy of opponents?  Are you talking to them or anything like that when you're on the road?  
JORDYN BROOKS: The opponent?   
 Q.  Yeah, do you ever talk to the fans or get energy from them trash talking to you or rooting for the other team, anything like that?  
JORDYN BROOKS: Definitely fans, on any road game they're going to talk, and it gets to you, but only thing you want to do is shut 'em up, and the only way you can shut 'em up is by going out there and playing hard and getting the W.   
 Q.  Why do you think the team has been better on the road than at home?  At least the results?  
JORDYN BROOKS: I'm not sure.  I don't know, it could be distractions, I don't know.  That's one thing we haven't figured out yet.   
 Q.  For a portion of this season especially early on, it was fourth quarter dominance for you guys, shutting out opponents completely in the second half.  That's changed significantly in the last few weeks.  What do you attribute that to?  Is it injuries?  Fatigue?  Opponents?  Is there something specific that is causing a let down in that second half?  
JORDYN BROOKS: I don't know.  That's not my job.  That's probably a question you've got to ask Coach.  I don't know.   
 Q.  You guys have had opportunities this year where you made a play but then had a penalty.  How do you internally correct that problem either in practice, out of practice?  That aspect of it that you can't necessarily do always in the game?  
JORDYN BROOKS: We just gotta control our emotions.  We've got a lot of emotional guys on the team and they take this game very serious.  We just gotta know when we're on the field we've got to control our emotions and play football.  That's it.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Jordyn.   
JORDYN BROOKS: Appreciate y'all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT