MLB WORLD SERIES: METS VS ROYALS
October 30, 2015
Ned Yost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York Mets - 9 Kansas City Royals - 3
Q. What did you see from Yordano?  Were you surprised at all to see his velocity that consistently low?
NED YOST: He just wasn't sharp today.  Fastball velocity was down.  Made a couple mistakes.  Made a mistake in the first inning with Wright on a fastball up.  The backup slider to Granderson.  It was just one of those days where he just wasn't sharp.  It was cool.  It was cold out there.  I don't know if that affected him.  He just wasn't sharp.
Q. Besides the cold there wasn't any cause to the velocity?
NED YOST: No.
Q. Nothing mechanical then?
NED YOST: Mechanical?  No, I don't think so.  He just wasn't sharp.  I didn't have any problem with his mechanics.  I thought at times he threw good curveballs.  I thought he was on line, wasn't flying open with his fastball, just wasn't sharp.
Q. Did you think there were a couple of times he got a little flustered?  I'm talking about mostly about not covering first.
NED YOST: Well, yeah, at that point in that game, you could tell he was starting to get a little flustered.  Started losing his focus and concentration at that point.  That's why we made the move.  We wanted to try and hold it right there.  And Duffy came in and did a great job at that point.
Q. From your vantage point what adjustments did Syndergaard start making at the end of the second and in the middle innings?
NED YOST: Who are you talking about?
Q. Syndergaard?
NED YOST: No, he just settled in.  I don't think he made adjustments.  We swing the bat really good against him in the first two innings -- if you're going to get a really good pitcher, you better get him early.  And we put some runs on the board against him early.  But he settled in.  He settled down and started throwing his secondary stuff for strikes and spotting his fastball better.
Q. Medlen can be your long guy sometimes.  It looked like tonight you were trying to cobble it together.  What went into your thinking with the way you decided to use your pen after Yordano went out so quickly?
NED YOST: Well, we wanted to bring Duffy in to get us through that inning.  And then run one-inning stints with Hoch, Morales, Madson and Herrera, hold the fort and see if we could score some runs down the road.  But that plan kind of fell by the wayside when Morales came in and ended up getting the bases loaded there, and we were still trying to hold the score at that point at 3.  So we double-switched there in case we could get out of that early with Herrera, and then send him back out.  Of course that didn't work either; Kelvin got his pitch count up and gave up another three runs.  And then it was trying to get through it.
Medlen can come in today and throw an inning, and still give us two or three innings tomorrow.
Q. What was your view of Granderson ball back to Morales?  What happened on that and how key was that?
NED YOST: Well, that was a key play.  That was a big out that we needed to get at that point.  We were going to bring in Herrera against Wright no matter what.  But we only wanted him to possibly go four outs in that situation, is why we double-switched.  Then Kel ended up going five.
But it was a ground ball right back to him.  And his instincts were right, he was going to turnaround and fire to second.  And again, I haven't talked to Salvy, but Franklin heard said he heard Salvy say "home".  So he stopped and turned and it was a mess from that point.
Q. How big was the replay overturn in that second inning on the play at third base?
NED YOST: Well, it ended up costing us a run; it was big.  But that's why replay is there, get those tough plays.  Those are tough for umpires to see.  It was a matter of inches.
So that's the beauty of replay, it gets those plays right.
Q. You were up 2-1 in the ALCS and then had a loss in the third game.  Do you feel the same, kind of moving on in the series, as you did in the ALCS?
NED YOST: I do.  We've all got a lot of confidence in our group.  We've got Chris Young going tomorrow and we feel good about that.  He's, again, the ultimate competitor.  Nothing is going to mess with him, the weather, nothing is going to mess with him.  He's going to go out and execute pitches and keep us in the ballgame until we get to our pen.
Our pen is in great shape.  Matz is going to be tough tomorrow.  Got a really, really good curveball and really good fastball.  But we're swinging the bats good.  So we're all really confident.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT