AL DIVISION SERIES: ROYALS VS ASTROS
October 12, 2015
Ned Yost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: First question, please.   
 Q.  Could you describe the mood in the dugout going into the 8th inning?  
NED YOST: Right now?  It's pretty joyous.   
 Q.  No, going into the 8 the inning.  
NED YOST: In the dugout?  It was fine.  The guys were -- the thing about this club is that they don't quit.  They don't.  And after giving up three runs there in the bottom of the 7th, they came in on fire.  Again, like they do.  Come on, let's go, good at-bats, let's start it moving.  On base, on base, on base, let's go, boys.  Let's get it going.   
That was an unbelievable inning.  I think we ended up seeing like 53 pitches in the 8th inning.  I mean, that just shows you the quality at-bats that we had, at-bat after at-bat after at-bat.  So it was a great inning right there.   
 Q.  Having most of those guys in the clubhouse having been through something like that before, it's got to help give them a little confidence?  
NED YOST: Well, I guess.  They're a confident group.  6-4 in the 8th inning doesn't look good, but it didn't it doesn't faze them.  They come in, they come into that dugout and they're on fire, they're ready to go.  Come on, you know, it's like it's a tie ballgame or we're down one.  It didn't matter.  They just come into that dugout ready go.   
 Q.  Of all the at-bats, there were so many, could you speak to Drew Butera's at-bat?  
NED YOST: That was a great at-bat right there.  Salvy got smoked pretty good in the face, and right in the spot where we kind of guard against, low on the chin.  He said he was fine, but that rings your bell a little bit.   
And then when he got hit by the pitch, I'm like, okay, that's enough beating for one day.  We can pinch-run and see if we can't make something happen here, but Drew Butera came in, not only did he catch great, but that was a phenomenal at-bat right there.   
 Q.  You have quality up and down the lineup, clearly, but to see Hoz break out in that inning and then hit the home run, how critical is that going to be heading into Game 5 on a Wednesday?  
NED YOST: It's big.  You keep looking at this group and our bats were really silent until the 8th inning, but having watched them as much as I've watched them, you know that sooner or later they're going to break out.   
You just know it.  You have confidence that sooner or later they're going to put together some hits and they're going to put some runs on the board.  And even though we were down four in the 8th inning, I felt real confident that we were going to make a game out of it.  I just felt that the bats were going to come alive, and they really did in the 8th inning.  I mean really did.   
Gordo's at-bat was a great at-bat.  To get the lead run there with Wade coming in to pitch the 8th and the 9th, we felt very, very confident at that point.   
 Q.  The day off tomorrow, did that allow you to use Davis for two?  Was that the idea?  
NED YOST: Yeah, yeah.  Well, the elimination game, we were going to do -- we looked at it, we were going to try to go two innings with Herrera or two innings with Madson or even two innings with Wade.   
We told all of those guys, hey, be ready to throw two innings today.  But the elimination, having Wade come out and get a six-out save gave us the best opportunity to win that game, and that's exactly what we meant to do.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.   
NED YOST: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT