MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ROYALS
October 28, 2014
Ned Yost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Who will be your starting pitcher in Game 7? 
NED YOST:   We'll start Jeremy Guthrie, and be backed up with everybody we've got.

Q.   Could you just talk about the significance of having your DH back, not only knowing that Billy's going to have regular at‑bats, but just that comfort of having that and not having to have your pitchers hit? 
NED YOST:   Well, it's a big comfort to us.   Billy is a big presence in that lineup offensively for us.   Right in the middle of the lineup, he's been a proven run producer.   It's just a big comfort level having him back in there.

Q.   Sorry to bring up bad memories, but you know from that '82 Brewers team that 3‑2 means nothing and there are no guarantees from what happened to you guys.   Have you used that as a message in any way to your players to show that, hey, don't take anything for granted or has it just been too painful? 
NED YOST:   No, '82?   I'm trying to think.   We ended up going back to their home park, so it's different.   It's not the same.   I'd be maybe slightly more concerned if we were going to San Francisco, but we're not.   We're here in our home park, where we have a real comfort level.   We have Ventura on the mound.   We like that.   We've got Billy back.   We've got Nori's offense back, so we're just going to go out and play the game.

Q.   Since there is no tomorrow, if you will‑‑
NED YOST:   There is tomorrow.

Q.   Okay, good.   All right.   That's great.   How does that impact how you work tonight? 
NED YOST:   It's not going to impact anything.   We're going to go just like we've been going this whole playoffs.   We're going to do anything we can do to win a ballgame.   Nothing's going to be different.   We're not holding anybody back.   We'll just go, we go.   If we have to use Herrera for six outs, we will.   If we have to use Davis for six outs, we will.   And they'll be ready to bounce back tomorrow.

Q.   How much will a dry infield have an impact on you guys? 
NED YOST:   Well, you know, it will have an impact.   The reason I say that is because I think somebody said that the reason the infield was so wet is because the Giants infielders like it like that.   They like it soft.   When I went back yesterday and really reviewed those two plays from Escobar, both of those balls when they hit, Esky's used to playing on a little bit firmer infield, and when I walked around on that infield, it was soft.   But it doesn't have anything to do‑‑ it's the way they like it.   It's the way their infielders like it.   Not a lot of bounce in it.   Ours is a little bit firmer. 
I think both of those balls Esky expected for it to hit and bounce up, like it normally does.   But both balls, I watched them really close, slowed them down, both balls hit and stayed down. 
So it's going to help us in that respect defensively, and it's going to help us, because we've got a firmer infield, firmer basepaths with our base‑running.

Q.   What did you do with Moustakas in the lineup?   What is your lineup, and why did you make the choices?
NED YOST:   Why did I make the switch? 

Q.   When you said yesterday you hadn't decided. 
NED YOST:   No, we just moved him up one spot to the 8th.   He had been hitting 9th in this lineup.   It's the exact same lineup we've had during that stretch, but we just put Moose in the 8th spot, and moved Omar down to the 9th.

Q.   Ventura's over 200 innings for the first time, and swing‑and‑miss fastballs, maybe he had a couple in the game against San Francisco.   Not that he has to pitch backwards, but how important is it to command his secondary pitches tonight? 
NED YOST:   It's going to be important, but every time he steps on that mound it's important.   All Major League teams can get to the point where they can time a 100‑mile‑an‑hour fastball.   So in order to keep them off balance, you have to mix in your secondary pitches.   His changeup is very, very good.   His curveball is very good.   It's just going to be an issue of commanding it.   You don't have to command it a whole lot.   You've just got to get it in the back of their mind that hey, it's there.   He can throw it. 
If he's not throwing it for strikes, his changeup and his curveball, a lot of times good hitters like the Giants will eliminate the two pitches until he proves to them that he can execute those pitches. 
But if he starts the game early and can throw a couple of strikes with those pitches, it's still going to be in the back of their mind that, hey, that's a weapon we've got to watch for.

Q.   You said you wouldn't treat the game any differently, but would this be a scenario that would be different for Ventura than it would have been in Game 2 here in Game 6, as far as taking him out sooner? 
NED YOST:   It just depends, yeah.   I don't think we allowed Ventura to go farther than he needed to go in Game 2.   We took him out with the lead as soon as things started to get a little dicey.   Same thing's going to happen tonight.   We'll go as far as we can, depending on score and depending on how he's throwing.   I'm not saying he might not end up going 6 or 7 innings.   Who knows?   You have to go and evaluate how he's throwing, how his stuff's coming up, how is he executing his secondary stuff, and what is the score and then go from there. 
Hopefully if you have a two or three‑run lead, you get a little more leeway to wait an extra hitter or two.   With a one‑run lead, you're going to have to act quick, depending on how he's throwing.   But, no, we're going to evaluate pitch to pitch.

Q.   I realize a lot of pitchers are helped by having so many off days in October.   But how much do you think it's helped Salvy, who had a pretty heavy workload this year, to have some time off this month? 
NED YOST:   Well, it's helped Sal.   It's helped Sal, it's helped Cain.   It's helped Infante, those guys.   They play every day.   I'm sure the Giants are like us.   You know, you go down every player and everybody's got little nicks and dings this time of year that they play through.   But the extra day just gives them time to come in, rest their bodies, get treatment, and be prepared for the next day.   It helps.   It helps a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT