AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ROYALS v ORIOLES
October 15, 2014
Ned Yost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did Salvy take a hit off the thumb?  
NED YOST:   Foul ball off his thumb.   
   
 Q.   He's okay, because he's in the lineup?  
NED YOST:   Yeah, he's fine.   
   
 Q.   He got hit in the head again by a follow‑through yesterday, twice now.   
NED YOST:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Does he sit up closer to the plate?  
NED YOST:   No, just long back swings.   Just long ‑‑ guys are finishing long in the back end.   Just one of those things.  
   
 Q.   When you're looking at pitchers who you think would be good relievers, a guy like Wade, beyond his stuff, what do you look for?  
NED YOST:   I look for his competitiveness.   I look for his composure.   We had Wade last year as a starter and right at the beginning of September we moved him to the pen because we thought that he would be good out of the pen.   And his stuff jumped from 91, 92 to 96, 97 miles an hour.   
But he's a guy that just comes in and goes right after you with his stuff.   And it was funny, because we made some roster manipulations last year and sent Wade down to the Minor Leagues there for a couple of days.   And we told him we were going to do it as a reliever, and we wanted him to throw two innings.   He said, I just prefer to throw one inning.   Why?   Because when I get in reliever mode, he said, I'm on full attack.   I come at you with everything I got.   I want to get my arm used to that.   I said, All right.   
He went down.   He threw two appearances and came back throwing 96, 97 miles an hour and was just phenomenal.  
   
 Q.   When you talk about the stuff playing up, is that much of a play‑up, is that uncommon?  
NED YOST:   No, if you have it it's pretty common.   Guys that can come in and they don't pace themselves for 7 or 8 innings, they know it's going to be a one‑inning stint and they give you everything they've got.   
   
 Q.   How does the 3‑0 lead impact you in any way as far as pulling a starter or relief use, does it impact in any way?  
NED YOST:   Well, you know, we were talking about that today.   It's going to impact probably the relievers a little bit more.   I think in games like last night we probably, with two days off, would have went to Herrera for ‑‑ Herrera, Davis, even Holly if we were down one or maybe even down two.   I don't think we can afford to do that today, take a chance of something happening and having them three days ‑‑ pitching three days in a row.   So it might impact there.  
But outside of that, probably nothing, nothing else.   
   
 Q.   Jeremy is coming in here later presumably to talk about the T‑shirt that he wore last night.   Do you have any opinion on that as far as ‑‑  
NED YOST:   I didn't even know about it, to be honest with you.  
   
 Q.   You don't know anything about it?  
NED YOST:   No, the first thing I heard about it was today and I didn't really delve much into it.   Jeremy came in, he's going to come in and talk to you guys about it.  
   
 Q.   Have you just sort of enjoyed the way your players have sort of kind of reveled in this moment?   Dyson said some things.   They haven't really shied away from being confident publically.   
NED YOST:   I don't know if I revel in it.   I think some of the stuff gets a little overblown, but that's the way it is this time of year.   And our guys are confident and they're loose.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT