HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 28, 2018
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You started incredibly but the wind obviously started picking up.  Your thoughts on the round?  
GREGORY HAVRET: It was a tough day, definitely.  It was even a bit windy this morning but for sure it was even harder in the end and those last holes are really nasty.  That's a hell of a finish.  That 15, and that 16, plays so hard today, I'm wondering that the score is on the edge of that hole, that flag, close to the water and left is no good, too, and the chip could easily go to the water.  That's what happened with Brandon Stone today.  That's a very hard finish.   
I didn't manage to finish really well but I guess those two bogeys are -- that 3-putt on 14 cost me a bit but the rest was definitely decent.   
 Q.  Must have felt like the fifth major having the French crowd around you?  
GREGORY HAVRET: We always say for sure Wentworth is the fifth major but for sure that one is close to me, and course-wise, it's just amazing to play such a good course.   
The course is tough, for sure, but it's very fair.  As soon as you hit a good shot -- you can't get away.  It's not because there's water on the left that you can't play right now.  You can't play right.  You just have to make a great shot on the fairway.   
And even small holes like 15th or 10 are really hard if you don't put your ball on the fairway.  So you have to play your shots and you have to play good.  That combination, of course, we are all looking for that but it's very fair and we love it.   
 Q.  You're probably a few shots back from the last four or five holes, but where you're standing at the moment, we're not going to see an opening 65 like we did last year.  It's probably going to get tougher?  
GREGORY HAVRET: Well, we never know if Thorbjørn Olesen is playing -- I'm joking.   
For sure, it's a hard course, but whenever in red you finish with, you have to be happy and for sure if you can score in the 60s, that's awesome.  Best score so far is 4-under.  That's a big test, and this afternoon will be very hard with hard greens, definitely firmer than this morning.  The greens were really good, too.  The setting is very good.  Scoring is not so good but it's normal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT