BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 29, 2014
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It's been a slow season so far, and that's just much more like it.   
GREGORY HAVRET:   Definitely, yeah, thank you.   It's definitely a good week and those three rounds were really, really good.   I had a slow start, 1‑under the first day, but Friday, Saturday and Sunday were really good.   My game is really sharp now.   I struggled in the beginning of the year definitely.   When you start to struggle a bit, things in mind, doesn't help.   But since five weeks, it's better, making cuts, and then this week is obviously much better.   And yeah, I don't know why.   
   
 Q.   You've gone to the Kuchar putting method.   How much of a difference has that made?   
GREGORY HAVRET:   Since I've used that putter, which is obviously a great putter, I didn't miss a cut yet, and my results are definitely better.   My game is better for sure and my driving stats are really good.   But the putting changed a lot since a month and a half now, so I don't want to talk too quick.   I feel definitely great with this technique.   Yeah, it will stay in my bag for a little while, that's for sure.  
   
 Q.   There's a fair chance you might have a playoff; how do you prepare yourself for that?  
GREGORY HAVRET:   First of all, I'm going to give probably a couple of phone calls, probably be very happy for me.   It's been a hard time since a few months golf‑wise.   I'm getting married soon, so this is great, just before that.   So it's obviously the very, very first thing I will do and then go watch a bit on TV what's happening because there's a few boys out there that can still shoot a few birdies to finish.   But yeah, hopefully it's a strong finish.   17 is a testing one.   You want to go for it; it's a smelly one, and 18 is definitely a strong hole.   Yeah, I will watch it on TV for sure.   
   
 Q.   Could be a great summer for you and France and the World Cup.   
GREGORY HAVRET:   Definitely, yeah, France looks great.   Didn't look that great in the beginning of the year, as me.   I think they were great and yeah, they play tomorrow and I won't miss that one for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT