JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 27, 2009
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You led this championship from start to finish last year and you're at it again. What's going on?
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Well, good question. I don't know, it seems to be good around here. Yeah, I feel nice. I played really good all day long. My driving was really, really consistent and that was definitely the key, as I said yesterday to one of your friends. It's obviously a very good test as a driving course, and if you don't miss any fairways, you have a good chance to go low, and that's what happened today.

 Q. A new driver in the bag, as well, I understand?
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Absolutely, the new G15 has been really good on the range, straightaway on the first, three, four balls, I remember a few years ago talking with Barry Lane [] he was saying when you try a driver on the first, three, four, five holes, you know it's the one or not. And it was absolutely the thing. I hit some great shots and I put it in the bag and since I'm driving fine but it's only three days, we'll see.

 Q. Do you have good memories when you drive into the gate at Gleneagles having won last year, can you feed off those memories?
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Of course, it was great. I started nicely. A little bit nicer than today, 5-under, if I remember well. 
 Yes, it's obviously a great feeling to play as defending champion and to play a course which you won before the year before, which is even better. I feel good. The greens, it's tough for them. I think it's been two weeks in a row raining every day, so they are bumpy. The guys this afternoon will probably struggle a bit, but it's a great championship course and I really love it, yeah. 

 Q. It's been a very poor year by your standards. What's been the problem?
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Well, some winter problems, golf was one of them, but that was not the only thing. I don't have any excuse but it's been tough. We are working on the golf course and on the range to find the nice keys to come back on form, as I said before, my driving has been bad and when you drive bad, you just struggle a lot on The European Tour to make some decent scores. Sometimes you fight and you save 2-under, 1-under, but you can't go low and you can't win a tournament. 
 So step after step, probably a step today was today, and I hope it's going to stay in the bag and my confidence will stay. As I said to one of your friends again, I try that, two days, the rest of my life, the first day of the rest of my life, they say that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT