JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 29, 2008
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That round had just about everything, eagles, birdies, pars, bogeys, doubles; how do you think about it overall?
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, it was a funny day today. Definitely, well, less funny than yesterday because my day was really good yesterday, it was 5-under but my 2-under today was a bit strange. I doubled 15 and eagled the next. You miss a small one and you hole a 15-metre one after that. It's strange. 
 I missed two small putts, that's the only bad point today but the rest was fine, and it's good. 

 Q. Tell us about the greens this afternoon, because the players this morning said they were a little bit better than yesterday. 
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: They are bumpy for sure. I don't know if they are as bumpy as yesterday afternoon. Yeah, for sure you know you are going to miss some if you have many 3-, 4-, 5-footers, but it's like this, it's not as bad as it can be sometimes on the year, but yeah, for sure, you have to put the first ones quite close to put the pressure away for those putts, it's very important. 

 Q. You told us about the nice long holiday you've been taking; are you surprised to be leading the first week back out? 
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, I have to say pretty much. I never stopped and had a break for five weeks. I didn't know how to feel coming back here, and practising, and I was doing well, but I had no idea it was fitting on the course. It fits pretty well. 
 I hope it's going to keep going like this, but yeah, I'm quite surprised to be honest. 

 Q. Tell me about an adventurous round, if you would, because there was a mix of everything there. 
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, there was a mix of everything, especially the very first hole. I shanked my second shot very, very badly and I made a very nice five. 
 And then another bogey and a nice birdie on the 9th to come back and then the up-and-down on 11. And then a very nice birdie and holed a bunker shot. 
 Yeah, it was a funny day. Those easy shots -- when I say easy, it's never easy, but I pretty much missed them, and those other ones, was a lot better. Yeah, that's the way it is. It's a funny day, and I hope for more funny days in my career. 

 Q. A particularly funny moment for you, not at the time but a double-bogey followed by eagle, which is pretty astounding. 
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, that's all good golf. I 3-putted from about three metres on 15, easy first putt. Hit it straight, smashed it and then I missed the other one.
 And then I'm coming to the other green on 16, and I have a 15 metres, impossible -- well not impossible but left-to-right and slope and I holed it. 

 Q. You always strike me as pretty relaxed but you seem more laissez-faire after five weeks off?
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, I enjoy my life and I enjoy golf a lot. I'm just very pleased to play fine. I missed only two or three cuts this year. I only have one Top-10. I haven't struggled but I would like to play a little bit better. For sure I don't have those bad moments you used to have in the past six, seven years when I usually miss ten, 15 cuts in a year. 
 Yeah, for sure it's an improvement, and that's probably why I'm quite happy, too. 

 Q. Am I quite right to presume there are no expectations from yourself coming into this week after the break?
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: No, absolutely, I'm quite surprised to be in this position leading now. Maybe not at the end of the day, but 7-under is a good score. Yeah, I couldn't see that coming here for sure. I had a big break, five weeks and I didn't really practise much, just five games with my mates, and I come and here we go and I'm leading after two rounds. 
 Yeah, it's strange and sad, also, because sometimes you practise hard, you do everything you can, and those guys who at the end of the year missed their card struggle badly. It's so hard to perform well, there's no proper solutions. That's the very hard point. 

 Q. There is no formula for it, is there; if it was written down, we would all be doing it. 
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Absolutely, and it's also all about this game. It's big fun, because you don't know really what is the very good way to go, the very good way to practise, the very good way to think, and all you can do is try your best and be 100% of what you are doing, because you have to trust in yourself. That's what it's all about, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT