JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2008
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thanks for joining us. Your love affair with Scotland continues. Tell us about the round today.   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: I played really solid golf. Especially on like 4, 5 and 6 especially but also No. 17 I birdied. I didn't really play well the easiest ones, but, well, that's the way it was today. I had a five-week break and playing like this.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: How about in the conditions, a good score?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, the wind was blowing very hard since six this morning, probably all night. It's a good round.   
 It's a tough course. It used to be easy with the par 5s, and now it's a tough one. The conditions are quite strong, yeah. It's a nice score, yeah.   
  
  Q. What is it that the Scottish air that gives you?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Oxygen? Whiskey? I don't know, it's tough to tell. I really feel good, for sure.   
 Well, we'll see. It's only one round. It's still a long way to go, but yeah for sure I feel good here and it's so enjoyable to play good around here, yeah.   
  
  Q. You enjoy whiskey?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Sometimes I enjoy it, yeah.   
  
  Q. Any particular one?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: No, not really.  
  
  Q. But not today.  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: No, no, obviously. (Laughing)  
Q. Why did you wait so long to start playing golf?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, I had a nice run at the end of The Open, four cuts in a row, nice finish at The Open, top 20 and I felt like I really needed a break. I wanted to take four weeks off, but at the end of the fourth one, I felt like I needed another one to enjoy my family and the summer in France.   
 I was not also really playing good with my mind, and I thought it was probably better to stay home instead of going because I have to go. I thought it was better to stay and enjoy the family and everything, and go and play the other ones with a free mind.   
 That's why I haven't played the KLM; that's why I pulled out. But of course, if I would have played like this last week and I keep going like this this week, I might regret things. But I enjoyed it a lot today. There's still a long way, way to go to finish this tournament first. And yeah, I probably played good, also, because I took a nice break.   
  
  Q. A lot of guys are focused on their careers, but putting your family first --  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, since I have my little girl, things are a bit different. I try to be very much in my golf when I play golf and I try to be very much in my family when I have some break. That's the difference with before, because before I was also a lot into golf during my breaks, and now, yeah, for sure, I'm changing things. I'm also a little bit older and I have this goal to enjoy my family and see as much as I can, my little one.  
  
  Q. Did you play any golf during the five weeks?  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: I played five rounds of golf, so one a week. I haven't played much. I usually play a lot. I love golf. I really enjoy so much this game. As soon as I'm home, I like to go and play golf; I love it.   
 This time I tried to focus for on my family and normal things, like you know, dinner or afternoons on the beach with the little one, and those things, I missed a bit since a while now.   
 Yeah, I've done those things differently this year, and yeah, it was nice, too.   
  
  Q. How many children do you have?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: A little girl, two and one months.   
  
  Q. Who do you play golf with at home?  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: My friends are pros, most of them are in between -- the worst is probably two handicap, and they are teaching pros, from amateur career. Now they are not anymore golf professionals, just teachers.   
  
  Q. When did you first play here --  
GRÉGORY HAVRET: It's a very good question, and I think it's probably -- your question is funny, because it's probably here with the golf foundation, 15 years ago, the World School Championship. We stayed at the Gleneagles Hotel. Yeah, I think it was 15 years ago. It was '93, so, yeah, 15 years ago. I think it was my first time here.   
 Yeah, that's funny.   
  
  Q. Where did you spend the five weeks?  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: During the summer, I was half the time in Provence near Marseilles, and the other time in La Rochelle. I was born in La Rochelle, so my family has a little house on an island, Oléron, I don't think you know, but it's a very nice house near the beach.   
 It's also nice because the few times I practise in La Pree-La Rochelle, a links course, and it was windy like this all the time, so lots of low stuff.  
  
  Q. And what's your daughter's name?  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Jeanne.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thanks for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT