IRISH OPEN
May 17, 2008
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GRÉGORY HAVRET: A very good score, early in the morning but it was probably a little better condition after the rain last night, greens were a little bit softer.   
  
  Q. 14 and 15 in particular --  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, I first 3-putted the 12th, so I was a bit disappointed, but the score was very good at that point. So I kept my nerves on, and it just went very well after that because I obviously birdied the next three holes.   
  
  Q. Do you see a significant difference in how the course is playing?  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, I think it's easier. I'm sure you'll see some better scores. The wind is the same as the other days, but they are a lot softer and that makes it easier.  
  
  Q. The weather forecast, things are expected to change slightly in the afternoon; do you remember should put you back into contention for the weekend?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, if conditions stay like this, I'll be probably Top-10 or better.   
  
  Q. Obviously disappointed with the last?  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, I am. It's amazing how sometimes things are getting together and I fight it a lot for 77 and today I missed that putts and other putts, like on 6, I missed probably a 4-foot putt and 3-putted the 12th, so it was nearly a huge score.   
 For sure to finish like this, it's a little bit disappointing.  
  
  Q. With the rain are the greens more accessible?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: They are, for sure. The wind is the same, maybe not the same direction but not as strong winds. But with the rain last night it makes it easier.  
  
  Q. You had a good result last week; do you feel your game is starting to peak?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, yeah, I saw my coach on Tuesday in Italy. I was playing very bad at that point and in ten minutes he saw the thing and since then -- just a few things, on the posture, just before the swing on the routine. I had not seen him months before that.   
  
  Q. Ten minutes, that's all it took?  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, amazing.   
  
  Q. And you pay him well.   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Probably very good.   
  
  Q. Wasn't this weekend last year that you were in the bull ring? It was about a year ago, wasn't it?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, it was nearly a year ago, yeah.   
  
  Q. But you're not going to do it again.   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: No, no, I have something else.  
  
  Q. Your regular caddie, what happened to your caddie?   
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: He woke up very badly on Thursday, nearly didn't get here that day, but just did the job and went to the hospital after that. He felt very bad. He wanted to be fine for Wentworth and not risk it, so he took this weekend off.   
  
  Q. French doing well in Ireland --  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: Yeah, 3-2, French is leading. It's been a good start and it was nice for us, it is getting better and better, we are 12 in the tournament. Yeah, it's good to see us there.   
 Michael (Lorenzo-Vera) is a very talented player, very natural guy, very feeling guy. He is a very nice guy, too. He nearly has his card today, it's a huge start with his performance in China.   
 I think he will do well in the future. I hope this week, this year, and he will be very good, yeah.  
  
  Q. What happened to your caddie?  
 GRÉGORY HAVRET: I don't know, he woke up, foot on the floor, it was painful that day and not yesterday. Strange night.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT