ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously a tinge of disappointment with the way you finished, however, would you have taken 65 when you teed off this morning?  
GREGORY HAVRET: Oh, yes.  Big time.  I didn't sleep very good.  I was 99 before playing this morning and I knew top 40 or top 35 will secure my job for next year.  It's obviously a job for next year that I have right now.  I'M not happy with this double-bogey, but it's probably the best double-bogey of my life.   
I felt some pressure, of course.  I lost a bit of points with this one, but the rest of the day was so good, I can't complain.   
 Q.  The eagle on 9, what was going through your mind?  
GREGORY HAVRET: Well, good question.  I was playing well and putting was obviously good, too, and I felt good.  I was just thinking, just keep going.  If you can do 5-under the front nine, why not kind of the same one on the back nine, and that actually nearly happened.   
That very last hole was a bit of a very bad drive but the rest was quite pure as the front nine.  So that was really good.  I was 8-under playing the last one.  It's not an easy hole but you expect at least a decent drive to stay on the grass and be able to play your second shot, but I snapped it out-of-bounds.  It's like that but all day long was quite good for sure.   
 Q.  Having bogeyed 10, how pleased were you the way you bounced back the next few holes?  
GREGORY HAVRET: Yeah, bogeyed 10.  A very good shot, a very good second shot on 11, AND a good, 12-, 13-footer there.   
Those two holes, 12 and 13 are not the easiest.  I was quite happy playing 14, not bogeying the 13th before, because it was my tough hole since the beginning of the week, and I had an eagle there and a very good 8-iron on the 15th for another birdie.  Yeah, I was doing really well.   
Till the end, I thought I could reach the top five, six, but well, it's maybe a Top-20 which is not that bad after this morning.  After this bad night, it's all good for sure.   
 Q.  Assess your performance for the week, bearing in mind the position you're in coming into the week.  
GREGORY HAVRET: I'm on a run of six, seven tournaments in a row.  I wasn't playing bad at all for the whole year but I had no Top 10s and that was the big trouble.   
Coming here, I knew I had two tournaments to keep the card.  99 was not good enough at the time because I knew Marcus Fraser and Matt Wallace and some other ones were playing well, and so I had to do something and top 40 was my target.  We have next week, but as we know Valderrama is kind of a monster, and you want to secure things before playing Valderrama.   
Yeah, I was quite under pressure, but as I was under pressure the last week and the week before and the week before again.  I wanted to have this very good round on the Sunday to make the breathing a little bit better, and it came today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT