DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 27, 2006
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SCOTT CROCKETT:  Gregory, many thanks for coming in and joining us.  An excellent round this morning, seven birdies, no dropped shots.  I think you said the putting was very good.  Was that the key to your round today?
GREGORY HAVRET:  Well, yeah, definitely putting was very good all day long.  I didn't hole any big putts, but I never missed any putts under three meters, two and a half meters, which is very important obviously.  The errant shots were also pretty good.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Just give us the details of your seven birdies.  You birdied the 1st.
GREGORY HAVRET:  Yeah, birdied the 1st.  I hit a 3 wood and a pitching wedge about three meters and I holed it.

Par 5, 3rd, I hit a drive on the left, I laid up, I had a nice pitching wedge about two meters and I holed it.

Short hole, 5, the par 3, I hit a very good 6 iron about one meter and a half and I holed it.

Next par 5, bad drive on the left, missed the green on the right with a 6 iron, nice chip about a meter and a half and I holed it.

8 was a good tee shot with a rescue and 9 iron about two meters and a half left of the hole, and I holed it.

11 was a bad drive on the right, fantastic 6 iron about less than a meter pin high on the left and I holed it.

17 was a nice drive but a little bit in the rough on the left, 6 iron behind the green, then I got up and down from there.
Q.  How long was the putt on 11?
GREGORY HAVRET:  Well, a meter.
Q.  There's a lot of good scores out there.  Is the course playing that much easier than certainly last year, and is it playing    with the weather is it playing very easy?
GREGORY HAVRET:  Well, it's playing definitely a little bit easy because the conditions are very good and the greens are not very bouncy like you can expect on this kind of weather.  They pitch very well, so you can play the flags every time, which is very important if you want to play low.

Also, the fairways are quite wide, so it makes the driving a little bit easier because they bounce too much right or too much left when you miss, so that's very important.

Also the roughs are a bit burnt.  They are not very thick, so even if you are in the rough, in decent rough, if you don't miss too badly, you still have nearly every time an opportunity to go to the green.  It makes the course a little bit easier when you play well.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  You have a new caddie this week.  I think he was with you when you won.
GREGORY HAVRET:  It's a funny story because I won in 2001.  He was a friend of mine, then he stopped because he was just a friend and he was there just for a week, so we won together.

Then for four and a half years I had another caddie, English guy, and this guy stopped a week ago, so this friend came back, and it's the first week since Italy, so it's a little bit of a mystery.
Q.  What's your friend's name who's caddying for you?
GREGORY HAVRET:  It's Arnaud.  His name is very complicated.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  And of course you have a new daughter, as well, as well as a new caddie?
GREGORY HAVRET:  Well, which is more important than a new caddie.  Yeah, I'm a father since 23 days now, so I'm, of course, very happy of this.  A new life starts for me.
Q.  What's your daughter's name?
GREGORY HAVRET:  Jeanne.  I spell it J e a n n e, the French way.
Q.  As in Jeanne Moreau, the actress?
GREGORY HAVRET:  Absolutely, you're right.
Q.  Your form this year, I think you're 99th at the moment on the Order of Merit.  Have you been getting a bit concerned about the card?
GREGORY HAVRET:  Well, when you don't have the card you have to be a little bit concerned because when it's not done, it's not done.  So you have to make enough work to get it.  Of course it's somewhere in the mind, but it's not something I'm always thinking.

It's very important, but my goal was at the beginning of the year and is still today to get in the Volvo Masters.  I know I'm a little bit away from that, but if I keep playing like I played today, keep putting like I did today, this goal is very reachable.  That's the very first thing in my mind, but for sure it was a special year.

I finished 45th last year, so it was a very good year.  The year is nearly finished and I'm 99th so it's not very good until now, but for sure this birth was something very new for me, so I always expected that quite a lot.  It's not at all an excuse, but it's something very, very different for me.

Yeah, the Volvo Masters is not that important as last year because more important is the family, of course.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Gregory, well done today.  Good luck the rest of the way.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT