DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 22, 2004
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  A round of 68 and no problems with the 18.  You must be very pleased with the way you handled last night and recovered and came back to go from three behind to leading by two shots tonight.
GREGORY HAVRET:   Sure, sure.  Yesterday I was disappointed, but, as I said, it's golf, and today I started very well.  I had a lot of birdies and an eagle it was a good day.  I'm quite happy, yeah.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Sometimes a blow like that at the end of the round can have a telling effect, but it doesn't seem to have bothered you.
GREGORY HAVRET:   Yeah, yeah, but, I mean, I slept all right no, problems.  I went to the first tee, and, I mean, I tried to take really shot after shot and whatever happens.  I did do some very good things and some very bad like that and just keep going.
Q.  Trevor Immelman said that the wind felt like the British Open and the rough feels like the U.S. Open, do you feel it's pretty tough out there?
GREGORY HAVRET:   Well, I never played both, so I don't know.  (Laughter.) Sure, I think the wind, it was definitely difficult yesterday afternoon.  The rough are big, but I drove well today.  That was probably the key to my good score.  I don't know how many fairways, but I drove really well.  So it was okay for me today.  But for sure if you start thinking right or left and start thinking of the wind and rough     but it was all right today.
Q.  Is it fair to say tomorrow will be the biggest day in your career so far, and if so, how do you see yourself coping with that?
GREGORY HAVRET:   Yeah, it's going to be, probably, but you know, I take it like every day, every day of golf.  It's going to be a round of golf, I can play good, I can play bad, I can play average.  I can make some mistakes or not, and I mean it's like that.  I'm going to try my best, of course.  I'm two shots clear of Padraig and Trevor; two shots are nothing.  We see today, like Cejka, it was three shots leading and he is, I think, 7 under.

So, we'll see tomorrow.  We'll see tomorrow.  I'm not afraid about this.
Q.  Just looking at your card, a good at the start on the front nine, are you going to play aggressive  tomorrow?
GREGORY HAVRET:   Yeah, I played a bit aggressively, but I really played like     how can I say, every time I see a shot, I play it.  I don't know if it's like risky or not, but I play the shot I see, I play the shot I feel.  But it was a bit aggressive today because I took the drive on the 14 and 15, which is maybe not the easiest shot.  But, I mean, I felt comfortable, so just played them and it was all right.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Okay, well, it's going to be a very interesting day, and hopefully we'll see you back here for the fourth and final time tomorrow.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT