DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 21, 2004
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  Well done, Gregory, 8 under, take us through what happened at the start and also your finish?
GREGORY HAVRET:   Well, I started very well.  I was hitting very well at the practice range this morning, so I was pretty confident.  The first hole I hit a very, very good iron shot, and then the first I hit a 7 iron about three meters and I holed the putt.

The second hole, which was very hard, because of the wind again, and I put a 5 iron about two meters.

And the third, as well, it was about five, so I just 2 putted.

On the fourth one, I holed a very, very long putt, like eight meters.  So I had a pretty good start, of course.

And my 18 was not that good, because I pushed my tee shot.  I had to drop on the rough, so I couldn't play the green and I laid up and put my shot on the green and 3 putted.  Bad finish.
GORDON SIMPSON:  When did it start to get really difficult out there?
GREGORY HAVRET:   I mean, it was difficult, all the afternoon, but it was very cold, the back nine.  I was very, very frozen.  The wind was blowing very hard and very cold, so that was not very easy.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Did you lose the feel in your hand?
GREGORY HAVRET:   My hand is pretty cold right now, it was okay, but not freezing cold.  But some tough conditions.
GORDON SIMPSON:  And how do you feel about your position going into the weekend?
GREGORY HAVRET:   Well, I'm very happy.  At the beginning of the day if you tell me 1 under is going to be your score, I don't think it's going to today to be the best score in the afternoon, but after the wind, the scoring this afternoon is not so good.  But of course with a triple bogey at the last, I'm a bit disappointed, but it's like that, and we'll see tomorrow.  I'm paired with David Howell, which is pretty good, and two days to go, 36 holes, it's a long way.
Q.  Were you in the water at the last?
GREGORY HAVRET:   Yeah, pushed in the water, yeah.
Q.  When you saw what the leading score was
GREGORY HAVRET:   Yeah, you're right, this morning I was in the player lounge.  I saw it on TV so I knew it was 11 under, yeah.
Q.  Inaudible?
GREGORY HAVRET:  It's a very hard hole, the wind is pushing a bit on the right, and it's a hard tee shot and I knew that.  But I missed it, so while I had one bad shot and one 3 putt, it's a 7, so it's quite hard because I love three points on that hole.  But I tried hard all day, did some very good things.  So all I did on the last was miss one shot, so I'm not very worried for the future.  Yeah, of course, disappointing because now I'm three shots clear, is quite a lot yet.  But, it's like that, golf.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Thank you, Gregory, and good luck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT