ITALIAN OPEN
October 12, 2017
Gregory Havret
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under, 66, your thoughts on that?
GREGORY HAVRET: It was a good day, a very good day.  I had a bad shot on the 1st, missed the green.  I think that's the only green I missed today.  The 17 following ones were pretty good.  The game was definitely in good shape today.  Pitching-wise was also good.
On the front nine, 10 to 18, I struggled to make putts, but the 1 to 9 was much better.  So 5-under to finish with, I'm quite happy with that.
Q. Were scoring conditions favorable today?
GREGORY HAVRET: Yeah, I don't know the conditions.  Perhaps pure.  It's just a fantastic tournament we are playing in.  Last year they have been quite on low key, but it is good this year.  So scoring is low, as you probably saw.  And it's still a tough course.  Many par-4s.  I mean, there's a lot of 4s, especially around 15, 16, 18.  Quite tough.  So that doesn't make the scoring so low, but still a good scoring today for sure for hardly everybody.
Q. A strong finish must have pleased you in particular?
GREGORY HAVRET: Of course.  Every week I would be more than happy to finish well.  It's a good start.  It's a good Thursday.  I'm very happy with this one, but tomorrow is another one.  I'm going to have probably a very nice evening and try to focus on tomorrow as soon as I will wake up tomorrow, I guess around 5:30, 6:00.  It's another day of golf tomorrow.
Q. What feelings do you get coming back to the Italian Open, bearing in mind 2001?
GREGORY HAVRET: Well, it's a long time ago, 2001.  I'm not sure I've ever missed one Italian Open.  It's a country I love.  It's a tournament I love.  Very friendly people.  It's a really enjoyable week, especially now it's in the Rolex series, also.  I won't miss it for sure, now.
Yeah, it's a great feeling coming back here every year.  I really enjoy this tournament and I'm very happy for them to be a Rolex series.  It's great for Italy and golf, and also the Italian players are very nice, too.  Altogether, it makes great feelings.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT