U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2017
Maverick McNealy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How were you feeling?  Feeling comfortable?  Feel leak you had a good shot?
MAVERICK McNEALY: I thought I had a good chance.  I made a lot of pars today.  Only bogeys were from a plugged bunker shot on the front lip 16 and a 3-putt.
Just made a lot of pars, no birdies.  Except for the last hole, but he ended up birdieing on top of me.
I thought I had a chance, but for whatever reason I never really got anything going.
Had putts that looked good but just didn't quite get in.  Had a lot of in between numbers and hit too many shots to like 40, 50 feet and was playing defensive on the greens.
So I definitely had a chance, but he played very solid golf, to his credit.  He didn't make many mistakes at all.
Q. Birdie, eagle, birdie stretch that he went on, what was the shot on 10?
MAVERICK McNEALY: He hit his driver to about seven feet.  Yea, I mean, you can't beat that.  I hit 3-wood left of the green and drew a smelly on the rough and chipped to the front edge.  That was his hole.
Q. You won a couple holes and looked look it might turn a little bit.  What were you thinking on 14?
MAVERICK McNEALY: Well, on 12, my caddie, Travis, told me, You're going to have to earn 2 and he might give you 1.  He ended up kind of giving me 2.
I hit two pretty good shots on 13.  Another pretty good shot on 14 that was just off the green.  I didn't earn the -- I didn't make the birdie or two that I needed, and so at the end of the day that's all I needed.  I needed to hit a couple shots a little bit closer.  I needed to get that ball on the green on 16.
I had a couple good looks that just didn't drop.  That's what it comes down to.
Q. Shot on 16 obviously came up short.  Did the wind get it?
MAVERICK McNEALY: It was funny, like I said, just about every number today seems like it was a dead tweener.  That was either a soft 7, which if I caught too good was going back bunker, or 8, if I didn't catch it perfect it was coming (wind).
I didn't catch it very good.  Kind of part of my game that's been struggle, those knock-down flighted shots.
(Wind.)  Plugged a foot over the line, which is just unfortunate.
Q. Still feeling good?  Yesterday we talked after the 67.  You were feeling good.  Still in that good frame of mind?
MAVERICK McNEALY: Yeah, I think same as last year.  I'm leaving here with a little bitter taste in my mouth.  I could have done a lot better than I did.
But that's only motivation to work hard.  I know for sure tomorrow won't be a day off.  I'm still very confident in my game.  I think I've seen flashes that I haven't seen for a long time in my game this week.  It's just been trending the right way.  I think for the last 9 or 12 months I felt like my game has been very close but just haven't quite had that event or round or shot that kind of breaks me through.
So I'm looking forward to hopefully getting a chance in two weeks and maybe get something going there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT