ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2016
Maverick McNealy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pretty solid day.  You got to be pretty happy with it.  Only bogey but a nice bound back on that.  
MAVERICK MCNEALY: Sometimes you need a little cold water splashed in your face.  I hit a good second shot on 6.  I was a little out of my comfort zone as you'd expect to be out here but these greens are way firmer than anything I'm used to.   
I missed a lot of greens with wedges and greens I felt we shouldn't have missed.  My short game was good today and really saved myself a lot of shots.   
 Q.  Did you experience -- it looked like it was a little bit windier later in the day, probably moreso the back-9.  How did that affect your game?  
MAVERICK MCNEALY: We were walking down the 16th hole.  I smoked a 4-iron and 5-iron the last two holes playing extremely hard.  Really happy with the pars I made that late in the day.  Just to hold on was good.  In general, the conditions were pretty good.  Greens were firm and that was the toughest part today.   
 Q.  Just the trio that you had today with like the future generation of golf, Sam, Arnold's grandson and Ryan Ruffels.  
MAVERICK MCNEALY: I had lunch with Sam today.  I played with him the first two rounds at the Barbasol.  Talk about a guy who gets it.  You can see growing up as Arnie's grandson, he's really a great guy.  What he's going to give back to golf is awesome and Ryan I played some Junior Golf with him.  He's a stud.  He's a guy I've been chasing my whole junior career and it's fun to be out here playing with him.  Really comfortable fun group today.   
 Q.  This is the 1st Round.  Arnie actually watched you play.  
MAVERICK MCNEALY: That was the coolest golf experience of my life.  Playing the back-9 at Arnold Palmer Invitational with Mr. Palmer watching.  That was the coolest moment in my life for sure.   
 Q.  Was it nerve-racking the back-9 compared to the first 9 just having him on hand?  
MAVERICK MCNEALY: It was just fun.  I'd say the front-9 was even more nerve-racking and the back-9 I said this is so cool regardless of what happens.  This is something I'm going to tell my kids and grandkids about, I got to play the back-9 of the Arnold Palmer Invitational with Arnold Palmer watching.  That's one of the coolest things ever.   
 Q.  Did you watch TV at all last week and watch Lee and have a chance to talk to him since then?  
MAVERICK MCNEALY: I did.  I did.  I texted him.  You don't really expect a response.  That's when your phone is blowing up.  Couldn't have been rooting harder for that guy.  Sent a text, "Go out and play your game and do what you do."  He's a great guy.  We're great buds.  I was so happy for him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT