THE WALKER CUP
September 13, 2015
Maverick McNealy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously you?d like to have that putt back here on #18, but what do you take away from your match against Paul that you will use going forward?
MAVERICK McNEALY: Well, just like I did in every single match this week, I gave it everything I had and unfortunately I didn?t win any of the three matches but I did everything I could and tried on every single shot and kept a good attitude the whole time. On that last putt, I hit a good putt, probably just didn?t give it quite enough pace, and unfortunately it didn?t drop. So now it?s time to figure out what I can do better so that next time it is enough.
Q. You were 2 down through 11 to Paul who, like you, is one of the top amateurs in the world. What was the key to you being able to battle back?
MAVERICK McNEALY: I?ve always tried to focus on the things I can control and don?t worry about what I can?t. And his golf ball is one of the things I can?t control. So I stayed focused on keeping a good attitude, keeping calm, and giving every shot my best and full attention. I hit some really good shots coming down the stretch when the heat was on. I think the way I played the 18th today was very, very good, under pressure, with him hitting great shots as well. Unfortunately that putt didn?t drop, and hopefully if I get another chance at it, it will drop next time.
Q. How can you characterize this entire week and the experiences you?ve had with your teammates, spending time together and playing links golf in this kind of atmosphere?
MAVERICK McNEALY: Well, I do think my best memories were in the team room. I have nine new best friends, and that?s something no one is ever going to take away from me. It was an absolute honor and pleasure playing for Captain Miller and, you know, I?m just bummed that it?s over. It was probably two of the best weeks of my life and I just?I?m really hoping I get a chance to do it again.
Q. You?re about to return to Stanford University to get back to school and college golf. What are you most looking forward to heading into your junior year?
MAVERICK McNEALY: As much of a bummer as it is to say goodbye to these guys, I will be meeting my team next week, my Stanford team. I miss those guys, so I?m looking forward to seeing them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT