U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2015
Maverick McNealy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Real tight match heading to the back side.  What do you think the difference was?
MAVERICK McNEALY: The difference was that I just didn't get the putts to drop that I did this morning.  I felt like I hit the ball pretty well, drove the ball really well, and I saw a lot of improvement there.  I just felt like I had a lot of putts that I put good rolls on and gave a chance that just didn't drop on No. 2 -- sorry, I keep thinking that's No. 2.  No. 11, I thought I made a little 18-footer that I thought was in to halve the hole and just missed.  No. 12, I had a 15-footer that I put a great roll on and just missed, as well, and then on 13, I had a four-footer for par and just didn't read enough break and lipped it out on the low side.  And then I lost the next hole to a birdie, and then halved the next two, and that was the match.  But it was just -- I needed a couple putts to drop, and I just didn't get them this time.
Q. Did you learn anything about yourself today?
MAVERICK McNEALY: Oh, for sure.  I'm going to go and go through all the rounds I played here this week and do everything I can to get every little bit of learning out of it because I know I learned a lot this week.  I was very happy with how I competed out there, and I was very happy with how I handled the pressure and the nerves, and I kept things in perspective really well.  I know that I was just asking myself to give a perfect effort on every shot, and I did that, and I can't hang my head too much for doing everything I can and it not being enough.  Now I've just got to figure out how I can get better, what I can do to improve so that next time when I do give everything I have, it is enough.
Q. How would you assess the way he played?  Do you feel like he turned it up a notch?
MAVERICK McNEALY: Oh, he played awesome golf, and it was not playing easy out there.  The rough as long as it is and the wind was very challenging today.  He was just solid.  He drives the ball a mile.  He hits it forever, and that's a huge advantage on this golf course when you can drive it long and straight, and I think that's something that I need to work on is just to continue to improve my driving from last year's regionals and nationals.  I think it's come about 60 percent of the way where I want it to be, and I'm very happy with that, and I was happy with how I drove the ball this week, but I still think there's room for improvement there, and kind of the driving display that he put on today is kind of proof of that.
But like I said, I did everything I could, and he just played a really good round today.
Q. Looking ahead, a Walker Cup is right around the corner.  He's going to be your teammate.  How do you feel about him as a teammate now on your side?
MAVERICK McNEALY: Oh, awesome.  A guy that good, you'd always rather play with him than against him, that's for sure.  I would be more than happy to be a four-ball partner with him or just spend a week with him and play some golf.  All the guys, I can say that about all the guys.  I'm very excited to get out there and play with the best players in the country.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT