BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2020
Maverick McNealy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Can we get a couple comments on your day today?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   I thought it was a solid day.  It's my second 67, put up 10 points, and I'm in good position going into tomorrow.  I definitely have been getting off to really good starts my first three rounds, and just got to keep that going tomorrow.
 Q. What do you think was working so well today?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   My putter has been the best club in the bag all year, and today was no exception there.  I've been doing a pretty good job over the last couple holes honestly today of gauging the distance and figuring out how far.  I hit a lot of greens in regulation, so that was great.
 Q. Was there anything that surprised you about the course playing in the morning versus the afternoon?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   Morning and afternoon play completely different.  A few balls coming down the last six holes really surprised me, more than anything how far it was going, 14 through 18.  Obviously I'll need to adjust for tomorrow for sure.
 Q. What would it mean to make a run in this thing?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   That's the plan.  Every week you tee up dreaming, wanting to win, so I just hope to have a chance come late tomorrow afternoon.
 Q. I know that wasn't the finish you wanted, but how proud were you of the round that you played today?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   I'm very happy with the way I played today.  For me the most encouraging thing is that my game has been solid all week.  Definitely a few adjustments I'll make for tomorrow afternoon, definitely seeing how far the ball is going.  It made me a little uncomfortable and unsure of what clubs to play.  But all in all, I'm really excited and optimistic, and if my putter keeps going the way it's going, I'll have a chance.
 Q. Two of your career top-10 finishes have happened this season.  Can you talk about how you've played this season and how you feel heading into the Playoffs?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   This season has been good.  I've had a couple bright spots and some not-so-good spots, but all in all it's been quietly solid, I think.  But I think making a run here at this event and hopefully finishing out on top would be fantastic.  The goal is to win every week, and I'm really excited to have a good chance at it tomorrow.
 Q. Four of the last winners of this event have won their first PGA TOUR events here.  Does that motivate you to make a run at it tomorrow?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   Well, I think if it's five we'll have a good chance because Troy is a great player and he knows how to win, and I'm in full chase mode going into tomorrow and I'm going to have to make a lot of birdies.
 Q. Danielle is also playing well on the LPGA Tour this week.  Have you guys talked to each other, motivated each other this week at all?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   We always talk to each other.  It was pretty fun for the six or seven months that they were off practicing with a top 5 player in the world and working with Butch Harmon and there's a lot we feed off each other and pull each other forward, and I'm really excited to see how well she's playing, and hopefully we can both make a run tomorrow.
 Q. And mindset going into tomorrow?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   Again, just got to get off to a good start and give myself a lot of good looks with the putter.  I think if I'm putting for birdie 14 or 15 times per round, I think we'll be in a good spot.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT