BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2020
Maverick McNealy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. A pretty good round out there today.  What went well for you?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   I didn't get into much trouble today, which was great, but the name of the game is give yourself a lot of birdie looks and avoid doubles and worse.  I gave myself a chance for birdie just about every hole and rolled my putter pretty well again.
 Q. It's the first time the players are seeing this golf course.  How have you adjusted to the elevation and how do you like the course?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   Well, coming from Las Vegas, which is 105 and 3,000 feet right now, so the ball goes pretty far there, so it's not big of an adjustment.  I'm relying heavily on my caddie, Travis, to help me with those numbers, and pretty much what we do is I do TrackMan combines on the range to get my distance control, but I just go off of what shots I've hit previously.  So on 17 I had about the same number as I did on 15, so I asked him how far my 6-iron pitched and went off of that number.
 Q. It's a different format this week with modified Stableford format.  Do you feel like that fits into your game?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   Yes, it does.  I think I make a lot of birdies, and I like the aggressive mindset, and I've just got to keep myself in every hole and just give my putter as many chances as possible.
 Q. Last year Collin won this tournament to kind of boost his career.  Does that motivate you earn your first PGA TOUR victory here?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   Definitely, definitely.  The PGA TOUR is handing out a two-year exemption this week, and that's the focus of my goal and try to finish off the season strong for the FedExCup Playoffs.
 Q. We're halfway through.  What do you have to do this weekend to get yourself into contention on Sunday?
 MAVERICK McNEALY:   Keep hitting a lot of birdies.  Goes are going low and the course is gettable, but like I said, I've just got to keep the ball in play, give myself a lot of birdie looks and roll the putter well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT