OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 6, 2011
Andrew Sweat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. You got out there again in a starting role. You started the last half of the last season. How good was it to get back out there and have the kind of game you had? Seemed like you made an impact in the first series, six tackles, couple of tackles for loss. The interception, obviously, kind of basically helped you guys get that game going in your favor. Just talk about just getting back out there this past week. 
 ANDREW SWEAT: It felt great to be on the weak side again. I feel most comfortable being in the Will linebacker spot. Last year I primarily played the Sam spot. 
 I just feel more natural at the Will spot. It felt good to go out there and hit someone other than your own teammates. 

 Q. This Toledo team, they can do a lot of things offensively. Have you had a chance to look at them yet on film and what they can do? And how do you get some of these younger guys prepared for, this is a team that kind of makes a habit out of beating BCS schools early in the season. 
 ANDREW SWEAT: They do a lot. Whether it be the run, pass game, they'll spread you out, run screens. You have to be on your toes every play. They'll attack you down the field. I think they'll do a great job. So we have to be prepared and ready for them.

 Q. How do you handle it when Miami was on TV last night? First of all, did you watch them play? And is that anything that crosses your mind, what you can do against them or how you'll handle things?
 ANDREW SWEAT: I was flipping through the channels. I saw probably five minutes of it. 
 But we focus on Toledo right now and we'll focus on Miami the next game.

 Q. This was mentioned already, but Toledo has this history of knocking off good teams. They've beaten -- obviously won at The Big House and beaten Purdue and Minnesota. Does that tell you -- does that speak to the fact that they probably will not be awed a whole lot when they come in on Saturday?
 ANDREW SWEAT: I think we're going to focus on what we can control as Ohio State. I think every team comes into Ohio Stadium expecting to win. 
 We're going to prepare hard. We started from Sunday. And we're excited to get to Saturday to compete against them. I would hope so. I would hope teams come in with that attitude.

 Q. When you guys have a shutout, a lot of people think: Wow, everything's great. I'm just wondering, as you look at it, what can you guys do better especially given the talent as you mentioned Toledo is going to present a lot more probably offensively? What do you think you need to shore up this weekend going forward? 
 ANDREW SWEAT: I think that we need to shore up every aspect of our defense, whether it be the run defense, pass defense. There are a couple of blitzes we didn't get home on. 
 We just need to do our 111th, everybody needs to do their job. If we do that then I think we have a chance to put ourselves in a position to be successful.
 We're just going to implement the scheme that the coaches put for us starting today and get ready for Toledo.

 Q. Seemed like Storm and Etienne kind of rotated next to you the other day. Just how did you think they did, and was it different playing next to a different guy every series, or did they kind of play similarly?
 ANDREW SWEAT: I think both of them did a great job. I was focused in. I didn't really know much of a difference. They're both great players. They do a great job out there.

 Q. And how about Nathan Williams, looked like he played some Sam linebacker. Is that something you guys worked on a little bit? 
 ANDREW SWEAT: After Etienne broke his hand, he wasn't able to move it as much. So they moved Nathan and a couple of our defensive packages, and I think he did a great job.

 Q. When you watched the tape of the defense, was there something that stood out to you as far as creating at this early stage an identity or something like that?
 ANDREW SWEAT: I think what stood out is everyone was running to the ball. You had 11 guys running to the ball. If a guy made a mistake, he did it fast. We weren't perfect Saturday with our scheme. But I think everyone played fast and made up for it. 

 Q. I'll ask you the last question. I don't know if anybody asked Joe Bauserman this question. But three more game captains. Are you excited about that opportunity? And just talk about that. 
 ANDREW SWEAT: Yeah, obviously it's a great honor. I'm excited to lead our team. I think all of our seniors do a great job, whether they're named captain or not. Everyone has a role of leading. And I'm excited to lead our team this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT