NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: PHILLIES v DODGERS
October 17, 2009
Hiroki Kuroda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. This will be the third time that you've come back to make a first start after an injury. Can you compare your confidence level and how your arm feels and how your body feels now compared to the other two times?  
 HIROKI KURODA: My confidence level is there. Physically I'm feeling really well. And I think as I go into the game, my confidence level is going to go up. So I'm not worried about it right now.   
  
  Q. How quickly were you able to put out of your mind the thoughts of when the ball hit you in the head in August? How quickly were you able to recover from that and not worry about that when you're on the mound?  
 HIROKI KURODA: Until you told me, I had forgotten about it. (Laughter).   
 Do you want more than that?   
  
  Q. That's fine, thank you.   
How will last year's success in this NLCS against this team benefit you when you go out on the mound tomorrow?  
 HIROKI KURODA: I try not to think about last year. This is a new season. But having said that, they obviously have a powerful lineup and I was able to pitch well against them. Perhaps there is a little bit of confidence, but like I said, this is a new season, and I just have to pitch my best game against them.   
  
  Q. At the end of your second year with the Dodgers, how have you found your relationships with your teammates growing and developing over your two years here in America?  
 HIROKI KURODA: Although this is my second year, my communication skills have been limited because of my English level. But it's such an honor and a great opportunity to be on this team together again for the second year, going deeper in the season like this. It's such an honor to be with them.   
  
  Q. You spent so much time focused on baseball, but for your family to move to the United States and Los Angeles, what have they liked best about living in America and in Los Angeles?  
 HIROKI KURODA: Although we've been here for two years, I haven't really spent a lot of time with them. So it's really difficult to tell you. But they're supporting me so much to play baseball here, and I try to do my best to support them, as well. I think they're enjoying life here in America.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT