AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2020
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
O. JABEUR/C. Wozniacki   
7-5, 3-6, 7-5   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was told there are tissues here. I see the tissues in case I need them. I think I'm cried out. Never know (smiling).   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What has the hour been since you left court?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not sure. There's a lot of emotions, a lot of things I can't compartmentalize now. A lot of excitement. A little sadness. Just, you know, flashbacks to since I was a kid to this moment.   
The fact that it's gone so quick but at the same time it feels like I've been out here for a long time, it's been very special. Players come up to me and congratulating me. Just feeling the love from everyone has been very special.   
 Q.  In terms of the match itself, the way that it ended, a bit sudden. I can imagine you're locked into competition mode. 45 seconds later everything flips. Do you think that impacts a little bit the processing of the last hour?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. You know, I'm always that person that even when I'm down a lot, I've always believed that I can come back and win.   
I don't think it mattered for me so much what the score was. I think throughout the match, there was a couple of times where I was like, Shoot, this could be my last one. It was just like, I don't want it to be the last one. I want to be out there fighting. I fought like my life depended on it. It is just what it is.   
I think the result today doesn't matter to me as much as the way that I fought, that I gave it everything. I wanted to be out there. I did everything. I think that shows how my career, throughout my career, that's what I'm known for.   
It's exciting. It's terrifying. It's a lot of emotions at the same time. But I'm happy. I'm very happy. Even though I was crying a lot earlier, it really wasn't sad tears. I think just happy tears. It's a lot to have the family here with me, too. It means a lot.   
 Q.  15-year career, so many ups, so many downs, matches. What do you think you've really learned from this experience?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I've learnt so much. I wouldn't be the person I am today without all those experiences.   
I think the main thing I've learned is no matter where you're from, no matter what color of your skin, no matter if you're tall or short, big or small, doesn't matter. If you have a dream and you go for it and work hard, anything is possible.   
I had a dream when I was a kid. I wanted to win a Grand Slam. I wanted to be No. 1 in the world. People thought that I was crazy being from a small country. But I made it happen. I worked so hard for it every single day.   
I'm very, very proud of that.   
 Q.  When you did choose to retire here in the Australian Open, did you expect at all what happened today? Was it more or less what you thought? Or today was there something that happened that you didn't expect, that surprised you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think you never know how you're going to react or what's going to happen until the last ball is hit.   
I think what happened today was perfect. It was a packed stadium. People stood up. There was 'Sweet Caroline' through the microphones. People were clapping. I had the Danish flag at my back. I had my family there. I had people closest to me were all here or watching on TV and supporting me.   
I don't think I could have scripted it any better. I think it was the perfect moment.   
 Q.  You mentioned your family. What was it like when they came down on the court with you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm not a big crier, but I think when the family came down, I saw my dad pacing himself, that's what he does when he tries not to get emotional. Then my mom was bawling. She had sunglasses on. My brother was shaking. I think that caught me, I got emotional.   
Obviously looking at David just smiling, crying, being excited all at once. I think it was just a very special moment. I just tried to take it all in. It's probably going to be a moment I will never forget.   
 Q.  You're 29, which is still quite young for a professional tennis player. A lot of people would be asking why. Is there any extent to which you're second-guessing this decision?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think any professional tennis player that has played knows how hard it is to get to the top, knows how hard it is to stay at the top.   
I looked at myself and I said, I'm ready. I don't think anyone, no matter the age, how long you've played - and I've played for a long time - one day you look at yourself, and I said, I'm ready, I'm ready for the next chapter, I'm ready to do something else, I'm ready to not have a schedule, pushing myself to the limits every single day.   
There's so much that tennis has given me. I've learnt so much. I'm so thankful. But I think life outside of tennis will be equally as exciting.   
I don't think it's good-bye forever. I think you'll still see me around tournaments sometimes, not on the court, but maybe doing something off court.   
I think I'm just excited to see what the next chapter brings. I think there's a lot that's going to happen, even things I can't even think about right now.   
 Q.  What do you hope your legacy is? What legacy do you feel you can leave in this sport?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I hope that people will think of me as a hard worker, someone that gave it everything every single day.   
I hope that I'll give inspiration even to the players from small countries that may have never had a world No. 1 or a Grand Slam champion, someone in the top 10, that they can do it.   
I hope that I'll leave some happiness around the locker room. It's a very tough environment. It's a hard environment. It's an individual sport. Everyone wants to be the best. I hope that I gave some excitement and release and some happiness in the locker room with the chats and the fun talks we've had.   
 Q.  What do you think you'll miss the most? When Roland Garros starts, Wimbledon, Flushing Meadows, how do you think you're going to feel when the party is there and you're not there playing?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I have no idea how I'm going to feel when those tournaments are happening. The party is there, but doesn't mean there couldn't be another party, too. I'm going to make my own party. Going to have fun, as well (smiling).   
I think there's so much to life. I think tennis has been a huge part of my life. There's going to be a new part of my life that I'm going to be very excited about.   
I'm sure there are going to be times when I wish I was out there playing in Grand Slam finals or semifinals. But you know what, there will be other moments in my life that I think are going to mean just as much or maybe more, who knows.   
What was the first question?   
 Q.  What are you going to miss the most?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think what I'm going to miss is that competitiveness. Winning a tight match, fighting from 1-5 down, coming back and winning, that adrenaline I think is going to be very hard to duplicate in anything else that I'll do.   
But, you know, we'll see what life brings. Maybe a year, two, five down the line, we can have this conversation again and see how I feel.   
 Q.  Given your ultimate success here and the grand finale today, how will you remember Melbourne?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I love Melbourne. It's such a special place in my heart. I got my Grand Slam here. I have amazing fans. It's known as the Happy Slam.   
I've gotten through some extremely hot days, some windy and cold days, a little bit of everything. I think a little bit like my career: I've experienced a little bit of everything.   
But we always came back and finished on top. I'm very, very happy that I could finish my career here. It means everything to me.   
Hopefully it's not the last that you'll see of me here in Melbourne. I love being here. I hope to come back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT