US OPEN
August 29, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/D. Collins   
4-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Another tough match for you. She got off to a good start. How did you turn it around?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, she got off to a good start. She plays very aggressive. I knew that was how the match was going to go. I just had to be ready for it.   
Again, in the second set, I stepped in a little bit more, I started changing up my serves a little bit more. Yeah, I think that was what made the difference.   
 Q.  What did you make of the atmosphere out there? You've had success out there on that court before. Not as uneven as it might have been.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I love playing out on that court. It's a very special court for me. It's very loud. I think with the roof, it echoes more than it used to.   
It's definitely a nice court. I really enjoy playing out there.   
 Q.  Next you play Bianca. What do you remember about the match from January and what do you make of her rise?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I remember not really knowing who she was. I remember I thought I played pretty well in that match. She still beat me. It was the first tournament of the year, so I was kind of unsure whether I was really hitting my level or whether she was playing that well. Obviously she was playing very well.   
She's had a great year. Has won some big tournaments. She's definitely coming in here with some confidence. It's important for me that I'm just going to go out there and take my chances.   
 Q.  Now with these two matches under your belt, both of them being tests, where do you feel your level is at?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm just happy to be through to the next round. It's two very different matches. The first match I got to play some longer rallies. This match, it was really all about just staying patient and trying to stay aggressive when I had the opportunity.   
 Q.  You've had an apartment in New York. You still have it. How much time do you actually spend in Manhattan?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not that much because we travel so much. But I really enjoy the city, and I really enjoy being here.   
 Q.  Any favorite neighborhoods?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: A few favorite neighborhoods for me. I like Flatiron because I think it's cool, there's a lot of good restaurants and stuff. I love the Upper Eastside. If you want to check out some nice little restaurants and bars as well, I think the West Village is cool. It really just depends what mood I'm in.   
 Q.  Playing Bianca, she mixes it up so much. How do you counter that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think that fits my game fine. I do that myself. We'll just see. Just depends on who plays better on the day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT