QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 18, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/C. Wozniacki
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How much confidence does the this performance give you for the rest of the season towards progressing up the world rankings?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's a tournament I've never won.  Clearly I'm a little bit disappointed right now.  It's a goal of mine to pretty much have won everything.
But she played really well today.  I thought I played well.  I did my best.  It's been a tough week.  Yesterday I had two matches late at night.  I just tried to recover as good as I could.
Honestly, I feel like I'm playing really good tennis.  I can still improve on some things.  I'm really, you know, feeling positive and confident moving forward.
Q. You seemed to be moving pretty well on the court today.  You played a complete game.  Would you say Pliskova improved on her movements?  Did you anticipate she would reach for every drop, every lob?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think she's moving better than she used to.  She's obviously having a lot of confidence.  She's been playing really well the end of last year and the beginning of this year, too.
It was very tricky with the wind.  I think she served better than me in these conditions.  Obviously she's already a big server.  But I think she took advantage of that a little more.
That's that.  I did my best.
Q. You had beaten her the three times you played so far.  What is the major improvement you see in her game?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's completely different conditions today than it has been the other times we played.
I'm going to try again next time, try and do better.  That's really it.
Q. You're only 26, but it seems a long, long time you've been on the circuit.  Given the improvement in your ranking since you've been No. 1, now coming back, obviously you'd be aiming for the top 10, could you comment on the year ahead, how you look to the tournaments leading up to the French Open?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, most of all I'm just trying to stay healthy.  When I'm staying healthy, I can play great tennis.  I can work really hard and improve my game.
Knock on wood, I've been healthy since just before the US Open.  I've really put in a lot of work.  It's shown in the results.  Hopefully I can keep up my level and keep improving.  I'm hoping for a good season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT