AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/A. Rodionova
6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I know you talked last year about your results trending in the wrong direction here.  You reversed that now.  How does it feel to get a win here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I already made a big step just coming here.  So, you know, my trend has been semis, quarters, fourth, third, second, first round, and then, according to my trend, I should have been in the third-round quallies.  Thankfully that did not happen and I'm going the right direction.
It's nice to be here.  Nice and hot again for us today.  Obviously that's going to change over the next few days.
Yeah, just happy to be through.
Q. You've been around in tennis a long time.  If there was one rule or tradition in tennis that you could change, what would that be?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  That's a good question.  I don't know.
Q. John Isner said he'd have a tiebreaker in the fifth set.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it would be nice if all the Grand Slams had the same ending because sometimes you get confused.  You don't know whether it's a tiebreaker or whether it's a long set.
Q. You're not a newcomer.  You've been No. 1 in the world.  What maintains the enthusiasm?  What gets you out there on court in a fit state wanting to play?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think lifting trophies and competing is what I love.  Obviously, training, you've hit a million balls over my life.
But I think the competing is what drives me.  You know, obviously I love to win, so...  That's what I train for.
Q. You're the sort of person that looks at the draw early on to see how it might flow?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I never look at the draw.  I only look at the first round, and then I go from there.  I never really look ahead because there's so many things that can happen and change.  So I don't feel like there's a need to really worry about the third or fourth or finals until you get there.
Q. When you get into matches and you're really up against it or whatever, the heat out there today, do you ever reflect back on the marathon training and how hard that was?  Do you ever dig down into that area?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I know I'm fit and I know that I'm probably one of the, you know, fittest players on tour.  That's what I'm known for.  That's what I aim for.  When I go into the off-season, I try to be as fit as possible, as strong and fast as possible.
I know if I'm struggling, if I feel like it's hot, I know the opponent will feel the same or worse.  So at least that keeps me going and, you know, makes me feel better.
Q. Donna Vekic next for you.  Thoughts on the match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I haven't played her in a long time.  I think I played her maybe four years ago or so.  So, yeah, I don't really know.  I haven't seen her play in a while.
But, yeah, I remember her playing pretty flat and trying to go for her shots.
Q. If you could get a selfie with anyone outside of the tennis world or your family, who would you want to get a selfie with?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, this is going to be very random.  Well, there's a couple of people.  Can I choose two?
Q. Sure.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, one would be Fernando Torres, the soccer player.  I was always a big fan of his.  That's one of the only people I've ever gotten star-struck off.  I went to a Liverpool game once.  They had media.  They asked me if I wanted to meet him.  I was, like, shaking.  I completely blanked on that.  So probably him.
And then Jake Gyllenhaal.
Two very random ones, I know.  But there you go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT