APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 11, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. STRYCOVA/C. Wozniacki   
7-5, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How miserable was it out there?  It was over 40 at some point.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was brutal out there, and it was really hot.   
But, you know, you just try and think like you're on a beach drinking piña coladas.  That's basically your train of thought.  You know that it's the same for both players, so I was just trying to mentally just try and keep cool.  But it was really, really hot out there.   
 Q.  Was it hard to keep your concentration?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  You know, you try and you have prepared, you have worked hard to try and be fit for these conditions, but I think at one point, you know, like, it's so hot that you just -- you do your best, and that's all you can do.  Cool down in between breaks and stuff.   
You know, I thought we played actually some ready good tennis, as well, considering all these conditions.   
 Q.  Does it give you confidence, despite the loss after three hours and 20 minutes, you were able to maintain such a good level in terms of fitness?  Does that show your offseason was good?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I mean, fitness-wise, I feel good.  Tennis-wise, I feel pretty good.   
I made a couple of unforced errors at the end there with my backhand, and, you know, it's frustrating, and especially, you know, when you've been fighting out there in such hot conditions and you've played for three-and-a-half hours, you better win it.  Otherwise it really sucks.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  At the end there, I mean, your ankle and everything, how were you feeling?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm okay.  I'm just going to get some treatment, an ice bath and stuff.  I will be fine.   
Yeah, I felt the Achilles at one point, but that helped with the tape.  But then the tape was just too tight on the side of my foot, so that was digging in and that was giving me pain.  So that isn't really a big deal.   
I'm not worried.  I have a few days till Melbourne, so hopefully everything will be fine.   
 Q.  What kind of mental highs and lows do you go through?  There were stages, I imagine, it just feels too hot?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  You just try and think positive, and, you know, you think that it's only two games, and after those two games you can sit down again and have a break.  It keeps you going.   
 Q.  What's the recovery like after a match like this?  Does it change in terms of hydrating and...  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: For sure.  You need to cool down and get your body back to normal temperature.  You know, it's really important for me to go eat right after this.   
Yeah, just get a lot of treatment, get a good massage, because it really took a toll on the body.  On the positive side of things, I can eat whatever I want now because I have burned a lot of calories today.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  And what will that be?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'll definitely have an ice cream, for sure.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  If you were looking to next week, do you feel after a change of No. 1, a couple different major winners, do you feel like this season could be more open?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think Serena is always the favorite when she's playing well.  You know, I believe in myself, I believe in my game.   
We just have to wait and see.  I will do my best out there.  I will definitely fight as well as I can, and hopefully it will be enough.   
 Q.  An off-tennis question, but with Petra's situation, I know that was different because the guy came into her house, but do you worry about security, traveling around?  You're a pretty well-known person.  How do you deal with that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I try and not think about it too much and not worry about it, I should say.   
But, yeah, depends on the situation.  You know, you have security with you and just to make sure that everything is fine.  You know, yeah, I live in a gated area, so, you know, that obviously helps and makes me feel safe.   
But, you know, you never know the time or the place.  It could be anywhere.  You know, at the end of the day, I think, yeah, you just have to take every day as it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT