APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/Y. Putintseva
6-0, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Those conditions were pretty difficult.  How pleased were you to at least get it done in two sets?  How did it tighten up in the second?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I definitely haven't played on a court like that since juniors.  It's definitely much different than what I'm used to.
It was pretty hot out there, but, you know, I just did my best and focused and just wanted to get out of there as soon as possible.
Q. You haven't actually been beyond quarters in Sydney before.  Is that motivating for you, coming to the quarters again?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I know that I haven't had the best record here.  That's maybe why I have never played on the outside courts.
You know, hopefully I'll come in on a little  bit of a bigger court tomorrow, and it's definitely more fun to play when there is actually a little bit of a stand (smiling).
Q. The draw is opening up here.  Three of the top five seeds have gone out today.  Is that opportunity for everyone else who's...
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really.  You know, at the end of the day, everyone is playing well.  It is what it is.  You know, like obviously if you beat a seeded player you have played well.  It's not really anything new.
Q. You have Strycova next who can be a difficult opponent for many different players.  Can you talk about that matchup.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She's definitely tricky, and I have lost to her before.  I have always won some tight matches against her.
It's going to be tough one.  She plays some serve/volleys, she mixes up the pace, she has good hands.  I'm just excited to be in the quarters here again, and we take it from there.
Q. Is this a good test of kind of recovery, playing on a hot day like this, having 24 hours, get your recovery regime ready before Melbourne?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It only gets hotter and hotter here every day (smiling).  It's definitely good preparation for Melbourne next week.
You know, I have my physio here, so we're just doing everything, all the right things to recover and be ready for the next day.  It's tough to play back to back every day, and we're not younger.  We just get older (smiling).
But, you know, I do what I can to be fresh every day.
Q. Generally, how do you feel you're sort of shaping up for next week?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel like I'm hitting it well.  You know, I think also mentally today I showed that, you know, I have grown since last year, as well.
She's a pretty annoying opponent to play against, and she'll scream and she'll do anything to just put you off.  But, you know, I managed to just keep cool and didn't let her back in, really.
So, you know, it got a little close in the second set, but in the end of the day, I won in two sets, which is most important.
Q. (Question about her opponent.)
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, she's one of those players who, you know, tennis-wise is not as good as most of the top 100, but she gets under your skin and she just tries to fight out there and then that's how she wins matches.
You know, she gets under your skin, you get annoyed, and you start missing a little bit and she will hit a few good shots, and all of a sudden she's back in it.  That's what she wins on.
For me, it was important just to try and stay cool mentally, just take a deep breath and just keep playing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT