APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/M. Puig
6-3, 2-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Just your reaction to that match.  Looked like kind of one of those throwback matches where you refused to let go.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  It's a tough match, because, you know, you kind of feel, like, oh, I'm winning pretty comfortably right now, and, you know, she can go on a streak, starts hitting winners, has such a good serve, started going in in the second set, and then the third set I tried to stay closer to the baseline and maybe play a little deeper.
It paid off.  But, yeah, I mean, a win is a win.  I'll take it.
Q. Just during the offseason with the work with your dad, what sort of things were you focusing on in terms of your game play in terms of, I don't know, tactics?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, there are definitely some tactical things I have been working on in the offseason I have been trying to corporate, ways I can win points easier, as well, things that have paid off, especially in the end of last season.
You know, I just keep trying to do them a little better.  You know, some matches, like, I have played really, really well, and then, you know, maybe a bit of loss of concentration at some points, but at the same time, you know, I have played players who sometimes just go for broke and hit the balls so hard.
Yeah, I was pleased with how I served and could serve it out in the end.  You know, she has a good return, but I managed to get quite a few returns back.
Q. How do you feel you're doing right now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm feeling good.  I had a good offseason and had a long break and started just working and working hard.  I feel pretty good out there.
Q. In terms of your fitness, obviously injuries were a big story of your last 12 months, but during the offseason, were you able to kind of put in the fitness work to kind of lay a good base for the 2017 season to kind of get through those niggles?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I definitely have.  I changed up my practice quite a bit.  I did a lot of other things.  Probably spent more time on court than I have in a long time and less time in the gym, actually.
That was a big change for me, because, you know, I have worked so hard on my fitness and worked so hard on trying to prevent injuries, but at the end of the day, I think I sometimes need to ease off a little bit.  I guess I'm not a spring chicken anymore.  Sometimes less is more.
But I have really focused on some main parts of my game and just really, yeah, worked hard and tried to prepare as best as I can.  For the first time in a long time, you know, the whole offseason, I didn't have any problems.  Right now, knock on wood, I'm feeling good.
Q. Do you feel there is a difference between gym fitness and match fitness?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, there definitely is.  And there's also a big practice between practice fitness and match fitness.  That's why I chose to play here, as well, this year, just to kind of get more into the rhythm and not have that break in between.
You know, sometimes it's great for me to come to the tournament early, but I think this year it was just important for me just to get some matches under my belt and keep playing.
Q. Quite a few players have been saying the biggest struggle of the first two weeks of the season before Melbourne is match fitness, rhythm, just feeling what it's like to play matches again.  How far off do you feel you are from feeling completely comfortable out there?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm actually pretty comfortable.  Some players make you feel uncomfortable out there.  Generally, I feel comfortable.
My first two matches in Auckland I played really well, and for a match and a half after that, I played really well, too.  Then Julia just went on a hot streak, I guess.
You know, today, again, I was proud of how I managed to just keep grinding.  I feel pretty good.  I'm not nervous about my form.  I think it's going to be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT