CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2016
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/C. Vandeweghe   
6-1, 2-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Got a little complicated in the second set.  Talk about the ebbs and flows of the match, how you got the win.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I started off pretty well, could return quite a few of her serves, put her under pressure.  Then in the second set she started serving a bit better.  That got me a little bit too much into the defense.  Then she went for some shots and broke me.  All of a sudden I had to keep trying to fight back.   
In the third set, again, I managed to return pretty well.  I think that made the difference.   
 Q.  How hard is it to read her serve for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's hard.  I mean, she serves big.  Her first and second serve is pretty big.  It's not like you think, Okay, she missed a first serve, now I have a good chance to attack on the second.   
She's just a tough player to play because you get no rhythm.  It's the first match.  You want to get into the tournament.  A combination of that is tough.   
 Q.  How much treatment do you have to go through between matches for the leg?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually the leg is feeling pretty good now, so it's much better than it has been.  I had some problems with the neck last week.  That's also, yeah, pretty good.  So I'm getting there.   
 Q.  Are you concerned at all in terms of the amount of matches?  Is it your body reacting to match play?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think so.  I think it's just tired.  It's been a hectic for weeks.  Also after the US Open it was pretty busy.  I think so.   
But in the end of the day, it's the end of the season, I'm going to grind through it.  Hopefully I can have a lot more matches coming up the next few weeks.   
 Q.  You have a tough opponent in Vinci next.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I had no idea.   
 Q.  What is the key to playing around a player whose game is built around a backhand slice?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's another uncomfortable player.  She mixes it up.  She plays the flat forehand.  Mix of pace.  I'm ready for it.  I'm just going to go out there and enjoy.   
 Q.  You're considered the veteran compared to Coco in this match.  How do you think that affected your play and her play?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  Obviously her game is based around her serve, hitting big.  I think in the end of the day she just went for her shots.  Some days if it goes in, then she can beat a great player.  Some days she'll miss a little bit.   
But for me it was important today just to keep my concentration and just kind of stay in it.   
 Q.  You saw a lot of her emotion on the court.  When you were a younger player, were you like that as well?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think we all have some emotion.  We get intense out there.  I think everyone is different.  Every individual reacts differently.  So, yeah, I don't know.   
 Q.  How do you adjust and give good momentum?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I've been healthy.  I've been able to train well.  I've been playing well.  It's a combination of that.  It's the end of the year.  I have a few more tournaments left, so I'm going to try to do my best.   
 Q.  In Wuhan you played Agnieszka.  In the third round, you may meet her again.  What did you learn from the last match in Wuhan?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think about that.   
 Q.  Your performance about the US Open this year was not satisfying.  After that you've done better.  What do you think is the turning point in the season?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think the fact that I'm not injured right now.  That has helped me to practice well and play well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT