US OPEN
August 27, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/W. Yafan
1-6, 7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It was a bit of a slow start, but you were able to turn it around. What adjustments did you make?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think she started off fairly well. I had a little bit of a slow start.
I feel like I didn't play badly, but then I started over-forcing it a little bit once she was hitting everything in.
At the end of the first set, I just took a deep breath, I was like, Okay, let's figure out what I can do in the second set to get a better start.
Q. In the third set, getting through, the relief? How do you look back on it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I actually think second and third set we both played really well. Especially the third set, had a lot of long rallies, got to the net quite a few times there, finished it off. I was pleased with the way I managed to finish it off.
Q. You made your first US Open final here 10 years ago. Is that playing on your mind, the nostalgia of it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's a tournament I really enjoy coming back to every year. Yeah, it's 10 years ago, that's a long time ago (smiling).
Q. Seems like there's a lot of parity between the top-ranked players and lower-ranked players. Have you noticed that gap is starting to close?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think if you see on the men's side, as well, if it wasn't because it was five-set matches, you would see some players losing sets there, too.
I think just because it is best-of-three sets, you have to be ready from the start.
Q. You play Danielle Collins next. What do you make of her as an opponent?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she plays aggressive tennis. She tries to take the ball early. It's important for me that I redirect the ball and get a lot of balls back.
Q. Last week it was quite hot. This week it's almost cold. What do you make of that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's nice for everyone that it's these temperatures. I think it's perfect temperatures to play tennis in.
Q. We've heard mixed reactions from people with the use of advanced analytics. Is that something you use for a match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's limited what more you can know compared to what you already know about the opponent.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT