U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2016
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/C. Wozniacki   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Despite coming up short today, can you evaluate your US Open?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously right now I'm a little disappointed not to win today, but at the end of the day it's been a good tournament, something I can be proud of.   
I came into this tournament ranked 74 in the world and probably people ruled me out, but it's nice to prove people wrong once again.  It's nice to have a good run.  I did my best out there today.  I fought all I could, and just came up a bit short.   
 Q.  (Question regarding last point of the match.)  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I got a few texts, but that just made me feel worse.  I saw it like in the air, saw it out that's why I kind of stopped.  When it landed I saw it on the line and I just wasn't ready for it.  Then when I saw it on the line I was like, There's no reason to challenge since it was a relatively slow ball.   
But clearly should have done that.  But in the at the end of the day I don't think it would have made a difference, but...   
 Q.  Today was it a matter of something going off on your game?  You couldn't impose?  Was it Angie?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Obviously Angie is playing well.  She's getting a lot of balls back.  I thought I was dictating a lot of the game.  I was trying to press and stay close to the line.  In the beginning she really got me on the contra and just kind of counter-punched me away.   
Then I stepped into the ball a bit more then and went for my shots and started going in and I started finding a rhythm.  A few of the balls I went a little bit too much on and made these small mistakes.   
But, you know, today I had to do that.  I had to go for my shots.  Unfortunately I came up a little short, but I have got to be proud of the way I kept going, and I just kept fighting for every point.   
 Q.  What went well for you this tournament?  Why did it all start to click?  How do you do that moving forward for yourself?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I just need to keep going the way I have been doing.  You know, just I have gotten a lot of matches here, which is great.  Hopefully I can just bring this momentum into the Asian swing.   
It was a good tournament.  I kind of felt like the way I have been practicing I managed to put that into the matches, so that was nice.   
Hopefully I can just do that moving forward.   
 Q.  Angie joined an exclusive club you have been a member of.  What makes her biggest qualities to be No. 1?  What advice would you give, because you held on to that spot for quite a while.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think obviously she's had a great year.  She gets a lot of balls back.  She also knows how to change the pace.  She gets good angles.   
And, yeah, she's playing really well.  You know, it's not a lot of people who have been No. 1.  It's a huge thing.  You know, she definitely has a target on her back now.  Everyone wants to beat the No. 1 player in the world.   
Yeah, she's going to enjoy it.  First she has a match here that she's focused on, and I'm sure she will enjoy it after the tournament.   
 Q.  You have been there yourself.  Going forward now, do you take motivation from this tournament to try to climb the rankings again?  Obviously 74, that will change.  There has been talk during this tournament you might be hanging up your tennis shoes.  Where is your head now in terms of the future?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest right now, my head isn't anywhere.  I have a drug test, so after this I need to be able to pee.  That's what I'm thinking about right now.  (Laughter.)   
After that, I don't know.  I have the Asian swing to look forward to, so that's really what I'm thinking about next.  I'm playing Tokyo in a week's time.   
 Q.  You have always said that health is the key for you.  Do you come out of this completely healthy?  Feel good mentally and physically?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I do.  Yeah, I feel very good body-wise.  I think it's the best it's felt in a while.  I'm happy with that.  Mentally I'm sure it will take me a couple of days just to process everything, but in the at the end of the day I can be proud of the way I have been handling myself this week, these two weeks.   
You know, obviously I would have loved to have gotten two more, but it is what it is.  I'm going to take this and really bring this momentum forward.   
 Q.  Were you watching some of Serena earlier?  Your thoughts on that match.  Did it surprise you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think Serena looked a little bit nervous.  And, yeah, I mean, I watched a little bit.  You know, I always like to see Serena win.  Obviously she's a great friend of mine.  You know, I have huge respect for her.   
But at the same time, I have to give respect to Pliskova for serving it out and playing well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT