WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2016
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. KUZNETSOVA/C. Wozniacki
  7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Just wondering how the recovery from the ankle injury has been and how you're feeling overall with your tennis now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, the ankle's feeling fine. It took a while for it to heal properly. But it is healed and I feel good. That's not a problem anymore. 
Yeah, you know, it kind of just sucks right now to be out of the tournament. Yeah, there's not really much else to say, I think. 

Q. A tough opponent for a first round here. What do you think the difference was today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think at this point I can't expect an easy draw. You know, it is what it is. She played well. She played aggressively and stepped up when she had to. Yeah, she did what she had to do today. 

Q. Physically how are you feeling? What's next for you after here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Physically I'm feeling fine. Next for me is Washington and then Montréal. 

Q. In Eastbourne it looked like you were playing better and better with each match, the level was getting there. Did you feel like today was a step forward in terms of your level of play? Do you feel like it plateaued or was it not as good as Eastbourne?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think it's tough from match to match. It's always different. Obviously here, it's the first round of a slam, playing Svetlana who has been playing well. 
I thought I played some really good tennis in Eastbourne, obviously was hoping I could step up from there and do more damage today. But it wasn't enough. 
Obviously there are things you can work on. Just right now, to be honest with you, I haven't really thought too much about it. Right now it's just kind of, yeah, it's a disappointing feeling. 

Q. What is the state of your Olympic appeal? Are you confident about that or are you at all nervous it could go against you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: At this point, I don't know. I mean, I'm not going to guess yes or no. It's not up to me. I'm hoping they're going to say yes. We're a few players that are in the same boat. I know also Rafa is waiting for his appeal to wait and see what's happening, a few other players. 
At this point, it's just whatever they choose. Obviously I want to play. But if they decide that I'm not going to play, then there's not much I can do about it. 

Q. You just said in this situation you're not expecting easy draws. What do you need to do to stay positive and handle the upcoming period?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's always tough. It's been a tough year in general. It's been some injuries, it's been some bad draws. Yeah, it's been uphill. 
But, you know, you just have to keep fighting, keep going at it, keep working hard, and hope eventually that's going to turn and you're going to take the chances you're going to get. 
That's really all you can do right now. 

Q. When you do have a tough year, obviously you're a very experienced player. In terms of maximizing your resources, would you look to a psychologist and try and have the help of that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: At this point, I don't think I need a psychologist. At this point, I think I just need to play, give myself more chances, learn from the losses and from the wins as well. You know, just kind of try and move forward. That's really all you can do. 

Q. Do you feel worn down by it all, everything that's been thrown at you from the past 12 to 16 months? Does it wear on you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, at one point you're just like, You know what, it has to turn, it has to go the other way eventually. I'm just going to take the punches I'm getting and just try and learn from it and try and move forward. 
Yeah, I mean, by now I can't expect an easy draw. It's not like last year when you're 5 in the world and expecting some easy couple of rounds or easier couple of rounds. Now I know that most likely I'm going to face a tough opponent from the start. 
I just need to be ready and improve my game even more so that I can beat the top players in the earlier rounds, then it can kind of open up from there. 

Q. You've been pretty busy off court this year. Are those other pursuits welcome distractions for you when things aren't going well on court or is it something you have to balance priorities with?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, all these things have been when I haven't been playing. It hasn't been anything that has been distracting me in any way. 
I'm going to take the opportunities that I can get. Yeah, I mean, I was at home for 11 weeks. What am I going to do? I'm not just going to sit around and watch. I might as well do something that was fun while doing rehab and doing everything else. 
Obviously everything I do, main priority for me is to become a better tennis player, be fit and stay fit. If there's time left over, then I try and just have fun in life. We only live once. We don't get a Mulligan. It's just kind of about enjoying the life that we have. 

Q. In tennis there are so many different stories going on, there's ups and downs, injuries, everything. Are you able to look at the other feel‑good stories from different players and get inspired by that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I don't read about myself. Generally I very rarely read about tennis. When I was injured, I didn't watch even one match. I watched a couple of games of Stepanek against Murray at the French Open because it was on the TV at my parents' house. You know, I just focus on myself. 
I think if I read everything that was written about me the last 15 years, I think by now I probably would have jumped over a cliff. I would rather not. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT