AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 22, 2016
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. PUIG/C. Wozniacki   
4-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What surprised you out there from Monica's game today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Nothing, really.  I knew how she was going to play.  Everything that I knew that she was going to do she did.   
I guess the only thing was that she was really consistent today.  There wasn't many errors and she played on a high level.   
 Q.  Tough getting back for you?  Tough making a comeback after the injury?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not really.  I mean, I feel like I played really well today.  No.   
 Q.  But the results aren't coming.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, you don't climb Mount Everest in one day.   
No, I played really well.  I'm really happy with that.  Yeah, the foot, the body's feeling good.  I'm pleased with that.   
 Q.  You have a lot of positives to take out of it going to Wimbledon?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Oh, for sure.  I think I hit some really great shots today.  I think baseline rallies were really good, and we really hit the ball hard and consistent and in good spots.   
So, yeah, I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  You also served quite well, especially at the beginning?  Maybe at the end it wasn't as good.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I served quite well for a while there, and then just for a couple of games in the end of the second set, yeah, I think I didn't get the first serves in or she just went for the returns and it went in.   
But, you know, it's the small margins today, really.  To be honest, I think I played really well yesterday and I think I played even better today.   
So it's a lot of positives to take with you.  At the end of the day on grass sometimes it can be that little thing that can just make a difference.   
Yeah, I think I can just look up from here and just bring that confidence with me to Wimbledon and just hope for a good draw.   
 Q.  What can turn those small margins in your favor?  Just matches?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Nothing -- I mean, the first two tournaments, like I just needed to get into it.  And especially in Nottingham I just needed to get into that groove.   
And last week, honestly, it just wasn't possible to like get the rhythm, especially if you haven't played and on and off five times, it's not ideal.   
So honestly this week I feel like it was a true test and I felt like, okay, now I'm in it, I'm playing and I can actually see where my level's at.  I feel like I played pretty well today.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about David and just the decision to partner with him?  Obviously you have been injured so you probably haven't worked together as much.  But how has it been so far and what has he added?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, we started working and then I hurt myself before I even got to have a day off, so it wasn't many days.   
That happened.  But then once I could stand on my foot again, he came back and we worked every day and just worked on some technical aspects of the thing.  And at the end of the day, I think he's a good coach.  He knows what he's doing and he knows the girls, as well.   
I think it's nice for my dad, as well, to kind of, you know, take a bit of a step back.  He's wanted to do that for years.  He says he's not getting any younger.  (Smiling.)  Yeah, it's a nice combination for me.   
 Q.  Is it tough for you, though, if your dad wants to step back?  I know you have always said you're very comfortable with your father as your coach.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I am, yeah.   
 Q.  How does that work having a new voice in there, taking more initiative in coaching?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's good.  My dad has still been there at the practices and stuff.  He still comes with inputs.  If there is anything he sees he talks to David, as well.   
Yeah, it's good.  Obviously I have done so well with my dad and everything, but, yeah, it's nice.  I just want to keep improving, keep playing better.  Right now I feel like this was the best choice for me.   
 Q.  Did you and Radwanska get together and finish the schedule early so you get to watch the football?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, yesterday.   
 Q.  It worked.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It worked, exactly.  As you can tell, Poland wasn't playing today so we could play for a long time.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  So that's the plan?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Last week you mentioned that you felt you only needed a week or so to get back to a level that you were really comfortable with.  How has this week gone to sort of...  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I have to say I think good.  Again, I think Monica played really well today.  I just have to take that and then just bring it with me to next week.   
There is a couple of things you can always improve on, but generally I'm feeling good, I'm feeling confident.  And again, I'm not seeded so hopefully I can get a nice draw for myself.   
I feel like the draws haven't been with me the last year, so I'm like hopefully eventually it's going to turn, right?  I'm hoping it's going to start at Wimbledon.   
 Q.  What are you going to do if you get Azarenka again?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: At this point, I'm just used to it and I'll just have to win.  (Smiling.)   
Yeah, I think I played Azarenka five or six times when I was like 5 in the world.  This is not normal, first round of a tournament.   
 Q.  I think there is actually a law now that says you two have to be drawn.  But seriously, from this point where do you literally go from here?  Is there much to be gained to go down to Wimbledon and start practicing there as opposed to staying here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, we kind of have to because it's a mandatory Wimbledon party tomorrow, so you have to be there.   
 Q.  That sounds hard, really tough.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: But all the players who are not playing tomorrow here have to go down there.  I maybe would have stayed another day or two here and then gone down.  Yeah, I'm just going to go there tomorrow and then practice and just get into the whole atmosphere and everything.  Wimbledon is such a beautiful place and a place you always love going back.   
So it has great memories for me, and I'm excited to go down there and hopefully play some good tennis.   
 Q.  It's never fun to have to skip a Grand Slam.  So obviously you couldn't play in Paris.  Does that change at all kind of how you look at Wimbledon?  Because it's been since January since you played a major.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I love Wimbledon generally.  I think it would have been even harder for me if I had had to miss Wimbledon.  You know, I'm excited to be back, excited to play such a big event.  Yeah, it's going to be nice to get back on the big stage.   
 Q.  It's the time of year when outside of tennis there are a lot of other sports going on.  I'm interested to know if you hadn't played tennis what sport you think you might have played?  Obviously we have seen your football skills.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I would have been competitive in any sport I chose, because I think my work ethic and the way I approach things I think I would have been pretty good at any sport, if I'm honest.   
I don't know if I would have been the best in the world, but I think I would have definitely been very competitive.   
Yeah, I chose tennis over swimming and over football growing up.  So, yeah, probably one of those.  But I might have gotten bored of swimming and I'm not a morning person.  You know, having to wake up at 6:00 a.m. or be in the pool at 6:00 a.m. wasn't really my thing.   
 Q.  The Olympics.  You still don't know if you're going to play, and you will discuss it during Wimbledon.  How do you get this out of your mind?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: At the end of the day, it's not in my hands anymore so I don't worry about it.  I don't worry about things I can't control.   
So whatever decision they make, I'm going to accept it and then just move forward from there.  Obviously I want to play the Olympics, I want to be the flag bearer, and I want to get that experience and I want to win a medal.   
If not, if they decide not, then I will have a week off and just prepare and, you know, just probably go somewhere nice to train for a week.   
I think in the end of the day, whatever it's going to be, it's going to be.   
 Q.  Who do you want to win the Euro without Denmark?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, obviously I really love watching Denmark and I always support them, but, yeah, I mean, I think my parents would disown me if I didn't say Poland at this point.  So I have to go with Poland.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Aga might disown you, too.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  (Smiling.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT