ROGERS CUP
August 5, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/Y. Putintseva
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. From 4-3 on in that 30-All point, when you hit that forehand down the line, it seemed like that was the clear turning point of the match where you were just having great contact on the ball and she started to get frustrated.  How did you feel when that moment happened and how you felt your level was compared to how you played in Charleston this year?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I always feel like I should know more points of my match, but I really don't (smiling).  I just play.
And, you know, I think I just started getting ahold of her serves better from that point on.  And then I felt like I was in control of the point once we got into the rally, and I felt like I would win more points from the baseline.  So, yeah, that was kind of what turned it around, I feel like.
Just happy with the win today and that I'm through to the next round.
Q. Do you feel in terms of your serve after the early break that you were able to hit your spots, that you were in a good rhythm, and that you felt that that was at a level where you want it to be at, at your best serving?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel like I was serving pretty well.  I think there was a couple of games there where I didn't get many first serves in, but generally I feel like I served pretty well.
Q. You know Serena as well as pretty much anyone on the tour.  You guys are really good friends off the court.  But what have you learned in your career matches against Serena?  You have played her multiple times.  What do you take away from playing a player like that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I have learned that I would like to be on the other side of the draw (smiling).
But, no, you know, it's always fun to play someone who is the best ever to play the game.  You learn a lot every time.
And, you know, we've played against each other quite a lot.  And obviously she always pushes you to play your best tennis.  And you have to serve and you have to return well to have a chance, and then you just have to keep your head down and keep playing.
You know, I think she's an awesome role model for the next generation as well.  And she's been playing for such a long time.  And I remember when I was young, a long time ago, you know, watching her on TV.  And the fact that she's still here, still playing, her and Venus, I think is very impressive and something that I can only take my hat off for.
Q. What have you been up to since Wimbledon and for you does the season sort of turn a corner?  How important is that time after Wimbledon to feel like you get your body right and your mind right and feel like you're ready for this part of the season?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I took some time off.  I felt like I needed a break, more mental than anything else.
Traveled a little bit in Europe.  Went to Italy and hung out there a little bit, spent my birthday.  And then went to our friend's wedding, which was nice, and then went back home to Monaco and chilled for a few more days.  Had a couple of shoots, and then got myself together and to the gym, and then started hitting some balls on the court and started focusing on these tournaments here.
So that's kind of what I've been up to.  Kind of low key but nice to be in one spot for a while.
Q. You were talking about that you don't want to be on the same side of the draw as Serena, but a lot of the younger players right now, if I asked them, hey, what player do you want to play, they almost universally will say Serena.  And I think, why would you want to play Serena?  But can you put yourself back in that position when you're 18, 19 years old and coming out on tour and can you articulate what that instinct is?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I remember playing juniors.  And I remember being maybe 10, 11 years old, and, you know, I would play a girl and I would think she had a big serve.
And my dad would always say, You're not playing Venus or Serena.  This girl doesn't have a big serve, so just suck it up and play.  And I was like, Okay, okay.
And that mentally got me through a lot until the first time I played Venus.  And I think I was maybe 16 or 17, and I was like, Dad, so what am I supposed to do now?  I know this girl has a big serve.  I'm playing Venus.  He's like, Yeah, can't help you there.  Good luck.
So that was kind of my experience.  If I remember correctly, I want to the say I played her in Tokyo 2006 maybe.  If I remember correctly, I was up 4-1 in the first set and then I lost 6-4, and then I lost the second set.  But, yeah, that was kind of my first experience.
I think you always want to play the best players in the game and you want to have that experience to measure yourself up against them and know what you need to do to get there.  But once you've done that, you want to go far in tournaments and you want to play the best players as late as possible.
Q. How important would it be to win the title here in Toronto?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously I would love to, but last time I was here it was really my first time I ever won a match here.  So baby steps.  And I made it all the way to the finals, which was a great result.
But I'm just happy to be here and win another match here and get a good start, and we'll see how far it goes.
Q. Speaking of another special friend, Agnieszka Radwanska, of course being there at your wedding, and also I don't know if anyone has asked you about her performances on Dancing with the Stars.  What was your whole thoughts of her performances and when she probably told you that she was going to be on there, and how she just did, which was pretty awesome.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it didn't really surprise me.  Aga has always had good rhythm.  She can't sing, so we always said that if we were to form a band, I was going to be the singer and she was going to be the dancer.  So not that I have a great voice.
But, you know, she did great and she has great rhythm, and I think she had a great time.  You know, she went very, very far, so that was cool to see.
Q. And just another funny question, since you used to be a Miami Heat fan and then now with how many teams David played for in the NBA, who would be your NBA team that you are the top fan of now?  Is it still the Heat or any team that you choose or whatnot?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, I do like the Heat a lot of.  I think the Heat is a great team.  And I think the ownership is great, and I like the way they approach the game.  So I really appreciate watching them and they're definitely one of them.
I would say them and the Knicks are two of the teams I like to support.  And I do know they're both in the Eastern Conference and you're not supposed to like both teams, but I do.  So there it is.
Q. So going back to you being a singer in a band, what is your go-to karaoke song?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Anything Cher.  I like Cher.
Q. Given everything that's happened in the last month and a half and getting married and all that, how difficult is it to kind of suit up and pack your racket bag again and take off?  At this point, what is the motivation?  Is it this is my job and this is what I do for a living?  Is it something more than that?  How do you see it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I've done this for many, many years, and it's a job that I love to do.  And I'm so lucky and privileged to be in this position and to have achieved so much.
And I think I just love competing, and I love winning tournaments.  So I think that's what motivates me is that competition and being out there and competing against someone else one-on-one.  I think that's cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT