AEGON CLASSIC
June 16, 2016
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Y. WICKMAYER/C. Wozniacki
6-4, 6-7, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Carolina Wozniacki, please.
Q. A tough fight out there.  Tough conditions.  Never getting started.  The scheduling hasn't been fair to you.  Is there any positives you can take from this?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: The first set kind of was nothing, to be honest.  It was kind of, you went on and off and on and off and on and off.  It was slippery.  You couldn't really do what you wanted to do out there.
I think second set was better.  And, you know you kind of start getting into the rhythm.
I came here because I wanted to get some practice in and get the feel for the grass.  I still have a week before Wimbledon.  That's a positive thing.
There were some positive things to take with me from today and some not-so-good things.  But at the end of the day, I just need to keep working and try to play sets with the other girls.  Just get into that rhythm.
Hopefully I will get more good stuff than some questionable stuff out there.
Q. The rain has been particularly bad this year.  What do you try and do to keep yourself going during the rain delays?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's the same for both of us.  I suppose that makes you feel a little better about it.
I think I was just a little bit cautious as well, being out with a ankle injury for three months almost.  Then coming back, you don't want to hurt it again.
I think it's a little bit mentally, you're scared because I slipped once.
But at the end of the day, I can take some good things with me from here and just keep working, as I said.  Get the groove.
Q. You'll be going into Wimbledon unseeded.  Do you think you can be a dark horse?  You're a dangerous opponent.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, it's not great being not seeded, but at the end of the day, it is what it is.  I just play.  Doesn't matter who's on the other side.  I definitely think I just need to get in there and do my best.
Q. How far away do you feel from having enough match practice going into Wimbledon?  How many more matches do you need to play?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just need a good week now.  Even if it's just practice sets, whatever it is, just getting that, because we haven't really be able to practice much on grass this week.
I just want to get more hours in next week, that should be fine.
Q. So you really need the weather to be kind to you at Eastbourne?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It usually is, so...
Q. Since you've come back, do you set yourself targets for yourself?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You just take one match at a time, just try and do things in the match that you've been working on.  And that's really it.
The first two matches I played in Nottingham, I didn't really get to play what I wanted.  But I feel like it's slowly getting there now.
Q. But you haven't got a specific target for Wimbledon, for example?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: My target is always to win.  So if you ask me about a target, it's to win.  Right now it's just one match at a time and play well.
Q. Your footballing skills have been well-documented on social media this week.  Have you been watching the Euros this week or not, because Denmark didn't make it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Thanks for rubbing it in (smiling).
I've been watching a little bit.  I'm always interested in football.  I watched Poland a little bit obviously.  My parents are Polish, so they're supporting Poland.
It kind of sucks that Denmark isn't in it.  But when Denmark isn't in it, I'm going to support Poland.
Q. Not England?  We did just win.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You did?  Against Wales, first time ever, I hear?
Q. Thanks for rubbing it in.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: At least we got the win now.
There you go, the shirt says it all.  Just kidding.  Just kidding.
Q. We watched your football skills.  Safe to say your ankle seems to be a lot better.  Do you do that to warm up?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I grew up in a football family.  I had no choice, basically.  I enjoyed it.  I enjoy playing.
And I wanted to play football, but my dad was, like, No, do something else.  He didn't want me in the football, into the football.
I was always around the ball and just having fun and played around a little bit.  I don't have a left foot, as you can see in my video.  I'm still working on that.
Q. Where would you play?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Right midfield,  or mid-mid because I'm pretty fast.  I can run a lot, and I feel I can get the ball in the right place.  Yeah, I can receive.  I can do a lot of things around there.  Sometimes I would be able to go for the goal.  But, yeah, I would be right mid.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT