AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2016
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Y. PUTINTSEVA/C. Wozniacki   
1-6, 7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  What happened today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I would say it's a pretty shitty start to the season.  It wasn't a pretty first set but I got it done and really should have closed it off in two.   
You know, I let her back into the match, and it was basically my own fault that I'm not here as the winner.   
 Q.  How do you get this behind you and restart the season?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I haven't really gotten that far yet, but I guess just go back on the practice court and that's really all you can do.   
 Q.  This is not great timing but just about the only opportunity.  I have to ask you about the BNP Showdown in New York City in Madison Square Garden.  You're scheduled.  You have done a lot of great things in New York City and the Open, the marathon, had a lot of special times with Serena, but just talk about that and what it means to you in the world's greatest indoor area.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: First of all, it's World Tennis Day, so it's awesome we can play with Serena on World Tennis Day in New York, and, you know, to play in Madison Square Gardens is so special and it's such a huge opportunity.  I'm really excited for that.  I'm really looking forward to that.   
Yeah, it's gonna be my second time, and the first time was awesome.  So I'm hoping that this time is going to be equally as cool.   
 Q.  You're such a boxing fan, or at least that's my understanding.  Do you have any sense of the great boxing events that have occurred in that arena?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm sure there has been so many.  Yeah, I mean, so many unbelievable events have happened in that arena from boxing to concerts to tennis to obviously the Rangers and the Knicks and everyone else playing there.  It's really a special place.  I'm excited about that.   
 Q.  Finally, what has Serena meant to you as a person, your friendship?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She means so much to me.  She's an unbelievable person, and, you know, great support and she's funny and caring and all of that.  So she's a great friend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT