CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. What is the big challenge playing against Kerber and what weren't you able to execute today that you thought would have made a difference?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, we played against each other two weeks ago in Tokyo. Then we played here. Here the conditions are a little bit slower. The ball is bouncing up a little bit.   
To be honest, Angelique played really well today. I maybe didn't play up to my best. But at the end of the day, Angelique really played well.   
I thought I played three, four good balls. When I got the easy one, I would miss or she would get another one back and I would miss the next one. So it was a little frustrating.   
But that's what it is.   
   
 Q. Is there anything in your game that you were especially not satisfied with or it's just a question of ending the season, being not fresh enough?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I mean, in general I feel like, you know, I'm sure I can play at a really high level. At the end of the day, you get some of these matches against someone who is playing really well, you don't play 100%, you try all you can. But sometimes small things can make a big difference. We had a few long games that maybe if I'd gotten those, maybe it would have been different.   
But at the end of the day I lost, and that's it.   
   
 Q. What are your plans now for the rest of the season?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm going home. I'm trying to catch a flight that is in a couple of hours. Going to do that. Then I'm playing Linz. Then I don't know. I don't know. Moscow probably, maybe. We'll see. We'll see.   
I just know I'm playing Linz next week.   
   
 Q. You and Angelique have tough encounters, including tonight. You have ups and downs on both sides in the past. How do you like the competition between you and Angelique?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, we've had many matches. We've had many tough matches. She's always fun to play because we usually get the best out of each other.   
So, yeah, I'm sure there's going to be many more matches.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT