CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. A bit of a slow start for you, then you were able to run away with it in the second set. Talk about the first set a little bit and what you thought you did better in the second. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was a slow start. She started off playing pretty well. But I kind of stood a little too far back behind the baseline and let her be able to play her game. 
Once I stepped it in a little bit and took the ball a little earlier, I felt I was more in control and started to play better.

Q. One of the hallmarks of the end of last season was your ability to be more aggressive, especially with your court positioning. Do you feel like you've been able to maintain that level of aggression throughout your game this year? If not, why? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel like I have in periods and then I've had periods where, you know, it hasn't been great, or I've played well but had draws that for me didn't match up. I've also been a little injured. 
In general, I feel like I've been able to play that game in periods and then there's been periods where I just haven't felt as comfortable out there. 
You know, at the end of the day it's tennis. It's how it is sometimes. Sometimes you just have to pull through and you know eventually it's going to come back. 
I feel like I'm starting to hit the ball well in practice. I've been able to be out there longer on the practice court, which has been nice. That kind of gives you the confidence once you're on the court. 

Q. You have Kerber or Cibulkova next. Quite different players. You've played them a few times before. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I played Kerber a week ago or two weeks ago. I played her in Tokyo. We played a really great match. We played like three hours almost. It was long rallies, and it always is with her. We always play good tennis. 
And Cibulkova I haven't played for a long time. She's a strong player. She also tries to take the ball on the rise. She's coming back from injury. 
Both of them are good players. It's going to be a tough one. 

Q. The pollution is very high today. What is it like playing out there today? And then the new head of the WTA, Steve Simon, is there anything he needs to look at coming in, like the length of the season perhaps?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: The pollution, I think we're used to it when we play here. The good thing is that it's a little colder here than it was in Wuhan. 
You know, we just play. We just play. It's the same for both players. It's a big city, so that's what you can expect. 
Steve Simon, I think he's going to be great for the WTA. I think it's great we can get some changes. We need some changes. I think he has a lot of work to do. But I'm looking forward to just sitting down with him and meeting with him and kind of talking through a few things that I think the players want to change. 
I think it's nice we can have a few players that can step up for everybody and kind of say, I think maybe this and this can be different. Sit down with the tournament directors as well. We haven't had that opportunity.

Q. Can you tell us what kind of changes you're thinking about?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: There's quite a few. I think right now I just want to talk to him first and we can see how we can work forward. 

Q. Wang just mentioned the difference between the ITF and the WTA. A lot of pressure in the WTA. She mentioned you had more control on the key points. What experience can you share when you were young?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, everyone has to go through playing smaller events. I didn't play there very long because I did very well very quickly. I won a few events, and quickly, within half a year, I was 60 something in the world. That kind of got me through. 
But in the end of the day it's all about trying to improve and trying to be better. I think she has potential. She's young. I think we'll see here on the WTA Tour on a more regular basis. 

Q. It's International Music Day coming up on the weekend. What sort of music inspires you, and what are you listening to at the moment? Do you listen to anything before you go out onto the court?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest with you, I have a very broad music taste. I go anything from pop to R&B to rap to country. It's kind of anything. It depends what mood I'm in. Sometimes I like the beat, sometimes I like the lyrics. It depends what I feel like. 
Sometimes you can relate. Sometimes you're in the mood to party or have a good time so I listen to something more upbeat. 
I think without music this world would be very boring. It keeps everyone kind of sane. 

Q. Did you listen to anything today before your match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I didn't actually, no. I haven't been listening to much music here the last couple weeks, except for some Chinese music they play in the car on the way over here. Yeah, I don't understand what they're saying (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT