CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Happy with that start of the tournament for yourself?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was nice to get through and kind of get that first match under my belt. 
It was a little closer in the end than it should have been. But at the end of the day a win is a win, through to the next one.

Q. Last year you were struggling with your movement. Looks like you were moving like you used to be moving again. You must be happy with that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: After just being sick last week, I took some time off and just laid in bed and made sure to kind of get that out of my body before I did anything. 
You know, I hit for an hour yesterday, an hour and a half yesterday, which was nice. I got kind of the rhythm. I hit for about 45 minutes the day before. I still felt a little tired so I left it at that. Yesterday I felt better. And I'm like, Today I'm going to be fine, which I was. It was nice to feel fresh out there.

Q. There's been a lot of talk about how players manage their schedules. There's been pull‑outs, retirements. How would you compare how you manage your schedule nowadays to compared to when you first came on tour and what goes into deciding which you play and which you don't?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think the size of the tournament is important. Obviously you want to play the big tournaments. But I think a lot of players, or I, choose to play the tournaments that I like. I stay away from the tournaments that I haven't had a good experience at in the past. 
I also go by how I feel. If I play well and I feel good, I feel I can play, I play tournaments. If I feel I'm tired, kind of I can't like get motivated, I take a little break and come back and train hard at home. 
It's hard to find a balance in tennis especially because our season is so long, to find a balance between having a normal life at home and being on tour. It's such a fine balance. 
I think it's just all about the older I get I'm going to start cutting down my schedule more and more. If I want to keep playing, you have to be fresh in the head. 

Q. In an instance when Jovanovski is winning four games in a row like she did in the end of the match, what is your strategy in a time like that when an opponent is zoning, what do you do?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you try and not think about her just having won four games in a row and you just try and say, You're still up, you're up 5‑4, it's not a big deal. But in the end of the day it is a big deal because you let someone back into the match where it should have been done. 
But it's tennis. Sometimes it goes that way. 
I just kind of thought I need to put a little bit more depth on the ball. I can't let her just tee off and hit winners everywhere. 

Q. Post US Open, at least on paper, it's a pretty heavy tournament schedule. Why have you chosen to do that and how much of it is the motivation after maybe not as great results over the summer that you may have wanted or chasing Singapore, whatever it is?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest with you, I was thinking about just playing here and playing Linz. If I didn't make it to Singapore, just call it a year. 
In the end of the day, I got injured in Eastbourne with my back. I somehow managed play through Wimbledon. I don't know how I did that. But I had a great team around me of doctors that kept me fit for the tournament. I had to take about two and a half, almost three weeks off after that. 
Then in my first practice back before the US Open swing, I hurt my leg. So then I came into the US Open Series not really being able to play 100%. 
Then playing the US Open I felt fit, I felt good, but unfortunately lost in a tough match in the second round. To me, I was like, You know what, I really haven't had a summer. I've been injured. I haven't been able to play the way I want to. I just want to kind of start from afresh and finish off the year as well as I can. That's really it. Just erase the first part of the year and kind of just try and finish off well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT