CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Beijing is where you became world No.1. Does that make it a particularly special place to come back to?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It definitely does. Getting to the No.1 ranking in the world, beating the No.1 player, was definitely a dream come true. It brings back great memories to be here. 
A lot of things have changed in the tournament since then, like they built a new court and a lot of other things. But at the end of the day, you know, I remember this day when I became No.1 very clearly. 

Q. How are you feeling entering this year's tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm feeling all right. I got really sick last week. I'm feeling pretty good now. Hopefully I can get a good start to this tournament. 

Q. How do you sum up your season overall?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think it's been the best season. But, you know, I just keep fighting and keep trying to do my best. There's a few tournaments left this year, that's all I'm focused on.

Q. Anything you do differently next year?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I'll just try and stay healthy. That's really it. It's part of sports to be injured sometimes. That's going to hold you back. In the end of the day all I can do is work hard and do my best.

Q. As the season comes to an end, do you start thinking about holidays?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: For sure. All of us are. We can't wait to just get a few weeks off and recharge the batteries. 

Q. Any special plans for you? The New York Marathon again?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, because the season finishes later this year, so that's not an opportunity. 
But, you know, I'm definitely going to enjoy it with my friends, just kind of take a timeout. 

Q. Serena is a close friend of yours. Were you disappointed with her having to withdraw this week?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I was hoping to be able to catch up with her, for sure, in this Asian swing. 
But in the end of the day I respect her decision. She has to do what's best for her. In the end of the day she's had an amazing season. She can do whatever she wants.

Q. You meet a qualifier in the first round here. Any thoughts on that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not really, because you don't really know who you're playing. So I'm just going to go out there and do what I can. 

Q. Can I have your comments of recent WTA players over 30 but still play very good, and young players cannot go to the top. Why do you think this phenomenon? You made a lot of achievements, but what makes it different in these years? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think obviously the more experienced players have been playing well. When you have a lot of experience, you know your game, you know your body. A lot of those women have been playing really well. I think it's really tough as a young one. It was also when I was young. 
But I was one of the lucky ones that was able to win a lot when I was young. Hopefully I can keep doing that for a few more years. 

Q. You said you don't have plans to take part in the New York Marathon. Do you have a plan to do some jogging while you're in Beijing?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I always do some jogging. So I will also be running here on the treadmill, but not outside. 

Q. Olympic Park is nice. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: So I hear. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT