U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. CETKOVSKA/C. Wozniacki   
6-4, 5-7, 7-6   
An interview with:   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did her play surprise you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  I kind of knew what she was going to play and how she was going to play.  Not really, no.   
 Q.  How well she played, though.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she played well.  I let her play well.  You know, obviously she had nothing to lose and she went for her shots, so...   
 Q.  What was the difference today in that match?  Looked like you started to get control after the second set.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, I had, what, three, four match points?  Could have gone my way, but in the end of the day you don't go for the return, then you don't deserve to win it.   
I framed I think two of them, hit them short.  The two others she went for it and I played short, so that's really what happens.   
 Q.  Are you frustrated with your aggression level, you got passive?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was frustrated with the match.   
 Q.  You kept on stretching your legs.  How bad was the heat and humidity?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was hot out there.  It was very humid.  I had to change two times.  I had three dresses with me, which is very unusual for me.  It was very humid and definitely soaked -- my dress was soaked.   
I think, you know, playing at night, it was still much cooler than it was during the day.   
 Q.  Did it throw off your rhythm?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.   
 Q.  You said she played well, you let her play well.  What did you mean by that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously if I'm not playing my best level, the way that I can play, I'm putting too many short balls and letting her dictate too much, letting her play.   
In the end of the day, you know, I can only blame myself.  I just need to go back and practice and work hard and get better.  That's really it.   
 Q.  Did you feel at all the lack of match play over the summer, maybe you kind of ran out of time getting your game to its optimum level?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, we can always make excuses and things like that.  In the end of the day, you know, it is what it is.  I did my best.  In the end of the day, I was fighting.  You know, I never gave up.  Even when I was down in the second set, I just kept going, kept fighting hard.   
You know, that's something positive that I can take with me.  But I just, yeah, need to go back, work hard and just play better.  It's that simple.   
 Q.  How do you get over a loss like this?  Is there anything you do especially to get over them?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I really haven't gotten that far yet.  I'll probably just hit the practice courts, get some aggression out.  I don't really have any plans, to be honest.  Right now I'm just excited to get to my bed and get some sleep.   
 Q.  If you compare last year to this year, the preparation, the whole tournament, it's too early to analyze the result, but do you think you will find something which will make a difference?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, obviously last year was much better.  I didn't maybe play my best tennis in the first couple of rounds, but I found my game and played really well throughout the tournament and made it to the finals.   
This year I don't think I was playing as well.  That's really it.  In the end of the day, it's tennis.  Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose.  You have bumps on the road.  You just need to get through them.  Everyone's got them.  You just need to work hard and hopefully it will eventually turn around.   
 Q.  After last year's success, are you surprised this year, this Grand Slam season, that you have some unexpected loss?  In the last nine years, where do you put this year in your ranking?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I mean, I don't really rank anything.  I'm obviously not thrilled with the Grand Slam year, that's for sure.  I think I can do much better.  I think, you know, as a player I can do much better.   
But in the end of the day it is what it is.  All I can do is just kind of refocus and start my year from Asia.  That's what I'm going to try and think, you know.  Just practice and think that it's a new year, it's a new start.  I'll just try and do better.   
 Q.  Is the overwhelming feeling right now as you sit there frustration, disappointment, sadness, anger?  What's the feeling?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's a bit of everything.  I think it's frustration.  It's a lot of things, I think.  You always think back, I should have done this, I should have done that on those points.   
It really sucks to lose a match like that.  If you lose 1-1, it sucks, but at least you didn't have a chance.  Either you sucked or the other one was just much better.   
Here, not playing my best level, but still being so close, still having my chances, not closing it out, that hurts.  That really hurts.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT