THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 5, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. ZHANG/C. Wozniacki
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Let's talk about Hawk-Eye.  What happened with those line calls?  We didn't hear what you were saying to the chair umpire.  It seemed as if you thought clearly the ball was out.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I thought there was a few ones that I saw way differently.  But it is what it is.  You can't really change a Hawk-Eye call.
Maybe it was right.  I just saw it differently.
Q. When something like that gets into your head, is it difficult to move beyond that and get back into the game when you were frustrated?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not really.  You just have to move on, know what it is.  That's really it.
Obviously when you think you've won the point and then have to replay, that can be frustrating.  Again, there's nothing you can do about it.  You just have to keep going, keep playing.  That's really it.
Q. Obviously you had a big lead in the first set.  What happened, what went wrong?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think she played better, and that's really it.
Q. Were you surprised how well she played from that point, about her level?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really.  She's been playing well this week.
Q. I think I heard you say to the umpire that, It's too late now, when you were talking about the Hawk-Eye.  Was he sort of agreeing with you that he thought the calls were wrong, as well?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, he was.  He saw it differently and the linesmen saw it differently, as well.  But then again, there's nothing you can do about it.  It is what it is.
Q. Did he suggest they get someone to look at it?  Did he indicate to you maybe for the next match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: That's what he said, for the next match.  Well, I don't have a next match, so...
Q. During the second set, there seemed to be quite a bit of noise during the changeover.  What was the crowd saying to you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I'm just trying to just focus on myself.  I don't really know what they were saying.
Q. Would you like Hawk-Eye and the All England Club to look into the Hawk-Eye replays on your match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, at this point it doesn't matter.  It is what it is.  Maybe the Hawk-Eye was right.  Maybe I just saw it wrong.  I don't know.
But you trust Hawk-Eye normally.  You trust that it tells you the right thing.  Sometimes you do see the balls a little differently than what the Hawk-Eye is.  At least you know, okay, you can get it out of your mind.
I do believe that it was not in the ideal place today.
Q. If the umpire is agreeing with you on that, is it a sensible thing to turn it off?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You can't really.  It's the technology.  Supposed to help the umpires and the players.  You can't really do anything.
Q. Was there someone in the crowd annoying you?  Because you shouted at someone, Shut up, during one changeover.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was just someone in my box.  They were talking a little bit too much.
Q. On your box, we saw I believe your husband.  Even he yelled out a ball was out, then Hawk-Eye showed it was in.  How hard is it for your team to watch you suffering through something like that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think that's a question for them.
Again, it is what it is.  You can't change it.  It could have been in my favor, as well.  I guess she was hitting it closer to the lines than I was today.  Yeah, that's that.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about her game, what made her tough today, what she did well, what chances she has going forward.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really know what kind of chances she has going forward.  She was playing well today.  She took the balls early, was returning well, I thought.  She was moving quite well around the court.
Q. I know it's been a tricky week for you here at Wimbledon.  Can you summarize for yourself what this week at Wimbledon and the days before have all been like.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I obviously wish I'd gone further.  Court 2 over the years hasn't really been my friend.  I was hoping to strike up a friendship this year.  It wasn't to happen.
Yeah, it's too bad.  I feel like I could have gone further, but she played better than me today.  That's really it.  I can't change it now.
Obviously I wish I'd play longer in the tournament.
Q. (Question about Francesca Schiavone and coaching situation for the US Open Series.)
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't think so.  I think I'll keep my team as it is.  Francesca is a great person.  I really enjoyed working with her.  She had some family issues she needed to go back home to.  That's really why we weren't working together any more.
But she's awesome.  I really respect her, what she's done in her career.  That was great.  But for now I just want to keep my team the same.
Q. Pliskova was saying No. 2 court is not her favorite court here.  Kerber went out there yesterday.  She said it plays a little bit different.  Is there something about No. 2 court?  It comes up in conversation often.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's the different grass that is on the court.  I think it's a little slower than the other courts.  I think it does play differently.  For some players I guess it's better, it works better.  Some prefer other courts.
I think it also has to do with it being a newer court than some of the other courts.  It hasn't been there as many years as some of the other courts have been.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT