U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/J. Loeb
6-1, 6-2
An interview with:
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You have now had an opportunity to play an actual match in the new refigured Ashe.  What is your opinion of the conditions there?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It feels a little different, but I have always loved Ashe.  I think it's an amazing court.  I think it's awesome that the roof is going to happen and that when that's going to be finished I think it's going to be amazing.
It's just a little bit of different feel, but I like it.  I like the sound of the ball when you hit it in there.
There's just nothing like playing on Arthur Ashe stadium.  It's truly amazing.
Q. To get back to the basics, what would you do to have a serve like John Isner?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I would do a lot to have a serve like him.  I think that would make all my matches much easier.
I think no one would be able to beat me then.
Q. And you're known for your sort of quick-step defensive skills.  Any suggestions you might give to a taller John Isner?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think he's doing well.  He's been playing really well.
I think he should just keep doing what he's doing.
Q. It was mentioned in your exchange with John that you have been runner-up two times.  How hungry does that make you to get you back into that theater of that final?  I know it's several steps away, but to get back there...
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's a long way away, and I never look at the draw.  I just look one match ahead.  To be honest, I just love being out there.  It's amazing, and it's what we train for.  That's where we want to be.
I'm happy to get another shot out there, and hopefully I will be put on Ashe again.  I hope I will.  If not, then I just have to win and hopefully give them a show out there.
Q. How comfortable are you the way you played today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I started out nervous.  I didn't know my opponent.  You know, you just want to kind of get a good start into the tournament, but as the match progressed, I kind of loosened up a bit.
It was nice to get that win comfortably in the bag.
Q. Jamie was playing her first ever pro match today.  Can you speak a little bit about what you saw from her?  How you think she handled the pressure, first match being on Ashe against you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, for sure.  It's not easy to be playing your first professional match, and especially being out there US Open first round playing me on Arthur Ashe Stadium.
I think that can be pretty intimidating altogether.  I think she did well.  I think she has a lot of potential, and, you know, I think it's great.
I think the USTA is doing a really good job with giving out their wildcards to people who have earned it in different ways, and obviously Jamie is going to get a lot of experience out of this.  You know, I'm sure we will see a lot of her in the future.
Q. I'm curious, same thing I asked John about how players adjust to the sun with the toss and everything.  What do you do?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I actually asked him the same question, because sometimes, in Australia especially, the sun is right in your face and it's really hard.
Here you can kind of throw the ball in a little bit, a little bit to the left and a little bit to the right, and you can kind of work with it.
But, you know, you just know that it's the same for the opponent.  You just have to go with it.
Q. So when you move the serve right or left, does that mean you have to reposition your stance a little bit or not so much?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't position my stance.  I just -- my aim.  I aim it a little bit differently.  You just need to make sure that you get up to the ball perfect, in perfect timing, because you have less of a margin when you move the ball around.
Q. Related to that, you played a woman today that played in dark glasses.  Why don't more tennis players play in dark glasses?  You guys are always playing in the sun.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I don't know.  I think when I was younger, when I was like nine, I think my coach said it was unprofessional.
But at this point I think it actually helps.  You know, I think there is no reason why you shouldn't be playing.  But when you're not used to it and you didn't do it growing up, I think it's a hard transition.
I think now when you have the sun, why not play with sunglasses that actually make it easier to see in, I don't see a reason why not.
Q. For obvious reasons, there is so much focus on Serena and you're good friends.  What do you see in her that makes her special off the court, and have you seen her grow over this recent process as there has been so much attention on her?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I think as a player we just focus on one match at a time and what we're supposed to do out there.
I think for her I think the media and everyone else is more concerned.  Obviously she's very aware of the situation.  But in the end of the day, I think she just takes one match at a time and just wants to do her best out there.
I mean, let's be real.  She's done amazing in the sport.  She's arguably the best player ever, female player to ever play tennis, maybe the best female player in terms of results, and it's incredible, you know.
For me to see it as well from a little bit from the inside I think it's -- it's hard for people to understand what she actually has achieved unless you have been part of the game for so many years.
I think when you're in here you actually know, okay, it's not just, okay, you play a lower ranked player; it's easy.
Every match is different and every match is hard.  And for her to be at the top of her game for so many years is incredible.
Q. Have you seen any change, any change in terms of her work support with Patrick?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think she --you know, to be honest, I think she's such an accomplished player and she is a hard worker.  And no matter what, I think for her it's just important for her to have a team she trusts in.  And if she does that, it doesn't really -- she'll do well.
It's all about the trust and the connection in there on the court.
Q. Are you going to run the New York City Marathon this year?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I will not run the New York City Marathon this year.  I am still supporting Team For Kids and ambassador for that, but this year I'm skipping the marathon.  I will I might do it in a couple years again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT