CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 28, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/C. Wozniacki
  7‑5, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Petra played very well today, didn't she?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, she played very well. She took the ball extremely early, went for her shots. I had my chances in the first set I didn't take. Then in the second set, I didn't play bad.   
She stepped it up a little bit, didn't really give me any free points. Then I started to try and force it a little bit too much and started making more errors.   
   
 Q. How deflating was that 12th game of the first set?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's obviously disappointing whenever you're up and have set point and feel like you're supposed to have won that set already.   
It is what it is really. I had my chances even on my serve at 6‑5, as well. Didn't take them. But that's tennis.   
   
 Q. Your knee was bothering you in the second set?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I mean, it's something that I've been struggling with for a couple of years. But I just wanted to make sure it was taped because the tape was starting to loosen up a little bit. I just wanted something that was a little bit stronger on the knee. But nothing really. It's nothing major.   
   
 Q. You said the difference in the second set was she elevated her game a little bit more. Was she going for bigger shots?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she always goes for big shots. You know that going into the match, that she's going to hit some amazing shots and make some unforced errors.   
At the end of the day she just played a little bit better than me today, especially on the big points. And that's really it.   
You know, I'm excited to have played a few matches here and kind of feel like I've gotten some matches under my belt and I'm looking forward to the US Open next week.   
   
 Q. Do you find it tough to get into a rhythm against Petra, given how she hits so many winners and errors?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Oh, for sure. The thing is, I don't think there's any player on tour that hits it harder than she does. She has so good depth on the ball. You know if you play short she's going to punish you straightaway.   
Again, she played well. She just played that little bit better than me today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT