ROGERS CUP
August 12, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. BENCIC/C. Wozniack
  7‑5, 7‑5

Q. Your feelings and reaction after that match and just the start of your hard court season in general.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think the WTA is all about, you know, they're like we want the players healthy, we want them to play at their best level at every tournament and we want to make it tough for them. And that's good, but the fact that they're pushing you to play whenever‑‑ if you are not feeling 100 percent is not okay. 
I haven't practiced for a week because I wanted to make sure that I was 100 percent healthy, and I went out there and actually my leg and my back is feeling pretty good, so that's good. But today was the first time that I've practiced for a week. And normally I'm like, you know, I want to be able to play up to my best tennis, and you're not going to do that if you don't practice.
But the rules if you're a Top 10 player are so that this was my commitment tournament, you're forced to play. If you don't, you get huge money fines. You get zero points to your ranking. Plus they wouldn't allow me to play small tournament in this half of the year, which is crazy. You know, I've been on the players council for a long time and I'm not anymore because these rules are things that players complain about all the time, but we can't do anything about it. 
You know, it's not like‑‑ you know, we all want to win. We all want to do our best, but we all want to do that on our best level and when we're 100 percent healthy.

Q. Do you regret playing Stanford last week? I mean that wasn't mandatory?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, you can always look back and say, you know, something could have changed, but at the end of the day, right now I'm just looking forward to the next, you know, the next one, because I'm feeling good. My body is feeling good. So that's the first day I can say that. And even after a match my body is feeling good.
So I'm excited to get a lot of practice in, and hopefully a better tournament in Cincinnati and the US Open. You know, I'm just happy that finally my body is showing signs of improvement and I can go from here.

Q. What exactly is the issue with the leg, and I guess it is getting‑‑ I guess it is getting better?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, no. It's good. My leg is good now.

Q. Is it the calf?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's the calf. I'm not feeling any pain in it now, which is good. 
Yeah, I'm positive from now on. You know, I'm hoping I can get some good days of training in. I'm going to be out there for‑‑ and play some sets against the girls and kind of just get myself into that rhythm again.

Q. You have experience in your career of being No. 1, the ranking dropping and then having to build it up again. What tactics did you use in that time when you were trying to fight back and battle back up into those top rankings?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly I just play. I know that if I'm fit and healthy and I practice well, even if you have a few bad tournaments it's going to turn around and I'm going to eventually have good wins and good tournaments. So I just keep my spirits up, and that's really it.

Q. Will you stay here and practice or will you head off somewhere else or what's your plan for next few days?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I haven't decided yet. I don't know. I'm either going to stay here and practice for a day or just go to Cincy. I'm not sure.

Q. And do you know like‑‑ I mean there's one argument to be made that you haven't had to play a ton on the hard court season, that maybe with your health getting back on track, that you know, you'll be fine for the Open, that you'll get enough matches and everything like that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Oh, yeah, for sure. I mean I'm feeling good now and that's the main thing. I'm confident in my abilities. You know, they are there. So it's all about just now getting some practice sets in, and I'm good. 
You know, I've been working hard, so that's not the issue. You know, the issue is just getting now some time on the court, and I'm excited for that.

Q. I know that, you know, you reached a really high level at a really young age. You know, you're still very young yourself. You've sort of had a great year so far. Just wanted to find out what are your goals this year, like is winning a Grand Slam some of those key goals moving ahead?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: For sure, you know. I think the only thing missing on my resumé basically is winning a Slam. I've won almost everything else. So I'm working every day to be better, and most importantly to be healthy, and when that happens, I know that I can beat the best players in the world. But I can‑‑ you know, you have to play on your highest level for seven straight matches to win a Slam.

Q. I know that your ranking took a little bit of a dip last year and you sort of brought it back up this year. What's been the biggest difference this year that's led you to play better?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I think in sports we will always go up and down and that's just how it is. But at the end of the day, you know, I just keep playing, keep practicing, working hard, and that's really it. 

Q. You said you felt physically fit during the match and you feel good physically now. Is your frustration I guess that you maybe weren't mentally sharp because of the injury?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, you can always say this or that, but at the end of the day, I went out there and my biggest concern was how my body was going to hold up. And that held up fine. So I'm really pleased about that. 
And you know, I'm really‑‑ that makes me happy, and I'm looking forward to the next few weeks.

Q. And what makes Belinda such a strong opponent? She's obviously a young player that's coming on. What makes her such a strong opponent?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, she's a good player. She's different from most of the other young ones coming up. She takes the ball early. She places the ball. She doesn't have the biggest power, but she thinks out there, and I think that's her biggest strength.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT