WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. MUGURUZA/C. Wozniacki
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you struggled with today?   What parts of her game made it difficult for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think I struggled a little bit with the timing today.   I felt like, you know, obviously she played well.   She served well.   She returns well.   What I expected from her.   She tries to take the ball early and everything.   
But I felt like I struggled a little bit with the timing.   Felt like it was a completely different court than the other ones I played on.   Felt like the grass was different.   
She accustomed to that better than I did.   
   
 Q.   Do you think Garbine has the potential to go into the last four in major tournaments right now or the close future?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, she's in the quarterfinals already.   Obviously she does.   She's a good player.   You know, she's beaten a lot of good players.   
She has the tennis, for sure.   
   
 Q.   You were the highest‑ranked player on the bottom half.   Wondering if that was at all in the back of your head?   How can an open draw play into your mind?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I didn't really think about it.   I only think about the match I'm about to play.   I knew that Garbine was going to be tough.   That was really my main focus today.   
   
 Q.   There's no top‑10 players left in the bottom half.   What sort of opportunity is that for them, and how should players approach it?   How have you done that in the past?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I think obviously you must be playing good tennis to reach that far.   It's all about just taking it one match at a time.   
It's never easy.   It's tough to win matches, even if the other player's lower ranked.   
   
 Q.   Would you break down for us parts of Garbine's play, the best and worst parts?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it's pretty obvious.   She likes to take the ball early.   She likes to stand inside the court.   She likes to dictate.   That's her game.   That's how she wins.   
   
 Q.   You've not made the quarterfinals here so far.   How hard is it to keep your confidence up that you can do well at Wimbledon?   Can you put your finger on why this particular tournament has proven such a struggle for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I get to the fourth round quite a bit, quite often.   I just haven't managed to break through that.   
Court2 hasn't been very nice to me through the years.   Maybe next year I'll ask to be put on one of the small courts.   I don't know.   Try and mix it up a little bit.   
   
 Q.   This is a tournament where there's a lot of visitors who come, athletes, opera singers, stuff like that.   Anybody you ever met here that you were particularly happy about?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I think we meet so many interesting people through tennis.   You know, I think if you're one of the best in your sport, you get the opportunity to meet other athletes that are exceptional at their sport.   
It's just fun to bond and get friendships like that.   
   
 Q.   How well do you know Lindsey?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, we were talking.   She came down to watch me play.   The last match she was in my box, and this match as well.   
Yeah, we're going to hang out after Wimbledon, as well.   I'm going to go to L.A. and spend some time with her as well there.   
   
 Q.   Especially with the middle Sunday, how different does week two here feel?   Does the mentality change at all, the approach to a second week?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it feels different for some reason.   I think if you're in the fourth round in a Grand Slam, in any of the other slams you know you're going to play on a big court because there's very few matches left.   
Then all of a sudden here you come into the second week, I think it's great for the spectators.   They get to see top players on outside courts.   But you kind of feel like you have to start over.   It's like it's a new tournament.   You get put out on the smaller courts again and then you have to build your way up.  
The difference is here you start with playing great players from the start of a new event.   
   
 Q.   The reason all the women are put on simultaneously is because you play again tomorrow if you make it through?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I never really experienced that.   
   
 Q.   Would you rather play on a bigger court and later?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I would love to play on a big court.   I think that's what it's all about.   You work hard and practice to play on the big courts.   
The women really haven't gotten the opportunity here to play on the big courts.   You only get one woman's match on Court1 and Centre Court.   Most of last week it was only one woman's match on Court2 as well.   
It's definitely different.   That's all I can say.   I think a lot of us women feel like we deserve to play on the big courts in front of a big crowd, as well.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any messages for Rory McIlroy who sustained an injury to his ankle today?   
THE MODERATOR:   We'll stick to tennis questions.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT