WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/C. Giorgi
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Seemed like a bit more progress today.   Another round and improving still. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it was nice to win this one.   You never really feel comfortable against a player like her. 
She hits the ball as hard as she can.   Thankfully for me, it wasn't really going in that much.   I also kept serving well and I returned well, which was a big help for myself today. 

Q.   This is a key stage for you because the next round is the stage you got to several times and not gone further.   I'm surprised that you have that record here because obviously you won the girl's tournament.   Are you surprised, too?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   There's no reason why I shouldn't have been able to make it past the fourth round.   I've had some tough fourth rounds here.   I've won Eastbourne.   I've won the juniors here.   I feel very comfortable on the grass and I love playing here. 
So I'm back in the second week, which is nice, and I'm going to try to do my best in the next round.

Q.   I was reading in the week about the key, which is very pretty, your incentive for running the marathon.   Clever idea.   The shops are open in London tomorrow.   Would you dare try to give yourself the same incentive for getting through on Monday?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   I'm just going to do my best tomorrow.   I'm going to have a nice hit and do everything I've done so far before my matches.   I'm going to try and prepare as good as I can for my next round. 

Q.   Your friend Serena is also in a pretty big match coming up on Monday.   How do you see that? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I don't know how it is playing a sister, since I don't have one.   You know, it must be tough for them because obviously, you know, they're sisters.   At the same time one of them is going to get through to the quarterfinals.   They're both playing well, so it's going to be a good match, I'm sure.

Q.   Tactically do you have any thoughts on it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I haven't thought about it.

Q.   Garbine Muguruza is next.   Can you assess her? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I actually haven't watched her play here so far this week.   But I've had some tough matches against her in the past.   She's a big hitter.   She plays really well.   It's going to be a difficult one. 
But I'm excited for the challenge and I'm happy to be in the next round. 

Q.   Serena came through against Heather Watson yesterday.   Did you watch that match?   How impressed were you with Heather Watson?   There's talk today of her becoming a top‑10 player, Grand Slam winner. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Honestly, I just watched a little bit of the match.   I didn't really watch much of it.   I was napping. 
But I watched from when Heather was up 2‑0 in the third, 3‑0, had chances for 4.   She was playing really well.   She was really getting Serena on her heels. 
You know, it was a good match.   Serena once again showed why she's such a great champion.   She managed to fight back and win the match. 
But at the end of the day, a lot of great things for Heather to bring with her for the future, for sure.

Q.   Your match begins at 1:00.   Muguruza begins at 11:30.   Almost at the same time finish two matches.   You think you have a little advantage because of the short time?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, on the tour we normally play day by day, then it can make a difference.   But we have a day off tomorrow.   We all can make our recoveries and everything, so I think it's fair.

Q.   On Monday all of the Round of 16 matches will take place.   It's a unique scheduling for Grand Slams.   Can you talk about that and the excitement of all the men, all the women playing on one day. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   We all play on one day? 

Q.   Yes. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I didn't know that actually.   I haven't really paid attention to that. 
Yeah, that's interesting. 

Q.   From a fan's perspective, what would that day of tennis be like watching at home?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I think it's going to be a great day for the fans.   I think, you know, it's unique because you get the top players playing tough matches.   For sure, some of them are going to be on outside courts. 
I think also for people who come here and watch live will have a field day.   It's going to be great. 

Q.   You were speaking before about Serena's match against Heather.   Thinking about what Serena and Venus both mean to the sport and to the players who have come up since they have, how would you put that in perspective, what these two women have meant to their sport and everybody who's come since?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, you know, I think obviously with everything they've achieved, they mean a lot to the sport.   They still are front people, front players. 

Q.   Frontrunners. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Frontrunners of the women's game.   Everybody knows who Venus and Serena are. 
I think playing consistently well for so many years, it's great to see.   And definitely they brought a lot to the game because they got more power to the game.   They raised the level back in the day when they came up. 
It was more of a physical game.   It got the players to work harder and work hard in the gym, as well, to be able to resist the balls they were giving back. 
I think in the end of the day they've done a great job for the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT