WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/D. Allertova
  6‑1, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   The bookies is not tipping you to win this tournament, but what do the bookies know?   What I wonder is whether or not it helps your game not to have any pressure whatsoever?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I never look at the bookies, so I have no clue what they're saying.   For all I care, they can say I'm supposed to lose yesterday.   So I don't really know.   
I put pressure on myself to do well.   In the end of the day I just love being out there.   So any match is a plus for me and a bonus because it means I can get another chance out there.   
   
 Q.   The first set was a ride for you.   The second set, what happened?   Did you get nervous?   She improve a lot?   What do you think about it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I was up a set and 5‑1.   You know, I felt comfortable and confident.   All of a sudden she started playing better.   She started hitting the lines, as well.   You know, small things.   All of a sudden it's 5‑6 instead of comfortably in the locker room having won the match.   
In the end of the day, I won.   I kept fighting.   You know, that's tennis sometimes.   You need to win the last point.   That's when you know you've won.   
I'm just happy to be through.   
   
 Q.   What sort of momentum or attitude can you take from a win like this where you did have to fight a little bit?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, you know, I felt like I played really well out there.   So I can take a lot with me from this match.   It was definitely a step up from my last match.   Hopefully I can keep improving and hopefully I can play well in my next round, as well.  
   
 Q.   Do you like this kind of surface, which is dry because of this weather?   Is it better for you, this kind of grass, comparing to other grass you played before in recent years?   You have to play Camila Giorgi.   You lost to her twice and won once.   What do you remember of those matches and what do you expect?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I like to play on grass.   It's a fun surface for me to play on.   I enjoy it.   
Camila is a player that you don't really know what to expect.   She's hitting every ball as hard as she can.   Either it goes in or doesn't go in.   
For me, it's just about staying focused.   I need to try to keep pressure on her.   I need to return well, serve well, try not to let her dictate too much.   
Once she can dictate, she's a dangerous player.   She is going to take the ball very early.   She serves well, goes for every shot.  
   
 Q.   About the grass, you didn't tell me if this grass for you is better than the grass when is more slippery or wet?   There is one grass you like most or not?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't really care.   Grass is grass for me and I just play.   
   
 Q.   How do you actually assess your season so far?   Do you feel like a contender this year?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I always feel like a contender.   I'm 5 in the world, so of course I feel like a contender.   
I feel like it's been a season where I've had some great matches and some great wins, and a season where I have had some tough draws, as well.   
You know, in general I feel like I'm playing well, and that's the main thing.   I'm positive about playing here, you know, and the rest of the season moving forward.   
   
 Q.   Bethanie Mattek‑Sands said last night it's hard to express yourself and be creative with what you wear.   I wonder if you would welcome back to a time when there was a little more flexibility when you could choose what to wear on court?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   At the end of the day, it's Wimbledon, so you go by the rules.   If they say it's all white, it's all white.   You have to accept that and try and be creative anyways.   
We've tried to do that with my dress.   But, you know, I think every tennis player enjoys to play with a tiny little bit of color.   In the end of the day, we do that every other week of the year.   It's fun to try to be creative even though you have to wear white.   
It's a fun challenge.   I like challenges.   
   
 Q.   We've seen in the WTA Tour events you like to use the on‑court coaching breaks with your dad a lot.   At the Grand Slams you can't do that.   Do you think the Grand Slams could introduce it and allow it full stop, even shouting from the box?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, when you look at other sports, every other sport, coaching is allowed, or at least almost every other sport.   I don't really know one where it's not.   
I think in the end of the day, it's only going to help to higher the standard of play.   I don't see a reason why it shouldn't be allowed.   Again, it's tradition and all that that comes into play.   
In the end of the day, I think what the crowd wants, what everyone wants, is to have the highest level possible out there.  
   
 Q.   Do you find it different when you play in the Grand Slams that you can't use them?   Maybe in the second set today you would have used the break at some point.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, but in the end of the day, I can think for myself.   It's all right.   I don't feel like I really need it that badly.   I know what I need to do out there, it's just about the execution.   
   
 Q.   Do you think grass is a surface where you have to think less; that you are more instinctive?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think so.   I think so, yeah.   But at the end of the day, any tennis match you have to think.   You have to know what you can expect from one shot.   
But on the grass, it's all about being good on the first couple of shots in the rally.   Once you have that, you can kind of dictate, and then you have to think about where you can place the ball.   
But, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Camila Giorgi, a very instinctive player, she is probably stronger or more efficient‑‑  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Are we in Camila's press conference or are we in mine?   I'm starting to not know exactly.   You can ask her.   
   
 Q.   You're going to play her.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I really don't know what's going on inside of her head.   I'm sorry.   I know what's going on inside of my head.   That's all I can answer.   
   
 Q.   I was asking you.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Next question.   Jesus.   
   
 Q.   You talk about the grass and being comfortable on it and all.   Fourth round is the highest result you've gotten here.   How much are you motivated to get at least to there or beyond?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm very motivated for that.   I've won Eastbourne.   I've done so well there so many times.   I won junior Wimbledon.   I feel so comfortable on the grass.   There's no reason why I shouldn't be able to make it past the fourth round.   
I'm going to try to do my best.   I have a tough match in the next round.   I'm going to try to do my best to win that.   Then we take it from there.   
It's all about winning the important points, and that's what I'm going to try and do.   
   
 Q.   Your necklace has a key on it.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Actually, I bought that for myself before the marathon as a marathon present for myself.   Once I bought it, I knew that I had to finish, otherwise what was I rewarding myself for.   
It was kind of like a pre‑thing.   I thought it was pretty.  
   
 Q.   Do you wear it all matches?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't really take it off, so I'm wearing it all the time.   I like one thing, I wear it for a while, then I switch, then I wear that for a while.   
Yeah, I like it.   I think it's neat.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT