AEGON INTERNATIONAL EASTBOURNE
June 25, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Petkovic
  7‑5, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That was a convincing performance from you today. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   First set was pretty tight.   Yeah, I thought we played pretty good tennis.   Especially I think I really stepped it up in the second set, took the ball a little bit earlier and got some of those service games that I didn't get in the first set.   She returned well, so it was not easy.

Q.   How does playing at Eastbourne compare to some of the other events on tour?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I love playing here.   It's one of my favorite events.   It's low key, it's fun, big crowd.   The crowd is always nice and cheering on all of us.
It's kind of nice to have that calm before the storm.

Q.   How do you feel your form is?   You won it in 2009.   How much better do you feel you are coming into this year?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I think since 2009 it's been a lot of years, so I think I have improved a lot.   I think, you know, the tennis just keeps getting better.
I'm excited to play tomorrow, get another semifinals here.   I have had quite a few of those, as well.   It's nice to have gotten a few more matches under my belt before Wimbledon.

Q.   What do you think of Liverpool's signing?   They've signed quite a few more players. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I don't know them, but I just saw Ronaldinho made a few comments that he thinks that's doing to be a really dangerous midfield.   I'm happy with that.   Hopefully that's going to pay off.

Q.   Do you feel you're one of the favorites as winning the tournament now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I have another match tomorrow, and that's all I care about.   I don't care about who is the favorite and who is not.   It's all about winning the match you have in front of you.

Q.   Does it necessarily matter either way going into Wimbledon whether you win or not?   Does that have some meaning?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   For me I just want to win everything I play.   Obviously I'm a competitor, but, you know, I'm happy with the matches I have gotten so far and obviously I want to win. 
But if I don't, I still feel comfortable and confident on the grass.

Q.   I read that your target for Wimbledon is the quarterfinals. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know who said that. 

Q.   Do you hope to go further than that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it's normal.   I think everyone wants to go further than that. 
I have never said that my target was the quarterfinals.   That's not come from me, anyway.   Whoever said that, I'm sure they would be happy with that (smiling). 

Q.   As you said, 2009 is a long time ago.   What do you do better now?   Is there a couple of things that you really think are just a huge improvement in your game?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think I do.   Everything is slightly better.   I have always been really good physically, but I just think that over the years I have built on that a lot, and I think being ten years on the tour you have to be strong physically to stay injury‑free, and that's the main target.
Other than that, I feel like you have to keep adding to your game because everybody knows you, everybody knows how you play, and you just need to keep being a step ahead of everyone else.

Q.   There have been quite a lot of injuries from other players this week, but you seem to be in pretty good shape.   Is that something that could help you the next fortnight, your physical condition?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think my fitness has helped me my whole career, you know.   It's important to keep in shape.   For me it's important to keep my fitness up, my speed, and all of that.   It's a big part of my game.
It's something I work on every day and something that I keep wanting to improve and, you know, have that edge compared to everyone else.

Q.   Was the heat hard today? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, it was nice.   I enjoyed it.   I don't think it was very hot.   But it was nice.   It was a nice temperature.

Q.   Having not gone past the fourth round at Wimbledon before, does that become a mental test as much as it is a physical one?   Is that sort of playing in the back of your mind when you're out there?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, no. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT