AEGON INTERNATIONAL EASTBOURNE
June 24, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Kuznetsova
  6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How easy is it to avoid getting fazed by losing a 5‑1 lead?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, obviously you're not too happy with yourself after that.   But you just have to kind of get yourself together and get back on the horse, as they say, and try to win the second set.
But obviously on grass, losing a set being up 5‑1 is not ideal.

Q.   Did you lose concentration or what?   Was there a sort of reason for it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think she started playing better.   She started returning deeper and she upped her game.   I had a set point I didn't take. 
And then all of a sudden I see myself being down in the tiebreaker.   I don't know what happened (smiling). 

Q.   I was talking to Petkovic and she said the key to grass court is getting that first strike in.   Would you agree with that, or do you think the defensive game can still work?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, you have to play aggressive.   You have to make the opponent run.   You have to mix up the pace still I think for me. 
You need to serve and return well.   That's really the key.

Q.   When we watch men's matches on hard and clay and then watch them on grass, there is a big difference.   They use a lot more slice, big servers come to the fore more.   In women's tennis... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I wouldn't say they really come in front more, the men.   If you watch the courts at Wimbledon back in the day, you would see, you know, everyone was going forward and you would see the grass being worn in the middle of the court and forward. 
Now when you look at the grass, it's all in the back.   It's slowed down a little bit and it's not as easy.
You know, the racquets have more power.   The strings, as well.   If someone comes in on a bad shot, they are done. 

Q.   Is it particularly different playing on grass versus the other surfaces?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It is, for sure.   Yeah, it's much different.   It feels different when you're out there, as well.

Q.   A lot of the other top seeds have left us this week.   Why do you think it's been so hard this tournament so far?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Again, I think grass is much different to play on, so that's one of the reasons.   I think another reason is that maybe some of the top players, it was their first tournament on grass, and a lot of the other players have played a couple of tournaments or at least one tournament before this and have gotten into the rhythm a little bit more.
I think it's a mixture.   You know, it's a tough field.   It's competitive.   It's not easy.   It's not like just because you're top seeded you get the matches handed to you.

Q.   The rankings, sometimes they can be a little bit deceptive?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, obviously the rankings show how good you are, but when you start on the grass court season, it's not easy.   You have to get used to moving on the grass and playing on the grass and it's a different game.

Q.   Do you enjoy the extra three weeks, having the extra week, three weeks between?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I do.   I think it's good.   I didn't take advantage really of it, as I only played here and Wimbledon. 
But in general I think if you play well at the French Open I think it's good because you kind of get one more week to get used to playing on grass. 

Q.   Any pressure of ranking points? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   I just play.   I love to play, and that's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT