ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  J. GOERGES/C. Wozniacki6-4, 7-6THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. She's obviously proven a tough match for you before, especially on clay.  What is it she keeps doing that you find it hard to break through against?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think there is just some players that, yeah, it's just a tough matchup for you no matter the rankings, and some of them are easy matchups for no matter the rankings. You know, obviously she has given me trouble in the past and she gave me trouble again today.  So that kind of sucks.  Would have liked to have been through to the next round, but I'm not. So, you know, I just have to move on, I suppose.  And, yeah, it's not really much else to say.Q. Did you feel a little bit off today?  A few more unforced errors off your racquet or was it just Julia can zone in and hit really big through the court?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think especially on clay she has a way to make me feel like I'm not playing very well.  And then, you know, I was really trying to do better this time than I have done in the past against her on clay, so it didn't work. You know, obviously I prefer hard courts, and my game against her matches better on hard courts or on grass I think would be a better matchup for me. But, you know, today she played well.  She played the way she had to and I didn't.  I had like a million chances, especially in the first set.  I didn't take them.  In the second set I managed to come back again, and again, I didn't take my chances.  When you don't, you get punished.  Yeah, you lose. So it's all about learning from this, and just moving on.Q. In the end of the second set it seemed like a bit that Julia was getting a bit nervous or a bit tight.  Do you feel getting into the tiebreak you might have had a chance to get into the third set?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I always thought I had a chance to get into the third set.  You know, the first set I really should have won being up 3-1, having chances at 4-1, having chances again.  Every game I had opportunities to win or had break chances.  That was kind of disappointing I didn't get that. Second set I just tried to keep fighting and tried to do my best out there.Q. You had a great start to the clay season in Stuttgart and I guess do you feel overall you made progress on this surface despite how the last couple of weeks went?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I do.  I mean, -- yeah, I think I did.  I mean, obviously I have won more matches on clay than I have the last few years.  So obviously that's a progress, but that wasn't really hard to do, you know (smiling). Again, Stuttgart was a little faster, so I think that helped me a little bit more.  But again, you know, I just need to find a way to win here.  I haven't really done that yet. Absolutely going to try and keep improving and try and do better.Q. Just going into the grass, is Eastbourne your only preparation for Wimbledon, or are you going to play any other tournaments?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I'm thinking Eastbourne and then Wimbledon.  As of now, that's my only preparation. I love Eastbourne.  I think it's a great tournament.  I have always played well there and feel comfortable. Yeah, for now that's how it looks.THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.Q. Now, what happened today during the match?  Were you injured or didn't you play really well?  Because I thought you didn't really play that well compared to your first round, your first match.  So I thought maybe you were injured.  I don't know.  My second question is:  Will you take part in the Wimbledon championship or not?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: (In English.)  In obviously you're not really happy when you lose a match.  It's disappointing, and I had hoped better for myself, and I hoped that I could do better.  Obviously that's disappointing. Wimbledon is next.  That's what I'm looking forward to.  And of course, as always, I believe I can win it.  I think grass suits my game better.  But I had bigger expectations for myself this week, so it's obviously disappointing right now. But, yeah, Wimbledon is the next highlight.  It's not too far away.  That's what I'm going to train for.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT