ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  C. WOZNIACKI/K. Knapp6-3, 6-0THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. I assume you're happy that there are fewer people in here than last year?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes.  I like when there is people, but for like my play and not for other reasons (smiling).Q. People who got to the stadium like a minute late would have had to wait half an hour to get in.  What happened in those first three games, do you think?  The rest was not that slow.CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, that's crazy.  I think four games in or five games in we played like 40- something minutes.  It's ridiculous. But it was really close in the beginning, a lot of deuces and advantages.  She obviously is playing really well.  She won last week.  So for me it was a tough first round, but nothing unusual from my other draws this year. I was ready for it and just kind of, you know, excited -- I knew the longer we played the better for me, so I didn't mind at all.Q. You get to play Julia Goerges next.  Talk about that matchup.CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I had a lot of tough matches against her in the past.  It's never easy. I'm just going to be ready and competitive.  It's not going to be that much different from today.  You know, big serve, big forehand.  So, yeah, I'm excited for it.Q. Have you done any sort of like different warmup activities over your career, like soccer, football, or anything?  If so, why?  Kind of to keep yourself entertained?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Warmup activities?Q. Yeah.CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  It switched a lot over the years.  I have done a lot of like, yeah, soccer, throwing a ball around, as well.  Some baseball throws with like a glove.  Some football throwing.  I have done everything, really. It's just to keep it entertaining, keep it fun.  It can get quite boring when you do the same thing for over 10 years, so I just like to mix it up. It's all about just getting the heartbeat up and getting a sweat going, really.  That's really all it's about.Q. (Off microphone.)CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I have done everything.Q. Serena has said she's done some dancing.  Would you consider doing some dancing yourself to get warmed up?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I haven't done dancing.  Serena has taught me some dancing in the locker room, which did not go down too well (smiling).  I have decided against that.  I'm leaving that to her.Q. I saw on Twitter that you were watching the last match for Stevie G at the -- I can see that face.  Can you just tell us how it felt to watch that?  Because it was quite emotional for Liverpool fans.CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, on the positive side, Stevie G scored in his last game.  And the positive as well is that it was the last game of the season, I suppose, and they have a break.  There was not really much else positive in that last game. The last game at Anfield obviously was very emotional I think for everybody.  Obviously he's been playing for so many years, and as a captain, and he's done so much for the club and for the team. You know, I think it's sad that he's not playing anymore.  It's kind of surreal that he's not going to come back to Anfield next season.  It's going to be strange, Liverpool without Steven Gerrard.Q. I'm not sure whether you saw Razzano serve underarm yesterday.  Do you think there are any moral implications on the shot itself, serving underarm?  Why is it so controversial, do you think?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I actually didn't see the match.  I can't...Q. Underarm serve as a tennis shot.CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, I don't know if she had a problem with her shoulder or what happened.  It's tough for me to kind of comment on that when I haven't seen the whole situation.  I serve worse underhand than I do overhand. I wouldn't do it permanently.  I have tried in practice a few times for fun and I miss.  So I'm not going to try that in matches.Q. Do you think it is unfair at all on the rival if someone serves underarm?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  I mean, if someone wants to serve underarm with me, go ahead.  I'm ready.  I go in and attack.  I think that's why nobody serves underhand really. Obviously when you serve from up, it's a much harder ball to return.Q. Is this a tournament where you pay attention to conditions, say, if it's a hot, dry day compared to today, a very cool, maybe a little bit wet out there?  Is that something mentally you take out on to the court with you?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's much different depending on the days and depending on how the weather is.  You know, it can be fast conditions, it can be extremely slow conditions. So day to day it can feel like it's a different tournament.  Also depending on what court you play, some courts have much more clay on them.  Some of them have much less.  It's all about just being ready, really. And the more experience you have, the more you know, you know, how to prepare for those.Q. How would you describe the clay here?  From the looks of it, to how it plays and how it dirties your shoes and socks and how hard it is to get off?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I actually think this year the courts are different than they were previous year.  I think there are much more clay on the courts in general.  I think there are more bad bounces because of that.  I think in previous years it's been much less clay, been faster to play on. The color of the clay, I think we're used to it by now and getting, you know, our socks and shoes dirty.  I think it's part of it.  I think the designers now know they design the shoes and everything, even when they get the orange clay on it it's still going to look good. I'm wearing yellow these weeks, so I think that contrasts well on to the clay.  It kind of brightens it all up, even when it's a gray day out there, I'm still shining bright (smiling).


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT