MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/C. Wozniacki
  6‑1, 3‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess the start to your clay season so far?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I would assess it as pretty good.   I've been playing some good tennis, and all round feel pretty confident with my game.   
I think I can take a lot of positives with me from the last couple weeks and bring that with me for the rest of this clay season.  
   
 Q.   There has been a few disgruntled players about line calls and stuff.   There was something about the net cord that bugged you at the start.   Do you think that threw you off?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know if it threw me off, but there was three clear net calls that were not called.   We both stopped.   Are you kidding me?   Can you not hear that?   Are you serious?   Because it was big.   It wasn't like it was maybe or maybe not.   It was clear.   
I think definitely there should be let machines on all courts or they should allow lets if that's how we're going to play it.   
   
 Q.   Maria got off to an incredible start.   Did that force you to change how you approach the match at all?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, she did come off really strong.   She played really well and I started off a little slow.  
I didn't get enough depth on my balls and she started punishing me straightaway.  
So the second set I had nothing to lose.   It was already going the wrong way.   So I just tried to stand a little further to the returns, try to get a bit more depth on it, try and serve better, try and get her moving, and I started to find my place in the second set.   
   
 Q.   Where do you go from here?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm going to go to Rome and play there, and then Paris.   
   
 Q.   In the third set seems that you have all under control, and suddenly you get the break down.   What happened?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I mean, I'm not playing a bad player.   It's not like you have everything in your pocket all the time.   I did my best.   I had one bad service game at 3‑2 up, and she broke me easy.  
But in general, I think we both played on a pretty high level.   Unfortunately she came out as the winner today.  
There is still a lot of positives I can bring with me from this tournament and from last week.   I'm excited about the way I'm playing.   There is definitely a lot of positives I can even improve on.  
So it's definitely a much better position I'm in now than I was last year.   I'm happy with that.   
   
 Q.   She played well at the end to take the final break.   Is it easier to take when a player steps up like that or is winning and losing black and white to you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I hate losing.   I hate losing a lot, so that's why you always work hard and try and improve and be better not to lose.  
So it is what it is.   I'm just not going to beat myself up over this.   What I'm happy about is the way I've been playing in general on the clay.   
So, you know, that's a positive, and I'm going to have a few days to practice and get ready for Rome, and most importantly, the French Open coming up very soon.  
   
 Q.   May I ask you what you were saying to Maria at the net at the end?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   What I said to her?   
   
 Q.   You seemed to have a chat about something.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, you can ask Maria.   
   
 Q.   After the start to the season, what would be your definitive ranking of your favorite surfaces?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I still love the hard courts.   That's still my favorite surface.   I love playing on grass.   I think it's so much fun.  
I'm starting to enjoy my clay court game as well.  
But, you know, I can play on any surface.   There is nothing that is holding me down.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT