MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Radwanska
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Great start.   You're obviously building some momentum after Stuttgart.   Sort of give us a rundown of how you felt you played today, especially against Radwanska. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I'm really pleased with the way I've been playing and competing on the clay.   It's been a much better start to the clay season than the last few years.
Yeah, I'm taking every match and just trying to improve every time.   I feel like here in this tournament I started off maybe the first match not playing great, but then I feel like I've improved every match I've played.

Q.   I haven't got my wingman here with the stats of your clay court season from last year to this year, but it's got to give you a lot of confidence. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I can give you the stats:   I won one clay match last year, and I think one or two the year before.   I've been doing much better.

Q.   I didn't want to draw attention to that.   Have you been able to touch base with Arantxa and see how that's progressing against your map for the clay court season?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   We've been working so hard in Miami and kind of put the ground base and gotten a few pointers and learned a little bit more how to slide on the clay and mixing up the pace and all these things.
I think that's really helped me going into this clay season. 

Q.   You play Maria Sharapova next.   Her clay record has been exceptional.   How do you feel about that match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm feeling good.   We've had some tough matches in the past.   Last few matches we played both went three sets and were really long.   She likes the clay.   She won here last year. 
But I feel like I'm in good form.   Hopefully can be a good match tomorrow. 

Q.   It always feels like there is an extra bit of fire when you play Maria.   Do you feel it from your side of the court?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Every point is the same.   I feel like I always have the same motivation to win no matter who is on the other side of the court.

Q.   For Arantxa, what specifically do you think she's advised you on or brought to your clay court game so far?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Like I said before, we have just been working really hard on a few tactical things and mental things going into the clay court season. 
And the sliding.   One of my biggest advantages and strengths is my quickness around the court.   I haven't been able to take advantage of that in the last couple years on the clay because I haven't been sliding properly.   I feel like now I'm starting to get the hang of it. 

Q.   Looking towards Wimbledon, you're playing one grass‑court tournament.   Any reason? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, I feel like I've been playing a lot of tennis.   I need to watch out for my body.   I just feel like that's the right scheduling for me. 

Q.   Do you think working with Sanchez Vicario will better fit you in grass?   You were a semifinalist in Wimbledon two years in a row. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   Right now I'm not really thinking about the grass season.   Just thinking about the clay. 
I've always liked to play on the grass; always played well on grass.   Where I really wanted to improve was my clay game. 

Q.   You debuted the headband in Stuttgart.   It got quite good reviews. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Got a lot of attention, yes.

Q.   Will you be bringing it back?   Really important question here. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I might.   I might.   When the sun is shining I kind of feel like I need the visor.   It helps me.   It's maybe not as fashionable, but sometimes you need to think what helps you on court. 
Whenever the sun is shining I'll be wearing the visor.   If it's overcast or rainy, you might see me with the headband. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT