QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 25, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Dulgheru
  6‑1, 3‑0

Q.   Talk about the match.   How did you play before it ended? 
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   I played okay.   I think it's much different conditions this week than it was last week, and it feels like the ball doesn't fly as much.   I just had to kind of get used to it.   So, yeah, I'm feeling okay.   It's first match for me and kind of just trying to get into the tournament.

Q.   When did you decide to play?   You took a wildcard, right, to get in here?   When was the decision made?
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   Quite a long time ago.   So, yeah, it was part of the plan.

Q.   Obviously you've been already No. 1 for many weeks.   But as we know a Grand Slam is still missing.   How close do you feel you currently are from reaching your goal?
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   I think I can beat anyone.   Right now, currently speaking, I'm seven matches away.   You know, when you go into a Grand Slam, you need to seven matches in a row to win the tournament.

Q.   Is Gerard Houllier here to see you as a fellow Liverpoolian? 
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   I actually didn't know he was here.   I was just told a couple of minutes ago.   It's pretty cool that he's here.   There's always quite a few footballers ad ex‑footballers and coaches around when this tournament is going on, I remember last year as well.

Q.   Have you met him?   Do you know him?
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   No, I haven't.   No, I haven't met him.

Q.   I saw your Tweet today.   Obviously you can already smile about what happened in the past.   Do you even see positives now that the time has passed actually?
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   I see positives in everything.   It's things happen.   Things hatch for a reason.   I just found myself hilarious yesterday.   I think that's my sense of humor sometimes. 

Q.   Do you think what happened to you is the worst thing which could happen relationship‑wise?
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   I mean, I think you can write different scenarios and I think it would have been worse standing at the altar or the day after the wedding.   But I'm pretty sure that I didn't think it was very fun at the time. 

Q.   You are probably going to play Azarenka next.   May we have your view on that?
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, she's a good player.   She beat me last time in Australia, so I have to play my best.   I have to play my best tennis out there.   And it's a new place, it's a new tournament.   And hopefully I can do better this time. 

Q.   Like Muguruza, she complained a little bit about lack of colleagueship between the players, how do you experience that? 
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   I don't think that's right.   I think there's alot of ‑‑ we have good friends on Tour.   We go out for dinners.   Serena was just texting me just now.   I have great friends on Tour and friends that I'll have for a long time after I finish my career, too. 
I think a lot of the younger players may be‑‑ I'm not talking about Muguruza because I think she's a great girl, but I think a lot of the young ones maybe are still intimidating or finding their ground.   But, in general, I think a lot of us just have a good friendship.

Q.   Obviously, you've got one with Serena.   How difficult is it for you to keep that up?   Of course, you're rivals in a certain way, also. 
CAROLINA WOZNIACKI:   Of course we're rivals on the court and we both want to win.   We are both competitors.   Off the court we're friends and we don't hold grudges.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT