QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 23, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Caroline, don't think you were very well in Dubai, were you?   Are you feeling better now?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm feeling good now.   I had a couple days off, which was nice.   Just relaxed.   
So today I hit for like 45 minutes and it felt good.   So yeah, I'm back on track.  
   
 Q.   How about your knee?   Have you had a bit of a problem with your knee as well?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, but that's the problem that I've had for a while, so it's not really that big a deal.   I'm just going to probably tape it up for protection and just make sure it's stable and that's really it.   
   
 Q.   I remember you talking to us last year sitting right here saying winning a Grand Slam remains one of your biggest goals.   How close are you to achieving that?   And how have things been in the last 12 months?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm seven matches from that.   So it would be nice to win several matches in a row.   That's how far I am from it, just as far as everyone is.   We're all on equal grounds whenever we go into one, and we all try to win it.   
   
 Q.   Pretty cool conditions this week in Doha.   Do you like the conditions, very windy last night?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's been very windy yesterday and today, but that's what you really expect when you get here because that's how it usually is every year.   It's a little cooler than Dubai and it's more windy.   So we're used to it.   It's equal for both parts thankfully, so it's not like one side gets and the other doesn't.   So it's all about just embracing it and making the most of it.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a little bit about whether you look forward to coming back to Qatar every year and what the conditions are like here at the tournament for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I come back every year because I think it's a good tournament.   It's a tough competition because the best players in the world are here.   So it's definitely makes it tough.   I'm excited to be here and I'm looking forward to hopefully get some good matches in.   
The courts are a little slower than they were in Dubai and the balls maybe a little heavier.   It doesn't fly as much.   I think that suits my game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT