DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 19, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/F. Pennetta
  7‑5, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How are you feeling?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Feeling better.   Fever has gone down, so that's good.   Still a little bit of struggle with the coughing.   A little bit blocked up, but it's getting better.   That's a good sign.

Q.   Once you got on top of her today, you got on top of her. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, I felt like we had some long rallies out there.   I think there was one point that took forever.   I was like, Are you kidding me?   How am I supposed to play a full match like this? 
But it was fun.   You know, I always enjoy playing her, because we have a lot of long rallies and you really feel like you have to get out every shot.   Every shot that you've learned you need to pick that up and play it.
So that's what makes tennis fun and you have long rallies and long points.

Q.   Simona next.   Your thoughts?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   She obviously is a good player.   Takes the ball early.   Likes to play with angles.   I think it's going to be a little bit similar to today. 
But honestly, I haven't played her for a long time, so I don't really remember exactly how she plays.   But, I mean, I have seen her on TV obviously.   Yeah, I will need to ask my dad a few tips.

Q.   You seemed to be making good progress, and yet you asked for your dad twice.   What keys could he add in those situations?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It was annoying me a little bit that I couldn't get my first serve in.   I felt sometimes I mishit the second serve as well. 
I kind of wanted some pointers on that, because it would just be nice to, yeah, get a better start of the rally.

Q.   We thought you were giving your order for dinner. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, unfortunately.   Maybe next time. 

Q.   Are you pleased you got that second set pretty quickly?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   Obviously with the way I have been feeling this week, I'm just trying to save as much energy as I can for all the matches I have to play.   I'm definitely very pleased with the way I have played and the way I fought.   Even when I haven't felt good, I have still managed to win.
But today, you know, with the fever down, I definitely felt much better.   Hopefully it's a step in the right direction, and also that I don't mind being sick for the rest of this week because obviously that's bringing me some good luck, but as long as I'm healthy for next week.

Q.   Has it helped you focus even more?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think so, yeah.   Because I knew that when I'm out there I need to focus 100% on each point.   I can't just give loose ones away, because that means longer time on court which means I have less of a chance of winning, so especially like now. 
So I think that's definitely helped me focus and just say, okay, You know what?   You need to start off the points right.

Q.   The knee, which you said has been around for a while, is that just wear and tear?   Might marathon running have had anything to do with it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   I'm just old, unfortunately.   I have had it for about two years now.
It actually felt much better while I was doing the marathon running, so I don't know if that's telling me something. 
I had a big problem with it clay court season last year.   That and my wrist.   So, yeah, I just always have to keep an eye on it.

Q.   Would doing a marathon again be something you'd be interested in or too hard of work?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's too hard of work right now.   It was amazing last year, and I wouldn't have done anything different.   I would have done it again if I would do it over.   It was an unbelievable experience. 
But for now I'm just focusing on the tennis.   I will do the charity work, but I will skip the running (smiling). 

Q.   Was it just something sort of at the time or to run triathlons?   Are you a good enough swimmer for that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I actually used to be a great swimmer.   I used to have the Danish records under‑12 in back crawl or backstroke, whatever you call it.   Yeah, I was a good swimmer.
I had to choose between tennis and swimming growing up.   My problem would be the biking.   I hate to bike.   Gives me a pain in the butt, and it is a pain in the butt, literally (smiling).
That would be my toughest part of it.   But it would definitely be a fun challenge for me, but right now I'm just focusing on the tennis.

Q.   Have you done a run of any length since doing the marathon?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Like competitive or... 

Q.   No, no, no, just going out for... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Oh, yeah, I do that all the time.   I have always been a runner.   I run 5, 10Ks regularly.   It's not a big deal to me. 
I have a route in Monaco which is like 12K.   I do that at least two, three times a week, probably two times a week. 
It's not a big deal to me.   That's a hilly course, as well.
So the problem for me was when I hit 35K.   That's when I hit the wall.   But I'm not going to do those long runs any time soon.

Q.   What was it like, the atmosphere in NewYork? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It was incredible.   People told me about it before I started, and I had two pacers with me.   The first 10K just flew by.   I was like, Oh, my God, this is amazing.   I don't really feel it.   I'm just talking away. 
20Ks go by.   I'm like, This is amazing.   I want to do this again next year.   This is easy. 
They were just like, Shhh.   Just don't talk.   Just save your energy. 
25K, 30K, they're like, How are you feeling?   I'm good.   Waving to the crowd.   Feeling great. 
35K, they are like, How are you feeling?   I'm like, Don't don't talk to me.   I don't want to do this again.   I'm done.   Stop. 
They are like, Look.   There's a milkshake there.   I'm like, I don't care about a milkshake.   I just want to finish.   Can we stop now?   Let's have a milkshake now, because I don't care about this anymore. 
They are like, Come on.   Just keep going.   They kept talking to me. 
Then once we got into Central Park and I had two miles left, I was like, Okay, I'm two miles away.   Let's just get this done fast.   The faster I run, the faster I'm going to be home and I can relax. 
That's when I saw the huge crowds, as well, and kind of that gave me the buzz in the end.   They are like, So, you want to do this again?   I was like, No. 
Yeah, probably in a few years I might do it again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT