DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Cornet
  6‑4, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That must have felt good. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It was nice to get the win, that's for sure.   Started off a little bit tough, but got the win in the end and was happy to finish it off in two sets.

Q.   Are you feeling any better?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, not really (smiling).   Yeah, unfortunately.   Hopefully tomorrow.   I had a full day's sleep today.   I hit for like 15, 20 minutes before the match and that was it.
Hoping for another late one tomorrow.   I don't know.   Am I getting a late one?   Which is nice so I can sleep in again tomorrow. 

Q.   You just were in bed all day, were you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   I literally set my alarm for 10:30, went for breakfast because my dad forced me to eat.   Set my alarm again for 2:30.   Woke up.   Ate something.   Went back to bed.   Set my alarm for quarter past 5:00.   Took a shower and made way over here.   Hit for like 15, 20 minutes and called that a day and was just waiting around for the first match to finish.

Q.   As long as you're winning matches, is this a new sort of regime?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I am a big sleeper.   I usually sleep a lot.   But this is probably more than usual.   Definitely more than usual.

Q.   You went on court knowing there were so many upsets, I assume?   Did it make you a little nervous or you don't think about it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't really think about it.   I think, you know, the players that won, it's not like they come out of nowhere.   Most of these girls have had a good year or are very high in the rankings.
I think it's normal that this can happen, especially at these big tournaments.

Q.   Any plan you came with to meet with her?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I had a game plan in mind.   I played her quite a few times.   I kind of knew what I wanted to do out there.

Q.   Tomorrow should be a good match, shouldn't it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, should be interesting.   Flavia is a great player.   I have played her so many times before, and we have always had tough matches.
She plays a similar game a little bit to me, so I think we are going to have a lot of long rallies.   And, yeah, I need to be ready.

Q.   Obviously you seemed a little upset when you had lost your serve, whatever.   Your dad came out on the court.   What did he tell you?   How did you turn it around?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   He told me, You're playing well.   Just focus on your own game.   You set up the points nicely and then you make a few stupid mistakes where you just have to put away the point.   So be patient and don't force it.

Q.   When you are expecting long rallies tomorrow and with the condition of your health, it's not ideal. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I was expecting long rallies today, too.   So, you know, I feel like once I go out there I might as well make the most out of it.   I'm just going to fight as much as I can and give myself every point and we will see.   You know, I can only do my best.

Q.   You appeared to be taking something out there on court.   Is it just sort of throat lozenges?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   I feel like my throat is pretty much burning, so it's nice to kind of sooth it down a little bit. 

Q.   Whiskey is good for that. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I know.   I heard.   But I'm not sure if that would be great during a match (smiling).   I'm not sure if it's allowed.   Is it allowed? 

Q.   If you felt so awful today, was there ever a thought of not playing or pulling out?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   It was hotter yesterday, so I think it was tougher conditions for me yesterday than it was today.
I didn't think about pulling out.   Once I committed myself to go out there and play, I will play and I will do my best.   I feel like I'm hitting the ball great, so, you know, hopefully I can just keep going. 
I had a year where I got sick here and I won the tournament, I got sick, played Doha, made it to the finals, was healthy for the finals and lost.   So, you know, maybe it isn't such a bad thing after all, you know (smiling).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT