DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 17, 2015
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Stosur
  4‑6, 6‑1, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How often do you have to serve for a match three times before you get the job done?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Not often, that's for sure.   I would have been pretty pissed if I wouldn't have won it the third time, but they do say third time lucky, right?   I was hoping for that.

Q.   Can you tell us what's wrong with your leg?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   The leg isn't actually too bad.   It's an ongoing injury I have had for the last few years.   It kind of goes on and off. 
To be honest, it happened in the first point in the first game.   I was like, You've got to be kidding me.   That's actually okay.   Yeah.   It's not feeling too bad.   It was nice to get it taped up.

Q.   Is it the knee? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.

Q.   What do you think made it difficult for you to close it out?   Was it more her or you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think she definitely stepped it up a little bit, and I couldn't get a first serve in.   And now I don't have a voice.   (Smiling.) 
Yeah, I couldn't get a first serve in.   All of a sudden she was attacking and I was on the back foot.   It kind of felt like I had already won the match, so I was like, you know, Just, you know, go with the flow.   But all of a sudden there was no flow and I had to fight back.

Q.   What else is going on here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, what's not going on?   I just think I need some rest.   Hopefully‑‑ I don't know.   Do I play tomorrow?   Is the schedule out? 

Q.   You play every day. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Really?   Well, then I play tomorrow.   I guess I just need some rest and lots of fluids and Tylenol and Advil and whatever else there is.

Q.   You have had some very close matches against Sam.   Why is it always difficult in a sense of both of you when you play each other?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   She has a tough game.   You know, I return pretty well, but she has great serves.   She attacks well.   She can play some unbelievable points.   She can also miss a few, but at the end of the day you need to be on top of the ball.   She plays with big spin.   If you don't hit through it, the ball is just going to go.
So it makes it tough.   She's a great competitor.   She never gives up, like she showed today.   That definitely makes it tough.

Q.   You get to play Cornet in the next match.   She did well here last year.   She's sometimes a player that explodes on the court and talks to the umpires.   When you play a player like that, do you go in wary of that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Honestly I will just think of myself.   I have enough problems on my side of the court that I don't really have time to think about the opponent.   I just do what I have to do and try and win and fight.
Today, with the way I was feeling, I was really proud of myself of being able to really push through, because I thought after losing the first set I thought there was no chance I could play two more sets.

Q.   When did this develop?   You sounded okay on Saturday. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I have had a bit of a headache and a little bit of things going on, but I think it's just the final of it.   It's the throat, the head.   It's a little bit of everything. 

Q.   Do you enjoy facing someone with Sam's style?   It's maybe similar to yourself, your style of play.   Do you enjoy playing that, or do you get a kick out of playing someone different?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   As long as I win, I get a kick out of it (smiling).   Then it really doesn't matter.   I like winning, so I like to play people that I win against.

Q.   You mentioned before that no matter the draw, you're playing someone tough earlier or later, it doesn't matter.   Will it give you a certain type of confidence now moving forward that you went through that kind of match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   You know, I haven't had the best of draws this year, if I have to say it myself.   But, you know, no matter who is on the other side I just try and win. 
Today I managed to do so, and it's nice.   It's a good win under my belt.   I wish it would have been in two sets, but I'm not going to complain.   I'm through.   I thought I was long gone after that first set.   I'm happy to be through and to the next round.

Q.   When you're not feeling great and you know you're playing tomorrow, would you go and ask to try and play later in the day, or... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I didn't really have a chance to really talk.   I was just chilling for most of the day today.   I hit for like 25 minutes before the match, and honestly, I didn't really think about the next round.   I didn't make it that far in my head.   I just thought about this one.
I don't know if the schedule is out or not, but I might ask to play later.   We'll see.   I mean, anything to help myself, I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT