BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 25, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/C. Wozniacki
  2‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously a very tough one.   Is there anything that you can explain that made the difference, or just a coin flip at the end with how tight you two were?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   This really sucks.   You know, being so close and still losing, it really sucks.
But, you know, I think it was a great match.   I played all I could today.   I played my heart out.   I fought until the end.
You know, you can always look back and say, I could have done this and that, but at the end of the day I couldn't.   I played the best I could today.
Serena was just better than me in the most crucial moments.   Her serve, when she needed it, it came up on fire.   So I think that decided the match. 
Being up 4‑1 in the tiebreaker and that net call as well to 4‑2, and then I played a good serve and the she hit net cord again. 
Then I had to improvise and she hit the winner.   You know, it was just small things, but, again, that is why champions are champions.   All of them step it up when it matters.
Today, Serena just got the better of me in the end. 

Q.   Tough luck today.   Serena said that you played her very differently today.   Were your tactics different?   Can you talk about what your game plan was before? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I just played well.   I just went for my shots.   I was aggressive.   Sometime it's frustrating when you feel like you're in it and then she hits two or three good serves in a row and you kind of start over.
But I just tried to stay aggressive and make her move, go for my shots.   We had some incredible rallies in there. 

Q.   We know you're an incredibly competitive person.   Where does this rank in terms of losses for you and how you feel right now? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, it's definitely very high up there.   I remember this is the second time I lost to her 7‑6 in the third.   I played here in Sydney one year as well where I had two match points.
So I guess they come really close to each other, but this one I guess is a bigger tournament.   I just really, really wanted to be in that finals.   I felt like I played so well.
But when you play Serena, even when you play your best tennis, sometimes that's not enough.
You know, I hope the crowd enjoyed it, because in the end of the day it's amazing to play these matches because that's when you really get into it.   You get on fire, and this is what you practice for.
Unfortunately for me, the outcome was not the one I had hopped for.

Q.   With how well you played in the round robin ‑ you were the only player going undefeated in either group ‑ and coming so close to beating No. 1, is this may e the best tournament you ever played, or close to it, even though you didn't make the final?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think so.   I mean, I played really good and I've been playing tennis on a very high level.   For me to win in tournament potentially I would have beat No. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 in the world.   That doesn't happen ever, you know. 
So I beat No. 2, 3, and 6.   I did that and played really well and came close to beating Serena today, so I can be very proud of myself and the way I turned the season around. 
Five months ago didn't look like I was going to be here, even though I always believed it.   The way I've been playing the last five months really brings me, yeah, some great momentum into next year.   Gives me some confidence. 

Q.   When you saved the first match point there was this really great rally and you finished it at the net.   Is that the kind of point that you're going to keep replaying later in your mind and feel really proud of? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I'm trying not to replay this match in my mind.   Actually, I'm just trying to forget it and move on and enjoy my holidays. 

Q.   Speaking of which, just kind of curious, with how well you've been playing the last five months, are you almost bummed the season is over and that there isn't a slam next week?   Or are you like, No, I'm good; season is over, I need a holiday?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm good.   I need a holiday.   It's been a long season and it's been a very interesting year.
I'm ready to just take a few weeks off and reboot for next year.   But I'm really pumped.   I'm really excited for next year.   I think the way I've been playing lately, I think that's proof to myself that I can keep improving and playing better and beat anyone who is on the other side of the net.
Except for Serena for the last three months.

Q.   With the disappointment of losing this match still fresh, on a positive note, it's been lovely to have you in Singapore.   You got legions of fans here and they have a massive response every time you play your matches.   Been some of the highlights of the tournament.   Just wondering what's been your personal highlight?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's been amazing to play here.   The fans have been amazing.   Every time I stepped on court I just felt the support.   You know, it's great.   I think my highlight has really just been playing, because I felt the love from everybody. 
It's really been a fun week for me.   You know, definitely I have to say that. 

Q.   How long do you give yourself off before diving into marathon mode?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm diving into marathon mode as of now.   I'm going to probably go for a little jog tomorrow, just run off some of the soreness I'm probably going to feel tomorrow.
A little half hour, 40 minute run tomorrow and stay by the pool.   Then head to New York very soon.   I have quite a few commitments there. 
Going to keep up the running.   Just easy runs, and hopefully we can raise a lot of money still in the seven days, eight days that's left.   That's what I'm hoping for.

Q.   Is it unusual spending ‑ as probably unique as this experience has been ‑ the night before a match with an opponent at the Mariah Carey concert?   Guessing you hadn't done that before.   What was that like to sort of be with someone for that long before you know you're playing each other?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   That's fine.   We're very good at separating it.   Once we got on court I think we both showed our perspective spirit.   Friendship is aside when you're in there.   It's like in a ring, you know, you just want to win and there is only one winner. 
Yesterday was so muscle fun.   It was such a great night.   Got meet Mariah as well, and she sang unbelievable.   We had amazing seats.   So, yeah, that's actually one of the highlights as well.   That was so much fun. 
You know, I woke up today and I knew what I was going to do out there on court.   I knew I had to play my best, and I fought until the end.

Q.   Looking to the off‑season, how busy is your off‑season?   Are you going to actually get some time to hang up the racquet and just sit on the coach with your dog, or are you actually going to have sponsor obligations and things like that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm not touching a racquet until November probably 17th or something.   I don't even want to see them. 
But obviously I'm going to keep in shape because I'm having the marathon to run in a week.   So next week is going to be pretty busy, but the after that I'm hanging out, chilling with my friends.   Going to enjoy some off time.
I think it's very important to just get some time to yourself and do absolutely nothing. 

Q.   Caroline, I believe you're on Team Dubai in IPTL.   Are you planning on playing the matches in Dubai or you're not really sure?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I'm planning to play.   It's the beginning of December for me, so I'm excited for that.   I think it's going to be great for me.   Because the off‑season this year is so long, so, you know, it will be nice for me to get a few sets in just before the real season starts. 
I definitely thing that it's going to be great, and it's going to be a lot of fun as well.
I'm on a team with Novak and we're good friends, and he's always hilarious to be around. 

Q.   How would you sum up your year so far since this is the last competitive tournament for you sort of? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think I can be really proud of how I've handled everything this year, how I've fought back.
You know, I think I've proved to myself that I'm a really strong person and that I can keep improving my game.   You know, I'm just really happy that I've learned so much from this year.
It's been a very, very meaningful year for me and very learningful.   Can you say that?

Q.   Sure. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   (Laughter.)   So, yeah, it's definitely a year that I'm going to remember back on.   You know, I'm still going to smile, because everything happens for a reason.   It's made me who I am today. 

Q.   Obviously you've gotten to No. 1; you were there for quite a long time.   In two years I guess the one goal remaining is the slam for you.   I know you've talked about that.   Do you feel like how well you played this last of the year and this week that you're closer than ever to knowing what it takes to make that last breakthrough? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Definitely.   I definitely feel that way.   I think I've been playing some great tennis.   I've beaten some great players.
I told Serena, I said, Can you just leave me alone.   Like go away from the court.   I don't want to see you on the court.   I love you, but stay away from the other side of the court.   Quite frankly, I'm tired of losing to you. 
But, you know, again, she's a great champion and probably my toughest opponent.   I think I lost to her four times in the last three months.   I was ready today to make that a change, but I told her that I'm coming back next year and I'm going to try again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT