BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 24, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/P. Kvitova
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   3‑0 in the group.   Not bad.   Any sense that was coming when you got here?   You were the No. 8 seed, so theoretically you were an underdog in every match.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, but I believe in myself and I believe in my skills.   I've been playing well, so I believed I could beat anyone.   
I obviously also knew that if I wasn't playing up to my best I could lose to all of them.  
So I'm really pleased about the way this week has gone so far.   I played really well.   Today was a really great match for me.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a little extra incentive that your friend needed you to win to get into the semis?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, she definitely owes me one, but honestly I just thought about myself.  
I just wanted to win for myself.  
   
 Q.   You seemed really relaxed on court.   Is that a fair assessment?   How did you feel mentally on court?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I was very relaxed.   I knew what I wanted to go out and do.   I knew I was through.   For me, there was a few things I wanted to do out there.  
It was really working out well for me.   
   
 Q.   Aga said she would take you shopping with her credit card.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, she told me that, too.   I hope she's going to keep her promise.   She owes me a handbag.   I think that's what I'm going to go for.   (Smiling.)   
   
 Q.   We're just about to see Halep play a match, and she's already qualified.   What's the mindset in that situation where you're in a round robin, you're already through?   Anything feel different about the match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I just go in still to win.   I think as a competitor you want to win every match.   That's what I really went out there to try and do.   
You know, obviously there is no pressure on you because you're already through, so you can just go and play really freely.   
   
 Q.   Can you describe your last six months, how it's been for you?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's been really good.   I've been playing really well and doing great results and things are going well.   
So I'm happy and in a good place.  
   
 Q.   Six months ago did think you would be here in Singapore playing the WTA Finals?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I did.   I always thought ‑‑ you know that was always the goal from the start of the season.   As I said before, I always believe in myself.   Even though I had a little bit of a slow start to the season, I always believe.   
It just turned around and I've been playing really, really well since really Eastbourne.  
   
 Q.   Just a note on your father coaching you.   When I sit down with my daughter to coach her it ends up in tears.   We always end up crying or fighting.   How is it with your dad?   You seem to have a good relationship on court.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, we have a great relationship both on and off the court.   I think if it ended up in tears and crying I don't think I would be where I am.   We have a great partnership and it's been working out really well.   He's coached me since I was a little girl, so it's great I can have family travel with me as well.   
   
 Q.   Seems most likely opponent will be Serena.   How do you see that matchup going?   How do you think you matchup against her?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, my matchup against her so far hasn't been great.   I won once and lost like ten times, or nine, I don't know.   I don't even count anymore.  
But it's a new tournament.   It's a new week.   I've been playing well really.   Again, I believe that if I play like I did today, doesn't matter who's on the other side.   I can win.  
   
 Q.   Just on the other two, you're in the rare position you can play three different people next.   Halep or Ivanovic.   Briefly each of them.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, Ivanovic, I lost to her last time played to her.   She's playing well; taking the ball early; hits its forehand very big; serves well.  
Halep, all‑round playing; used the angles very well; takes the ball early from both wings.  
So really three very different players.  
   
 Q.   Feel like you never missed a beat in terms of being in this elite level of the game?   Because there was a stretch, I think Cincinnati, you got a first top‑10 win in many months.   There was a time when you weren't getting those wins regularly.   Now three in one week.   Does it feel like a change or does it feel like you never left?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To me it feels like I never left really.   I'm just happy to be in the position I'm in now.   
Yeah, I never felt I was away.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe your week so far?   How has it been for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's been a great week.   I think I have nothing to complain about.   Great tennis and some good wins.   It's just been really nice.   
Yesterday I went to really, really nice steakhouse, and the hotel is really, really nice.   The organization, everything has been great.  
So this week has definitely been really, really nice week for me.   
   
 Q.   Obviously your focus is just on the next match, but can you imagine yourself with the title?   Would it help to imagine yourself with the trophy?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, not really.   I just play, and what happens will happen.   I have two things in mind right now:   one is my next match, and two the marathon that's getting closer and I'm getting a little nervous about.  
So those are the two things in my head.   I'm not really thinking about a trophy yet.   There is still quite a long way to go.   
   
 Q.   Since your ranking fell, is it maybe sweeter this time around than when you were here four years ago reaching the final?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's always sweet to be here, so it's really the same feeling I come in with.   You know, I've been playing some really good tennis, and today I think is one of the best matches I've ever play.  
Definitely a good feeling for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT