BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 23, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Radwanska
  7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   That was a very tough first set, and then eventually in the second you started to pull away.   What were the differences that you were able to find at the key moments?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I think it was really tough match overall.   I just kept fighting for every point.   There was some ridiculous shot making there at times.  
I just had to keep going and keep trying to stay close to the baseline really.   
   
 Q.   Is it mixed emotions, because you got a wonderful victory today, but Liverpool got handsomely beaten by Real Madrid last night; 3‑nil.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Are you a Real Madrid fan?  
   
 Q.   No, Arsenal.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   That's why you're really rubbing it in.  
   
 Q.   Do I look pleased?   I'm sorry.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You can't wipe that smile off your face.   
   
 Q.   We got extremely fortunate.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, that's good for you.   (Smiling.)   
   
 Q.   You've just had a wonderful tennis victory so we're both smiling.   So that's good.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   I can't really do too much about that Liverpool game yesterday.   At least I could do something about my match today.   
I'm pleased to be through.   
   
 Q.   Such is life.   Thank you.   There was a moment where she did hit one of those sublime shots and you kind of cracked a smile a little bit.   Is she one of those players that can just hit a shot that all you can do is just shake your head and walk away?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   I mean, I knew that, and I knew there was going to be quite a few dropshots and drop volleys in there.  
I remember that point, and I was like, I hit a good shot.   Like a really good shot.   I was like, There's no chance.   Then she hits it like five centimeters from the net.   I'm like, Okay, you know what?   That's just too good.   I could just laugh because nothing else you could do.  
You can either get frustrated or laugh.   It's better to laugh.  
   
 Q.   What have you been most pleased with over the first two matches here?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I've been pleased with the way I've been running a lot of balls down; been serving well; just taking advantage of the important points.   
   
 Q.   Do you wish there was more of an indoor season?   You come to this tournament pretty much after playing Asia outdoors and there is not much buildup to it.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I love playing indoors.   I grew up playing a lot of indoors so I enjoy it.   
But at the same time, it's nice playing outside.   The sun is shining and it's just different.  
But I think the atmosphere indoors gets a little more intense and you can hear the crowd a little more.  
So I guess it's just different.   
   
 Q.   Would you like to see more big tournaments?   Right now none of the mandatories or 5s are?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It use to do be like that.   Back in the day used to be a lot of indoors.   I enjoyed that.   I enjoyed finishing of the season indoors in Europe.   I think that was pretty cool.   
   
 Q.   You get Petra next.   Thoughts on that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Tough player.   She loves playing indoors as well.   She's had great results indoors.  
It's not going to be easy.   She's going to try and be aggressive and go for her shots.   I just need to try to play like against Maria, trying to make her move, yeah, and serve well.   
   
 Q.   Some really great momentum now for you moving forward.   Feel like you're one of the favorites to win the tournament?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I need to get out of the group first.   I don't know how that's standing or where it is.  
Just going to play tomorrow and try and win and do my best.   
Honestly, I don't think there is any favorites here.   I just think everyone can beat anyone on a good day.   That's showed this week.   We're all playing really well.   
You just need to try and go for it every time.   
   
 Q.   The WTA has announces that next year your dad could come out with a tablet that shows stats.   Do you think that your father would like having that access, and could you imagine what that would be like?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I can't imagine him figuring those things out.   I think that'll be the biggest thing for him, to try to figure out how that works.  
   
 Q.   The tablet?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah and how to go into the different stats.   I don't know if that would be an advantage to me.  
Maybe I'll show him.   During a changeover I'm going to look myself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT