CHINA OPEN
September 28, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
 Q.   You've come to the China Open every year of your career, winning in 2010.   Since then you haven't made it past the quarterfinals.   Anything you'll be doing this year differently to get back to the finals?
  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'll just try to do the same as I'm doing every year:   try and fight as hard as I can. 
  It's the best players here in the world are playing, so it's obviously a very hard tournament to play.   I think I'm in the quarter with Serena, so it's obviously not easy. 
  In the end of the day we all need to win our first matches, so it's all about just competing out there and enjoying. 
  It's the end of the year and you never know what happens.  
 Q.   I saw a photo of you and Serena at the spa.   Was it nice to be able to relax a little bit?
  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, we had our nails done.   They turned out pretty nice.   But we were sitting there for like four hours.   We were over it by the end of it (smiling). 
  I mean, they look nice, but they don't look that nice that you actually have to sit there for four hours for them (laughter).  
 Q.   Did you have them done on‑site?
  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, in the city of Beijing. 
 Q.   Did you and Serena talk about playing each other?
  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I mean, there's still a long way to go.   We obviously hope we win our matches so we meet each other in the quarters.  
 Q.   You've been primarily a hard court player.   How do you think playing here on the hard courts of the China Open will help you?
  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I like the hard courts here.   I think they're great.   It's a good pace for my game. 
  You know, again, in the end of the day it's one of the last tournaments of the year so we are all a little tired.   But it's all about finding the focus to be able to play your best in one of the last tournaments.  
 Q.   Recently you said you would do a chocolate sponsorship. 
  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I haven't gotten one yet.   I'm still waiting.   But saying that, I haven't talked to my agent for a few days.   I'm hoping he's working on it. 
 Q.   Any chocolate company you'd want to come to you in particular?
  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   There's a few, but I'm not going to eliminate some.   There's a couple that I really, really like.   So we will see.  
 Q.   After the US Open you only had one week to rest and you played the final in Tokyo and semifinal in Wuhan.   Do you feel physically you're okay to play the China Open?
  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, definitely.   I think it's all mental.   You obviously play every day because the tournaments are so squeezed in. 
  But, you know, I hurt my leg a little bit in Wuhan last week.   You know, I'm just doing everything to recover for that and I should be fine to play whenever I'm put on the schedule.  
 Q.   Obviously qualifying for Singapore is going to be a big goal for you this week. 
  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I think about this tournament first, and I really want to go to Singapore.   That's definitely a big goal of mine.   Last year I was there as an alternate and it wasn't much fun.   Hopefully this year I can actually play.  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT