DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 22, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How long did it take you to get here from Tokyo, and when did you arrive yesterday?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   We arrived last night at like 9:45.   I think the flight was like four hours, just over four hours.   
It wasn't too bad, but it's a pretty tight schedule.   I guess it's a positive problem to have to keep playing.  
   
 Q.   Another successful week for you last week.   Played well.   Got some good wins there.   Taking that into this tournament here, what's your mindset for the rest of this season and what you need to do over the next course of the couple weeks?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, you know, I'm just taking the next two weeks as it goes.   I'm going to try and do my best, try and win as many matches as I can, and hopefully qualify for Singapore.   That's the main goal.   I really want to play there.   
Last year I missed it by one spot and a few points.   Hopefully this year I can tie my spot in.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   In the year of 2012 you won the title of China Open in Beijing.   Over the years you played a lot of matches in China.   What do you think of the popularity that tennis is currently enjoying in China, and what do you think is the differences between Wuhan and other Chinese cities?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I have only spent a few hours in Wuhan so far, so I haven't really had a chance to get around the city.   But as far as I have seen, it looks really nice.   It has the sea ‑‑is it a lake or a river?   But it has the water.   It has small mountains around.   It has a lot of green.   So it's nice.  
The facilities here are beautiful.   I'm very impressed about the whole structure of the tournament.   Hopefully I can spend a lot of time here, you know, play some good matches and get to know the city a lot more.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   We know that you and Li Na are really close friends, and we wonder how close friends you are.   Could you please give us some specific examples in this regard?   And how do you strike the right balance between the friendship and competition you have with each other?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, Li Na is a great person, a great player, a great competitor.   She's so funny to be around.   She's a hilarious girl.   I think she's very popular on the whole tour.   I'll definitely miss her on the tour.   
But I told her she still owes me to take me to a nail place in China.   She's been telling me she's going to take me for the last three years and it hasn't happened.   I texted her and I said maybe now you'll have more time.  
But I really‑‑ I'm going to miss seeing her around, because she's such a great person and always has such a positive aura around her.  
So, you know, she'll definitely be very missed.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Second question:   How do you strike the balance between friendship and competition?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think tennis is what we do and it's our job.   When we're on the court, we just want to win.   We don't take anything personal.   It's about winning and about competing and we do our best.   
But once we are off the court, then we are friends again.   So it's a fine balance.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT