U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  C. WOZNIACKI/A. Errani  6-0, 6-1  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Did you expect it could be so easy?  You played so well.  Did you expect to play so well, first of all?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I was just going for your tips that you gave me last time, you know.  (Smiling.) But, you know, I always go out there and I believe I'm going to play well. I had a game plan in mind, and I just went for my shots.  I knew that I had to be aggressive but not too aggressive, kind of find a balance between finding the opening, and then go for my shots whenever I had the balls for it.   Q.  You said it's the best court in the world afterward.  Do you believe that, even with all that wind?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I have played so well here in the past.  It's such an amazing atmosphere in there. I think it's such a great place to be.  It makes it tricky sometimes with the wind.  I have played in some very windy conditions here, but, you know, I know how to adapt.  I can adapt my game to it.  It's been working out well so far.   Q.  The only game when you were in trouble was the first one when you went down Love-40.  What were you thinking at that moment?  How did you react?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's the first game.  You know, you kind of want to get a good start.  Love-40 isn't really a good start, but it was really windy and it just took me a few serves to kind of get into the rhythm and figure out, you know, where to throw the ball and what to aim for.   Q.  How would you say your game has evolved over the last, say, five years when you made the final here?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's definitely evolved.  I'm definitely more experienced.  I know my game much better.  I have been in these big matches before, and, you know, I think all the time I improve.  I think everybody improves and wants to try and get better.  Women's tennis keeps getting stronger. So, you know, I think I keep putting things onto my game.  I try and, you know, have more -- or stronger serves, better returns, you know, kind of the first few points.   Q.  Do you think you're a fundamentally different player tactically now?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I've always been a good player tactically.  I've always had a game plan going out there.  That's why I have won a lot of matches.   Q.  But a different game plan?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it always varies player to player.  I don't think it's same game plans.  Maybe it's just better execution.   Q.  Semifinals 2011; does that feel like just yesterday?  Does that feel like a lifetime ago?  Somewhere in between?  What's the kind of time sense to you?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, somewhere in between.  I have to say the finals feels closer than the semifinals 2011.  It's weird.  I don't know. I don't know.  I think just because it was such a huge experience for me and it was my first really deep run in a Grand Slam.  I'm just so happy to be back in this stage and having another match out there.   Q.  You don't have any tip for Peng?  She hasn't lost any set, and nobody made more than four games in any matches she's played.  Are you surprised she's in the semifinal for the first time?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She's been playing well.  She's playing aggressively.  She she's strong from both sides.  She's been serving well.  It's going to be a difficult match.  It's going to be a different match than against Sara today. Sara runs a lot of balls down, doesn't make many mistake.  Peng is closer to the baseline going for her shots more. It's going to be a hard one, but, again, it's going to fun.   Q.  I know Sara's serve is not her strength, but you didn't miss a single return; put every single return in play.  Can you recall when that's happened before looking at your stats?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, probably not.  I think I learned quite a lot from Lucic the other day.  She was going for every return and trying to make winners on every return. For me, that wasn't really the game plan today.  It was just putting pressure on her from the start and kind of start the rally from there.   Q.  You looked really confident out there.  Do you feel that way?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I feel confident and I feel comfortable out there.  I have been playing well in these last few months.  It's just nice that it's paying off here.   Q.  What do you like particularly about that court at night?  How is it different from the day?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's so different, because you walk out and you basically can't see the top stands.  The crowd is always cheering even a little louder and it feels a little more cozy as well at the same time because it's dark around. I don't know.  There is just something special about that atmosphere.   Q.  Even when you were No. 1 there were a lot of commentators that said your game wasn't aggressive enough to win a Grand Slam.  How hard was that to have that happening when you were still winning matches?  I don't know if you took any of that to heart or listened to those critiques or rejected them.  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just listen to myself and my coach.  You know, I always try, as I said, to work hard and try and be better. So, you know, you always try and add to your game.  You have to, because everyone knows how you play.  You kind of have to keep playing better. You know, it will always go up and down in sports.  Doesn't matter what sport you play.  I'm just happy I'm on my way up again and I'm playing well.   Q.  Do you feel you're proving people wrong?  CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I have proven people wrong so many times.  I was told when I was younger there is no chance I will make the top 100, top 50, top 30.  Every time I have proven them wrong.  It's kind of nice.  (Smiling.)  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT