U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  C. WOZNIACKI/A. Sasnovich6-3, 6-4THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Just about the New York Marathon, any concern in the training that it could hurt your tennis training at all?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  I only think it can help.  So, you know, I'm really excited about it.  It's going to be a good and fun challenge. So, yeah, the training has been working really well for me.  You know, it hasn't hurt my tennis at all.Q. Has it helped a little bit?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's helped.  Obviously you get into great shape.  You know, mentally, as well.  You have to push yourself every day and go out and, you know, work hard. So it's only a positive when you go out on the tennis court.  You know you can run out there all day if you want to, if you need to.Q. How many miles a week are you running?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It really depends from week-to-week.  This week I've cut it a little bit down because obviously I want to have all the energy I might need for these two weeks.Q. What is your goal as far as a time in the marathon?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I have a time in mind but I don't really want to say it out loud.  Honestly, I just want to finish. Most importantly, you know, I do it for charity.  I just want to be a good role model for the kids that I'm running for, because we're raising money for kids that don't really have access to sports. We're starting running groups for them so that they can start to be active and get a healthier lifestyle.Q. Can you describe what happened when your racquet and your hair met on a certain point.CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, actually it used to happen when I didn't braid my hair.  That's why I started braiding it.  Once it gets to a certain length sometimes it can get stuck in the arm or the racquet. It's a first, you know, when it's braided that it's been stuck that good in my racquet.  You know, I still tried to hit the ball.  Almost took my head off (smiling).Q. What was going through your mind as that was happening?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I didn't know.  I was like, Okay, which way is it tangled?  I was trying to kind of figure it out.  I was like, Maybe if I pull it, it will untangle itself.  But it just didn't happen. I didn't know whether to just laugh at it or be annoyed or which emotion to have.Q. Have you had a chance to see a replay?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I have.  It was really tangled up good.  I think all my hair would have to come off first before that was going anywhere.Q. What were your thoughts as you watched the replay?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just laughed.  We women keep it interesting.Q. You were quoted a few days ago saying you really haven't had any conversations with your former ex.  Is that still true?  Did you get a good luck message at all?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really think that's relevant here.  I think we should just move on.Q. How big was doing it in straight sets?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's nice.  Obviously we have a day off tomorrow.  I think we can get some rest. But, you know, I'm happy to be through in straight sets.  It's nice to go through in two.  She wasn't an easy opponent.  She's young and hungry.  She didn't have anything to lose, so she was going for her shots. I'm just happy to be through.Q. If you were in charge of the sport and could change any rule you like, add a new rule, delete some rules, what would you choose to change?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I like the rules.  I don't think needs changed. I think it would be maybe fun if maybe when the serve, instead of calling let, maybe keep playing.  I think that could maybe make it a little fun and entertaining. But, I mean, I think the rules of tennis have been there for so many years, and I think they're good as they are.Q. What element would that add if there were no lets?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think you would have to be ready on anything.  Obviously it would speed sometimes the game up.  When you have a let it takes a few seconds to get another ball and serve again. I've had matches where I've hit let three or four times in a row.  That wouldn't happen.  You'd have to be on your toes.  I think maybe the crowd would find it kind of funny to see those points afterwards.Q. Can you talk about what happened with your ride to the tennis center today.CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I have to watch out what I'm saying.  But I got here and I got here in time, so it's all good.Q. You may have addressed this, but if you could describe the level of your play right now versus when you played at the US Open before, what comparison would you make?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's always tough to compare.  I think always you try and improve as a player.  The game keeps improving in general.  So many young ones coming up, as well.  People start getting to know you and your game, so you always have to just adjust and just keep moving forward. You know, I think I'm a more experienced player now.  I'm older.  I've played this tournament many times before.  I think that's definitely something that is helping once you're here for, I don't know how many years in a row. You know, it's just a great experience.  I'm happy to be back, and I'm playing pretty well.  Hopefully, yeah, I can keep improving as the tournament moves on.Q. A 15-year-old player from the U.S. won yesterday.CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I saw that.Q. What are your thoughts on a victory by a 15-year-old and what advice might you share?CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's impressive.  It's not easy.  Obviously she had her head cool and she believed in herself.  That's already a huge step. She's young.  She's going to gain a lot of experience.  You know, I think for her it's just about enjoying it.  It's a great experience.  She'll need that in the future years, as well. You know, it's going to go up and down in her career.  But most of all I think she showed the love and the passion for the game yesterday, and she always should keep that.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT