ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 5, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/D. Hantuchova
  6‑1, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What has it been like without the power?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it's just so different.   Everywhere, in the locker room, it's so dark.   
   
 Q.   Are there candles?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   We have to use our flashlights and phones.   The water is freezing, as well.   
   
 Q.   So how did it go?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It went well.   I won 1‑1, that's good.   It was quite a few long games at the start, but then I felt like I was getting into it and starting to play better.   
I feel like I served well, moved well around the court.   So that was great.   
   
 Q.   You could be facing Eugenie Bouchard in the third round.   You've never played her?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   And I haven't really thought about it, you know, because we both need to win one more match.   Just going to see what happens really.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding longevity on tour.)  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously the fitness is very important, how you take care of your body, how you get a lot of treatment.   Obviously, that's the main part of playing.   If you're body is fit, you can play on a high level.   Once you get the nagging injuries, it kind of pushes you back.   
I think that's the biggest difference for someone who can play for a long time and for people who quit earlier.   
   
 Q.   You'll be running the New York Marathon in a couple of months.   Are you bored with tennis?   Is that something you've been wanting to do?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's something I've wanted to do for so long.   I'm really excited about that challenge.   It's something that I've never done before.   Definitely something that's going to be very hard, but something that's going to be very rewarding as well.   
I'm going to do it for charity, which is my biggest motivation.   Hopefully we can raise a lot of money.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to train in a different way?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm definitely going to do longer runs.   I run every day anyway.   So I'm going to incorporate longer runs into my training to kind of get my body used to being out there for a while.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a time you would like to achieve?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I do in my head.   I don't want to say it out loud because honestly I just want to finish.   I don't want to put too much pressure on myself.   If I have to crawl over the finish line, I will.   
   
 Q.   Any particular reason you're doing it this year?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   Because normally the season finishes later.   This year it just fit into my schedule.   I thought it would be a perfect time to do it.   
   
 Q.   Are there any other options for charity or was it always going to be a marathon?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   There's loads of options for charity.   I thought this one was a fun one.   It's a different one.   It's a good challenge.   
I'm doing it for a kids' charity to get them into sports, get them healthy.   I thought I would be a good inspiration if I finished a marathon.   I'm not just talking, I'm actually doing something and showing a way for the younger kids to get healthy and get fit.   
   
 Q.   Serena approaching 18 Grand Slam titles, talk about her achieving that.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, Serena is an amazing person both on and off the court.   She's an unbelievable champion.   She's won so many Grand Slams already.   That itself is impressive.   At the same time she's still such a great person, that's so rare for someone who has achieved so much.   
I really respect her.   I love the person she is.   I think she definitely has a chance, a good chance, to win an 18th Grand Slam.   
She's obviously a very tough competitor.   Her game is extremely hard to beat when she's on fire.   
   
 Q.   Whose idea was it to do the Miami thing?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I went to Miami after the French Open.   I saw that she lost at the French Open.   I was like, Hey, Serena, you know, get your butt over here.   She was going to Palm Beach to train anyway.   I was like, Well, stop by Miami for a few days.   
We had a good time, a great time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT