WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







B. ZAHLAVOVA STRYCOVA/C. Wozniacki
  6/2, 7/5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough one today. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Thank you.   Yeah, it was.   Yeah, it was a tough one.   She's a little bit of a different player to play.   There was no rhythm out there.   I didn't serve as well as I have earlier on in the tournament.   You know, that kind of makes it harder on grass. 
You know, even when I had some opportunities I made some stupid mistakes or didn't play the balls properly.   You know, it was kind of, I guess, one of those matches. 

Q.   Was the pace of play an issue out there, as well?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I thought she was very slow.   But I guess the referee, she has the time on it.   If she's within the time, I guess it's okay. 

Q.   At points you appeared to feel she wasn't in the time. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Again, it's up to the referee or up to the umpire to say if she is or not.

Q.   You said she's a little bit of a different player.   Can you elaborate?   What most impressed you about her game?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I think, you know, for me it's the hardest to play against her on grass.   On clay and on hard court, you know, the ball bounces up a little bit more. 
But she obviously tries to mix up the pace.   She makes a lot of dropshots, a lot of slice returns that doesn't bounce up.   Kind of gets you out of your rhythm a little bit. 
Yeah, you know, especially in the first set, I had to kind of get used to it a little bit.   She came to the net quite a bit.   She did that very well.

Q.   What difficulties might she pose for the upcoming opponents?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, she's done well so far, you know.   She serves pretty well, even though she's not that tall.   She gets a lot of returns back, tries to come to the net again and, you know, mix up the pace. 
It depends, I guess.   Every match is different. 

Q.   You had a good first week.   Do you feel a little bit like it's a bit of a missed opportunity?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, of course.   I mean, you're a little disappointed sitting here.   Obviously I would have loved to have been further.   You know, fourth round has been the furthest I've gotten here, where I feel like I should have gone further some years. 
But, you know, I guess sometimes that happens.   You just have to get yourself back up and keep working and come back next time. 

Q.   It's been suggested that perhaps it's time for a clock to be put on the court for that time between points.   What would be your thoughts about adding that so it wouldn't be left to just the chair umpire's decision making?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I wouldn't mind.   I mean, I think that's fine, I guess.   You know, you have a clock.   It shows exactly how much time you take in between points. 

Q.   Would that take any of that room for error, interpretation, out of things?   Would that make things a bit easier?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I guess so.   I mean, it's not usually something you struggle with too much.   You know, if it's in, it's great.   If it's there, it's great.   If it's not, it's up to the referee to say if it's slow or not. 

Q.   What will you take out of the week going forward?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'll take a lot.   I'll take a lot with me.   Had a good week in Eastbourne.   Played some really good tennis.   I was really happy about that. 
First week here I played really well.   Today unfortunately it wasn't as good.   But, you know, I can take a lot with me and bring to the hard court season. 
You know, I'm going to just go back and practice, and then I'm going to play in Istanbul in a couple of weeks and then in Montréal. 
There's a lot to look forward to.   The US Open is not far away.   That's a tournament that I like to play, as well.   Hopefully, you know, I can do well there. 

Q.   Are you still as motivated as ever?   You've been on tour for years, a long time now.   Do you still have the same drive and desire?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, for sure.   I think every player, you know, goes through ups and downs a little bit.   But I'm very motivated.   You know, I'm not going to really take time off, I'm just going to go back and practice and try and get better, you know. 
I'm definitely motivated and excited for the rest of the year.   You know, there's still a lot to be played.   A lot of things can happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT