WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Konjuh
  6/3, 6/0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Not quite as straightforward as the scoreline might suggest?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, it definitely wasn't.   I mean, she is a very powerful player.   When I was in trouble, especially in the first set, I managed to serve some good serves, make some aces. 
It was good.   I'm pleased with the way it turned out today.   You know, she's definitely someone to look out for in the future.

Q.   How good do you think she's going to be?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think she's going to be very good.   She's 16.   She has some big shots.   She has a good serve. 
I think we're going to see a lot from her in the future. 

Q.   How nice does it feel to be back in the fourth round of a Grand Slam?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Oh, it feels great.   I'll really pleased.   I'm happy.   You know, my game is in great shape.   Yeah, it's really nice.   I love playing at Wimbledon, so the more matches I can get the happier I am.   It's exciting. 

Q.   Have you or any of the other players fallen foul of the rules on wearing more colorful underwear? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Usually I don't wear colored underwear whenever you have white underneath.   You can see through.   I don't know.   I don't think anyone is like showing off their underwear like that and getting it checked.   That would be pretty creepy. 

Q.   Do you think it is creepy that some have been forced not to wear colorful bras?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously, if the color of the bra is really, you know, bright, the top is see‑through, you can see it through. 
But, I mean, I don't know.   I guess white is white, and everyone wears white.   It's the same for everyone.

Q.   How are you going to spend your next couple of days?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm going to practice.   I'm going to go out for a nice dinner tonight with Laura Robson.   We're going to have a nice, chilled evening. 
Probably practice tomorrow, the day after.   Just enjoy being in the second week.   Probably watch some of the tennis tomorrow, as well.   See people fighting it out out there. 

Q.   Li Na is in a tough match right now.   If she makes it through, how would you describe her game and the challenge for you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, Li Na obviously is a great player.   She takes the ball early.   She likes to play fast.   She has very good returns.   Her serves are okay, but it's not like a huge weapon of hers. 
But obviously she's a very good player and a good fighter.   She runs and anticipates the ball very well.   So it's not going to be easy.   You know, Barbora is also playing very well on grass.   She played the finals at Birmingham.   She obviously likes it very much.   She's up 7‑6 and it's 5‑All right now, so it's obviously going to be tough.

Q.   In the good old days you always got to the fourth round, a couple years in the doldrums.   You seem to do better when Rory is not about. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Is that a statement or a question?   I'm not sure. 

Q.   It's a question. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it was more of a statement. 

Q.   Is it just coincidence?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Honestly, I'm just playing well.   I've always enjoyed the grass.   Last year I was unlucky to slip on the grass and hurt myself.   I couldn't play for three weeks after. 
The year before I think I lost to Paszek who had just won Eastbourne.   I lost in three tight sets.   I think that was the year before. 
So obviously a little bit of luck also plays in.   But this year I'm feeling good.   My game is in a good state. 
My private life has nothing to do with my tennis.   When I'm out there, it's a yellow ball, white lines, it's about playing it over the net and inside the lines more than your opponent.

Q.   It's been a month or so from the French Open when you went out first round.   Are you in a better place mentally?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To play good tennis, your head has to be there.   I'm in a good place in my head right now mentally.   I think that shows on court as well.   I'm just so focused on what I have to do out there and what my purpose is when I go on court, and I think that shows. 

Q.   You've described your friendship with Serena.   What about Venus?   What sort of an example has Venus been to younger players on the tour?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, Venus, you know, she's been on the Player Council for so many years.   So already that is being a huge role model for also the younger players because when you're on the council, you not only have to think about yourself but everyone else.   Not only about the top players, but the whole WTA basically. 
Venus has won so many Grand Slams.   She's always had her feet on the ground.   She's always polite.   She's always nice.   She's always a great person to be around.   Not only on the court, but off the court she's been a great role model. 

Q.   The dress code, are you aware of any disquiet within the locker room about the strict enforcement of the white rule?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, not really.   I think everyone was told before Wimbledon you have to wear white.   I don't think there should be any surprises really.   You know, white is white.   It should be pretty simple.

Q.   You're in the second week now.   You will have a chance of winning. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think I had a chance of winning from the first round, too. 

Q.   A better chance of winning.   Do you feel the public out there are rooting for you given one or two things that have gone on recently?   Also, do you feel that would be a nice reward for showing dignity and class for off‑the‑court issues?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I felt a lot of support from everybody and the crowd.   The crowd has been amazing. 
Honestly, you know, I think everyone here wants to make me a victim.   I'm not a victim.   I'm just playing tennis.   I'm going about my life.   I'm playing well.   I'm in the second week. 
I have a few matches to go hopefully, quite a few.   We just have to see by the end of next week what happens.   But, you know, I hope that I'll keep going. 

Q.   As a Liverpool fan, what do you think of Suarez's ban?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think that's not a question that I should answer because I can only get in trouble. 

Q.   Can you talk about Ana at all, her game?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   She's 16.   She has a huge serve.   I think she served like 116 miles per hour a couple of times.   She has very powerful groundstrokes.   I think we'll see a lot of her in the future definitely. 
At 16, I think I was struggling to get it over 100 miles per hour on my serve.   I still do sometimes, but... 
You know, I think we'll see a lot of her.

Q.   What do you think she needs to improve the most?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously the experience will come with the years.   But, you know, she has powerful forehands, backhands, as well.   Obviously with experience you get to know as well when you're in different positions on the court where to hit it, sometimes just to play it back in deep, and, you know, the movement. 
I think she has a very good foundation in her game.   I have no doubt that we'll be hearing her name a lot in the future. 

Q.   How would you compare the state of your game today and your level of confidence with when you were No.1 in the world?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it's very similar.   You know, I think the women's tennis keeps improving all the time.   I feel like so am I.   I feel like I keep being a better player.   I get more experience. 
I feel good.   I feel my game again is in a good place.   You know, obviously there's always things I try and improve on.   But in general I feel very good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT