WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/N. Broady
  6/4, 6/3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Could you walk us through your match, how you felt. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I felt good out there.   It was nice to play on Court1.   Good atmosphere, good crowd.   I got to break her early in both sets which kind of gave me a cushion, the lead early on.   It felt good. 
She has a big serve, some big groundstrokes.   It was important for me just to keep focused, not giving her a chance on my service games was important. 

Q.   Bathroom breaks.   How often do you take them?   How often do your opponents take them?   What are your general feelings about their use?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I guess when you want to pee, you use a bathroom break.   (Laughter.) 
I don't know how often that happens.   I guess usually if you play a long match, you've been drinking a lot of water, I think that's really it. 
If you play, you know, two quick sets, there's no need for them.

Q.   Are they misused at all as a strategy to regroup, get your thoughts?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I don't think so.   I mean, I haven't really noticed that. 

Q.   How much confidence can this victory give you? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, definitely gives me some confidence.   She definitely has the game for grass.   You know, I felt like I got a lot of returns in, which was very important, which I'd been working on in my warmup this morning. 
Yeah, I'm happy to be through to the next round.   I'm feeling good on the grass.   I really enjoy playing here. 

Q.   You're in decent form now. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Decent form (laughter)?   I'm joking.   I feel like I'm in good form.

Q.   Do you feel this could be your best year here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   We'll have to wait and see.   One match at a time.   I always feel like I've played good tennis and sometimes I've been a bit unlucky here, some wrong decisions at important times.   Everything just has to go your way.   Hopefully it's going to be a good year for me. 

Q.   What's the difference psychologically coming into a tournament when you're the hunted, No.1 in the world, that position, versus quite a bit back in the pack?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest with you, I just enjoy playing on the big courts especially, just getting matches out there.   Once you're out on the court, all you think about is what you're about to do. 
Obviously when you're No.1 in the world, everyone is trying to beat you, even gives it 110%.   It makes it tough. 
But at the same time, you know, when you've been there, everyone knows that you're a great player, and everyone builds themself up mentally in a different way I think. 

Q.   You and Serena Williams are obviously great friends.   If Venus ever wanted a day off, would you like to be Serena's doubles partner?   What kind of a doubles team do you think you would make?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think we'd be a good team.   She plays very good doubles so she would cover most of the court. 
I've actually played doubles with Venus before back in the day, so that was quite fun.   You know, we'll see.   I think we'd be a strong team.   I don't know which side is she standing on usually, forehand or backhand, I'm not sure. 
But, you know, we'd make it work, be aggressive I'm sure.   She's a good doubles partner to have.   Serves big, big groundstrokes.   It would make it easy for me. 

Q.   What sort of feedback did you get from your comments yesterday that laid some things out there, about your personal life?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   What comments? 

Q.   When you were asked about dating, things of that nature.   What sort of feedback did you get from people you care about about having been that open about things?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, there were some very interesting questions yesterday.   You know, you just have to laugh at it and go with the flow. 
You just have to laugh.   I mean, what else is there to do?   I got a few people out there asking me if I want to date them.   I'm like, Well, I'm taking my time, taking it easy at the moment.   I kind of feel like I need to be single for a while. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT