QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 12, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you tell us what's wrong with you and what happened?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm sick, basically.  It's a short story.  Just not feeling well.  I had a fever.  Yeah, just don't feel well.  Gonna go back to bed and rest up.
Q. Will you play in Dubai?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I hope so.  I mean, that's the plan.  But hopefully I can just get rid of this (indicating head pain) and feel better.  That's the main priority.
Q. I imagine that must be particularly frustrating, because you arrived here quite early, didn't you, to prepare for the tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, exactly.  So it's definitely frustrating.  You know, I have been here for quite a few days practicing and just trying my best to be prepared and ready to go today.  But I woke up -- I already felt it last night, but I woke up today and didn't feel well at all.  Sometimes you have to make those decisions and just need to rest up.
Q. Do you know what your schedule will be for the clay court season yet?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I'm not sure yet.  I think for sure Madrid and Rome is the plan and then the French Open.
Q. Nice for you to have come to address the media since you're sick.  Could you also tell us about how is it with the diagnosis which was made in October 2018 about you?  How troublesome is it, and how are you dealing with it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You just kind of go with it.  You know, you deal with it day by day and see how you're holding up and what you can do and what helps.
You have your own little tricks that helps me.  Everyone is different.  It's just about finding your own path and finding your own way.  That's really it.
But today it's just I'm feeling sick and, you know, just gonna try and get past this one first.
Q. Osaka announced that she's splitting with Sascha today.  You have been with your father for a while now.  Can you talk about the coaching situation, what really works for a player?  Is it trust?  What is the most important thing in a coaching relationship?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I have been with my dad for my whole career, so I think I'm not the right person to ask.  For me, it's about trust, it's about knowing that they do their homework, they know the players, they know what I need.  Sometimes it's not only on the court but also off the court.  It's important to me with the support.
And then I think the great thing with having my dad as my coach is that he knows me better than, you know, than most people in the whole world (smiling).  That's worked for me.  I don't think I'm the right person to ask about other people's coaching relationships, because I think that's very individual from person to person.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT