AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 20, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. KERBER/C. Wozniacki
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tougher than you expected?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, not really.   I had expected it to be a tough match out there, and, you know, it was a very long one.   I actually thought I played very well.   I probably should have closed it in two sets, being up a break and then being up in the tiebreaker.
But, you know, it happens.   In general, I'm very pleased about the way my game is at the moment.   I'm looking forward to Wimbledon now.

Q.   Talk a little about Wimbledon for us, now that you've finished here. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   Well, you know, if you have to see it on the positive side, I look at another day of rest before I have to go out there and play. 
I never look at the draw.   I only look at who I'm playing in the first round, usually.   I actually don't know, so if anyone knows...

Q.   Shahar Peer. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Shahar Peer?   Okay.   So I'm playing Peer in the first round. 
Right now I'm just so happy with the game and where it is.   You know, Wimbledon is always special.   It's definitely a tournament everyone is looking forward to.   It has so many traditions and it's playing in all white.   It's going to be great. 

Q.   You always seem to get very tough battles against each other.   Today you looked a bit tired in the first set. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I felt there was a lot of running out there involved today, and yesterday as well.   Obviously, you know, having to be so low on your legs all the time, you can start feeling it.
But in the end of the day, you know, I gave it my all.   You know, Angelique was just that little bit better today. 

Q.   It seemed like you came to the net quite a lot in the first set, but after the first set you weren't able to do that so much.   Was that a result of... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I tried being aggressive all the time and tried, you know, to keep her moving. 
It just seemed like she was maybe a little bit fresher in the end.   You know, we had a lot of long rallies.   You know, in the end, she managed to win a couple more than me.

Q.   You clearly enjoy coming here.   You've got a good record here.   In a couple years' time, there is this new grass court tournament in Mallorca the same week as Birmingham.   What if any effect do you think it will have on this tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't think it will have an impact, because a lot of players love playing here and it's a tournament with long traditions, as well. 
I love this tournament.   I'll definitely come back in the future, as well.   But I think it's great that the grass court season is going to be longer for next year, and we will have a little bit more time to prepare for Wimbledon because this is, for me, one of my favorite parts of the year.   I love the surface.   I just want to play more in it.

Q.   The courts here are very good quality, aren't they?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, the courts here are phenomenal quality.   I think that's also one of the reasons why a lot of players love to start here.   You know, you know that you can get tough competition, good courts, and it's great preparation before Wimbledon.

Q.   What will your preparations be between now and Monday?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   What day is it today? 

Q.   Friday. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Friday.   If I play on Monday, I might just hit for an hour tomorrow, just take it easy, get a massage, probably go for a light jog just to get all the acids out of the legs.   Probably go to an ice bath, eat a lot of food to refill and get some energy. 
Yeah, the day after, probably hit for an hour and a half and go to the gym and be ready.

Q.   You'll travel back to London today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   That's the plan, just trying to find my team out there somewhere.   I have been getting a massage now, and just, you know, getting some recovery in.
Yeah, trying to find the team and we're probably going to head back in an hour or so.

Q.   After all your recent travails you seem very relaxed and happy. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I'm actually very happy.   I'm very happy with where I am at the moment. 
You know, sometimes life throws you things that you didn't expect, but, you know, you just have to embrace it and, you know, move forward. 
I'm in a good place right now.   I'm looking forward to Wimbledon where hopefully I'll have some good weeks.

Q.   Make you stronger, things like this?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Definitely, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT