AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/C. Giorgi
  6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It feels good.   Game feels in really good shape.   It was a really tough match today.   Camila played really well.  
I really had to be focused out there.   It felt good.   I'm pleased.   She hits the ball very hard and flat and has some good serves.   For me, this was a good win.  
   
 Q.   That was exactly the kind of workout you wanted, wasn't it, leading into Wimbledon?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it was great.   It was a good test for me.   I don't think there is many players or any player hitting it harder than she does.   It goes straight through the court because obviously it's grass.   It was a great test for me today.  
   
 Q.   The interruption, how did that affect you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, obviously it's always harder when you have to go out there and have to serve.   My main concern was just if he was okay, because it didn't look too good.   
I could hear‑‑ there was some noises to start off with, and I could see them carrying him to the stairs.   Then I just saw him lying there for maybe 10 minutes.  
I haven't heard anything, but I hope that he's okay.   That was my main concern.  
   
 Q.   It's unusual, after they removed the spectators, you then went inside.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Because he was still lying ‑‑we could see him still, and I think there was going to be a lot of things happening.   
Obviously a life is more important than the tennis, you know.   I think it's important everything gets settled.  
   
 Q.   What did you make of your opponent's reaction at the end when she didn't even sort of look at you at the net and then walked off?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I don't know.   You know, everyone is different.   Obviously, yeah, she was disappointed with the loss, but, you know, in the end of the day it's two fighters out there.   We did our best.  
You know, it went into my favor today, and I'm pleased about that.   On to the semis.  
   
 Q.   You had one or two questionable calls again?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   There was a few, yeah, interesting calls out there.  
   
 Q.   You made a point to put the ball where...   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I guess it goes both ways sometimes, and, you know, you just have to embrace it.   You know, you can't do much about it, but I did ask her to just look a little closer next time (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Was that the point of putting the ball down, like, That's where you need to look?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, that was where it bounced.   
   
 Q.   What's the angriest you have ever gotten with a line call?   Do you remember?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I don't remember.   You just have to ‑‑you can't do anything about it.   Nothing is going to change.   It's just about refocusing.   That's it.  
   
 Q.   Would you introduce Hawk‑Eye on every court across the game?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's obviously very expensive to have Hawk‑Eye.   You know, but it definitely brings out the uncertainty.   If you're unsure, if you think that something is out, sometimes you're wrong but at least you can have the Hawk‑Eye call and you can check, and, okay, you're wrong, move on.  
But at the same time, I guess it brings some excitement to the game, as well.  
   
 Q.   Will you be watching the football tonight?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I will indeed, I will.   I'm actually excited for it.   I might go just for a light jog this afternoon and then eat something and watch the football.  
   
 Q.   You know we will be asking you about it tomorrow.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Don't worry.   I remember.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about your semifinal.   Kerber.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, she's a great player.   Obviously she's been playing well this week.   A lefty, which makes it a little more tricky with her serves.  
But, you know, I'm just happy to be in the semis, getting another game, and the more matches I can get, again, the happier I am.  
I'm pleased, and I feel my game is in a good shape so it's going to be a good battle out there hopefully.  
   
 Q.   It's working very well towards next week, isn't it, stepping up each time?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It is, definitely, yeah.   This was a great preparation for me.   Regardless of how I do tomorrow, it's a great preparation for Wimbledon.   
I'm pleased with getting some matches and getting comfortable on the grass and kind of get the feel for it.  
   
 Q.   I think the Eastbourne crowd would quite like to see you play Heather in the finals.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I would too.   Obviously I'd like to be in the finals.   You know, I'm going to do my best out there tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is it fair to say that you're serving harder now than you have been in the last few months?   I was looking at the speed gun, and there were serves like 110, much more than usual.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I guess the grass kind of, you know, rewards you for bigger serves so you go for it a little more, you know.   
Whereas on the clay it's more important to get the first‑serve percentage up, because, you know, it's obviously slower once it bounces.   
So, yeah, but my serve feels in good shape, too.   Hopefully it's not going to go away.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT