AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/S. Stephens
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Some of the players have been struggling a bit today, but you seemed to have a pretty easy time.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I just enjoy it.   I played well out there.   I think Sloane, especially in the second set, played really, really well and really went for her shots.   Didn't make it easy for me to finish it off.  
Yeah, I'm pleased with how I played.   On to the next round.  
   
 Q.   What were you most pleased about with your game today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I held my composure and I served well.   I got a lot of returns deep.   In general, everything, really.   
   
 Q.   You're now I think 5‑Love against Sloane.   What is it that works so well for you against her or that doesn't work for her?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I think that's a question for her (smiling).   
But I think, yeah, the grass really suits me well.   I like the fast ball and the pace I get from my opponent's shots.  
Yeah, I just ‑‑I don't know.   I just played well, I guess.   
   
 Q.   Certain players, they see the draw, see certain opponents.   Do you feel comfortable against some of them and maybe others where you think you have had maybe bad experiences in the past?   Do you get that sense?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think there are some players that you feel more comfortable or some styles of play that you feel more comfortable than others.   But at the same time, every match is different and every surface is different.   The ball bounces differently depending on where you play.  
So, you know, you can never really say, Oh, I have beaten her a few times before and it's going to be easy, because it's not.   Every time you try and find a different way to play and different tactics.  
   
 Q.   You're playing an opponent next who has played about five hours of tennis in the last couple days.   Do you think that will be an advantage to you?   She may be aching and tired?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   She's a player that I don't think really thinks about those things out there.   You know, she just goes for it and hits every ball as hard as she can.  
You know, it's hard whenever it's sitting, especially on the grass, because it goes so fast already. But it's another match, and, you know, another good test for me before Wimbledon.  
   
 Q.   Where do you think you are with your game at this moment, what level?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it's at a high level.   I feel I'm hitting it very clean, I'm hitting it very well.   I'm very pleased going into Wimbledon with the way I feel out there.  
   
 Q.   Your best form for a while?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I have always played well on grass, and I always felt good.   So, you know, hopefully it will show at Wimbledon this year.  
   
 Q.   A World Cup question for you.   Being a Liverpool fan, England is playing against Uruguay tomorrow.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I know, tomorrow night.   You know, one of our family good friends is from Uruguay.   He asked me the other day, You better be supporting Uruguay.   
I'm like, Well, I will be supporting England.   
He's like, No, no.   You have to reconsider that (smiling).   He's like, Well, Suarez is from Liverpool and he plays for Uruguay.   
I'm like, Yeah, but you know, we have quite a few more ‑‑  
   
 Q.   Five to one?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Exactly.  
   
 Q.   Is that going to be the score, you think?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I doubt it.   But I think it's going to be a great game tomorrow.   Both teams have everything to play for, so I'm excited.   Hopefully I can get to watch.   
   
 Q.   Did you ask for an early match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   I'm guessing it will be similar times.   I don't know.   What time is the game tomorrow?   
So by 8:00, anyway, I don't think...   
   
 Q.   We were still here at 9:00 last night.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Really?   Well, never say never, but I think I'll be done by then.  
   
 Q.   The match will keep you away from the party tomorrow night?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, well, I'm playing tomorrow, so hopefully I'll win and I wouldn't be able to make it anyways.  
   
 Q.   Care to give us a prediction for the score of tomorrow's match?   The football, not yours.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it will be...   
   
 Q.   Careful.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I know.   See, I think I can get in trouble if I put out a score.   I better not (smiling).   
   
 Q.   We think of you as part of the generation which kind of also includes like Azarenka and Radwanska.   Obviously at the moment we've got older players right at the top of the rankings with Serena and Li Na, but we're also seeing a lot of younger players coming through.   Do you feel like there is a danger that's sort of you and your generation, players might get kind of squeezed out in the middle between the veterans and the young ones?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No (smiling).   No, I don't think so.   I think our generation have done amazingly well, and I don't think any of us are going anywhere.  
   
 Q.   Does it give you hope though that you have players like Li Na and Serena still playing very, very well into their 30s in terms of looking long term?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, everyone wants different things, you know.   Everyone has, you know‑‑ I don't know where I'm going to be in a couple of years.   I don't know if I'll still want to play or not, you know, but it just shows that if you're fit and you have the experience and, you know, obviously they play extremely well, you still have plenty of years to play out there.  
But it's all about if you have the passion for the game still at that point.   Then you never know, you know.   I just live in the now.   You never know what's going to happen tomorrow.  
I'm just enjoying my day today, and it's been a good day in many ways.  
   
 Q.   Rolling Stones said they wouldn't play after they were 30.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   And see (smiling)?   There you go.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of Raheem Sterling?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Oh, what he showed this year is incredible.   I think he's really showed how much he's matured, and I think we're going to see a lot of him the next few years.   
I think he's going to be one of the strengths.   Hopefully he'll stay in Liverpool for many years to come because I think we will need him.  
   
 Q.   Is he your new favorite?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   Steven Gerrard, I'm not leaving him as my favorite until he retires.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think he has a chance.   Yeah, I think so.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT