AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 16, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Stosur
  7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You had to work hard for that, didn't you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I did.   But I knew that I had to work hard for this match.   It was a really tough first round.   Sam is always, you know, a tough opponent, but I thought I played really well out there. 
Except for being broken in the first game in both sets, I think I played extremely well out there.   I'm so happy to be on the grass.   I love playing here.   I have had so many good results here in the past.   It was just fun to be out there.

Q.   You had some benefit from home support.   The crowd was behind you, especially with that questionable call. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I know.   I made a Hawk‑Eye challenge, and everyone said it was in.   (Laughter.)   But unfortunately I didn't get the point.   It didn't count. 
But, yeah, it was great.   You know, I love playing out there on centre court and always with so many people, and they are always so supportive of me.
Yeah, it was really a pleasure to play out there.

Q.   Are you happy to have battled your way back in both sets?   You were behind in both and you came back in both.   Does that give you a sense of where your game might be at and how good your attitude is at the moment, as well?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, definitely.   I just kept fighting and I kept going.   You know, I felt like I had ‑‑she has good serves, so I felt still that I got a lot of returns back.   I felt like I was in there in every service game of hers.
So it was kind of ‑‑it was a good feeling.   For me, also the way I was moving out there on the grass, it's always tricky with your first match on grass because it's different to practice and to play matches.
But I have been here since Wednesday, so it felt good, surprisingly good for a first match.

Q.   Can you remember the last time you played somebody who has been a top‑10 player for a while and also a Grand Slam winner in a first round of a tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   Maybe here.   Actually, I think I played Svetlana Kuznetsova here years ago when she had just won the French Open, so I think that was the first match if I remember correctly.
But then again, my memory is very good but it's short.   I might be wrong.

Q.   A good advert for the Miami tourist board to get away for a few days and come back in form like that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, that was a lot of fun.   I have some good friends there.   Serena and I had a good time with some of our other friends.
It was nice to get away a little bit and then come back and feel recharged.   I came back home, and I worked hard every day four, five hours a day.
So it's nice.   It feels good.   My game is in good shape.   I'm excited about these weeks.   The grass season is always the one that I am looking most forward to because it's so special to play on and it's so short.
Thankfully next year the season is getting longer and longer, so it's a positive sign.

Q.   How important was that break to put the disappointment of the French and everything that preceded it behind you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I just love spending time with my friends and my family and the people closest to me.
You know, I think to be able to perform 100%, you have to have a clear mind and you have to want to get out there and practice.
I felt like I needed it for a few days, and when I came back home I was ready.   I was ready to go.   And I practiced ‑‑I arrived late on Monday night, I think it was, or Tuesday, and straight in the next morning I was out there on court and practicing for four hours.
I was ready.   I enjoyed it.   You know, hopefully it will pay off these weeks.

Q.   Do you actually feel as physically strong as you have for quite some time?   You certainly look as though you are, but do you feel as though you're physically as strong as you have been?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, I have been a little bit unlucky this year as well with some injuries and a few things here and there, but I feel right now I'm physically in good shape and I feel like I'm moving around the court well.
I feel like I have the power behind the shots that I want.   I would like to stay like this and hopefully, you know, the injuries will stay away.   You know, as they say, when it rains, it pours.   So hopefully the pouring has stopped now.

Q.   Are you playing with no discomfort at all at the moment?   Are you having to do anything extra to make sure nothing else crops up?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't want to jinx anything, but for now I'm feeling pretty good.   I mean, I think if you ask any tennis player there will always be a little thing here or there.   But generally I feel good, and I definitely have to work harder on my body nowadays.   Not because I'm old, I guess, because I'm 23.   But after you have been on tour for so many years and you have been working your body so hard for so many years, it just takes more to keep it in good shape and make sure that it's healthy.
I definitely watch out for my body much more now than I used to.   I mean, I never used to see the physio or anything when I was younger.   Now I feel like, you know, I'm in there every day just to keep on top of things before something happens.

Q.   You said you had a clear mind.   Do you feel you're mentally stronger than you have been?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I feel good.   I feel refreshed and I just love being here.   The more matches I can get on the grass, the happier I am, because again, it's my favorite part of the season.   So I'm just focused on the tennis and on what I'm supposed to do out there.

Q.   Given your game, do you think you have underachieved at Wimbledon over the years and do you think this year we might see even more from you there?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think my game suits the grass better than the results I have done at Wimbledon in the past, because I think fourth round is my best result there.   I actually feel like I could do better. 
I mean, I have won here, I have won Junior Wimbledon, I have won a lot of things on grass.   I really enjoy it, so hopefully, you know, sooner rather than later it will show up at Wimbledon, too.

Q.   Besides winning the title, what would you consider a good result at Wimbledon as this process restarts for you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Honestly, I don't know.   I don't really set any goals for myself.   Obviously I want to win like everyone else.   I just take one match at a time. 
I know it sounds boring and you have heard it before, but it's the truth.   I just take one match at a time, and every match I can get out there I love to play.   Hopefully I can get quite a few. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT