ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Y. WICKMAYER/C. Wozniacki
      7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Caroline would like to make a statement, and after that she will answer questions about today's match. 
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, well, first of all, I just want to say that I'm happy to talk about the match today.   I don't really want to talk about my personal life.   I hope that you all can understand that. 
    The only thing I really have to say is that, you know, thank everybody for their support and sweet messages.   That's really nice.
    You know, what happens in my personal life, I just want to really keep that between my closest people around me.   You know, I just have to move on. 
    So I'm happy to talk about the match if anyone has any questions. 
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions just about today's match, then, please.

Q.   Can I ask how difficult was it to prepare for the match?   How do you think you actually coped in the circumstances today?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously it's always ‑‑ you know, you're not prepared for something like this, and came a bit as a shock. 
    You know, I just tried to prepare the best that I could, and really tried to focus on my match and on what I had to do out there.
    But, you know, I haven't, you know, it doesn't make it easier that I haven't been able to play really that many matches because I have been injured. 
    You know, I felt a little bit rusty out there, and, you know, it wasn't really a pretty match.   But, you know, I tried. 

Q.   Given all of what you just said, did you give any consideration to not playing in the tournament?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I always wanted to play here, you know.   You need to just keep going and keep moving forward.
    You know, this is what I do and is my profession.   And I just started hitting balls when I got here actually because of my knee, so I just ‑‑I knew that I just have to try and focus on this tournament and try and do as best as I can.

Q.   You had the wrist injury unfortunately in Stuttgart and then the knee.   The combination of the two, is it right now just the knee that's really been kind of hampering your ability to train?   How much of that affected today?   Did you feel pain or was it just a matter of rustiness?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't feel my wrist at all, so that's all good.   You know, I could feel my knee a little bit in the extreme situations, but, you know, in general I'm positively surprised about how it held up.
    But, yeah, I guess I'm getting old.   It's like a car that is 10 years old, all of sudden it starts breaking down, it was great at the beginning and now it needs service more often.

Q.   You mentioned the support that you've had.   Did you feel the crowd out there today was very warm towards you?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, the crowd was great.   You know, I definitely can't blame anyone but myself out there today.

Q.   You served the first set and the game went by pretty quick.   Can you recount what happened there? 
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   Yeah, I guess I should have taken that, and, you know, gotten the lead there.   But it wasn't to be, and, yeah.   That's it.

Q.   Obviously this is a big tournament and probably even if you weren't 100% you wanted to play.   But what about the next few weeks?   What's your plan?   Do you need more time off to rest the knee?   What are you going to do to sort of kind of regroup, you know, in the weeks ahead?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Honestly, I don't know.   I haven't really thought about it.   I was just so focused on one day at a time and one hour at a time.   I haven't really thought forward.   I don't know.   I think I just need to sit down and just think about, you know, how I can get my knee 100% ready and, you know, what the best way to do so is.
    You know, prepare for Wimbledon, which is a big tournament and a better surface for me.

Q.   What's your next event that you're planning to play?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Eastbourne was my planned next event.   So, yeah. 

Q.   I think you just sent out a tweet recently commenting about a very nice comment that Roger Federer made, something to the effect that sometimes you just have to remember why we play this game, that winning isn't sort of the end‑all and just get back and remember why you enjoy playing the game.   Could you talk about why that comment touched you or why you commented on it?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, once you're in the middle of it, no matter if you win almost every tournament or if you are, you know, in a period where it's tough, you know, there will always be people that say, Ah, you could have won that, you could have won that. 
    Sometimes you just get caught up in what I should be doing instead of why I do it, and the love for the game and the passion that we all feel.   Because without the passion that we have had for this game, then we wouldn't have ‑‑we wouldn't have been here.   It's impossible not to have passion for the game and get so far.
    So I was really touched about what Roger said, and I was like, That is very correct.   Actually, Kim Clijsters, she retweeted it, and I saw it from her, as well. 
    I think we all agree that to become a great player and a great champion you have to love the game.

Q.   Even though the match didn't go the way you wanted it to, given what's happened, are you proud of yourself for soldiering out there and putting up a pretty good fight against a player who was playing pretty well today?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I guess you have to take the positive in a tough situation, and I guess that is.   But, you know, obviously it's disappointing not to be through to the next round.
    You know, I would have rather have been here longer.   Unfortunately, it's not to be.   And, you know, I guess what's supposed to be will happen.   So I'm just going to get myself together and be ready for the grass.

Q.   Are we still to see the best of you as a tennis player, do you think?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think so.   I mean, I have done a lot already in my young years, but at the same time, you know, I feel like there is still a lot of things that can be improved on.   And even when I was playing my best, you know, there are still things I can improve on.
    So I believe that, you know, that's why I'm playing, because I believe that I can, you know, get back to the level I had and even play better.

Q.   Your dad's obviously been a constant there throughout your life and playing career.   I mean, how important is he going to be, do you think, in motivating you to get you to where you still want to be in this game?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Oh, he means everything to me.   You know, when you talk about support and being there and, you know, I think your family will always be there for you no matter what happens.
    You know, I think it's great to have that base or that support so close to you that, you know, you always know that you can always talk, you can always fall back on, you can always, you know, figure out a way to make things better on and off the court. 
    And, you know, I think that's something that I have always needed and something that I've always ‑‑that's something that has made me the person and the player that I am today.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT