SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 23, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Stephens
  6‑1, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   So you're not usually straight into press.   This was a fairly easy night for you; fair to say?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I mean, I guess it's never easy, because I know what a quality player she's she is. 
But, yeah, I'm pleased about the way I played.   Definitely very happy about the performance out there.

Q.   Is it sometimes hard to stay focused when you know that somebody may not be playing up to their potential?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   You actually have to stay even more focused because you know she's going to go for it at some point.   Things can turn easy, especially when you're up by a lot. 
The other person doesn't have anything to lose, so you know you really have to be on your toes and expect anything.
So I just stayed focused out there.   I didn't let her into the match.   I didn't give one point away.   I was very happy about that.

Q.   At what point in the match did you sort of feel like it was going your way?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Honestly, I just kept playing, stopped focusing on the score, and just focused on myself and what I wanted to do out there.

Q.   After you had a start like you did and your dad comes out to talk to you ‑usually we see the coaching when someone is in trouble, but you weren't in trouble at that point.   What does he say to you then? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, he just said, You know, keep doing what you're doing; keep focused, because right now these first few games are very important.   Try and not let her into the game.   Stay aggressive.   Push her back from the court.
You know, just play your game and enjoy it out there.

Q.   That helps you to stay focused?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.

Q.   What do you make of her as a player?   You have played her a few times.   She can be a player who runs hot and cold, be hitting casual winners, and goes off the rails.   What do you make of where she's at right now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think she's a very good player.   You can see her forehand.   She has so much speed on her racquet on the serve and she's such a good athlete.   She gets to so many balls.   She's still very young. 
You know, I think we all have matches like this.   I mean, last week I played Jankovic, and I just was out there and trying everything but nothing was going my way.
You know, it's not a fun situation when you're on that side of the net.   It's tennis.   Sometimes it goes that way and you have to step up and keep going forward.

Q.   How good does it feel for you to be on the other side of that, after the Jankovic loss, to be on the opposite side of that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It definitely feels good.   I know I'm a good player.   I'm hitting the ball well and playing well.   Even after the loss last week, I was still‑‑ you know, of course I was disappointed about the match, but I'm still in a very positive mood mentally thinking I'm playing well.   I just need to keep going.

Q.   Was there any point in the match like that where you feel even a tiny bit sorry for the other person?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously you're out there.   It's a battlefield.   You just want to win. 
Again, I don't think too much about the score.   I just need to think, I need to keep executing the things I'm doing.

Q.   You have quite a different look now as opposed to the Stella looks.   Do you like the all black?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I love my Stella clothes and I love the feminine part of that.   This is the Climate Cool, things that we all are wearing this week.   I think it's cool I can choose my own colors.   That makes it a little bit of a change.
I thought black today would work well in the night session.

Q.   Do you have plans for tonight?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think Rory asked if I want to go to Mr.Chow's.   I will go get a massage and go for dinner.

Q.   It was a fast match.   Is your cooldown routine any different? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I will do the same things.   Get a massage, do some stretching, go back and get some food. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT