DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 21, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/C. Wozniacki
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How tough was that out there with the ball coming at you like rockets?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it was quite tough out there, and I started off a little bit tentative.   You know, I didn't really feel like I could go out and play what I wanted to play.   You know, once I got going, she started to play better as well.   
It was kind of uphill today, and she, you know, like I was expecting, she went in and was serving good first serves especially when she needed them.  
You know, she got the angles going, so even when I was behind the baseline, you know, she made me come in and then played it on my feet.   
Yeah.   She played a good match, and, you know, I started off very slow.   Once I got going it was too late.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything else you could have done?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   (Smiling.)   There's always things you could have done, you think you could have done, but, you know, just wasn't to be today.  
   
 Q.   Closer than the score indicates.   Did you feel that way?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, in the beginning I felt like she was dictating almost everything and she was making a few mistakes, so that kind of got me a couple of games.   
But then, you know, I think towards the end of the first set and, you know, second set I think we had some longer rallies.  
You know, my game as well stepped up a little bit, but, you know, I think she played well and was very steady and kept her head cool.  
   
 Q.   Looking at the week as a whole, you still made the semis.   Are you happy with where your game is at?   And what kind of things do you want to work on?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, as a whole, you know, I'm pretty pleased.   It's a tough tournament.   Everyone is playing here.   I knew it wasn't going to be easy.  
You know, I just have a little bit of time before Indian Wells, so just going to go back and practice a little bit more, you know, and feel like I'm on the right track.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT