DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 20, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/S. Cirstea
  6‑1, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It doesn't get a lot better than that, does it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, that was good.   That was really pleasing, and I always know that Sorana can be a tricky opponent.   It was important for me not to let her back in the game, and I felt like I served well and I put the pressure on her and played the way I wanted to play today.   
   
 Q.   The way you played her today‑‑ you lost to her two or three times.   You have had tough matches against her.   Why was it so different this time?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, last time we played on a really high level in Toronto, and I had two match points and I didn't win, which was quite disappointing for me.   She went on to beat some great players and go to the finals.  
This time I decided what I needed to do out there and everything was going my way.  
   
 Q.   You spent a lot of time here obviously the past month or going back to the new year.   How big of an advantage is it to know this is kind of like a home tournament and you have won here in the past?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I definitely think it's an advantage.   I was here after the Australian Open and I was practicing here, and I was here all the way up to Doha basically and I was playing on these courts.  
So it definitely made me feel a little bit more comfortable, and I know all the secret spots on the court to hit it (laughter).  
   
 Q.   What do you like about Dubai and this tournament?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I love that the hotel and the courts are in one big complex.   It makes it very easy for us players and not having the travel time.   And I think Dubai, in general, it's such a great place.   So many nice restaurants, so many fun things to do.   I definitely think that has a lot to do with it.  
   
 Q.   And your thoughts against Venus?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Venus is a great, great player.   You know, you always know going out to play against her it's not going to be easy.   
She has won so much, and for me I just need to go out there and be focused on myself and my own game and give it all, and we will see what happens.   
   
 Q.   I think the last time you played each other was 2008, so a lot has changed since then.   How do you think you have improved since then?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I played her four times in a row pretty close to each other.   I remember growing up in the juniors, my dad, I would say, Oh, this girl has a good serve.   My dad is like, What?   No, it's not Venus or Serena on the other side.   Come on, no one has good serves on the junior tour.   
Then I made it to the WTA Tour and I was playing Venus for the first time, and I'm like, Okay, dad, this is before the match, give me the tactics, I'm actually playing Venus now, and so what am I supposed to do on that return?   He goes, Oh, well, I don't know.   Suit yourself out there (laughter).   
I remember that.   We just had a good laugh about it.   
Yeah, I had some close matches with her back then, but a lot has changed and it's going to be a good match tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is he going to give you extra advice for tomorrow?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   He's definitely not going to tell me that it's not Venus or Serena out there, that the serve isn't going to be very big.   
But I think I just need to play my own game, to play the way I want to play and make my move.  
   
 Q.   Can you remember watching them at home when you were a kid?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, of course, and I remember, I think it was Venus that was playing, and then she had these things in her hair.   
   
 Q.   The beads?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, at the US Open.   I remember that.   
And then obviously I remember when they were not starting but when they had made their mark on the tour and started to give like Hingis big trouble because they had so much power and players couldn't keep up, and, yeah, I think they definitely changed the game.  
   
 Q.   Just in terms of power or in any other things?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, obviously they ‑‑I think they are great role models.   They do a lot of charity work.   I think they are great for the game, because they, you know, they stand up for the players.   They are in the council.   They do a lot for the WTA Tour.   
So not only just as to power in the game, not only how much they have won, but also how they represent the tour, I think, is great.  
   
 Q.   Are they part of the crowd, or are they a little bit separate?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, they are some of my good friends.   I would say they are part of the crowd unless I'm not part of the crowd (smiling).  
   
 Q.   To win the tournament, you might have to go through Venus and then Serena.   Does that excite you, that sort of challenge, being put up against two modern‑day greats like that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Honestly, I just want to play tomorrow and do well, and then I don't really think about the finals yet.   So I will have a tough one tomorrow to get through.  
   
 Q.   How close would you say you are to winning a Grand Slam in the scheme of things?   I know you dropped out in the third round in Australia.   Do you think that wasn't a fair reflection of where your game is at the moment?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't think that I'm the one that should answer that.   I always believe when I go out that I can win, and right now I'm here and that's all I care about.   I'm two matches away from winning the tournament, so that's how far I am.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT