DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 19, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Beck
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That wasn't easy, was it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, it wasn't.   You know, I started off pretty well.   I didn't serve very well, but, you know, I started off pretty well and I was up 5‑1.   You think, oh, that's that first set under the belt, but, you know, she's a fighter.   She gets a lot of balls back.   She mixes the rhythm, the pace of the ball, and I just started to not really hit through but just place the ball, and all of a sudden she started to get some points back and once I wanted to hit again, I was, Okay, I don't feel as comfortable as I did in the beginning.  
All of a sudden the match started where I could have closed it off and not let her in.  
   
 Q.   Were the conditions difficult out there?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it was very difficult, because sometimes you didn't feel the wind but then there was a lot of wind.   You know, throwing it up to serve, you know, the ball was going everywhere.   It was definitely a little different I felt to play there than on the center court.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that having had two tough matches gives you a bit of momentum somehow for the tournament?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm just happy to be through.   Again, the next one will be tough, Errani or Sorana, and they have to battle it out later today.  
You know, it's nice to get these matches in such a difficult tournament, because, you know, every match is difficult.   It's not like you get an easy one somewhere.   Sometimes, you know, if you play some other tournaments, you know, you have the chance to actually get into the tournament.   Here you have to be ready from the start.   It's like a sprint.  
   
 Q.   You enjoy that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I do, yeah.   I like that, you know, you have to be ready and play your best from the start (smiling).   
   
 Q.   I understand you changed your racquet brand at the start of the year from YONEX to Babolat.   What was the thinking behind that?   How different a racquet do you have now with Babolat than you did with YONEX, would you say?   It's a technical question, but...   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I played with Babolat before, and, you know, I think it just gives me a little bit more spin on the ball.   It still has the power in the racquet.   
YONEX was good.   The team at YONEX was amazing, and they really did everything for the racquet to fit me, but again, I think the racquet fits a lot of the players who play very flat and, you know, take the ball very direct, whereas I like to be able to do a little bit more with the ball.  
   
 Q.   Have the dimensions of the racquet changed?   Have you changed like to a different strength or size of it?   Is it longer?   Like Federer, for example, has a big racquet.   Is it in any way different to the YONEX one?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Of course it's different.   I mean, you change brands, it's a different racquet.   So, yeah.   
But the size of the head is similar.   YONEX has a square head.   Babolat has a more round head.  
But the length of the racquet is the same.   The weight of the racquet is very similar.  
   
 Q.   Did you consult Rory about it?   Obviously he changed his...   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, it's a little different.   I wouldn't consult Rory on small technical things in tennis, no offense to him (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You mentioned yesterday how happy you are off the court.   You could tell that yesterday.   How does that translate and how important is it for you playing on the court?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it's very important.   I think for me the most important thing in life is family and being happy and healthy and, you know, having good people around me.  
I love playing tennis.   That's why I play.   You know, I think how I feel off the court will reflect how I play on the court, as well, because, you know, if you're positive, if you're happy, then you want to practice, you want to play, and, you know, you're excited.  
So it definitely helps me.  
   
 Q.   There were some unfortunate stories and rumors that went around a few weeks ago about you and Rory.   Did that in any way affect your relationship with the media?   Doesn't seem to have done.   You have always been more open than most players about the relationship and we appreciate that.   But did that experience damage the relationship in any way?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   What rumors were those?   
   
 Q.   The rumors that you split up.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I think I don't really ‑‑I mean, it's just annoying.   It's obviously ‑‑it's stupid things, and I don't know exactly who started the rumors.   I can only think it's maybe people that don't want us together.  
You know, it's sad that some people write stories based on nothing, because obviously we were always strong and we are going strong.   So, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Are you able to dismiss that kind of thing quite easily or does it hurt?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, in the beginning you just laugh at it.   But when it keeps going and people keep making stories, you're like, okay, you're tired of it.   It's, Move on already, you know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT