DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/S. Lisicki
  2‑6, 6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You had to fight pretty hard to come back for that, didn't you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I have had to fight pretty hard against her quite a few times.   I knew she was going to come out hot and just go for her shots, and I felt like I was just a step behind.   I couldn't really do what I wanted from my backhand side, and I was playing a little too short.   
In the second set I started serving really well, I was really pleased with my serves, and I got a lot of her returns back deep, and all of a sudden, you know, the game was different.   I started attacking more from my backhand side onto her backhand and started to make her run a little bit.  
Yeah, then the game turned around a little.  
   
 Q.   It was important to win a match like that, wasn't it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, there is no easy matches here.   I knew that it doesn't matter who you play here.   It's going to be tough.  
It was nice to win this one, and, you know, onwards and upwards, as they say.  
   
 Q.   Do you notice any of the Martina Hingis influence in her play?   Has it changed at all?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't really think much ‑‑I mean, I think you always see her, you know, serving big, trying to attack from the first ball.   I think it's just her game and the style of game, you know, maybe Martina's experience can help her a little bit, but I'm not sure exactly what they have been working on.  
   
 Q.   You had to do lots of different things to turn that around.   Would you have been able to do that three, four years ago?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To turn this one around?   
   
 Q.   Yes, in that way.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I think ‑‑I think I always try and improve and try and add a few things to my game, and, yeah, I mean, I think one of my biggest strengths is that I never give up.   I think that is one of the reasons why I have made it so far as well back in the day, as they say, you know.   
I think I have won a lot of matches that I should have lost in the past, as well.   
   
 Q.   Staring down the barrel of last year's Wimbledon runner‑up, to be able to come out to dominate the remaining two sets as you did must give you a lot of confidence for your next match, which will either be Stosur or Beck.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   As I said, any match is tough here.   It's the top women in the game.  
So, I mean, any match here is a good win, and I'm just pleased to be through to the next round, and we have to see who the opponent is going to be.  
   
 Q.   What is it that makes you so mentally tough in every match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think the game is just a mentally tough game.   You know, you need to be at the top of the game.   There are no bad players.  
You have to really be playing well, or if you're not playing well, you need to find a way to win anyways.   It takes a lot of character and takes a lot of hard work to get to where we are.  
   
 Q.   I have got two daughters, and if I kept coming right up to them and telling them what to do, I know what the answer would be.   Were you a really well‑behaved child?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Is that a trick question, or...(smiling)?   
   
 Q.   I'm just asking, because I know what would happen if I kept telling my daughters serving for a match...   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I'd like to say I'm a very well‑behaved child, but, you know, I think on the court you're just so focused, it's your job, it's your passion, it's what you want to do.  
And any input, any help you can get, it's just a plus.   Obviously a few years back, you know, I probably would fight a little bit more with my dad and say, No, that's not true, even though I knew it was.  
You know, I think you grow up and you realize, Okay, he's there to help you.   It's actually good advice that he's giving.   Whether then you can do it or not, that's a different matter (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Have you been anywhere cold this year?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I have.   In Ski Dubai (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Sometime you're going to have to face the challenge of getting gloves on over your huge ring.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I did have gloves on the other day actually here, so it wasn't a problem (smiling).  
   
 Q.   You faced the challenge?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Do you play with that on?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I don't.   I take it off.   I don't want to see it fly off somewhere and not being able to find it.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us how many carats, or you don't want to?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it's eight   carats.   That's my lucky number.   That's how he picked eight.   Very thoughtful.   I should have said 18, but...   (smiling).  
   
 Q.   When your dad comes onto the court, does he reassert stuff which you feel you already know, or does he tell you new things which you can take on board?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, obviously I'm not stupid, so I see some things and I know approximately what I need to do out there, but sometimes I realize as well myself when I watch some other players play, and I'm like, Why don't they do that?   But sometimes when you're in the game and, you know, you want to win, you focus so much on that that sometimes there are some things you don't see.   It's nice to have someone from the outside just say, Pay attention to this, and this can help you.   
   
 Q.   Do you have wedding plans?   You don't have to tell us what they are, but...   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, we have already a lot set.   So, yeah, date, everything, location set.   That's interesting, and I'm so excited.   Such an exciting time.  
   
 Q.   Can you give us an idea of when?   You don't have to give us a date.   This year?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You never know (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Might be good to get married just after Wimbledon.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Are you able to compare where your game is at now as opposed to when you lifted the trophy here three years ago?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't think you can really compare, and it's not fair to compare, because I think everyone is always improving, everyone is trying to find a way to beat you, and you always need to change a few things up in your game, or, you know, you need to step it up sometimes.  
You know, I think I'm just happy to be through this round.   The past is the past and I'm really proud of it, but, you know, now is now and I want to keep playing well.   
   
 Q.   Are you a better golfer or is Rory a better tennis player?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It used to be I was a better golfer, but it's not anymore, because in the offseason he was hitting every day.   So that's not fair.   
I started hitting it decent after I hit for a couple of weeks, and I'm really happy and pumped and excited, and then I don't play for four months, and then I come back and I'm back to zero, so it's kind of frustrating.   I would like to have the continuation, but I just don't really have the time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT