QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 10, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Welcome.   You have done well here before.   You have reached the final and also a final in the WTA Championships, I think, so does that help you when you come to a tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, definitely.   It's a place I really enjoy coming back to, and it's a tournament where I have great memories. 
Yeah, I really enjoy being here, and I came early and then prepared.   Yeah, I'm looking forward to the tournament.

Q.   What about your start to the year?   You had an injury?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I had an injury with my shoulder, but it feels completely fine now.   I've just, you know, been working hard and I'm looking forward to the season ahead.

Q.   Your game has many qualities, but movement and consistency are perhaps two of the qualities you've got.   You have not always had consistency off the court, have you?   You have had a lot of change of coaches.   Can you talk about that and why it might be?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think I have had pretty good consistency.   I have had my dad there for my whole life always coaching me.   I've tried a couple of different inputs, you know, to try and help my game.   You know, I think what I have done to have a good team around me is very important.

Q.   Can you say what the arrangement is now?   Is it with Michael Mortensen?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, well, my dad is still there.   I have Marta Domahovska.   She is the hitting partner as long as she wants to be, as long as she finds that fun and interesting.   You know, she's a great girl and been on the tour as well, been in the top 40 and hits the ball very hard, which is great for me and good to practice. 
Then, yeah, Michael Mortensen is helping for a few tournaments.   He's going to be around until Miami, and then we take it from there.

Q.   Obviously you don't want to give away stuff of what you're doing, but is it fair to say that your game is evolving like Li Na, Jelena Jankovic?   Their game is changing.   Are you trying to do something similar or not?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You always try and improve and evolve and try and do things better in your game.   You know, the tennis is always improving from everybody, so you need to keep up. 

Q.   I know you were in Dubai recently.   Have you been in the region for the past several weeks, or did you leave and come back?   What was your preparation like for this tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I have been around the region for a while now and just got ready for this tournament in Dubai.   I really just worked out in the nice weather, because right now in Europe it's pretty 50/50 how the weather is.
So, yeah, it was nice for me just to be here and to be able to just have a nice training base. 

Q.   Grand Slams.   Is that still your main aim for 2014, as well?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Of course.   I mean, I have achieved basically anything I could on the tour.   You know, I have won 21 tournaments and been No. 1 for so long.   Grand Slams is definitely the biggest goal of mine that I haven't achieved yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT