AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/C. McHale
  6‑0, 1‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Roller coaster match.   Any particular reason for the extremes?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I started off really well.   I put the pressure on her, took the ball early, and I served really well.   You know, she didn't put too many first serves in either.   I had an opportunity to attack her second serve.   
The second set I built up quite a few opportunities and possibilities.   Just started missing a little bit more.   You know, she started going on a roll, and that's what happened.   
In the third set I was down again one‑nil.   She had two breakpoints at 15‑40, but I managed to keep fighting, keep going at it.   
I managed to turn the match around.  
   
 Q.   The way the sets changed, is that a worry to you?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's always been like that in tennis, you know.   Once a set is over, you know, it's kind of a new set.   You need to refocus and kind of, you know, just see what happens.   
But, you know, again, it's tennis.   Doesn't matter if you win the first set easy.   Doesn't mean that the second set is going to be easy.   
   
 Q.   How thankful were you to get to play under the roof today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I was really, really pleased and happy about that.   I was lucky to play on Rod Laver Arena.   First of all, it's a great stadium.   Second, I think playing out there in that heat must have been tough and very brutal.   
So I'm very pleased and happy that we got to play under the roof today.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the tournament needs to change anything about how they communicate with players about the heat and the rules about it or should they change the rules?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I mean, I think they obviously try and look out for the players, as well, make sure that nothing serious happens.   
You know, uhm, obviously it's hot, but it's hot for the opponent as well.   You know, you just need to try and keep cool.   I was watching obviously the Sharapova against Knapp match because I was playing after.   
The way they were fighting till the end, I was really impressed by both players.  
   
 Q.   With the sort of heat we're having consistently over five days, what sort of repercussions do you think that might have in the second week?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, I don't remember it ever being this hot so many days in a row.   I think it's the first time when I'm playing that it's been like that.   
Obviously, it's all about recovery, going into the ice baths, keeping cool, staying indoors as much as you can.   
I think all the players are very fit, so I'm sure they recover very well.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you're playing well enough to win the title?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think you always believe you can win, but you still have quite a few matches to go.   So I'm just thinking one match at a time.   
   
 Q.   Your next match against Muguruza.   You had a tough match against her in Miami.   What do you think about that matchup?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, she's definitely on a roll.   She won Hobart.   You know, she's playing well.   She's playing aggressive.   Not very typical Spanish, because she goes in and attacks the ball, plays very heavy.   
It's going to be a tough match, but I'm excited about it.   I'm excited to have won today and be through to the third round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT