APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 7, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. SAFAROVA/C. Wozniacki
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What did you think of your match today? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think I played much better than yesterday.   You know, I feel like I started to get into the rhythm of the matches again.   It's tough when you've practiced for so long and then play on the highest level straightaway.
I felt like it was pretty good today.   It was small things that I didn't win.   First set as well and the second set, you know, could have gone either way.   I had my set points in the first set‑‑ in the second set I didn't take. 
Lucie played very well.   I had some problems with her lefty serve.   That's the only thing I feel like I could have done much better today, especially in the first set.

Q.   You win the tiebreak and the whole match turns around, no?   Take us through the tiebreaker. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I was up 6‑3 in the tiebreaker and she is serving.   The first one we have a really long, good rally and I really felt like I put pressure on her there.   She just really stepped it up and won that point.
She served me to the backhand where I miss‑timed it a little bit and missed it by a little.   And then I served again‑‑ or I served on the third set point, and again we have a very long rally. 
Again I felt like I put pressure on her, and then it was going back and forth.   I think it was at least 12 or 15 shots going back and forth.
You know, again, she hit the line a few times as well.   Just unlucky really. 

Q.   Fourth one you had a chance. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Fourth one I had a chance.   She served a second serve but it attacked me right in the body.   I misread the ball a little bit and it got too close to my body.
Yeah, unlucky really.   You know, I feel like I did everything right.   What I could have done, maybe one of the returns of the returns if I had returned it differently, but, again, you can always say that. 

Q.   So your shoulder is completely good?   Seems like on your first serve it you're ending it well; other times you're a little hesitant. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't feel anything in my shoulder anymore.   It's great.   I've felt good for the last few days.
Yeah, today as well I was trying to mix up the pace a little bit on the serve.   If you keep going with the same pace she gets the rhythm and returns really well. 
So I was trying to get a little bit of slice and spin on it so she couldn't read it really. 

Q.   Does two matches give you enough preparation for the Australian Open?   How will you structure the rest of the week?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, definitely.   I played two matches here then I get a few days over there and get to play a few sets as well with some of the girls and with different types players.
Yeah, I should be ready for Melbourne. 

Q.   In order for you to go as deep Australia want in Melbourne, what's got to happen for you game‑wise? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I just think, you know, I just need to push hard and I need to serve and return well.   I think those are the keys.
Then obviously try to put the pressure on the opponent.

Q.   Is Thomas giving you much different advice than your dad or is it just little tiny things?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Just small, small things.   Of sometimes a little thing can give you that 1%.   So, yeah, that's...

Q.   But the communication with him is good because you've known him since you were very young?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I've known him for a long time.   He knows me as well and knows what I react to and don't. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT