APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 6, 2014
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/J. Goerges
  3‑6, 6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Took a while to get going out there.   What was happening?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's the first match of the season.   It's always very tough.   You know, Julia had played already a few matches and she started off very strongly.   Was hitting winners from the forehand, from the backhand, and I needed some time just to get into the match.  
I'm really pleased about the way I fought out there.   Maybe wasn't the prettiest match, but I was fighting.   It's always tough in the beginning of the year.  
   
 Q.   How easy has it been for you concentrate on tennis the last week given the very exciting event in your life?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's been a great start to the new year.   I'm excited about the year ahead for many reasons.   I have been very focussed on my tennis and been working so hard in the off‑season, so, you know, I'm hoping for a great year.   
   
 Q.   As another sporting champion, Rory himself, how much can he help you with your game and what are your plans together?   Have you discussed potentially getting back to world No. 1 in this momentous year or any of that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously it's both individual sports and both with a ball.   You know, I think mostly it's just he understands how it is to be a professional athlete.   You know, all the expectations and all the ups and downs and how amazing it feels when you're winning and how tough it can be when you're not.  
I think it's great to have someone there who understands you and is always there to support you.   
   
 Q.   Did you have any inkling that he was going to ask you to marry him on New Year's Eve?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, but my parents knew.   He had asked my parents for permission, like traditional, which was great.   Yeah, I was very happy.   They were very happy for me, and his parents as well and everyone around us.   
So it's a special moment, a special time in our lives.   You know, it's amazing to have everything set in the personal life and we can really focus on our games and the year ahead of us in the sport, which we're both looking very much forward to.  
   
 Q.   Why did he choose Sydney as the venue?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I wasn't one to propose, so you have to ask him.  
   
 Q.   Why did he choose, do you know?   Did he tell you why?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think he just wanted to start off the year great.   I think this was the best possible way to start off the year.   
   
 Q.   So the second best way would be for you to win the Australian Open tennis after he won the Australian Open?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, but that's already halfway through the first month of the year.   I think he just wanted the first day to be very special.   
   
 Q.   You look very fit.   You look like the fittest we've seen you at this tournament.   Have you been doing something different in the off‑season with your strength and conditioning?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I always put a lot of effort into my fitness and just eating well and practicing hard.   You know, I think it's very important to take care of your body, especially now when you've been playing on the tour for so long.   It takes a toll on the body and it's even more important to take care of it.   
   
 Q.   So nothing different?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   Just I've been working very hard off the court, maybe even harder than usual.   
   
 Q.   You are working out with a new coach.   How is that going?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's going well.   You know, Thomas is very enthusiastic and he really knows how to motivate you.   It's going well.   We had a good off‑season.  
We started early this year.   I didn't have too much vacation.   I was really pumped for the new year and ready to get going and practice.   It's been going really well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT