BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
December 29, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Unfortunately, Caroline has had to withdraw with a right shoulder injury.   She'll answer a few questions.

Q.   What happened? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I felt it after one practice.   And I just feel like for me it's more important that I really get 100% and make sure that it doesn't get worse.
I thought the right decision for me was to withdraw from here.   It's obviously very disappointing because I really look forward to playing here and starting off the year here. 
But, yeah, with some good treatment and watch out for it a little bit over the next few days, I should be ready to play in Sydney.

Q.   It happened the last couple days?   Serving?   Forehand?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, serving probably is the one where it's the worst.   But for me, right now I just need some good physio, good treatment, and my head is still in Sydney.   I've been working really well and hard in this off‑season with no problems. 
I wanted to start of the year well.   That's why I made the decision to withdraw from here, just because I didn't feel like there was a need to make it worse before going into the Open as well. 

Q.   When will you head to Sydney? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm not sure yet.   I'm thinking maybe tonight we're gonna go down there and just spend a few days there. 

Q.   So was it one day ago?   Two days ago?   When you got here it was feeling okay and you felt like a sudden pain or it was gradual?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I felt it on my last practice before I got down here I felt it a little bit.   Yeah, it wasn't a sudden pain.   It was just, yeah‑‑ I definitely‑‑ I've gotten like scans and stuff and there is nothing wrong with the ligaments or with the tendons I think it's called. 
So that's very positive.   They just say, Take it easy over the next few days.   I'm fine doing some things on the court as well, which is great.   It's improving every day, so, yeah, few more days and I should be ready.

Q.   So serious concern?   I would think a little bit disappointing just because most players come into the new season and year excited about playing the first week, month. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, of course it's a little disappointing not being able to play this week.   It's a tough test this week, and you really want to just be, Okay, where am I compared to the others? 
I feel like I've been playing and hitting it so well in the off‑season.   That way I'm not really‑‑ you know, I feel confident about the season ahead.
That should be good.   That's why I also‑‑ as I said before, I just want a good start and be able to play 100% when I start.

Q.   How has it been going with Thomas?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Good.   Yeah, it's been going well with Thomas.   We've been working hard and really taking advantage of this off‑season.

Q.   Anything really new or just little minor things he's doing with your game?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think just minor things, a few good tips here and there and a few pointers.   I think when you're on a high level like you are here, all of us playing, I think it's just minor things that can make a big difference. 

Q.   When you say treatment, what sort of treatment?   There are a lot of things you can try now.   Dry needling. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, not a big fan of needles.   Always been afraid of them.   So doing just a lot of trigger points, just mostly just mobilizing, massaging, trying to get all the tightness away around the shoulder as well, and the back.
Yeah, mostly that.   Ice.   Yeah, quite a bit of treatment.   Feel like I've been laying there for a good while. 

Q.   Your dad was speaking a couple weeks ago and said you and Thomas asked him to come to Australia to make the adjustment easier.   Is that true?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I think it's great that my dad is coming to Melbourne.   It's nice to have him, and my mom is coming too there.   I always like having them by my side.   So just have some familiar faces, it's great support.   It will be nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT