CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're going to start with questions in English. 
First question. 

Q.   You won the China Open in 2010.   Does having this title give you any extra confidence heading into this tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, definitely.   You always enjoy coming back to places where you've won before.   I played here well in the past, so hopefully I can repeat that this year. 

Q.   First of all, welcome back.   I just saw you practice out there.   Talk about your preparation.   You played in Tokyo.   What kind of positive things do you want to carry to here, and what kind of things you want to improve here?   Thank you. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I played well last week and I'm pleased about the way I performed.   So here it was more just getting used to conditions and working on a couple of small details. 
But in general, just keep going, and hopefully I can get a good start to the tournament here. 

Q.   The first round at US Open you play against a Chinese player Ying Ying Duan.   Do you remember it, and could you talk about that match? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I remember it.   She was playing well, very aggressively.   She's a big girl and a tall girl, so she was playing very flat and hard.
You know, it was tough match for me. 

Q.   This is a question about your majors.   What do you attribute your recent struggles in the majors to, and what do you feel like you're doing to address those struggles and concerns?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't really have any concerns.   I just keep going.   It's a sport.   Sometimes it's also about the draw.   It's about how you're feeling, if you have small injuries or not.
It hasn't been my best year in the Grand Slams this year, but it happens.   There is always a new year next year, and hopefully I can do better. 

Q.   Since you mentioned the draw, how do you feel about your draw for this tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Honestly, I never look at the draw.   I just know who I play in the first round.   I like to keep it that way.   No point in looking who you're going to play in the semifinals or finals.   So many people can beat someone and it changes. 
For me, I just focus on one match at a time and see what happens. 

Q.   You have a bye in the first round.   How does that affect your preparation?   Are you looking forward to any extra rest or anything?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I love playing against bye.   It's always easy.   I always win.   I have a very positive record against bye. 
But, no, this week it's really nice to have a bye because we come from Tokyo and we just arrived, you know, and having to play.   This tournament starts on a Saturday, so with having to play yesterday, it would be kind of a nightmare.
So it's really nice that we have the opportunity to sit over a round.

Q.   Are you going to use any of your time off to get out and see anything in Beijing, or have you seen anything since you got here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I haven't had time to see anything yet.   We just arrived yesterday, so it's been pretty tight.   We'll see depending on my schedule and how I play. 
But I have done some sightseeing before.   I've seen quite a few of the places.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese.

Q.   By the end of October, there is a golf match.   I'm not sure whether you have a plan to visit that golf. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm not sure.   Depends on my schedule, depends how I do here and in Luxembourg, I suppose.
We'll see.   I may be there, but I might not. 

Q.   We know that in Malaysia in first round you lost to Chinese player Qiang Wang, which is younger.   In first round of US Open, you fight against Ying Ying Duan, and in second set she even got winning point.   Eventually you win that match.   Can you compare those two Chinese players?   Can you comment on those two players? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   There is a very big difference between those two matches because in Malaysia I was sick and had fever and barely got out of bed. 
The US Open against Ying Ying, she was playing really well and she was really playing aggressively and got me into trouble.
So those two matches were very different.   I was playing really well at the US Open, and she gave me struggles. 
You know, I think she's a player to look for in the future. 

Q.   So actually this is a very crucial moment for you to penetrate into the WTA final.   As a former China Open titleholder, what expectations do you have this year? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, obviously I need to do well here to get into the Championships, and that's the goal. 
But for me, I think it's important just to focus on this tournament and not put too much pressure on myself.
It's a tournament that I've played well at before, so hopefully I can play well again this year.   That's my goal.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Previously, Djokovic announced his news of engagement on Facebook.   As a public figure, are you expecting that your private life is going to be exposed or will it be low‑key?   Are you going to try to share the good news with your fans if you get married or keep it confidential and for friends only?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   First, last year I was told that Djokovic was engaged as well, and I went to ask him, and he said, No, I'm not engaged.   So I need to confirm with the right sources.   And if he is, I am really expecting an invitation to the wedding.   So I need to have a talk with him. 
Second of all, I'm not engaged.   I don't know if I get engaged if I would share it or not.   It's not really anything that I've been thinking about, to be honest. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT