U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/C. Scheepers
      6‑1, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you tell us how you felt out there. 
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I felt pretty good.   I mean, I really like playing the night session on Ashe.   It's great.   It's a nice atmosphere.   It's very electric. 
    I was really excited to go out there and play today. 

Q.   How healthy do you feel now?   Last year you were injured.   Are you 100%?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   I think if you ask any tennis player, every day they wake up there's always something.   But it's a little bit painful. 
    But, you know, I'm feeling good.   I'm feeling healthy.   My body is good.   I'm ready to go.   So, yeah, I feel good. 

Q.   Is it easier to be a lower seed now than being at the top the last few years?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Not really.   I mean, I don't really think about it.   I just play.   No matter what seed you are, you need to win.   Nothing is given to you.   You need to win equally as many games and points to advance to the next round. 

Q.   How does your form feel compared to when you were at the height of your run in the rankings?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think I always improve as a player.   I think I'm playing good tennis.   I think I've improved since then. 
    I think there's always‑‑ you know, the level of tennis is always improving by anyone.   The depth of the game is always increasing.   So it's obviously getting tougher and tougher.   There's new players on the way. 
    It's what happens.   There's new generations coming up all the time and wanting to be the best. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about how tough it is for women in particular to find the right balance of weight training and diet and fitness?   For men it's cut and dry. 
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I think for men, they always want to be big and strong.   They don't want to be thin and explosive.   They want to be packed. 
    For women I think it's more about being lean, being fast, being strong at the same time.   I think most women want to look good, as well, be strong at the same time. 
    Obviously right now for me, my main focus is my tennis.   I might be a bit bigger now than when I finish playing tennis, and you can start looking like a super model.   Right now the main focus is to be strong and explosive.   Obviously to find the right balance between the strength and the explosiveness comes also with the weight, how your body is built in general. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT