U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/Y. Duan
      6‑2, 7‑5

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Going through the second set in your mind, what stood out as the momentum‑turning points?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It was just difficult because there was a lot of wind out there.   You know, against the wind you're in trouble and with the wind as well you're in a bit of trouble.   So it was quite difficult.   It was definitely easier to win the games with the wind.
    I just kept my focus and kept fighting for every point.   She just went for it, hitting everything, and I just had to keep steady and keep running balls down.

Q.   Are you happy with the way you played today?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm happy to be through.   I think everyone that you asked today would just say it was a day of survival and a day to get through.   You know, it's not about being pretty.   It's about just getting the job done.   I did that, so I'm happy about that.

Q.   How do you feel about your game coming in with the events here in the States coming up, semifinal in New Haven?   Do you think you felt like you got progressively better from Montreal [sic] to Cincinnati to New Haven?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I felt good out there.   I feel like the game is where I want it to be.   I love the hard courts, and playing on Arthur Ashe as my first match is great.   I was really excited.
    You know, it's just so nice to be back, and this atmosphere is amazing.

Q.   Are you back to where you think you can make a final like you did in?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I always believe in that, so I never lost the belief.   There is still so many matches to go, so I just have to go one match at a time like always.

Q.   In your career, a lot of great runs, and some setbacks, as well.   Over the years, what do you think is the best advice you've gotten?   If you could, just reflect on that for a minute. 
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think if you ask any athlete, there will always be ups and downs.   You know, the downs just make the ups even better.   You know, you appreciate it more.   You love it. 
    And for me, the best advice is just, you know, believe in yourself, work hard, and if you work hard the results will come.   There's no doubt.
    You know, there is always so many people that are so smart and, you know, they say, You'll never make it, or, Just forget about it; it's too late, whatever.
    You know, the thing is nothing is ever too late and nothing is impossible.   I love proving people wrong, and I love what I do.   I live the life I have always dreamed of, and I have a passion and I have something to wake up for every morning.   I enjoy it.   It's great.
    This is fun.   Yeah, playing out on the big courts.

Q.   You have had contacts with a number of other sports.   Which sport, boxing or golf, has given you more, and have you learned more from it?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think you can learn a lot from all sports, actually.   You know, golf is a very mental sport because you make one mistake out in the woods somewhere and all of a sudden you can lose a tournament like this.   You make a triple bogey or quadruple bogey and you're done.
    Whereas boxing, it's a very tough sport.   You just have to be a fighter.   You have to be able to stand no matter ‑‑you know, it's not about how hard you get hit.   It's about how many times you can get hit and still be standing up.

Q.   The American boxer Tex Cobb said boxing isn't like tennis.   You get one hit and it's your ass.   You're out of there. 
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, but at the same time you get one hit, and if you're strong enough you still stand.
    So it's all about being able to, you know, avoid the hits obviously, but be strong enough to take some hits and then hit back.   Then, you know, have your killer instinct.

Q.   Sounds like Wozniacki on court. 
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   (Smiling). 

Q.   Do you actually talk much with Rory about tennis or golf?   I mean, is it something that almost you would avoid unless there is a real issue?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I mean, I think we both love what we do.   I think it will come up in conversation just regularly, but it's not something that we purposely talk about or we avoid. 
    Whenever we feel like talking about it, we do.   Whenever we don't, we don't.   It's not really... 

Q.   He says he doesn't get real stressed out about watching you.   Do you not get stressed out about watching him?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Um, I think it's always worse when you can't do anything about it.   Especially when it's close and he's close to closing out a tournament or‑‑ you know, I think that always makes you a bit nervous because there's nothing you can do about it. 
    Yeah, I guess so, yeah. 

Q.   Crissy, Chris Evert, on TV had some nice words to say about you.   She also said if she were you‑‑ could you use another pair of eyes, and if she were you she'd run out and grab Thomas Hogstedt.   He's had great success.   Would you consider him as a possibly helping you in the future?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   Actually, to be honest, right now this is the tournament I'm thinking about.   I'm not really thinking about the future.   I just really ‑‑ right now my main focus is US Open. 
    It's the last Grand Slam of the year, and I just want to have a great run.   This is on my mind at the moment, and we will see what happens.

Q.   A question about your opponent.   Not so many Chinese girls so big and hitting so hard.   What's your assessment of her future on the tour?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, she's very tall.   It's not very often you see the Chinese girls being very tall.   She was probably around a head taller than me or half a head taller than me and hitting very hard.   Hitting hard from both sides. 
    You know, I felt like she can play some very good tennis.   It was difficult for me out there, and I was happy to be able to run things down and finish the match.

Q.   I think I saw your dog earlier today.   What kind of dog is it?   How old is it?   What's its name?   How often does it travel?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Bruno.   He's a Pomeranian.   He is two kilos.   He's a little fluff ball and I love him.   He's the best.   He's always happy.   No matter if you've had a bad day or great day, he doesn't care.   He runs up to you and wants to lick your face, and it's like ‑‑he's funny, and he travels quite a bit, whenever I can take him. 
    I haven't had him for too long, but, yeah, I will bring him whenever I can.   It's great to have him around.

Q.   Djokovic said his dog Pierre has gotten healthy since he went nongluten.   Would consider the same for Bruno?
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   My dog is only having one life and I want him to enjoy it.   Whether that means he's going to become a little bit chubby, then that be it.   I'd rather have him a little bit chubby and be happy than too skinny and miserable. 
    Novak came up to me yesterday and said, Jelena and I got a new dog, another one.   They just bought one three days ago.   Maybe we'll have some play dates.   It's like our little kids, you know.   (Laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT