NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 23, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. HALEP/C. Wozniacki
  6‑2, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   She hits the ball awfully hard and deep, doesn't she?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   I mean, it's not even that she hits it that hard; she takes the ball really early.   She forced me to play some shots that I didn't want to play today.   
You know, I really tried to change my game up a little bit or tried to go for a little bit more.   Today just wasn't my day.   
I felt like she played really well.   She definitely did.   But, you know, I felt like I made a few more unforced errors than I usually do.   Obviously that's also, you know, I have to say because of her game and her level of play today.   
   
 Q.   First match you've lost here when you've played a full match.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it sucks (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the run, what it was like for you.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, you know, it's a very like empty feeling in a way because I've been so used to winning here and I love winning.   It's been so much fun.   Then, you know, today I didn't win.   
I tried.   I tried everything.   You know, it didn't go my way.   So obviously it's a bit disappointing.   At the same time, you know, I've had a great run here for so many years now.   As we say, six years.   Time's flying.   
You know, I'm just so happy that I'm back and healthy and I've been healthy for these six years and been competing and going far every time in the tournament.   
It's definitely a tournament I love to play and a tournament I love coming back to.   As I said on the first day, I hope the next four or five years we're still playing, I can maybe retire here on these courts together with Anne.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your confidence level going into the Open.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I feel like my game is really good.   Yesterday was a very, very positive match for me, a very positive sign for me.   
Today wasn't my best tennis.   But I feel like still I can take so much out of it.   I can take so much out of this tournament.   I feel like the last few tournaments I've been playing really well, so I'm positive going into the Open.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how you tried to change it up a little bit in the second set, what you did differently.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I tried to play a few high balls in there, maybe some dropshots, trying to change up the pace a little bit, go harder, you know, put more spin on it.   So tried little different things.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the miss‑hit.   Floated right to you for an overhand.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I don't know how I missed that by like a mile.   I was very surprised myself because actually it wasn't a very difficult shot.   Okay, it was high.   But, I mean, normally, 99 out of 100 times I would have made that, at least on the court.   I wouldn't always win it, but at least make it in the court.   
It was a pretty crucial point as well, so pretty disappointing there.   
   
 Q.   She's playing pretty well right now, isn't she?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   Her confidence is high, she's playing well.   You know, she's had a good definitely second half of the year.   It's been very good for her.   
   
 Q.   Is that what it's about for her?   She said she switched coaches this spring.   The confidence comes.   How do those things switch for a player like that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, the thing is, it can switch so quickly.   It can be one match that changes completely.   All of a sudden you feel like you're playing great, you're on a roll.   
Yeah, it's so little, and it can do so much to your game.   
   
 Q.   Did you see any differences in her game from when you played her the last time?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Last time I played her was a while ago, so I don't really remember that match too well, to be honest.   
But obviously there must have been a difference because I lost.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT