WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. CETKOVSKA/C. Wozniacki
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How much of an effect did the fall have on your performance today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Quite a bit.   You know, obviously she played very smart.   She played very well.   
But, you know, when you can't play on 100%, it's difficult.   
   
 Q.   How will you summarize your game today?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I wouldn't really write it down.   There's not much to say.   
Right now the thing I'm most concerned about is to get fit to fight again so I can compete on a high level.   So that's what I'm most concerned about right now.   
   
 Q.   You did not like you were moving very well.   Was there any problem with your movement?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, a little bit.   
   
 Q.   A very frustrating 2013 for you thus far.   Can you put your finger on what's exactly going wrong with your game?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Right now it's not my game that is the problem.   
   
 Q.   How was your ankle?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   My ankle, it's not really my ankle.   I slipped like in front, so it's more like where the Achilles is, the tendon closer there.   
So, you know, just seeing a few doctors, physios, osteopaths, everything that I can really.   
It's frustrating because you feel like you have some momentum, feel like I'm hitting the ball well, I can play well on the grass.   There's not really much you can do about those things, you know.  
   
 Q.   Maria just went over, and the BBC have put out that she said the court was dangerous under her breath.   Would you go that far?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think ‑‑ I don't know.   I mean, I don't know if I was unlucky, if I ran too far on the side, on the baseline.   I definitely slipped straight on, which I wasn't expecting.   
Normally on the grass you can expect to slide on the sides with your foot, but not really when you have a full grip underneath with your shoes, you know, you should be able to stand comfortably.   
   
 Q.   Is it coincidence that Victoria, yourself, and Maria...   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I think we're all fighters and we want to give it our all when we're out there.   I don't know if it's coincidence or if the court is a little bit more slippery or what exactly it is.   I don't know.   
I just know that it's just not really fun to be out there when you feel like you can't really push off on your foot.  
   
 Q.   Do you find the courts different from previous years?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I find them a little bit different.   I find them a little bit slower, first of all.   I don't know if the grass is a little longer, what it is.   But, yeah, I think they're more similar to the Olympics last year than they were to Wimbledon last year.   
   
 Q.   Did you already come onto court with a taped ankle?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, my right ankle's always taped for protection, just because I went over on it quite a few times.   Now I tape it up just because I want to.  
   
 Q.   Did the slip affect that ankle?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, that ankle is completely fine.  
   
 Q.   Would you and the top players speak to the All England Club and say that something needs to be done about this?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I think it's very difficult to say because, I mean, I played my first match.   Obviously, I slipped on the match point in my first match, too.   
But, you know, I don't know if it's the courts or if it's just us or if it's the gripping is different.   I'm not sure.   
You always know that grass is more slippery than other surfaces.   You're prepared for that.   But, you know, accidents happen sometimes on court.   It's part of sports.   You know, you can't really do much about it.   It's an intense sport, so...   
   
 Q.   There were points in the second set where there were balls that if you were feeling okay that you would easily run down.   So your leg or ankle never got to the point where you could have any kind of push to make the effort that you wanted to?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   She played some very smart tennis, I have to say.   She was serving well.   She knew what to do out there for me to struggle.   
Obviously, you know, I didn't feel 100% out there after I slipped.   I haven't seen the footage myself when I slipped, but I think you can see there that, you know, I overstretched the foot a bit.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe what the grass felt like under your shoes today versus previous experiences, and maybe any differences in different parts of the court?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I mean, once you slip and once you feel pain, you know, you're obviously more careful.   You know, you can't really run the same balls down.   So it's very difficult for me to say if it's different or not.   
But, you know, again, things happen.   You know, I've rolled my ankles on hard court, on clay.   So it's not like, you know‑‑ I don't think, you know, you can really point a finger on exactly what happened.   But things happen sometimes.   
   
 Q.   Would you say you had enough practice on grass before coming here or you need more practice on grass before coming here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I played semifinals last week, so I think that was fine.   
   
 Q.   You're okay with the grass?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yes.   I love playing on grass.   
   
 Q.   Important part of the season coming up for you next, the U.S. hard courts.   Are you looking to make any sort of changes?   I know you're trying out new racquets and stuff.   Anything else going on going into this next stretch?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Honestly right now what my main focus is, is to get my body back in shape, tip‑top feeling 100%.   That's when I can start focusing on exactly what I want to do on the court to be 100% ready, you know.   
But I think right now it's just important that I feel absolutely no pain once I step out on the court.   That's really what I'm looking for right at this point.   
   
 Q.   Do you expect it to be a long recovery, or do you expect to be back quickly?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I hope I'll be back quickly.   That's my goal, obviously.   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT