AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/A. Van Uytvanck   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The scoreline seems a little deceptive as kind of the test that Alison presented tonight.  Talk through the match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it was a good match in general.  I was surprised of the consistency that she had.  I think she played extremely well.  I think I played her in Rome, where I felt like the rallies weren't as long.  It was either a winner or mistake.   
But I feel like today we had a lot of good, long rallies.  I felt like I played well.  I served well.  She served well.  She really stepped it up with her serves I feel like in the second set.  I was just happy I got the win.  It was not an easy one.   
 Q.  Did you feel as though that sort of match, being able to come up with answers, how much of an impact is that on your confidence given what happened in Auckland?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I don't really think Auckland really took a hit for me.  It was kind of just getting into the year, getting into the tournament mode.  I feel like I've been playing really well this week leading up to in practice.  I was really happy that I could step it up today and start off well.  I think I played pretty aggressively from the start.   
 Q.  How did you find the court speed in competition compared to practicing out there?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's similar to last year.  I think it's very similar.  I think as the tournament is going to progress, I think it's going to get a little faster.  The stadium court is always a little slower than the outside courts.  The outside courts I think are much faster.   
I like it.  I obviously did well last year.  I have nothing to complain about.   
 Q.  When you're looking for players to practice with, what do you look for?  Are there players, specific players, that you just always are texting?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, Aga was a player I would always practice with.  I first of all look for players that are good people, so you always know you're going to get a good practice.  I'm looking for someone who always takes the practice seriously.   
Then other than that, depends on who I'm supposed to play.  If the draw is out, I'm going to play someone who has a similar style.  Otherwise I try to mix it up, so I play someone who has a big serve one day, great returns the next.  Kind of mixing it up so I get a bit of everything.   
 Q.  How do you feel about meeting Johanna Larsson in the next game?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I haven't played her in a very long time.  I don't know that we've played on tour before.  I'm not sure.  If we have, it's been a long time.   
I obviously know her for years and years.  I'm excited for another match out there.  Hopefully it's going to be a good one.   
 Q.  Alison dropshotted you a lot.  You clearly by the end were making her pay for it.  What was that like for you to just know you have that?  She said you lost no speed through what you've been through the last few months.  Just to know you had that court coverage and energy.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I know I'm fast.  She surprised me in the beginning with a couple of dropshots, especially when she was standing behind the baseline and I wasn't expecting it.  Then I was more alert on it.  I was happy with even a couple of them.  I was like, Oh, wow, these are really close to the net.  I don't know that I can even think when I'm running.  I actually can.  I'm like, Wow, I actually got to them, hit it well.  I kind of complimented myself on a couple of them.   
A lot of things are going through my head I guess when I play (smiling).   
 Q.  Are you still doing a lot of running?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I am.  Not as much as I used to.  But, yeah, running is one of my favorite cardios.  I feel like I get a good sweat, I get a full body kind of exhaust from that.   
 Q.  Does your mind ever wander to something completely inappropriately random in the middle of a match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Oh, 100%.  A lot in the breaks.  I think David used to be like, What are you doing?  You should be focusing.   
I'm like, No, you know, sometimes you need to kind of unwind a little bit in the break so you can really focus when you're out there.   
Yeah, I remember there was one lady at the US Open, she was going up the stairs.  She had this really nice Birkin bag that was, like, orange.  I'm like, Oh, that's really cool.  I kind of like that color, it's different.   
I notice stuff sometimes (smiling).   
 Q.  Did you end up tracking it down?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  But if you ask David, I'm sure he has a few things, random things that I've said after the match, that have nothing to do with my game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT