AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/L. Robson
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How much of a different game was it today compared to your meeting at the French?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, it's obviously a much different game because it's on grass.   It's a faster surface.   Laura has a very powerful game.   She has a good serve.
For me it was just important to serve well myself and try to get as many returns in deep as possible and try to move her.   You know, it was ‑‑I thought it was a very good game.   I'm happy to be here as the winner of it.

Q.   Obviously you have been sort of that teenager coming up and you know how hard it is.   Where do you think her game is right now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I think she's playing very well.   You know, I think she proved that today, as well. 
She has a powerful game.   She's left‑handed, which also I think is an advantage because, you know, the ball goes a little bit of different spin, has a different spin.
You know, it's very difficult for me to say, you know, how is her game compared to mine at the same time, you know. 
She's definitely improving all the time, and she's beaten top players before.   I'm very sure we are going to see much more of her in the future.

Q.   Looking forward to next week, do you see Laura as more of a challenge on grass?   She played better against you today than she did last month? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, grass is definitely a different surface and it's faster, so I think it suits her game more.

Q.   Would you say it was comfortable for you today in terms of the victory?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't think it was very comfortable.   When it's comfortable it's like lying on the couch and just seeing the games go past.
You know, I really had to fight out there, and, you know, I really had to keep focus on my own service games.
I got that one break in the first set, which was great.   You know, the second set I broke her early.   She broke me back straightaway.   It was really important for me to keep my focus, and, you know, and we had some quite tight games.   Then, you know, it turned out to be in my favor.

Q.   Just a case of winning those games at the right time obviously, because it was 4‑All in both sets and then you went and broke? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, exactly.   That was very important.

Q.   Do you find it difficult to find against home crowds?   Obviously there was a lot of support for Laura?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:     Yeah, she obviously had a lot of support.   But for me I also felt like the crowd was supporting me a little bit.   It's nice to have played here so many years, so I think, you know, people maybe have a little bit of a soft spot as well for me.
It was just a nice atmosphere out there, because it was, you know, a packed crowd.   That's what I enjoy doing. 

Q.   You face Katarina Makarova tomorrow.   How do you approach that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I have played her many ‑‑I don't know how many times.   I think I played her on grass.   I think I played her here a few years back.
She really likes the grass.   I think that's her favorite surface, as well.   She plays flat, takes the ball early.   A lefty, again.   So we'll just have to wait and see.

Q.   And also it's the WTA's 40th anniversary this year.   What are your whole thoughts on the celebration?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it's great.   You know, 40 years of the WTA is amazing, you know, to have Billie Jean King and that generation, you know, risking their careers to, you know, starting this, what do you call it, tour, organization, you know, and because of them we're able to live our dream, you know. 
I think that's amazing, and it's something we are very thankful for.

Q.   That's something that's echoed throughout the locker room, is it? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT