AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/T. Paszek
  6‑2, 2‑2 [Ret.] 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Potentially a difficult match for you, but it worked out in the end?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   You know, everyone here is one of the top women in the world.   It's such a tough draw.   But Paszek, I lost to her last year at Wimbledon after having match points.   I knew it wasn't going to be easy.   
You know, I think I played a really good first set.   I felt really good and comfortable out there.   You know, it was unfortunate that she got an injury and had to retire in the second one.  
   
 Q.   How is your confidence at the moment?   It's fair to say you haven't had the best run of results recently?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, but I'm feeling great.   I love the grass.   It's so much fun to play on.   The clay season is over, which I'm happy about.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   How long have you been able to practice on the court, and how are you feeling on it right now?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Actually, we were supposed to come on Tuesday before the tournament, but the French were striking in the airport, so I got here on Friday morning and then got a few days of practice.   
It was actually enough.   I felt really comfortable out there today.  
   
 Q.   Is it just a matter of doing like drills, whether it's movement or things like that, or have you been able to play out sets or points?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, playing ‑‑first it's just about getting the rhythm because it's much different to play on, but then it's just getting the movement, getting some points in, and, you know, really feel how it is.  
   
 Q.   What went wrong during the clay season?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Um, you know, obviously a few things, but, you know, some of it was tactical.   Some of it was just not making the right decisions on the clay.   Sometimes you expect a different ball, especially when you play on hard court or grass, and you just don't get that ball on clay.   So, you know, I think that just was probably the main problem for me.   
   
 Q.   Your father was talking about how there might be some changes within your immediate team with coaching or physio, I don't know, but has there been any more talk or movement on that front since the French?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Not right now, no.   You know, I'm feeling comfortable with the team I have around me at the moment, and we will just have to see what really happens.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Rory is here.   Is he jet lagged?   Did he manage to stay awake for the match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   He always stays awake for the match.   But he actually just went back to the hotel for a little nap.   I think arriving at 6:00 in the morning or getting to the airport at 6:00, it's taking its toll.   So better he gets like a two‑and‑a‑half‑hour nap now, and then he can stay awake until evening.  
   
 Q.   Have you told him off for bending his club?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I...   Next question?   (Laughter.)   
   
 Q.   It looked like today you were playing with maybe a different racquet.   Are you trying out different equipment or are my eyes bad?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm just tinkering a little bit with my racquet.   I'm still under contract with Yonex, so we're just trying to figure out, you know, a racquet that can help me a little bit more with my game.  
   
 Q.   What are you looking for, like control or power?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm looking for a little bit more ‑‑a little bit more power but at the same time a little bit more control at the same time so that, you know, maybe get a bit more spin on the ball so when you put the power in that the ball spins.  
   
 Q.   Is that as a result of the last few months?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, like we have always been tinkering a little bit with it, but I just felt like that, yeah, now I just feel like I needed a little bit more power and the racquet a little bit more will help.  
   
 Q.   Have you been using the same strings for the last couple years?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I have used the same strings for like five years, I think.  
   
 Q.   And what are they?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I always just call it red string and natural gut.   I'm actually not sure what else it's called.  
   
 Q.   I think you could play Laura in the next round?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Okay, yeah, that's true.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you just played her in France.   How would you see that matchup on grass?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously it's a different match, you know.   I'm sure she likes the grass better than the clay.   
She can serve very well, and she's going for it from the first ball.   So definitely, you know, it would be a different matchup.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT