BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/C. Wozniacki
  6‑2, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   A lot of long rallies there.   She was, you know, hitting hard the whole time.   It seemed like you just couldn't turn the points in your favor for the most part.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, if you look at the match time, you know, it was an hour and twenty or hour and a half, I'm not sure.  
It wasn't like it was 1, 2.   Of course she was putting pressure on me from the start.   She was serving very well.   You know, I felt like everything that she wanted to do today was going in.   I mean, she was making very few errors, and if she did, then it was really at the times where it didn't really matter.  
You know, I have to say she just played too well today.   You know, I tried.   I tried to do my best out there, but, yeah, it just wasn't good enough today.  
   
 Q.   How much pressure is there on you to change your game when you're facing someone who is doing everything perfectly and playing at that level?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, obviously, you know, you need to just see how things go.   But like, you know, it doesn't happen thankfully very often that you play someone where everything just goes in, where you just feel like, Okay, you need to really put pressure on her; you need to put a lot of first serves in; you need to try to take the returns early and try to step in a little bit.  
But today I found it a little bit difficult, you know, because her first, second serve were pretty much the same speed.   It was hard.   And, you know, she stepped into the returns.  
And even, you know, when I felt like she was out there running, you know, she still came down with some shots that were going very close to the lines.   You know, she forced me to do a few errors that I usually wouldn't do.  
   
 Q.   Basically sounds like it was just too good from her today.   You sort of accepted that, I guess.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, there's nothing else you can do.   I didn't feel like I was playing poorly.   I felt like I was playing pretty good tennis out there.   
You know, sometimes you're gonna make some mistakes that you're maybe not used to because you know that she's gonna put the pressure on you.  
Plus she came up with some great shots at times when she wasn't ‑‑like when she was running or in trouble there.  
So, you know, I just have to say too good today, and hopefully, you know, next time I can get my revenge to her.  
   
 Q.   So how much better would you say you feel about your game coming out of this week as a tournament going into it, first big final in a couple years for you.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I'm feeling very good.   I felt very good all year about my game.  
It's great.   You know, I have to be happy with the finals here.   It's a very big tournament.   You know, it's been good two weeks for me.   I have been playing some really good tennis.   I have been fighting.   
I have been, you know, having to think a lot, you know, and play some chess out there.   I have been having to play aggressive, play defense, everything, you know, what I had.  
And I'm pleased with that.  
   
 Q.   With how well she was playing today there was just no option for chess out there, I guess.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   There wasn't time for chess.   (Laughter.)  
Q.How are you at chess?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm terrible at real chess.   (Smiling.)   But if I put tennis as a chess game, then I think I'm usually pretty good what usually expecting what I can expect from an opponent when I play different shots.  
   
 Q.   If I can ask you another question about Maria, she's had some great wins, but also some problems against Li Na, Serena, and Azarenka.   Can you talk about what she might be able to do to deal with those very elite players in her already great game?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't think that's a question for me.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   The last time you beat her was pretty much by running her side to side.   Today were you surprised when she was on the run that she was actually able to get the balls back, like you said, pretty deep and near the lines, all that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I just think it was one of those days where she was going for it.   She knew she had to go for it.   She couldn't just stand there and just wait around.   
First of all, that's not her game.  
Second of all, she knew that against me she needs to be very aggressive and take her opportunities.   And, you know, she took every opportunity she had out there.  
You know, just sometimes‑‑ you know, I've won a final 6‑Love 6‑1.   Just sometimes everything goes in and everything is going your way.   Sometimes, you know, you're struggling.   You know, it really depends.   
That's why tennis is such a difficult sport and why it's difficult to win tournaments, because you need to win so many consecutive matches in a row and play on a high level every time, or at least play better than your opponent.   It's not easy.   
And today on the run she was playing great; when she was standing still she was playing great.   There was not much that she did wrong out there.   I wouldn't say she did anything wrong.  
   
 Q.   What will you consider a successful year for yourself?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, so far I'm pretty happy with my year, you know.   I don't really have a target and say, Okay, if this happens I'm very happy.   You know, I just take it tournament by tournament, day by day.  
You know, in the end of the year I can see what I think I have done good and what I have done not so good.   Hopefully most of it is good.  
I think as long as I'm healthy, as long as I'm playing on a high level that I have shown this week as well these two weeks, I think I have a bright year in front of me.  
But, you know, it's a long year.   It's not a sprint.   It's a marathon.   You know, there's a lot of matches to be played and a lot of tennis.  
You know, hopefully the most important thing, like Maria said on court, the body, if that's healthy, then we are very fortunate to be in this position.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to take a day off and rest or get back to the practice court and grind?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I think I'm going to take a day off.   I think I deserve that and need it because there is another big tournament coming up.  
I have a photo shoot as well to do tomorrow.   Get that out of the way and then just enjoy and relax for a day and then go back and practice on Tuesday.  
   
 Q.   Photo shoot in Miami tomorrow?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Have you been watching Nadal here at all?   What have you thought?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Actually, I have only watched a little bit.   You know, obviously he's a great champion.   He's won so many Grand Slams and won so many tournaments.   He's a fighter.   It's good to see him back after his injury.  
I think it's normal that, you know, you get better and better, you know, when you get more matches.   You know, I'm impressed by the way he's playing and moving and grinding it out out there.  
You know, he's playing a finals here again in Indian Wells, so, you know, I think it's a great start for him.  
   
 Q.   Which of your brands are you shooting for in Miami?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Adidas.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT