BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Kerber
  2‑6, 6‑4, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about third final in four years here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   That's great.   I really enjoy this tournament.   I think it shows.   I have done great results here in the past, and this is another very good one.   
So, you know, one more match to go.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any sense that this could happen coming into this week?   I know before you had lost early in Malaysia.   You have been playing pretty well here.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Malaysia was a little bit of a different story.   That's a long story.   It's past.   Now I just felt like I have been in a great, great shape all year.   
And, you know, Malaysia, there is nothing to take out of that.   I think it shows this week.   
I went into this week believing I could beat everybody.   So, you know, I always believe that.   My shape this year has also proven I'm playing some good tennis.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like you kind of got off to a slow start.   First set seemed like it took a while to get into your game, and then when your dad talked to you it seemed to change a little bit.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, you know, I had a game plan when I went into that match, and, you know, I felt like I was doing the right things.   I was missing by just a little bit.   
You know, even if I played some great shots, then, you know, she came back and just made a contre and really played really well, so I just kept my head cool and just tried to hang in there.  
   
 Q.   When your coach came down to talk to you that seemed to help you a little.   Seemed like you were able to turn things around.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, he kept encouraging me and saying I was doing the right things.   Yeah, just, told me a few key pointers.  
   
 Q.   Anything you can share with us?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I mean, just stay close to the baseline; mix it up a little bit, you know; also play it high to her backhand sometimes and, you know, wait for the right time to go and attack.  
   
 Q.   With those high balls you seem to have a lot of success.   Was that something that wasn't in your game plan going into the match maybe that you two figured out would work midway through?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, I just took it as it came.   I was trying to figure out a way to win.   And it doesn't really matter how, you know.   It's just important to win the points basically.   
I felt like I got some nice points out of it, and I felt like I could go from defense to offense that way, as well.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like sort of long points.   That's what we're used to seeing you play, long, running‑everywhere sort of points.   Did you feel like sort of like, I don't know, your old self out there a little more?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I feel like I have been running and grinding and playing really well this week.   I have reached a lot of balls and felt comfortable.   Definitely it's a good week and a great week so far.  
   
 Q.   It was like the seventh game, a long game, like nine or ten deuces on that.   Do you feel that game is when you started to change the momentum of the match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, that game was definitely very important.   You know, I think it was good that it was Hawk‑Eye because I think I would have lost the game otherwise because there was a ball down the line that was called out.   
But, you know, I felt it was in.   You know, once it came off my racquet I knew the ball was in.   It was nice that I could challenge and come back to deuce.   
And we had some really good points in that game, and that was definitely very important in the match.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you are a better player than two years ago when you won here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I think so.   You know, I think everybody's always improving and they're always getting better.   If you just stay in the same level everyone else is going to improve and the only way is down.  
So you always need to improve.   And obviously I believe that I am a better player now than I was before, and definitely more experienced, as well.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you do better?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I think everything a bit better, you know.   
I think everybody, from two years ago at the top of the women's game, everybody does something a little bit better than they did a couple of years ago because the level of the women's tennis is always raising and there's always new standards and new heights for the game.   You always need to improve things to be able to keep up.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this tournament that kind of suits you so well?   Is it the court surface?   The ambience of being comfortable and having family around?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it's everything.   I think the court suits me very well.   I like that it goes fast through the air but it's a pretty slow court.  
So I feel like I get out of the ball what I want; but at the same time, I feel like I get to a lot of balls.   To have that mix is good.   I really enjoy just the whole, yeah, the whole feeling of being here.   
You know, the crowd is amazing.   Weather is nice.   It's very chill.   Staying in a house.   Just all that I think definitely brings into it.  
   
 Q.   Is it a weird transition to go from a tournament like this to Miami?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   See, I think it's great.   I think it's great, because after you have been here for a couple of weeks, you know, you're ready to, like, more life.   
But if you have too much of it you get tired.   So, you know, it's great to go from a little bit slower pace to a fast pace.   
I think it's nice to have that change.  
   
 Q.   Was it ever weird like initially when you were first on the tour and doing kind of the Indian Wells/Miami double to get used to that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Actually, I always loved it.   This is probably one of my favorite parts of the year, so I have always really enjoyed it and really been so excited to go there.  
   
 Q.   You had some rallies that lasted like almost two minutes today.   How much of winning these points and keeping up with high balls and getting more balls back is about patience and a battle of wills on that front?   When you're in the middle of one of those points what are you thinking?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Actually, not so much.   You just keep thinking.   You try to play a game of chess up there.   You know, you know if you play it here, you can expect it here.   Wait, is it short?   Okay, go in attack.   Is it long?   You need to try to play deep because, you know, you don't want her to attack.  
It's a game of chess.   It's a game of finding out where is the toughest for the opponent to get to the ball.  
   
 Q.   Chris Evert tweeted saying something about she liked how much you were coming forward today.   Is that something you're focusing more on, trying to take advantage of short balls?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I really enjoy going to the net.   I missed a few volleys today, but it's definitely something I have been working on and something I feel more and more comfortable with.   
It's definitely a part of the game that I think has improved, as well.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your potential final opponent?   I know you had a very decisive win over Sharapova here a couple years ago, and then...   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, both great competitors; both fighting for every point.   Sharapova playing very aggressively and trying to take every ball on the rise and plays very flat.  
Kirilenko plays with a bit more spin; comes to the net a bit more; mixes it up.   She runs well, as well.   So it's a little bit of a different opponent, really.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT