BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I presume it's not quite the way you'd like to get through. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I mean, obviously I would like to play and get through that way.   But, you know, it's like it is.   You know, I have a semifinal tomorrow to focus on now.

Q.   How did you learn that Vika was not going to play?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   How?   Well, after my warmup I was just ordering some food, and then, yeah, I was just told that she was going to pull out.

Q.   Had you heard that she was possibly going to pull out, or was it a surprise?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I didn't know.   I just, you know, prepared like I always did, and, you know, I was going to do, so I hadn't heard anything.

Q.   Will you do some more today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I'm done for the day.   I hit this afternoon or morning, whatever you want to call it, and then I just did some stretching and just did, yeah, a good flush for my body, so I'm ready for tomorrow.

Q.   What will you do the rest of the day?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I will have some good food, rest up, probably read some more of the book I'm reading at the moment.   I'll come back here at 7:00 I think to just watch a little bit of the guys play.   Yeah, and then just chill, really.   Not much. 
It's really hot out there, so, you know, I don't think I want to spend too much time outside.

Q.   Angelique, how do you see the match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, obviously she's a very good player and she likes to play here.   You know, last year she did very well here, as well. 
You know, it's not going to be an easy match, but I'm looking forward to it.   It's going to be a good match, I think.

Q.   It's going to be very hot.   Who do you think it's going to favor?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't think it will be that hot because we will play in the evening, so I think it will have cooled down by then.

Q.   Sort of a strange situation.   You sometimes have one player getting a walkover and has that extra time, but it's both players on this occasion.   It shouldn't necessarily be favoring one or the other. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I don't think it does.   You know, we have had equal amount of matches, and, you know, both not playing today.   Both had gotten ready for our match and but didn't play. 
Tomorrow I think we are equal out there.

Q.   What is your prediction for tonight's match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   My next match?   Oh, tonight's match.   Difficult to say, you know.   They both played 7‑5 in the third yesterday; they both had really tough matches.   Depends who's feeling better today, I think. 
All in all, I think if I had to bet all my money on somebody, I think probably Roger just because it's on hard court.   I think Rafa is obviously an unbelievable player, but I think he just still needs a few matches to get to exactly where he wants to be. 
I think he's shown great fight and I think he's shown some good tennis, but I think for him to feel like he's 100% where he wants to be, I think he still needs a few matches.

Q.   What is it like to prepare for a match and then have the opponent withdraw?   Is it a little exciting because you don't have to take the court, or is it frustrating because you prepared and didn't get to play?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I always prepare, and I prepare well every time.   And, you know, I'm ready for the match.   If the match doesn't happen then, you know, I just do what I have to do to get my body ready for the next match.   I don't really ‑‑I don't get frustrated.   I don't get excited.   I don't get‑‑ you know, it's just ‑‑it's how it is. 
I just have my own engine going, and I need to make sure that I'm all good for the next match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT