BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/E. Vesnina
  6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the way you're playing so far?   That looked pretty good out there today.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, you know, it just took me a couple of games to get into the match, I felt.   I felt the court was slower than the outside courts maybe.  
So I felt like I mistimed it a little bit in the beginning.   I felt like I hit the ball, but then it stopped on me and I was reaching for it.  
But then once I got into it, I felt like I played some good tennis.   I felt like I was really comfortable out there.   I was moving very well.   In general a good match, I think.  
   
 Q.   Is it a guessing game?   When it's hot, ball flies a bit quicker, or...   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, in general the balls flies on you, but the court is quite slow so you need to get used to that.  
But I like that combination.   I have played well here before, and it's a combination that I definitely enjoy playing at.  
   
 Q.   Is there any other place where it's that widely different with the conditions?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   There is a few places like that.   There is, for sure.   You know, everywhere it's different.   
For me, I enjoy it because I feel like, you know, the ball goes off my racquet and I feel like, you know, I can put a pace on it.   
But at the same time, I feel like when I play the really hard‑hitting players, I feel like I still can get to the ball in plenty of time.  
   
 Q.   You were playing obviously very well today.   Do you feel like you're starting to get more good feelings on the matches than maybe last year so far?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I feel like I'm playing well.   You know, I feel like I have had some good matches this year already.   I feel like I have had some good tournaments.  
Hopefully a good year ahead.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the pros and cons of having a parent as a coach and whether anything is different this time around since you tried out some other coaches and brought your dad back?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think it's great.   I like to have my family around.   My mom is here as well this week.   For me, I think that's the most important thing.   
I love to play tennis.   I think I'm very fortunate to be able to live from a hobby that it started off as.   And to have my family go through all of this together with me, it's a great thing.  
My dad knows me better than anyone.   So I have him there, and who has been there from the start.   It's just very comfortable.   It's just very comfortable for me.  
I think the most important thing for me is that I feel very relaxed off the court, and then I can play better on the court.  
   
 Q.   Does it affect your relationship at all?   Any difference now than when he's not coaching you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   There's no difference, you know.   I feel he's my dad off the court and he's my coach on the court, and it doesn't do anything bad for the relationship that we have.  
   
 Q.   Your brother hasn't been traveling you with much.   What's he up to these days?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   He's in Denmark at the moment.   He's there with his girlfriend working a little bit here and there.   
He will probably ‑‑I'll probably see him after I'm done here in the U.S.  
And, yeah, I mean, he's enjoying life.   He's having a good time.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel different without him around?   He used to travel a lot with you.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   He used to travel a lot ‑ quite a bit last year ‑ but before that he never really traveled that much.  
So he always had his own thing going.   I think that's good for him, not just to travel around.   I think he enjoyed it for a long period, but now I think he just wants to do his own thing.  
   
 Q.   Is he the one who scouts football, Caroline?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, he's going to do the FIFA license now.   I don't know when the exam is because there is one every half a year, and apparently it's very tough to pass it.   But that's what he's going to do now.   
Hopefully, you know, he'll have that FIFA agent license so that he can do it, you know, as a full‑time job.  
   
 Q.   It's an issue that tends to be more identified with men than the women about the time between points.   There has been some discussion about maybe putting a shot clock, you know, a clock on the court.   Would you object to that?   What's your view on it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I think the women don't really have those problems.   So as long as we don't have those problems, then I don't feel like it's necessary.   I think it would probably stress the players more than it would do good.   
But, I mean, if there would be a lot of players dragging out time then it would be necessary.   Then I think the clock would be a necessity as well.  
Because, you know, as the guys have it now in the tournaments, they have no idea how long a time they have had in between points.   You know, that's kind of a stress, you know, stress factor in there as well because you don't know, Do I have 10 seconds?   Is it 15?   20?   Then they get ready for the serve.  
I don't think that's a great thing.   Definitely if they choose to do it, then the clock is definitely something that is very necessary.  
   
 Q.   Do you have a theory as to why the women tend to play quicker?   You have long rallies as well, don't you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I think sometimes we have longer rallies because we don't have as much power on the serves.   I think the guys got a lot of more free points on the serve than the women does.   So I think we have more long rallies than the guys.  
But I don't know.   I think it's just all a routine, you know.   You go in and you have your own routine.   Some people have to do certain things before the serves.   I don't know.   I can't really answer that question.  
   
 Q.   You obviously have had success on all surfaces, but is there one that's most physically demanding for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think hard courts is very physically demanding because it's tough for everything, the knees, the feet, everything.   But at the same time, it's the surface I enjoy playing most at.  
I think they have been very good these days to put cushion on the court, as well.   So that helps for us who has been out there for a long time now to still be going strong.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's softer than it used to be, the courts?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think so.   Of course there are still some tournaments where you can feel‑‑ you go out there and it's tough.   You know, you feel ‑‑again, the shoes are getting better, as well.   They absorb the shock of landing and going.   
So, you know, all in all, I think they're trying to really help that for the players.   
   
 Q.   Is Rory going to be joining you this week?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Not this week.   He has quite a few things going on himself this week.   He had a charity event today.   The Els for Autism, so he was playing 18 holes today there.   Tomorrow he has a photo shoot or something.   I will just see him in Miami when I get there.  
   
 Q.   I think you have been here seven years.   Starting to feel very familiar?   Do you feel now like a veteran on the tour?   Which tournament is going to feel more familiar?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I definitely start feeling more like one of the experienced players, more as a veteran, even though, you know, I'm still only 22.  
But, you know, when you've been somewhere seven times already, it just puts things in perspective.   I have been on tour for so long, I have played so many matches, and it's great.   It's great that, you know, I have been able to go strong for so long.   
   
 Q.   Anything special you're working on with your dad now that your dad is back coaching for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, he never really left.   I'm just happy to have that familiar feeling there.   And we just are working on a lot of things.   Everything can always get better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT