DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 21, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/M. Bartoli
  4‑6, 6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:     Questions?

Q.   How did you turn that around after losing that first set?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It was disappointing to lose that first set after I had been up, and I really felt like I should have won that.   But then to turn it around and really play good and play aggressively‑‑ and I felt like she couldn't really do much in that second set because I was all over it. 
And in the third set, down 2‑Love, could have been 3‑Love and all of a sudden it's not looking too good, but I just kept fighting and every game was close but I ended up winning it.

Q.   What was the code violation for coaching?   You seemed a bit mystified by it.   What's your take on that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm not sure if it's coaching if I talk to the coach, but apparently that's new rules, so I guess that I can't say anything either nowadays.

Q.   So your dad didn't say anything to you or... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I was telling him things, and all of a sudden I hear I get a code violation.   I'm like, Okay. 
There's not much you can do about it, but, you know, even if he speaks English, she's like, Oh, you can't say anything.   Everyone else can say, Come on, and, Well played, just like that, but... 
Yeah.   That's how it is, I guess.

Q.   Does it make it difficult not to communicate when your coach is right next to you on the court rather than up in the box somewhere?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   To be honest, I don't really think about it.   I just ‑‑I think you're just in the moment, and, yeah. 

Q.   Did your dad nod or acknowledge what you were saying at any state in that exchange?   Did he... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Nope.   Usually when I talk to him, he usually attempts to just ignore it.   (Laughter.)
Q. Were you telling him how to coach? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   (Laughter.)   I was telling him what I was doing wrong.   There's not much he can say because he knows that if he says yes, then he's in trouble, and if he says no, he's in trouble too. 
It's one of these points where it's better just not to say anything.   I just say, Come on.   Let's go.

Q.   Your first two matches obviously, they weren't as strenuous as tonight.   Do you welcome a tough test, considering you're in the semis now and it's going to get harder from here whether you face Kvitova or Radwanska,   that you need to be tested perhaps before you get there?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I think everyone in this tournament is really high level and it's high standard of tennis.   You know, you have to really be ready from the first match.   I mean, Safarova, last time I played her before here I lost 7‑6 in the third. 
You know, I don't know what the cut was here, but I think it was like 30 or something like that.   So it's a crazy cut and you just have to go with the flow, basically. 

Q.   How would you rate your game right now compared to the days you were No. 1?   Do you feel you're coming back up there?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I always get asked questions to compare.   I don't remember.   I have a very bad memory.   I don't remember how I was playing.   But at the moment I'm winning, so I guess that's good enough. 

Q.   Do you feel it was a high quality match? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I thought it was a very high quality match.   Usually girls have a first serve and a second serve, but Marion doesn't have a second serve.   She has two first serves.   It's difficult to go in and attack from that.   Both serves are at least 150 or 160Ks.
So you just need to be on your toes.   She steps in, she's in the court on your serves, as well.   You feel the pressure.   But you just need to be ready and you know it's coming fast at you.

Q.   She's been in here for quite a long time and she was stressing her determination really to get much, much, much fitter.   If she was much, much, much fitter, how good a player could she really be?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I mean, it's so difficult to say.   You know, Marion has ‑‑with the body she has, she hits the ball, you know, extremely hard.   She runs well. 
You know, obviously she has a smaller reach because she has two hands on both sides.   But, you know, Marion, I think when you look at her as a tennis player, she's extremely fit out there.   I think I work hard, and I work a lot of hours out there, but Marion, you know, she works at least, even at a tournament, three hours before she plays a match, you know.
If you're not fit, you can't do that.   I have to say Marion is ‑‑I have a lot of respect for her work ethic and the way she still is so determined.   I mean, she's been on the tour for so many years, and she still loves the game equally as much and is still as determined as she was 10 years ago.

Q.   Are there many players who hit the ball harder than her?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't think there's many players that hit it harder than her.   Kvitova is another girl that hits the ball very hard.   You know, Serena sometimes, but she plays with more spin so the ball bounces a bit higher.
Sharapova plays it pretty similar, very flat.   I'm not sure.   Hantuchova.   That's probably what you can compare to, because Serena and Azarenka play with a little bit more spin so the ball has a little bit different flight on it. 

Q.   You were talking earlier about how much you were enjoying your tennis now.   Is that partly down to the fact that perhaps you're under the radar at the moment, not being No. 1, not having questions about winning Grand Slams and stuff?   Is that part of it?   Do you look at Vika now and think, you know, from the outside, think, oh, thank God that's not me at the moment?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, not really.   As far as I know, Vika is not No. 1.   I think Serena is No. 1.   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT