QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/M. Barthel
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Well, before we get to the match, let's get to the important things:   Valentine's Day.   Did Rory have Valentine's Day under control?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   He certainly did, yeah.   I got a nice bouquet of roses, so that was nice.  
   
 Q.   Nothing else?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Maybe something else also, but ‑‑yeah, that's private.   
   
 Q.   Okay.   Did you send him something?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I did.   He hasn't received it yet, though.   But I think it should be there any minute.   
But like just a lot of chocolate, a huge basket of just chocolates.   
   
 Q.   We can't watch two matches at once, unfortunately, but can you tell us from your point of view how the match went and how pleased you were?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   I mean, it wasn't great tennis out there today.   The wind was a huge factor, and it seemed like the wind took more on this court than it did on center, because, you know, you have the fence behind, but once the ball gets over the fence when you throw the ball up for the serve, it goes anywhere.   I mean, it was very windy out there.   It was just about getting the ball in play.   
You know, there was no Hawk‑Eye out there, so there were quite a few very doubtful calls.  
   
 Q.   So what do you do?   Hit the ball down the middle of the court more and use more spin?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Just try to get it in and hope for the best.  
   
 Q.   I think you were 3‑5 down in the tiebreak, weren't you?   What happened and what did you do at that stage?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I was up 3‑Love, and then all of a sudden I was down 5‑3 and I ended up winning it.   
Yeah, it was just a few good returns from her, and then it was ‑‑yeah, I don't know.   It was just really about just playing for every point, getting as many balls in as possible, basically.  
   
 Q.   You got on top in the second set?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I did.   We had a couple of very long games on my serve, one in the first set and one in the second.   I managed to hold, and, you know, that made it a bit easier.   
The second set I was up 5‑1, had match point, and then I didn't take it.   Then all of a sudden 5‑3 and I was down 15‑40.   Could have gone either way, I guess, in the end.   
   
 Q.   Getting to the quarterfinals, do you start to feel some momentum is building when you do that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, the first two matches I thought I played some really good tennis.   I was feeling really good.  
Today it was a struggle, but I got through it.   Tomorrow hopefully, you know, I will play better again, and hopefully we can have a good match.  
   
 Q.   You played a good match tactically speaking, I think, because you played a lot of forehand return of serve.   Did you specifically prepare for playing the forehand return of serve on forehand?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   You know, you always try to play a tactic on the opponent that you're playing.   And, yeah, I definitely think she has some very strong shots.   It's going through the court, you know.   She's making a lot of unbelievable shots and then a couple of unforced errors, as well.   
But, you know, I just thought keeping it on that side was a better choice today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT