QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/S. Cirstea
  7‑6, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You saved about four set points in the tiebreak.   Do you feel that that kind of crushed her spirit or something?   Because then it went really easy after that.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it definitely helped me.   You know, I knew that I had to have a good start in the second set, and then once I had that, I could see that she maybe lost a little bit of the belief in it.  
I think I played a very good match today, as well, in the first, second set.   She also came up with some good shots.  
   
 Q.   In a match like this where you did come back like that, what do you take away?   Your game seems to be really on.   You're moving on the court well.   What are you liking about the way you're playing?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I like everything, actually.   I like the way I move.   I like the way I feel on the court, the way I make the decisions on the court where to play it.  
Yeah, I think I'm serving, returning well.   And even in this wind, which is difficult, I still managed to hit some great shots.  
   
 Q.   It was tough in the first set partly because of the score pressure and also because of the wind.   What did you tell yourself to do to turn that around?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I think it was difficult for both of us with the wind.   She took advantage of the wind, as well, and, you know, served some good serves.  
She was ahead in the tiebreaker, had four set points, but I managed to turn it around and, you know, maybe just went for it.   I didn't have‑‑ in the end, I was like, Okay, I just have to go for it here, because otherwise she is and it hasn't worked out in the tiebreaker.  
So I went up and played some great points, and in the second set I came off really strongly and probably just ‑‑she probably crushed the last of her beliefs in that match.  
   
 Q.   You were able to relax more in the second set having got through that first one?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I actually felt pretty relaxed in both sets today.   I felt like I went out and played some good tennis.   She came out with some good tennis to come out and lead.   I was, Okay, I have to keep going.   If she plays this level all the way through, it's just too good.   I just waited for my chance.  
   
 Q.   You had two very good years obviously in 2010 and 2011.   2012 was not so good for you.   Can you say how you reviewed that year and what sort of plan that you made to look forward to this year?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I actually think I have had maybe four or five good years.   You know, finishing 12 in the world, finishing 4 in the world, finishing 1 two times and finishing 10, you know, I think there is a lot of players out there who would wish to be in my position.   
You know, obviously after being No. 1 for two years straight and then finishing 10, you know, maybe for some people that can be very disappointing, but for me, you know, I was just really proud of the way I finished off the year strongly with winning a couple of tournaments.   And, you know, to be honest, I just enjoy what I do and hopefully, you know, this year I can do well again.  
   
 Q.   You always have this positive attitude towards your game, which is great.   But you were in the point sometimes where you were winning so many titles back to back.   What do you think is the key difference in your game now compared to the time when you were winning so many titles?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't think there is anything to be negative about in my life at the moment, you know.   I'm playing tennis, I love what I do, I don't have the pressure of having to earn money this week, to be able to travel next week or‑‑ you know, I just play.  
You know, I work hard, I have ambitions.   And I want to be the best player in the world again, obviously, but, you know, I just take one week at a time.   And right now I feel like I'm feeling my game again the way it has been in the past.   I'm feeling like I'm getting there.   
I think the difference is just sometimes to believe or sometimes‑‑ you know, I have scrambled some matches, turned them around being down match points or set points like today and turned them around and won tournaments.   You know, last year I had a couple of tough losses where I had match points, especially in the beginning of the year here I lost 7‑6 in the third after having match points.   I lost after having match points a couple of more times.  
You know, those are the matches you need to take advantage of.  
   
 Q.   Your next is against Mona Barthel.   Can you just talk about her?   She's having a few good weeks.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, she started off the year well.   She won the tournament in Paris and obviously giving her some confidence.   She's a player that I've played before.   Also, last time I had a tough match against her in Madrid.   
She's a player that serves well.   She goes in and plays very flat, very deep.   So it's all about just making her move and not letting her dictate too much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT