QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 11, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/M. Jugic‑Salkic
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It looked like it went fairly easily out there.   How did it feel?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, you know, it's always, as I have said before, it's tough to play a first match and tough to play an opponent you haven't played before.
I just tried to focus on my own game and felt like I served well, returned well.   I was happy. 

Q.   More broadly, now you're top 10 and moving up.   How does that feel coming back here?   Qatar is a place obviously where you retained the No. 1 ranking in 2010 with the WTA Championship. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, I don't really look at the rankings.   I believe if I play well, the ranking will be there automatically.   The most important thing is that I feel right now that I'm hitting the ball well.   I can do what I want to do out there on court, and I have a purpose every time I step out there.   So that's a good feeling to have.

Q.   Who are you looking forward to playing against this tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   My next opponent.   I don't know who that is.   To be honest, I just take one match at a time.   I never look at the draw.   So just play whoever is on the other side of the net.

Q.   That was your first match in the Australian Open.   For you, was it encouraging or frustrating to be so close to beat Svetlana at that point?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Not really, because I lost the match.   So, you know...

Q.   I mean, your level of play was encouraging.   That's what I meant. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, the level of play I think was very good.   It was very high from both of us.
I think I had a tough draw at the Australian Open from the first match, so I was happy to show the fighter spirit from myself and be able to step it up and play well in important moments.   So, yeah, it was for sure. 

Q.   I see your dad's back courtside with you coaching.   I know this is something that came out I guess a couple weeks ago, but what was the thinking in going back to your dad, and how does it feel to have him back courtside?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, he already actually was back after the US Open.   You know, I felt like I needed the calmness, and it felt like I needed just people around me that have always been there.   That's the most important thing for me, you know, that I don't start, you know, feeling unsure. 
You know, I have done so many great results, and I have been where I wanted to be.   You know, the main thing is that I have always had the people around me that I trust and a good team around me and people who know me very well.
So, for me, that was a choice that I had to make again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT