AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2013
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. KUZNETSOVA/C. Wozniacki  
    6‑2, 2‑6, 7‑5  
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling after that game?   It seemed pretty taxing.   
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, you obviously don't feel great when you lose, so I think that's pretty obvious.   But, you know, it was a close game.   I had my chances and I didn't take them.   
    Yeah.   I could have won but I didn't.   And, yeah, next time.  
   
 Q.   What do you view as the difference in the match?  
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I had some ‑‑I had 30‑15 on her serve, or 15‑30, second serve and I didn't go for it.   I had some break points at I think it was 4‑3 for me.  
    I was standing on the side with the sun in my back, and, you know, I really‑‑ if I would have broken her there, I had my serve to close out the match.   It didn't happen.   Then turned on the other side with the sun in my eyes and it made it more difficult.   Then she got new balls.  
    Yeah, it was small things that made a difference.   I think maybe if I'd have gotten just one of the breakpoints ‑‑ obviously you can say if and if, but, you know, maybe just have gone a bit more for it at the time.  
   
 Q.   Were you upset by the ruling umpire with that serve?   Obviously you argued with him.   
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I don't think it was correct ruling because I had my racquet on it and the ball went ‑‑I mean, like this under the net, but the ball was called out.   So I don't think that it was the correct ruling.   
    Normally ‑‑I understand if I hit it with the frame and it goes to the side and the ball didn't have a chance to go over.   I would accept it and just move on.  
    But the point was that, you know, I had it on my racquet.   I had it on my strings.   The ball was called out.   Yeah.   That's it.   I don't think she should have won that point.  
   
 Q.   Did that affect you, have a big impact, or just...   
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I mean, you never know what could have happened.   She would have had first serve again.   She might have played well.   
    At the same time, I won the next point and we were at 40‑Allagain and I didn't take the game.   In the end of the day, it didn't make a difference.   It didn't affect me mentally.   I just kept going.  
   
 Q.   What about her lengthy breaks when she had a medical timeout?   How did that affect you?  
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Not really.   You know, I felt ready from the start. I knew that she was going to take probably a longer break after the second set just because she always changed her clothes and that takes a while.  
   
 Q.   Are you generally encouraged just by the tournament after the start of the year?  
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I'm encouraged about the way I played and the way I came out of some situations and the way I was playing the points.  
    Yeah, I am.   Obviously I would have loved to have won today, but it didn't happen.  
    There is still a long year in front of me.   There is still a few things I can work on and, you know, it can be better.  
    But at the same time, there are so many things I think I did well at this tournament, as well.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned a moment ago a few points here or there, how thin the margins are.   Do you think the average fan really understands how close the margins are in these matches?   It's a point or line here or a call there?  
    CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I think when they watch the match today I think they could have seen that it was very close and could have gone both ways.   
    To understand completely how it is you have to play tennis yourself and have been in those situations.   But, yeah.   I don't know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT