BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 31, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. PERVAK/C. Wozniacki
  2‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You seemed to be dictating in the first set.   What went wrong after that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   In the second set I didn't get as many first serves in and I started to serve more second serve.   Had a lot of long rallies and a lot of even games, and it just didn't go my way. 
Obviously it's tough to lose 7‑6 in the third.   It was a tough match.   Could have gone both ways.   Didn't go my way today. 

Q.   Do you feel unprepared in anyway?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I don't feel unprepared.   I had a good off‑season and I've been working very hard.   It's always tough to play your first match of the season.   It's hard to come back and to play on your best level in the first match is very tough. 
She had three matches going into this one and was more used to the courts and everything and already had some matches in her legs, so obviously that's maybe a bit of an advantage. 

Q.   Very strong last game in the first set.   What happened in the tiebreak? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I serve a good serve, she hits it off the frame, it comes short angled, and I hit a good shot back. 
But, you know, then she passes me.   All of a sudden it's 2‑Love when it could have been 1‑All. 
You know, I serve another good serve and again I have the opportunities and again I don't take advantage of it. 
So all of a sudden you're 3‑nil and it's tough to come back.   I did my best.   I fought to the end.   It just wasn't enough today.

Q.   There were signs in the third set that the pressure was starting to show.   Were you surprised how composed she managed to be in the tiebreak?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   She just went for it and it went in for her.   Hat's off to her.   Hopefully I can get some more matches in Sydney and be more prepared for Melbourne.

Q.   Obviously this time last year you were No. 1.   How tough has the year been for you over all?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Not very tough.   You know, still 10 in the world.   Just the most important thing is that you're healthy.   I had some struggling with the health the middle of the year last year.   Obviously that makes a difference. 
But as long as I'm healthy and I can fight and be competitive, that is the most important thing.
You play the sport you love to do, and obviously it's more fun when you're winning.   Right now in these situations it's not so much fun.   There is always the next week.   I guess that's the good part about tennis. 

Q.   You're a very experienced player, but do these sort of losses knock your confidence a little bit or do you get angry?   Frustrated? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously you're a competitor so you want to win and you're not happy about it when you lose.   No matter who you lose to or how lose.   Obviously if you play terrible you're more upset than if you played well. 
You know, there is nothing you can do.   I fought until the end.   Maybe didn't play my best tennis today, but it's tough to expect that from yourself in your first match back. 
Yeah, as I said, hopefully I can‑‑ now I just have to play some practice matches with some of the other girls here and then go to Sydney and hopefully get a couple more there. 

Q.   There is a lot of speculation about that ring on your left finger.   Can you enlighten us?   Is it just for fashion or something more?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I mean, it was a Christmas present and it fit on this finger and I put the it on, and all of a sudden I hear that I'm engaged.   But I'm not.
So, yeah, it's already twice we've had to shut down engagement rumors.   Don't worry, we will let you know if that time happens.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Is it going to rush him with a proposal now just to stop people from talking about it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't think so.   Just taking one day at a time.   As long as we're happy I guess that's the most important thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT