CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/C. Scheepers
  7‑5, 6‑7, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   I have two questions.   The first one is in this year, are you going to participate in the Sofia tournament?   Second, for next‑round opponent, how are you going to try to prepare for next round and what's your evaluation for her?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, first of all, I don't know if I'm going to play in Sofia, depending if I make it to Istanbul or not.   If I don't make it to Istanbul, then I will play in Sofia.   But if I make it to Istanbul, I will not play there.   It all depends.   Right now I don't know.   
I haven't really thought about my next opponent yet.   We will have to wait and see until tomorrow.   Right now I'm just happy I went through and won my first match, which was quite a struggle.  
   
 Q.   For the second set, you waste away a game point.   How did you try to make a justification and come back?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I had a few match points in the second set, and of course I would have liked to have won them, but it didn't turn out my way.   I just had to stay head‑calm and just fight for every point.  
   
 Q.   Two weeks ago you got champion title in Korea.   Does that boost your confidence?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Of course it always helps when you win tournaments and when you win matches and when you play well, but, you know, I definitely feel like this is a new tournament, and, you know, the way I played today I could definitely be improved.   I'm just happy to be through to the next round.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   Did you watch much of the Ryder Cup, and how proud are you of Rory?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, it's great   considering his very late arrival yesterday, almost missing his tee time.   I thought it was very well for him to be able to stay head‑cool and go out there and play so well, you know, the whole team with Poulter being so excited about the whole thing, you know, and playing unbelievable as well, and the whole team just managed to fight back.   It just shows some good strength and good team spirit.  
   
 Q.   Was it late because you were texting or tweeting each other?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I think he mistimed the tee time.   He thought he was going to play 12:25, and, well, as we all know it was 11:25.   So, yeah, it was my fault.  
   
 Q.   Do you have much contact with each other while you're playing in these big events?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, definitely, you know.   It's tough with the time changes obviously because when one is awake the other is sleeping or when one is doing something or the other one is playing.  
But, you know, we try to catch up as much as we can.  
   
 Q.   Throughout your entire match tonight it seemed like it was really tight between you and your opponent, but in the last set you kind of pulled away.   What changed in the last set to give you that advantage?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm not sure.   You know, to be honest, I didn't feel like I played my best tennis out there.   You know, I didn't feel great.   But, you know, I just managed to pull through and win the match, which is the most important thing.   
The last set I guess I maybe had a little bit more energy left and a little bit more belief maybe.   I'm not sure, but, you know, the most important thing is I won and I'm happy to be through.  
   
 Q.   Recently you came out with a new underwear line.   Why did you choose to go with underwear and not something else?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, you know, I could have gone out with something else, but I already have so much input to my clothes that I'm wearing on court, and, you know, I have quite a few meetings there.   
And to do my underwear collection, that's something all women need, you know, and I just thought it was going to be fun to do something that is fashionable, cool, and comfortable that fits to every occasion.  
And also I had an opportunity to have a big input on the pictures, as well, to make them look classy.   I just thought, why not?   This was a good opportunity that came up, and I was there straightaway.   
   
 Q.   I think it's fair to say you slipped down in the rankings a bit recently.   You seem to be enjoying some form in Asia.   Is there something you particularly like about playing out here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, I had a few injuries here and there throughout the year, and, you know, I'm just happy to be healthy and just being able to play and compete 100%.  
You know, tennis is a tough sport for the body, and it's tough to play all year great.   You know, I have had a lot of years now where I have been playing in the top of the game all the time.   You know, all the focus is on you and all the pressure.   Sometimes you just ‑‑you have a few months where you maybe don't play that well, but, you know, I feel like I'm getting back there and feel like I'm starting to hit the ball much better now.  
   
 Q.   How do you plan on carrying your success in Asia through to next year?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, definitely I just went to Asia, and I thought, okay, I want to work on some things that I want to do next year.   You know, whatever I do here it's, you know, all focusing on next year already.   
   
 Q.   After a long match tonight, what's your plan for recovery before going into the next match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I definitely had a lot of food and some stretching, some massage and some ice, and gonna have a long sleep tonight and good breakfast, and here we go again, deja vu tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT