U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I. Begu/C. Wozniacki
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously your knee was bothering you for a while.   How much did that affect you in this match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, you always want to go in and do your best no matter what's happening out there.   I tried.   I didn't succeed to play well.   I didn't play particularly well, made too many errors. 
You know, it's unfortunate because it's a huge tournament, a tournament you want to play well in. 

Q.   Have you had the knee examined at all, MRI?   Do you know what's going on with it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   I have had it examined.   You know, I've had treatment on it.   Yeah, I've had work done on it.

Q.   Do you feel like it's not something serious, more a temporary issue?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, you know, I think it's a temporary issue.   Hopefully it will get better quickly.   It's frustrating to have some injuries, but it happens to everyone.   It's just about moving on. 

Q.   How much does having an injury like that distract you from your game plan that aren't related to the knee directly?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   You try not to think about it at all and just play, fight, do what you can out there. 

Q.   How much did the injury rob you of your lateral speed?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I haven't really had a machine out there measuring.   I definitely felt like I couldn't hit through her today and I couldn't hit past her like I wanted to.   When she had the opportunity, she went in and finished off the point. 

Q.   Obviously it's been a disappointing year for you.   You started No.1.   You slipped from that.   Is it still too soon to look out what's causing it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, the year's not done yet.   Obviously definitely the Grand Slams this year hasn't been great.   You know, after the year's finished you can evaluate you can see what was good and wasn't so good, yeah, work from there. 
I still have plenty of years in me.   Hopefully I can just turn it around and play even better.

Q.   Did you have any thoughts of retiring out there?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   I tried to win out there.   I tried to do my best to win the match.   Just wasn't enough today. 

Q.   Any sense what your schedule is like for the rest of the year or are you taking time off?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, I haven't thought about it yet.   I was planning in my head to still be here after this match today.   I haven't really given it any thought yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT