NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 24, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KIRILENKO/C. Wozniacki
  7‑5 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Did it flare up on you as the match went on?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   I mean, I could feel it from the start.   But, you know, it just started to get a bit worse.   I decided to stop because, yeah, I mean, first of all, you know, if you don't feel a hundred percent, you can't compete at a hundred percent.   It's better to let it rest. 
I wasn't going to win this match anyways if I'm not on a hundred percent fit level.

Q.   How difficult is it losing this way?   You've done so well here.   Was it emotional making that decision?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Definitely.   It's definitely not the way I would have liked to have finished here, having won four times.   I would have loved to just play a normal match.   You know, if I won, that would be great.   If not, I would lose in a normal way. 
You know, it's unfortunate.   But these things happen.   You know, you just need to move on. 

Q.   What did the doctors or trainers say yesterday going into today?   What is wrong with the knee? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I just need to make the decision myself, you know, see how it goes basically. 

Q.   How is it for the US Open? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I'm going to take the rest of the day and tomorrow off and see how it feels, get some treatment on it, ice.   Then, yeah, I'll be ready for the Open.   I'm just going to take it a little bit easy these two days.

Q.   Did you get it examined more thoroughly yesterday and they told you it was a sprain?   What did they tell you it was?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I got examined.   You know, I was told that, you know, you cannot really make it worse, so it's up to you if you want to play.

Q.   Will you stay here for treatment or go to New York?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I haven't decided yet, no.

Q.   How close were you to not playing today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I always wanted to give it a shot, go out and play.   You know, I know also there's a lot of crowd out there that would like to see this match. 
I felt like I could play, so that's why I decided to go out. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about what this tournament has meant to you and your career, looking back at the last five years. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It sounds like I'm retiring (laughter). 
It's definitely meant a lot to me, this tournament.   You know, it was a big tournament for me to win back in 2008.   Then coming back and defending it in 2009 was huge, as well, for me because I think that was the first time I had to go and defend a title.   That was something that was special. 
Then, you know, you defend it again and again, all of a sudden you're in this elite group that has won a tournament four times.   I mean, there's a lot of players that never win a tournament and there's a lot of players that never win four.   Winning the same one four times in a row is definitely special.

Q.   Talk about Maria, how well she's playing, what this could mean for her if she was able to win this tournament. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   She's playing well.   She's taking the balls early.   She has improved her serve, as well.   From playing doubles, she's always had good returns.
She's been playing well this week.   She's playing well at the moment. 

Q.   Was it more restricting your movement or was it more the pain that made you make the decision? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, you just need to think what is best for yourself.   What I thought was best for me, even though it was a very difficult decision, it took me a while to make that, I decided it was best for me to just stop here. 

Q.   If you had won that first set, would you have kept playing, do you think?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's tough to say, you know.   I didn't win it, so...   Yeah, I wasn't in that situation. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT