NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 23, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/D. Cibulkova
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can you tell us how the knee is. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, right now I can't tell you too much. 
You know, I pulled through, I won the match.   Just going to get some treatment and ice on it and see how it feels. 

Q.   Can you go over exactly what happened?   When did you feel something?   When did you decide you needed to see a trainer?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I decided straightaway after I felt it.   I played one more point and decided I needed to see the trainer because I felt a sharp pain in there.   I needed to treat it straightaway.

Q.   This was during the first game of the second set?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yes.

Q.   Did you plant it wrong?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm not sure exactly what I did.   I just landed on the knee and I felt it. 

Q.   So much success, but you can't jeopardize what follows.   Do you have to guard against maybe not trying to do too much as you try to prepare for the Open?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm a competitor.   I always want to win.   I always want to finish.   I always want to do my best. 
You need to judge whether you can continue or you cannot.   You need to judge whether it's going to get worse or it's not.   That's all decisions you need to make yourself, decisions that are important because you don't want to jeopardize long‑term injury.   Doesn't matter what tournament it is. 
Just need to think about it and say, Okay, I don't think it's going to get worse.   Going to get it taped up and it's just going to stay the same.

Q.   I saw you looking at your box a couple times.   How difficult is the process of, Do I continue to play?   Do I quit?   How hard was that for you today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, when it happened, I just thought, Okay, let's get it taped up, let's see what happens, take it from there.   You just take one point at a time.   Then after a little bit I said, Okay, I'm just going to keep going.

Q.   Are you going to get an MRI?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm definitely going to get it looked at now.   That's why I wanted to ‑ no offense ‑ get this done pretty quickly afterwards just so I have some time afterwards to make sure everything is okay.

Q.   How did it feel as you played those points afterward?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, there are a few movements that I make that you can feel it.   But it felt much better when I got it taped up.

Q.   How relieved were you that you got off the court in two quick sets?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, very happy.   You know, I felt like I played some great tennis out there, first of all.   I played well.   I played aggressively when I had to.   Got a lot of balls deep when I felt pressured. 
Yeah, I definitely am very pleased with the way I played today.

Q.   You said on TV you feel real comfortable here.   Can you expound on that.   What makes New Haven special for you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Definitely when you're winning matches you always like to come back to a place.   You always feel very welcome here.   Just taken very well care of.   Yeah, that's why I enjoy coming back here.   I enjoy this tournament a lot. 

Q.   How important is that aspect to push you along, to continue playing, even though you needed the timeout, you needed the trainer, but the fact that you're comfortable here helps you make a decision to continue? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think most of all it's what you feel.   If you feel you can continue, you continue.   If you feel you cannot continue, there's no point. 
I made a decision, I can continue, I can play with this.   I keep going.   It doesn't really matter where you are.   Obviously if you hate being somewhere, you know, you don't really want to be there, but you usually don't play the tournament (smiling). 
Yeah, I think that answers it. 

Q.   Is this the first time you hurt this particular knee?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I've had some pain in it before. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT