ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 12, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/C. Wozniacki
  3‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Overall assessment of the day for you.   How did you feel you played and how do you feel the match went?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I think it was a very up‑and‑down match.   It was a match where we didn't have too many long rallies.   It was either you won it or you lost it really quick. 
I managed to win the first set, and then I just didn't manage to hang on to my lead.

Q.   It seems as if she was really stroking her forehand with quite a lot of force.   Was that a perception I missed, or was that the case?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, for sure.   I mean, she hits the ball strong and goes for her shots.   You know, it comes with a lot of power.

Q.   Do you take a lot of positives from this week?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I can take a lot of positives from this week.   You know, I think I have played some good matches here.   You know, I have gotten into the hard court season, so hopefully I can just keep continuing throughout this US Open series.

Q.   Out the door tonight all right, or where are you staying?   Already to the next tournament tonight?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Probably tomorrow morning.   Yeah, going to Cincinnati.

Q.   I just wonder, after winning so much the last two years, are you getting anxious to get a win on the board this year?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously you always want to win tournaments.   That's normal, I think.   But, you know, I think a semifinal performance in a tournament like this is not bad.   You just need to take a lot of positives from it, you know, as long as you're healthy and you have chances every week. 

Q.   You were definitely a fan favorite out there.   Can you just talk about the crowd and how they really embraced you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, it's nice to have a good crowd here.   I definitely think it helped that I won it two years ago. 
You know, it's a great place to play.   You know, the crowd is always good.   There's always a lot of people.   It's really a lot of fun to be here.

Q.   Was it tough during the rain delay, and have you taken a look at the result of the golf tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I did see the result.   It's great that Rory won.   You know, it's an unbelievable performance by him.   I'm very happy for him.
You know, other than that, just tried to just relax a little bit and come out strong, but, you know, Petra just came out stronger than me.

Q.   Have you talked to Rory?   Have you sent him any text messages or anything like that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, yeah.   (Laughter.)
Q.Did you feel like, because you played so much yesterday and she didn't, did you feel that had any sort of effect on the game today? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I definitely felt it a little bit in my legs today from yesterday.   Playing five tough sets, it's never easy.   Then come back and play the next day.   But you have to be ready for this, and I just need to go out and fight.   Yeah, today it just wasn't enough.   

Q.   Following up on your knee, how was it feeling today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's okay.   I mean, it's the same.   It's not getting worse.   It's okay. 
I'm just taping up so that I completely don't feel it.   It's nothing, nothing major.

Q.   Was it the worst thing for you to be playing a third set after playing a long day yesterday?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously I would have liked to win two sets after I won the first set, but that didn't happen.   You just need to regroup yourself and just go out there and give it your all in the last set.   Like I said, it wasn't enough today.

Q.   Were you tired physically during the third set?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I felt okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT