ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 11, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Wozniak
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   She said that it only felt like your arm was warmed up for that because it didn't seem like you played two‑and‑a‑half hours.   Is that what you felt?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I have to say I felt pretty fresh out there.   When I went out on the court, I did everything to recover.   You know, I didn't feel like I played my best game in my first match, but, you know, tonight I was playing really well and I was really pleased about the way the match went on.
You know, Aleks is playing very well, as well.   I was pleased, especially in front of the home crowd, as well.   It's difficult.   I was very pleased to get through this one. 

Q.   Your matchup for the semifinal, it gives you a chance to move on to the final.   It's been a while since we have had someone here in Montreal win back‑to‑back years in Montreal.   Your thoughts on that and what stands in your path. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   First of all, I just need a really good night of sleep tonight.   You know, my legs feel quite tired.   But, you know, I have quite a few hours to get ready.
Petra has been playing really well, as well, winning comfortably.   It's not going to be easy.   I still have that match to overcome before I even think about the finals.

Q.   You have had so many matches with Aleksandra.   I think this was the ninth.   Won eight of them and the other one you retired.   What is it you've got going against her to win that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I actually think there was one year we played each other in every tournament.   I think it was, if I remember right, it was like six or seven times in one year.   I was like, Is this really...   I mean... 
Yeah, I don't know.   I mean, it's always tough matches.   What I remember, we had some tough three‑set battles.   We have had two tough sets.   It's never been easy.
I don't know.   I just got there, and I fight and that's all I can do. 

Q.   You ended up putting a patch or bandage of some sort on your upper shin or lower knee, whatever.   What was bothering you?   Is winning the cure?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, I started feeling a little bit of things in my knee, and I put the tape on it and it felt much better. 
So, you know, I was thinking in my second match just to keep it on, or put a new one on because I took a shower, obviously. 
Yeah, it helped me, so I didn't feel it at all when I was out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT