WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. PASZEK/C. Wozniacki
  5-7, 7-6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You must have felt that was tough to play that well and get out in the first round?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, it was a good match, good tennis, but that doesn't really help me.   I lost in the first round. 
Tomorrow no one will remember how great a match it was, they'll just remember who won. 
You know, obviously, yeah, it's not a nice feeling.   Those are some of the matches that it's really great when you win them, but also really sucks when you lose.   Especially after having two match points and not taking them.   It wasn't because I played badly.   You know, she just went for it, and that's it. 

Q.   What have you done over the last several weeks to try to arrest for what you is a dip? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, just keep playing.   Again, like I said, I didn't think it was a bad match today.   You're going through periods where you're lucky, the luck is turning your way, you're not playing great, but you win the matches anyway. 
You go through periods where it's just not going your way.   You just need to get through this.   Hopefully sooner than later it will start turning my way. 

Q.   Where do you feel your game is at at the moment?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I think I didn't play badly, again, like I said earlier.   I just need to move forward.   You know, you can't dwell in your past but move forward, look forward.   That's it. 

Q.   What are your plans for moving forward?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, I haven't really thought about it. 

Q.   Tamira has been in great form winning Eastbourne.   Have you had previous matches with her?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   In the juniors we played quite a bit.   Since then, I don't think we've played much lately.

Q.   You must have looked at the draw and thought, That's a tough one?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, winning Eastbourne, she believed in herself.   Again, she was playing some good tennis out there today. 

Q.   Going to the Irish Open now that you're out?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, right now I don't know when I'm going to do.   I don't know what my plans are at the moment.   Yeah, I just finished the match.

Q.   Do you think your relationship with Rory is affecting your tennis?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.

Q.   2009, 2010, last year, you win a lot of long three‑setters.   This year it's been a little more problematic.   Can you talk about that? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I had over two years where I was winning these matches.   You know, even I wasn't playing great sometimes but still winning and managed to pull it off.   Luck was still on my side. 
You win one, two points, and suddenly you get through these matches and you're standing in a semifinal, a final, and anything can happen. 
I feel lately it's going the other way a little bit.   It's not the first match this year where I have match points and not winning.   You know, it's frustrating obviously.   But it's tennis.   You just need to go through this and come back even stronger.

Q.   Do you think it's a confidence thing now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I don't think so.   I mean, I feel confident.   I feel good about my game.   I've been practicing really well. 
Again, I didn't feel like I played bad today.   You know, I think we both played on a pretty high level.

Q.   What about your coaching situation.   With a relatively new coach, is there a transition going on there?   Did he have much input into what you wanted to do today? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, when I stand on the court, obviously it's my decisions.   I play like I want to play.   I knew how I was supposed to play out there today. 
I tried my best and it wasn't good enough. 

Q.   You've twice mentioned the concept of 'luck.'   Can you talk about what impact luck has in our sport. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, obviously, I mean, I have one match point where twice she hits the line and I don't hit bad shots.   Just a little bit further and it would have been out or a little bit late or a little bit in front it would have been different. 
You know, it's all about the right things at the right time.   I didn't take my chance today, as well.

Q.   Do you think you're going through a little bit of an unlucky phase?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I believe luck is something you practice for.   I really believe I've been working hard.   I've been, yeah, just doing everything I could to prepare my best.   Hopefully all the hard work will hopefully play off. 

Q.   Both the French Open and today, is it emotionally draining to have to go through these matches and then come in here and try to explain what's going on?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Obviously it's more fun to be here when you've won a match.   But Eastbourne was more preparation.   I didn't really take that too heavily. 
And today, again, I sit here and it's not fun being out already.   But what can you do?   You can't really turn time back. 
Even if you could, maybe I should have played the match points differently or maybe taken more advantage of her serves.   I don't know. 
Right now, to be honest, I'm just thinking to finish this off quickly and get home. 

Q.   Have you had a comparable period in your career where you had a challenge of this nature?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, you always have.   No, you always have.   I mean, even when you play the juniors you also feel like it's the most important thing in the world.   It also goes up and down.   Then it goes up and down as well when you start on the women's tour. 
It's always like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT