AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 19, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. McHALE/C. Wozniacki
  6‑1, 6‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I think I started off not really well, you know, especially on my serves.   I didn't get any advantage out of those, and, you know, then I felt the pressure straightaway, because, you know, she was serving well and returning well.   I got on my heels. 
In the second set I felt like I found my game, and, you know, started to play much better.   I think the level of tennis raised from both of us.   You know, the third set I think it could have gone either way.
You know, I think in general she played a good match, and, you know, I had some chances.   I felt like 30‑Love quite a few times in her serves, and I didn't take them.   You know, on grass you get punished for that.
You know, obviously I would have liked to have won that match, but, you know, at least, you know, I got some points in and, you know, I'm just trying to work on a few things before Wimbledon.   You know, that's it. 

Q.   How much of a setback would Wimbledon be without the match practices that you wanted?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, it's not really going to be a setback.   I didn't play any matches last year on grass before I went to Wimbledon.   Obviously you want to be in the tournament, there's no doubt about that, but, you know, there's still a lot of girls out there you can practice with and you can play sets with them.   That's just what I'm going to do.

Q.   Are you at all surprised that the top three‑ yourself, Agnieszka, and Petra ‑ have lost today, or does that show that grass is such a difficult surface to adjust to?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, it's the first tournament for us.   You know, some of the players have played a grass court tournament before and some haven't.   You know, you get through that first couple of matches, and you start feeling more comfortable and you start finding your feet out there.
But, you know, it's just we all played someone who likes to play on grass obviously and, you know, who played a good match today.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about some of the changes in your serve that you have employed?   Looks like you're moving your right foot back a little bit more.   Can you talk about that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, it's just the positioning a little bit.   You know, that's it.   You know, it just has to click.   Once it does, you know, I feel like it's going to be better.   But it obviously just takes a little bit of time.
But, you know, I feel like in practice it's been working well, and, you know, just need to transform that into the matches. 
I felt at points in the match that I played really well, served really well, and at times I didn't. So, you know, I just need to get that consistency back.

Q.   Do you think that it would enhance Wimbledon and make it easier for players like you if there was a three‑week gap between the French Open and Wimbledon and you had more time to really properly prepare rather than this kind of dashed, last‑minute dash that everybody has to do at the moment?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, for those who do really well at the French Open, you know, most of them it just takes the week off or a few days off and start practicing on hard court and then come over here or, you know, maybe go straight to Wimbledon.
You know, it's very tight to go French Open, Wimbledon, but that's the way it's always been.   You know, it's just something that you need to adapt to.
I personally wouldn't mind having a longer grass season, because I actually think it's a nice surface to play on, but, you know, we only get a couple of weeks a year. 

Q.   Obviously both yourself and your boyfriend have incredibly demanding schedules at the moment.   I know he was here again today.   Is there any difficulty for either of you in kind of seeing as much of each other as you're able to devote to your practice time in terms of balancing your sort of personal and professional commitments?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT