SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. SHARAPOVA/C. Wozniacki
  4‑6, 6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Does it make you feel better that the replay on television showed that the serve was actually on the line?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Sorry? 

Q.   Does it make you feel better that the replay showed that Maria's serve at the end actually was on the line?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, it doesn't.   No, because I think when the ball is so close that I think he should give her a chance to challenge at least when I don't have any challenges. 
She was gonna challenge it, anyways.   So if it shows it's good, it's good.   If it shows it's out, it's out.   The ball was so close that it might as well have been out.

Q.   You seemed to have other problems with him throughout the match, kind of, or later in the match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, during this match?   No, I didn't have any problems with him.

Q.   Other than that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   But I think it was a pretty crucial point, anyways.

Q.   You had a good comeback in the first set.   What's your overall feeling about the match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I just kept fighting and just kept playing for every point.
Maria started off really well and played aggressively.   She played some good tennis out there.
I tried to do my best, and it just wasn't enough today.   I was very close.   Yeah, you know, this is tennis.   One time you win; one time you lose.

Q.   Was that a contrast of styles out there?   I mean, with her, she's just so aggressive versus the way that you were playing her. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Um, to be honest, I don't really think about these things.   I just play to win however I can to try to win the match. 
If that is to, you know, make her run and then try to make as little mistakes as possible, I do that.   If it is to try to play aggressive, I try to do that.   You know, I just play.

Q.   What's the challenge, I guess, that she poses?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, obviously, I mean, she's a pretty big, tall girl.   She has a big reach.   You know, you need to play really wide to pass her, and then she plays some really heavy balls and goes in and attacks you if you play short.

Q.   Given how good you are as a retriever and how good your defense is, are you surprised that she stays in those rallies as long as she does, in many of them hitting the ball the way she does and as hard as she does?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, not really.   I mean, I know how she plays and I know how she can play.
You know, when she's in shape, that's how she plays.   You know that you need to really fight for every point.

Q.   Overall with your game, you had some good results here this week. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, overall I'm pretty happy with my game.   I think this week I have been playing some really good tennis.   And obviously you love to win.   I didn't do that today. 
But, you know, I can definitely take some positives from this tournament and bring them with me further this year.

Q.   Last we heard, you were not able to get into Charleston to defend.   Has there been any change in that situation?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I won't play Charleston.   I'll take the week off next week.

Q.   Will you go to Augusta?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm not sure yet.   I don't think so, but I'm not sure.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT