BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 23, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/P. Kvitova   
7-5, 3-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about what worked better for you today in the match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think everything kind of worked better.  We both got a better rhythm today.  I think she played way better as well today than she did in her first match.  I think we both got a much better rhythm.  We even had long rallies.   
I think I returned really well.  I took advantage of the break points that I had, which was huge.  I tried to stay aggressive when I had the opportunity.   
 Q.  You last beat Petra four years ago in Singapore, as well.  Last year when you won the title against Venus you had a losing record against her.  What do you think it is about Singapore that has helped you for all these big wins when you need it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think I have had a lot of big wins in my career.  I don't think it's only here.  I enjoy playing here.  I think the crowd is good.  You know, as I said, I played better today, which was very positive.   
 Q.  You had some treatment for your left knee.  I'm just wondering if you can tell us what were you feeling and if it's something you carried from before?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's something I have had in the past and something I have struggled with for years.  You know, I haven't had this problem for a while now.   
It's the patella which was hurting me.  You know, I'm just gonna tape it up, and that's worked for me in the past.  It worked for me today.  Hopefully, you know, thankfully it's the last tournament of the year so we can patch ourselves up after the tournament.   
 Q.  What do you think worked particularly well for you in the third set to get out to that big start?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I think I played somewhat similarly the whole match through, and I think in the second set I didn't think I played bad.  I missed a couple of opportunities on my serve at 3-All, and I think she played really well to close out that set.   
I got the first break in the first game of third set, and then just tried to think that I needed to hold serve.  That was really it.   
 Q.  When you've played a player like Petra so many times, how much does past matches or past tactics come into play, recognizing patterns?  How much does that help, having that experience?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, I know Petra's patterns, but it doesn't always help.  You know, she plays so fast that sometimes you just don't have time.   
But, you know, I think it worked well for me today, and I just tried to make her feel uncomfortable and make her feel like she couldn't be in position all the time, and it worked well for me.   
 Q.  You're one of the players that seems to really like the on-court coaching.  A lot of times it seems like you're not interacting with your dad but you're just kind of listening and stuff.  What is it about the on-court coaching that you think helps you?  And would you like to see it go into the Grand Slams?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think basically all sports have on-court coaching or have coaching.  So I don't see why not in tennis.   
You know, I just try and get the information that, you know, he feels I may need, and that's why I don't really talk much.  I just kind of absorb.  And then I have my own opinion, as well.   
But, you know, if he says something that I think I can use, then I use it.  If I think that he says something that I don't agree with, then I just do my own thing.   
But, you know, a lot of times you feel differently on the court than it seems from the outside.  So it's nice to get that input once in a while.   
 Q.  Obviously this tournament is unique because it's round robin, but also here in Singapore you know that the matches are always going to be later in the day and you have a day off.  I'm just wondering, do you do anything differently?  Do you get to sit by the pool, for example, even though that's something maybe you wouldn't do in a different tournament?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not really, to be honest.  The match days are really boring.  I sleep long.  I stay in the room most of the day, order room service, just chill.  The days off are really nice.  I get to, you know, eat -- there's a nice restaurant by the pool, so I usually have lunch there.  We hang out.  We go for dinners with my friends and the family.  The days off are nice.  We really enjoy those.   
But the day of the match, you just have to really be focused because you're playing the best players in the world.  You have to really be ready.   
 Q.  Your dad gave a press conference yesterday, and a couple of times -- I was, first of all, curious if you heard any of it.  He was joking a couple of times about how he wouldn't recommend anybody coach their kid, and that's something he's done fairly successfully over the last couple of years.  Is that something you would ever imagine doing?  Have you ever thought about, from his perspective, how difficult that might have been?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I heard he stole the show (smiling).  I heard he was killing it.   
I probably wouldn't want to coach my kid.  I think it's a lot.  I think it's hard work.  I'm very thankful that my dad wanted to take on that role, and I think we have done amazing and we have a great relationship.   
I think, you know, hopefully my kids will want to do some sports and be active, and I really want that for them, but if that's not what they want, then that's not what they want.  But in the end of the day, I think if they want to play tennis, that's fine, but if they want to do it professionally, then they need to find someone else to coach them.  I have done this for way too long (smiling).   
 Q.  I'm sure for any tennis player, the older you get, the more control you have over your career, the more decision-making and everything.  I guess with you and your father throughout the years, was there a point you remember where you maybe had a discussion with him or you personally felt like, okay, I can have more control or maybe the relationship changed in a specific way?  Anything like that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think he's always treated me as an adult, and I think that's what I really appreciate about my relationship with my dad.  Since a very young age, I think he also asked me for my opinion.  You know, I think it was important for him also to know how I felt, what I wanted, what my goal was so that he could help me achieve what I wanted to achieve.   
I think the fact that he's respected me since I was a kid and respected my opinions and he could see that I could really hold my own, as well, I think has made our relationship this strong.  Of course sometimes we disagree on some things and we talk about it or we butt heads once in a while, but I think it's part of our relationship.  I think it's part of the coaching relationship, as well.   
But, you know, in the end of the day, we both want what's best, and we both try and find a way where I can improve and I can play my best tennis.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT