BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. IVANOVIC/C. Wozniacki
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough one, Caroline.   Want to talk about it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   If I want to talk about it? 

Q.   Just talk about... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, let me go.   (Smiling.)

Q.   Just talk about how you felt and all that. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, in the first set, especially in the beginning, we broke each other quite a bit.   Well, I got broken quite a lot, anyways. 
But, you know, I had a few games where I was up 40‑Love on her game then 40‑15 on my own; I didn't take it.
You know, she just went on a roll.   She started to hit the ball harder, and, you know, it was going in.   I stepped back a little bit, and it gave her the time to do what she wanted.
You know, she just played better than me today, and I just need to get back and practice on a few things and hopefully get back strong for Miami.

Q.   How much better was her level today than it was Doha?   Her level. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, it was a different match all in all.   I mean, here the balls are flying a little bit more and the court is slower, so it's‑‑ in general, every match is just different.

Q.   You looked pretty upset.   Is it because you were unable to push yourself forward the way you wanted to when you knew she was playing at a certain level?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, you just know, you know, how you have been able to play and how you can play.   You know, when you don't feel like you're playing in the top of your game, you know, you still try.   You push yourself, but it's just not going the way you want to.   Sometimes that can be a little bit disappointing.
But, that's sports.   You know, it's always going up and down, and it's always been like that.   It's not gonna change.
So, you know, it's just to practice, keep working, and, I mean, it will get better all the time.

Q.   Can I ask, at the beginning of the tournament you were saying that you were willing to take the things in practice that were new and try to bring them into matches.   At times during this tournament you looked like it, but at other times looked like you were kind of hesitating and going back to things that maybe weren't working for you. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   You know, I tried to do obviously my best.   I always fight the way I can and never give up.   Sometimes that's not enough. 
Obviously I try to play on the highest level as possible.   But, you know, it's important just to keep trying, keep focus, keep working hard, and the results will come.

Q.   Any changes to the schedule coming up, or are you going to stick with the same thing?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Right now I'm just thinking about Miami, and then we'll see what's gonna happen.

Q.   What did your dad say after the match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Today? 

Q.   Yeah. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Um, not much.   Just, you know, just told me a few key points and that's it, yeah.

Q.   You're probably more upset with yourself than he was. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I think I always am more disappointed in myself than he is when I lose. 
He's always more happy for me than I am when I win, you know.   I think it's just important‑‑ sometimes you take it for granted when you're winning.   Like you do really well in a long period of time, and you actually realize it when you lose a few matches.   You're like, Ah, actually felt pretty good.
But, you know, it's not like it's a disaster.   I've been playing pretty consistently, and, you know, just want to take the next step.   But, you know, my time will definitely come again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT