DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 23, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Ivanovic
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Well done.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Pleased to get that in straight sets?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I'm very pleased to get through that in straight sets.   Ana really stepped it up in the second set, took the balls very early, and just played really well actually.   She took her chances and had nothing to lose.  
But I'm happy have to hung in there.   I think the first set from both of us maybe wasn't the best tennis, but I came out on top, which was great.   
Then I had already that first set in my pocket, so it's a little bit easier to play afterwards.  
   
 Q.   She showed she can be very dangerous, didn't she?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   She definitely did.   She showed why she's been No. 1 in the world and won a Grand Slam.   It's because she can play tennis on this level.   I knew it was going to come.   
So end of the first set I was like, Okay, it's a new set, it's a new match, because she's definitely not going to just hang around and just play the ball.   She knows that against me she needs to just go for her shots.  
   
 Q.   You change the pace up a bit?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I tried to change the pace up a bit and tried to maybe go in a little bit stronger on my backhand side.   You know, I just needed to wait for my opportunities, because it's difficult to do much when someone is putting so much power in the shots.  
So you just need to be a wall over there and wait for the right chance to change the rhythm.   
   
 Q.   Into the semifinals.   Do you start getting excited about possibly winning again?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Not yet, actually.   Semifinals is semifinals, and it's tough opponents I'll be up against.   This tournament it's the best players who are playing, so...   
Who's playing?   It's Julia and...   
THE MODERATOR:   Hantuchova.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   So, yeah, it's two girls that are playing well this week.   
Daniela has had a great start to the year as well.   So, yeah, just happy to be through.  
   
 Q.   This weekend is shaping up quite well for you.   You could defend your title here; your boyfriend could become the world No. 1 in golf; and Liverpool could win the Carling Cup.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, a lot of things could happen.   I could become the president as well; I could become a billionaire by tomorrow if I win the lottery.   You know, a lot of things.   You just take one day at a time and enjoy the good days like these and enjoy the good times in the office, because sometimes you take it for granted.   You just go in, you play, you go.   You're like, Oh, fine.   You go in, you play, you eat, you sleep.   
But you just need to enjoy winning and enjoy playing.   You know, the atmosphere out there today was even better than yesterday.   Ana has a lot fans here a well, and they were pretty loud.   I have quite a few fans here, so it was cool to play out there.  
   
 Q.   You moved very well tonight; you usually do move very well.   Four of the leading players are injured, and yet you probably cover more of the court than they and yet you stay fit.   How do you do that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm not sure.   I put a lot of things into my fitness.   I've always done.   I've always prioritized my fitness almost more than my tennis, to be honest, and my training.  
From a young age I've done all sorts of sports, so I think that's helped my body as well develop muscles that you never thought you had.   I think that's important in the game.   Knock on wood.   I hope that I'll just keep healthy for the rest of my career.   (Smiling.)  
But there will always be small injuries here and there, but just not showing the opponents and just make sure that it can't get worse and that's it.   
You just need to figure out, Okay, can I play with this?   Can I not?   That's it.   
   
 Q.   What's the daily training routine for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   When I'm at a tournament?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Wake up, probably go for a running session.   So depending on how my shape is, either go for a long run or do intervals, depending on also where in the season we are.   
Go to play some tennis probably one and a half hours or so.   Then have a little rest, play another hour of tennis after, and go to the gym and do some running again for maybe an hour and a half.  
   
 Q.   Treadmill running?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I prefer outside.   Well, I prefer on the treadmill, to be honest, but the team around me prefers me to run outside.   I find that harder, so that's why I prefer the treadmill.  
   
 Q.   What surface do you run on?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   In Monaco we have a great stadium, so there is the running track and stuff.   Or I run on the beach or on asphalt.   If I have to run the long ones, I run on asphalt.  
   
 Q.   But not the road?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I watch out for the cars.   (Smiling.)   
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy the physical work?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, I really enjoy it.   I know that there is a lot of players hate it, but for me I feel‑‑ maybe it doesn't feel great while you're doing it, but afterwards I feel very satisfied with myself.  
Yeah.   I actually enjoy it, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How hard do you work in the off‑season?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think I work extremely hard, but I think everyone, all the tennis players work extremely hard.   They have to, because we need to prepare for the whole season and try not to be injured.  
   
 Q.   Do you run into any of the other players on the running track there?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Actually, Bolelli, the Italian guy, he was on the running track.   I was running.   I think it was my first week back, I think my fifth day and it was his first, so I could see him suffering out there.   I was suffering too, but not as much as him.  
But other than that, no.   Actually, I think Vika does a little bit of other things, running a bit elsewhere.   I think we all have our different systems.  
   
 Q.   You said you play a lot of other sports.   You told us about how you were trying to master a 7‑iron.   Do you still kick a football around for fun?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   For fun, but I would never go and play match or even for fun, because I would be scared that I would get tackled or something would happen.   So I would never do that.  
But just like kick it around and have a bit of fun with it for a warmup.   
   
 Q.   What else?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Golf.   (Smiling.)   A bit of swimming.   I've actually fallen a bit back on that.   I haven't done that much lately.   
   
 Q.   You're a good swimmer then?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I'm okay.   I used to be very good.   Not anymore.   
Running, a lot of running; some boxing.   
   
 Q.   Boxing?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What other sport are you best at, would you say?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   When I was younger, definitely swimming.   I had to chose between swimming and tennis.  
   
 Q.   At what age?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Around ten or eleven.   My swimming coach, who actually was my neighbor, he was getting so frustrated with me because I would never show up to the competitions.   
I would always chose the tennis because the tennis was Saturday, Sunday or Friday night, Saturday, Sunday.   Swimming was always Saturday, Sunday, so I would prioritize my tennis.  
In the end he told me, Okay, either I'm not going to move up to a better group.   I'm just going to let you suffer with the worse swimmers, or you can choose to come.  
I was like, Whatever.   I don't feel like waking up at 7:00 or being in the pool at 7:00 and swimming and people are throwing up and...  
I preferred the outdoors and the fun and just having a barbecue after of practice and winning ice creams, because my dad would set up goals for me to win ice cream.   So I definitely preferred that.   
   
 Q.   Do you still have ice cream bets?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Actually, right now I have a bet.   No sweets, no white bread, no fried food, no sodas.   
On Sundays I can have one thing.   So if I choose I want to drink a glass of Coke, that's it.  
   
 Q.   Who's the bet with?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   With Rory.   Actually I think I'm going to win.   
   
 Q.   Is he doing the same thing?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   He has to do the same thing, yeah.  
   
 Q.   For how long?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Until one of us break down.   I'm stubborn, so I'm not going to give up.  
   
 Q.   Do you trust that he'll tell you the truth?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I trust him, yeah.   He's such a bad liar, so I would tell right away if he had eaten something unhealthy.  
   
 Q.   How much is it for?   Is it a considerable amount?   
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Let's just put it that way.   I wouldn't do it for a pair of sunglasses.   I wouldn't put myself through that.   
   
 Q.   Of those things, what do you really love that you have had to give up?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, I like quite a bit of sweets.   Anything that is sweet.   I usually don't drink sodas.   That's never been attempting for me, or crisps or things like that.  
But chocolate or jellies, those are things I really like.  
   
 Q.   And they're all off?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, all off.   He's more the crisp type or popcorn or stuff, and sodas.   
   
 Q.   Guinness?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No.   Actually, he doesn't drink much.   Actually, almost never.   Alcohol is banned, too, but that's not a problem for any of us.   Just in case you were doubting that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT