QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Welcome to Doha. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Thank you.

Q.   I just want to know like the presence of your boyfriend here, how much does that inspire you?   Does it inspire you?   Do you talk and discuss?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, to be honest, when you're out on the court, you just focus on the ball and on the game you're going to play.   You don't really think about too much else around. 
Of course it's nice that he's here, but, you know, once you're on court, that's your focus.   And off the court it's nice to have someone there.   You can just take your mind off things.

Q.   Are you happy with your form that you've seen the first six weeks of 2012?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah.   You know, it's start of the season.   There's still so long to go.   Hopefully I can keep improving and keep playing better. 
Yeah, I'm pretty happy.

Q.   Do you see a tough week here in Doha, a lot of good players?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Of course a lot of god players here, next week as well.   It's not going to be easy.
It's just about focusing on the match you have ahead, and that's it.

Q.   The Olympic Games, is that on your... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Of course.   I think the Olympics is very big for every player this year.   It's only every four years, and it's a special event.   It's somewhere where you really want to try to do your best and hopefully try to get a medal.

Q.   Do you think you see a Grand Slam the rest of the year maybe?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Um, I hope so, definitely.   You know, I'm doing my best, and it's just about peaking at the right times.

Q.   You came close to winning twice here.   Do you think you could be lucky the third time?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I hope so.   You always want to win when you step into playing a tournament, and I have played some really good matches here before, and hopefully this could be the year.   We'll have to wait and see.

Q.   Is it easier without the No. 1 tagged to your name?   Is it easier to go out and play?   Is there less pressure on you now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's just nice that actually I don't get the question every press conference, You're No. 1 but haven't won a Grand Slam. 
So at least I get that off my back and I can actually just play and people don't get disappointed if I lose a finals or semifinals, which, you know, would be a disaster before.   Now someone else can have that, and I can just play. 

Q.   Would it be fair to say that the next generation has come forward in the top four, five slots now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I definitely think that we are a new generation.   There's a lot of new young players now.   It's great to see the ones you have played juniors with are doing well in the main tour, as well.   It's a good thing.

Q.   Is the game now or maybe in the last year, last 12 months, any different than it was maybe 18 months ago or two years ago?   Are you guys hitting the ball harder, moving faster?   Is it physically up to a certain... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think the game is improving all the time.   Everybody wants to play better and find a way to beat the top players. 
The level always will raise.   I definitely think it's improved and probably a bit more physical again, and, yeah, probably a bit more consistent and harder‑hitting.   Of course, it gets tougher and tougher all the time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT