AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/C. Wozniacki
  6‑3, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What do you think about the way the match unfolded?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I thought Kim started off really strong.   She put the pressure on me from the beginning.
I made a few unforced errors that she ran away a bit in the first set.   But I hung in there and I kept fighting.   I did what I could, but today it wasn't enough.

Q.   Were you feeling that maybe at the end of the second set you were taking a bit maybe physically the lead over her?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, I was just‑‑ I just kept playing every ball and trying to hang in there.   I was trying to just keep my focus and not think about the score.

Q.   What do you take out of the tournament?   How do you sort of view the tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, you learn every time.   Obviously it's never fun to lose, but you learn more from your losses than you do from your wins.
You know, I will just go back and practice and try to come back even better.

Q.   What does it mean for you to lose the No. 1 spot?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   You know, to be honest, I don't really think about it.   I have been there for a long time already.   I finished No. 1 two years in a row.
In the end of the year we will see who played the best.   We are just in January.   In the end of the year you see who has played the best, most consistently all year‑round.
So, you know, I will get it back eventually, so I'm not worried.

Q.   You have made it this far in slams a number of times and you've gone beyond.   Are you still convinced that you'll have that breakthrough and get that first victory at a Grand Slam?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Of course.   I mean, I start laughing every time because the media talks to me like I'm finishing my career and I only have one year left and time is running out.
The fact is I still have quite a few good years in front of me.   I still improve.   I still have a number of Australians and a number of US Opens and Wimbledons and French Opens left.
I will definitely do my best and try to win one or even more.   In the end of the day, you can just do your best.   You can't do anything more than that.
If your best is good enough, that's great.   If not, then it's just too good from the other person. 
I will come back not only once but more times.

Q.   Will you try to change your strategy in any way going forward against some of these players who you lost to now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Um, well, of course, you try to change your strategy when you're losing, because probably that means some of the things you're doing are not the right things.
But, you know, I try to do my best out there.   I fought for every point, but it just wasn't enough.

Q.   You played Kim three times now.   You were close each time.   What do you miss for this last little step?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, Kim is very experienced.   I mean, she's a great player.   Of course I really don't like losing.   I try to go in and try to win every time I play, but today Kim was just that little bit better than me.

Q.   Did you have the impression she was a little bit less strong at the end of the second set?   That you could make it, if you won the second set you could make it to a third one?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, I really don't think about a third set.   I just thought about every point.   It was really hot out there, and it's just about keeping your head cool and try to cool down in the changeovers.

Q.   What's your program in the next sort of four to six weeks?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'll practice.   We don't have Fed Cup because we are in a group where we're not playing next week.
I will practice for the next two‑and‑a‑half weeks, and then I will play Doha, Dubai, Indian Wells, Miami.

Q.   Do you have to reproach yourself anything in this tiebreak?   Because you had all first serves in the tiebreak.   You had a very good tiebreak, and yet... 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, didn't feel I was playing bad in the tiebreaker, actually.   I feel like it was tennis at a high level.   Kim as well, she made a few aces, a few service winners, and she stepped it up, as well. 
In a tiebreak it can go both ways.   It didn't go my way this time.

Q.   Learning from what Kim has done, is it something you can learn from now despite the fact you're No. 1 in the world and she's done what she's done that you still feel like you can learn a lot from her?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Of course.   I mean, you can learn a lot from Kim and Serena, as well.   They have done a lot for their careers, and they have played tennis on a high level. 
And Kim, as well, you know, taking the ball early, putting the pressure on you from the beginning.   You know, even though she had a break of two years, she was still able to come back and play at a very high level. 
You can definitely learn something from them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT