BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 21, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/C. Wozniacki   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think made the difference out there tonight?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I didn't start off very well.  I was trying to find my rhythm out there.  She started off well.  But at the same time, I had I think break points in almost every single of her service games and I didn't get any one of them.   
That was kind of disappointing, and I think obviously if I had gotten some of them, the outcome could have been different.  But it wasn't to be today.  I'll just have to go back and practice tomorrow, get some shots in, and try to do better next time.   
 Q.  Does having two more matches make it easier to shake this one off?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, you have to.  You just have to forget this one and move on from it and learn what I could do better, and that's really it.   
You know, we can't really think about the past because you can't change it.  I just have to look forward.   
 Q.  Obviously the break points were a disappointment, but in terms of your level on the whole, how did you feel you played today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I was struggling a little bit with the timing in some of the points and just trying to find my rhythm.  I think there were times where I played really well, and I was trying, you know, to move her around, but there was also times when I just didn't time the ball perfectly, and, you know, it didn't go the way I wanted.   
So a few things to work on before the next one and then just go from there.   
 Q.  In terms of the timing on the ball, did the match court play differently in competition compared to what you were doing on the practice courts?  Did you feel like the conditions were a little bit different today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Maybe a little bit, but, you know, you just have to be ready.  You know, you're playing against the best players in the world.  You have to be ready from the start and you have to take your chances.  You get punished when you don't take your chances.   
That's what happened today.  Regardless of if you play your best tennis or not, when you have the opportunities, you have to take them.   
 Q.  In terms of the net play, you were quite good at the net today.  Out there on this surface, do you feel like that is an aspect of the game for all the girls that is actually paying off quite a bit if you can get yourself up there?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think there were some things that I did well today.  Yeah, I think I played well at the net.  I think the short balls that I got I think I played well.  I think, you know, there were some rallies that I think I constructed very well.  There was a lot of good thoughts there, some of them that didn't work out, but at least I was doing the right thing.   
So there were some positives I can take with me.  Just execution needs to be better for the next one.   
 Q.  Following on from the court question, what is the main difference when you've got the lights down, the crowd in there?  What kind of difference does that make from when you're practicing when there is nobody in there?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think obviously the crowd, it's different, but that's always, you know.  I don't know.  I just feel like the surface is slightly different this year than it was the last few years, I think maybe a little bit more uneven, but maybe that's just me.   
But, you know, you just have to get used to it, and I have to be more on the ball for the next one.  That's really it.  There are really no excuses.  You just have to go out there and do better.   
 Q.  You'll play Petra next on Tuesday.  Can you talk through that match and just what to expect?  Is it actually more difficult at this point to kind of know what to expect?  Because everybody is kind of playing, despite it being Singapore, everybody seems to be playing at a different level than maybe they were.  Like Petra was playing very, very well in the first half and kind of struggled a bit in the fall.  Does that change anything?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think with someone like Petra, she can, you know, play maybe not as well in one match and extremely well in the next.  You know, I think you don't really know what to expect.  I just have to be out there and ready for everything.   
I think, you know, everyone who is here deserves to be here.  As I said, you know, playing someone that plays very aggressively, you have to be on the ball yourself.   
I have a few things to work on, but, you know, there is still some positives to take with me.  And the good thing is I suppose with this format is you're not out.  You still have a chance.  So I'm going to try to use my second life out here and try and get through.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT