AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/M. Niculescu
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did you feel out there? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Um, I felt pretty good.   I mean, it was nice weather to play in, overcast, the temperature was nice. 
Yeah, I felt like it was up to me what was going to happen out there on court.
Yeah, I was pretty happy. 

Q.   Did the score in the first set look easier than it actually was?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I mean, we had a lot of long rallies because she got a lot of balls back.   With her slice forehand as well it was tough to finish out the point sometimes. 
But I don't know.   I felt like I was in control. 

Q.   Do you think at all about the whole No. 1 situation, or just not in your mind?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   To be honest, I just play.   I want to try to do my best here.   Whatever happens, happens.
To be honest, I've proven myself for the last two years.   I've finished No. 1 twice in a row. 
For me, the most important thing is to keep improving.   If I do that, I know I can play on a very high level.
If you win matches in tournaments, then the ranking will be there automatically.   My main priority is just to try to play every match that I play.   Of course that's pretty tough, but, yeah. 

Q.   You seem to come in quite a few times during this match, more than we normally see you do.   Are you starting to feel more comfortable at the net? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I mean, I've worked quite a bit on my volleys.   I still think I could have finished up a few more points up there, but I'm improving and I'm trying to move in when I can sometimes. 
The last I don't know how many years I've played I've always had a two‑handed backhand volley.   I've tried to change that to a one‑hand.
It's just about getting the confidence to play with it in a real match as well.   You can do it in practice, but it's always different to play a match.
I felt like did I pretty well.

Q.   Change for more reach? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, and just it looks better, too.   (Laughter.) 
No, but, yeah, for more reach obviously, and then I always thought that‑‑ I mean, the proper volley is the one‑hand backhand volley, so I try to do that. 
And also my one‑handed backhand slice.   I don't use it too much, but if I have to I will.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT