AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Rodionova
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It was almost a perfect way to start the tournament. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It was a good way for me to start the tournament.   I'm happy to be through.   I was a bit nervous before the match. 
But you always just want to get a good start in the first round.   I'm pretty happy about the way I played.   You can, of course, always improve, but it's a good start for me.

Q.   This is about the second or third time you played second in a night session at a slam.   Does that sound about right?   The other time you did it was at the US Open.   Is it something when you get started that late you have an incentive to get home?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm not a morning person.   I like to sleep.   I like to sleep during the day as well.   I like my naps.   And I feel good in the evening. 
Of course it's great to play the first night match because you know exactly when you're on.   I mean, Roger did very good.   You always have short matches because he always plays the points very fast and there's not too many long rallies.   I knew it was going to be about one and a half hours, which was nice. 
Yeah, I mean, I think I played here last year as well second after 7:00, so I've done it before.   I really enjoy playing these night matches.   It's a great atmosphere.

Q.   Who are players who you see before you in the schedule and you know someone is going to take a long time?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I think Rafa is a little bit like me.   He likes to play the long rallies.   Even if he wins in three sets he takes a longer time because he fights from the baseline and likes to make the opponent tired. 

Q.   Do you have any other plans for your night now that you're done?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I'm going to have some food and try to fall asleep as soon as possible, even though I know that's not very easy because the adrenaline is still pumping.   But try to fall asleep as soon as I can.   Read my book.   I'm reading a book right now which is very interesting, so I might finish that tonight.

Q.   What is that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It's called Tick Tock by James Patterson.   It's a thriller anyways.

Q.   Any problems with the wrist at all?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   It feels better.   I was a bit nervous before the match.   I didn't know exactly what to expect.   I'm very happy about the way I felt out there today.

Q.   It seemed to get stronger as the match went on. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I got into the rhythm, started to play more comfortably, and it paid off. 

Q.   Can you talk about some of the improvements you made to your game in the past year?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't know.   I think you improve all the time, small bits and pieces here and there. 
Then there is things you forget to work on because they're great, and then you need to work on that.   There's always things you need to improve in your game.   That's why tennis is so interesting but also so frustrating on the practice court, because you're never perfect. 

Q.   Have you been working on mixing in some different types of shots?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I've always played a game where I mix it up quite a bit.   So definitely I've worked on that, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT