APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2012
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/D. Cibulkova
  7‑5, 2‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Did you think you would be so happy at Love‑4 down in the third set?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   No, not really.   I mean, I didn't really play well and she was hammering the ball.   I was just standing there and trying to figure out what to do.
But I felt like everything I tried to do wasn't working and I was making a lot of unforced errors. 
So I said, Okay, let's just kept margin to the lines and give her that extra ball.   Yeah, it paid off in the end. 

Q.   What's the most satisfying coming back like that when you've lost the last two first‑round games you've had here and she beat you twice last year.   What's the most satisfying about that win?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Of course I'm happy to be through to the next round here.   Definitely that I could fight back from that score is definitely satisfying, but definitely need to step up my game a little bit in the next round. 

Q.   When Li Na was in here, she said one of your great attributes is just how you fight for every point, every situation.   I imagine that held you in good stead today in the third set. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I never gave up.   I thought I didn't have that chance, but I never gave up the fight.   I just tried to keep in there and hang in there.   It paid off today, and I'm happy about that. 

Q.   What makes you not give up, because at Love‑4 you could have maybe gone to Melbourne and had a week.   What makes you keep fighting?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, I hate losing.   I think that's one of the biggest reasons.   I always do everything I can to win a game, and I want to stand in the end as the winner and have won the last point. 
Yeah, I think that's the main reason.   (Smiling.)

Q.   How big was that double fault in the game with the break point? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Um...

Q.   You were at 4‑1, and then she double faulted to give you a break to get back to 4‑2. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I can't really remember, to be honest.   I just kept going.   I was in my own little bubble there and tried to just keep going. 

Q.   Did you sense that she was struggling because you were getting momentum back when her coach came on court? 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Definitely I could feel she got a little bit nervous because she knew that now it was tighter than she had hoped for and she had the match in her hand pretty much. 
And then when I was coming back, definitely she just wanted some advice.   But I just kept on going. 

Q.   Do you feel like the stars are aligning a little bit?   You and Petra are 1 and 2.   Whoever wins here will take the No. 1 ranking.   Do you feel like there is a lot riding on this tournament?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Well, I have the No. 1 ranking, so I can't take it. 
You know, I just play.   You know, Petra is a great girl.   I like her a lot.   She's one of my good friends.   You know, I'm sure we'll play against each other and we'll both do well in the years to come.
The most important thing is that we're all healthy and playing well.   The competition on the court will be good fun for the fans as well. 

Q.   I wanted to ask you one more about Venus.   She's pulled out of the Australian Open.   I know you played doubles with her a couple years ago.   She says she's coming back in February.   Of course you want her to come back healthy. 
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   Yeah, of course.   Venus has played for many years, but she's been unlucky with the virus thing.   I'm not completely sure what it is exactly, but I just ‑‑ the most important thing is the health.
You know, when that's there, then the tennis is ‑‑ it's a game.   I'm sure she'll come back and fight and try to come back to the top again. 
But most of all, the most important thing is that you're healthy.   Yeah, hopefully she'll be 100% healthy by February. 

Q.   If you at your best is ten out of ten, where are you at the moment?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:   I don't really like to give like percentages or anything, because everything changes from match to match. 
Right now I just focus on one match at a time.   We'll see at the Australian Open what's going to happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT