TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. KVITOVA/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You played as though you might have been unwell or something. Was that in fact the case?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, I have felt better, but, you know, it's what happens. Sometimes it's like this. And today, you know, Petra played well. And of course I wish I could have been 110%, but my body just didn't want the things that I wanted today.

 Q. Did the trainer take your blood pressure, or what was she doing?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, she took my blood pressure. She just talked a little bit to me what she could do or she couldn't do and what it would do.

 Q. So is that the result of just sort of a long, hard season, or have you caught a bug or what is it?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. You know, I think a lot of things have been happening this week, and, you know, I think it's just unfortunate. You know, the body -- obviously I have been feeling tired, and to get a little bit sick now, that's not the best if you want to beat the top players. 
 So, you know, I'm probably not going to qualify now out of the group, so I'll take a bit of a rest and probably just try to get into 100% again.

 Q. You obviously had a late night last night. Do you think you would have benefited from having had a day off today and played your last match tomorrow?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously the way I feel today I would have liked to have played tomorrow. But at the same time, I mean, no one knows what's gonna happen. One day it's like this; one day it's not. 
 I'm not gonna blame anything, because, you know, I went out there. I tried my best. Today I just -- I couldn't do what I wanted to do.

 Q. Kvitova started the year outside the top 30 and now she's world No. 3. What do you think of her and her game?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, of course, she's a great player. I mean, she won Wimbledon, she has a good serve, heavy strokes. Yeah, she's hitting the ball very strong.

 Q. And you mentioned you're going to have a rest. Do you have any specific plans for holiday or... 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm gonna stay here a few days. Obviously -- I don't know how, if there's a theoretic chance for me to qualify out of the group or not. I have no idea. 
 Okay. It depends on this match. So gonna wait and see. Yeah. 

 Q. What would you rate your body, the way you feel today? Was it like 30%? 50%? I mean, where is your health level?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: That's tough to put a percentage on it. I mean, I just didn't feel like, you know, my brain -- what I told my brain didn't really go to my body. So it was like it didn't react the way I wanted. I tried to pump myself up a little bit, but it was difficult because it just didn't do anything. 
 You know, I have no idea how the match would have been otherwise. I'm not gonna say, you know, I would have won the match, because Kvitova is a great player and she's been playing very well.
 She's playing some very strong tennis at the moment. I mean, she's hitting the ball deep and hard and has a good serve. She goes for her shots. 
 So, I mean, she definitely deserves to have won the last two matches, and, you know, I think she's playing very well.

 Q. When did you not start feeling 100%? Was it today?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Today, yeah. 

 Q. And some players seem to be built for indoor tennis. Is she one of those players? Without the wind and the sun, some players can find their groove easier than others. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think because she has so heavy shots and because she has a good serve, I think of course it helps her because there's no distractions, nothing. 
 But at the same time, I have to say I like to play indoors, as well. Growing up I was playing indoors most of the time, so, you know, it's nice not to have to think about the sun or the wind.

 Q. You started off the year really well winning Dubai, Charleston, and so on. But the second half of your year has been much less good. What would you say that's due to?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's been fine. I was in the semifinals of the US Open, I won New Haven, and quarterfinals of Beijing. I think that's fine.
 You know, as a tennis player, you can't play -- you can't reach the finals -- well, unless you're called Novak Djokovic, you can't really reach the finals every single tournament you play, but it's tough. It will always go up and down.
 But, you know, I finished the year as No. 1, which is a great achievement. It means I have been playing very well all year.

 Q. On Djokovic, he tweeted you yesterday, congratulating you on your world No. 1 ranking. Do you talk to him a lot? Do you see each other much when you are in Monaco?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes, I do. He lives pretty much right next door, so we see each other quite a bit. And there are two hard courts in the country club. I mean, we practice next to each other and with each other. So, yeah, I see him quite a bit when we're there. 

 Q. You have a mathematical possibility that you could still qualify and make the semifinals. What are you going to do over the course of the next 24 hours? Just focus on that? It's kind of a weird situation to be in at a tennis tournament to kind of wait around to see if you're in the next round. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, right now there's nothing I can do, so actually I'm just gonna relax, probably just be in bed a little bit and then try and sleep a little bit and rest and we see what happens. 

 Q. Earlier you said that you like playing indoors, but over the last couple of years the WTA has kind of moved a lot of the indoor courts in the space of Beijing and Tokyo. Do you miss those big tournaments indoors like Zurich and all of those? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, to be honest, when I started playing full time on tour, those tournaments were not really there anymore. I mean, I think I might have played Zurich once, but I never played Linz. 
 You know, I was never there when there was -- I heard there was four big tournaments in a row or three big tournaments in a row indoor. I wasn't there. 
 So, you know, yeah, just -- I just grew up playing those tournaments in Tokyo and Beijing, and I think Asia is a big market and it's important to promote tennis there, as well. 

 Q. Regardless of whether you're eliminated or not, you're planning a couple of days in Istanbul. Can you go a little further on that? Have you got any commitments with Turkish Airlines, for instance?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. Do I? I have one on Monday? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: On Monday. 

 Q. Any idea of what you might be able to do on your other Istanbul days?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, I don't know. I'm sure I'm just gonna try to become 100%, and then hopefully I'll feel fine and probably go do some sightseeing maybe. I don't know. I haven't thought so far.

 Q. Have you talked much with the others about Istanbul's legendary market and bartering for stuff? Is that something you might be interested in doing if you feel well enough?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I haven't really talked to all the players about that. Well, I'm sure I would -- yeah. I mean, when you're here, I'm sure you have to do some of the traditional stuff.

 Q. Victoria said you brought her Monaco residence card here with you. Can you tell the story behind that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, so Novak lives on one side of me and Victoria lives on the other side of me. So I have two great neighbors.
 And I was just in Monaco before I came here, and she got her Monaco residence card while I was there, and she asked me if I could bring it here for her. 
 I actually -- I had it -- the first couple of days I had it on me. And every time I was somewhere around, I was trying to look for her. She wasn't there. And then when I saw her, then I didn't have the card on me. So it took a few days for me to actually give it to her, but she finally got it.

 Q. Is it normal that you could bring that to someone? They don't have to pick it up themselves?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: This one, yes, because -- yeah. I'm a close friend, and so, I mean, they allowed me to pick it up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT