TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 26, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. ZVONAREVA/C. Wozniacki
  6-2, 4-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Caroline, please. 

 Q. Congratulations. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Thank you.

 Q. I have a question: What's more important right now, this or what happened on the court?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Right now? This. (Smiling.)
You know, it's amazing for me to finish the year as No. 1 once more. I mean, only very few players have finished a year as No. 1, and to do it two years in a row is very special. I'm only in the beginning of my career, and, you know, to have achieved so much already, it's a dream come true.
 Of course, the match today I would like to have won, but at the same time, I still have a chance tomorrow. Right now I'm just so happy that -- I mean, I've been playing most consistent and the best tennis the whole year.

 Q. So you knew before going on court that you were... 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I did not know.

 Q. Oh, you didn't?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.

 Q. Are you feeling tired right now? I mean, yesterday, today, and tomorrow you'll have a game?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I like to play long matches. I like to give the crowd a little bit for their money. (Smiling.)
 Five hours of tennis in two days, that's perfect. It's good conditioning. I need to keep in shape because when I go on holiday I probably won't do too much. I just make sure my shape is still okay. 

 Q. Actually we don't usually see tennis games like this in Istanbul. So what do you think about the audience and the Turkish supporters?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's very good support here. There's been a lot of people here the first couple of days, and the atmosphere in the stadium is really nice. 
 I have a lot of supporters here, as well. I'm sure that the Turkish Airlines commercial have been running quite a bit here. 
 I think that a lot of people here knows who I am, and it's nice to get the support. And also when I go out on court, it's amazing, the feeling. Yeah, just the buzz that there is when I go out.

 Q. When Pete Sampras retired, one of the things that he pushed for was to finish year-end world No. 1. I think it was six times. Do you think it's something that people don't really look at and sort of recognize the true importance of?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I think that people do realize the true importance of it. You know, if you ask any little girl or any little boy that everyone will know what it means to be No. 1. Maybe not everyone will understand what a Grand Slam, what a tournament, what Indian Wells, Miami is, because you have to be into tennis to know that, but everyone will know, if you're No. 1, that means you've done something remarkable. 
 Yeah, it's something everyone would like to -- when you start the season, everyone starts from zero pretty much, and everyone's dream or everyone's goal is to be No. 1. 
 So, for me, this is a very special moment.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT