TEB BNP PARIBAS WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Radwanska
  5-7, 6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Caroline, please.   
  
  Q. That was a battle out there, huh?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was a tough battle out there. Agnieszka has been playing very well lately. It was a good match today, as well. We had a lot of long rallies.   
 I'm very happy to pull through. It was a bit frustrating not to get the first set after having three set points, but I managed to keep my head cool, and, yeah, just fight back.  
  
  Q. Is that becoming more of a trademark of yours, just being able to put the past behind you, fighting it and gutting it out?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think I've always just been able to focus on one point at a time, and, yeah, just keep going and try not to think about what has happened but just trying to move forward.  
  
  Q. What was your dad telling you? He came out several times.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, he just said, You need to keep deciding where you should play the ball. You should be the one deciding and just keep going. You're playing well. Agnieszka is playing well, as well, and step into the court a little bit.  
  
  Q. So dictate more?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, exactly.  
  
  Q. Stacey yesterday spoke a little bit about the idea of the women's tournament and the men's year-ender all taking place at the same time possibly in the future. What would you think about that? Would you support that? Or do you think the women should stay separate?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I think that would be great. Just not in December. They should definitely cut their season if that was to happen, but I think that would be a good idea, a nice idea.  
  
  Q. You don't think it would detract from the women's tour at all?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I mean, I think we have -- we have some very good players and some very big names, as well, so I think it's -- obviously they have Rafa and Roger and Novak and Murray really dictating most of it, but at the same time we have -- I mean, you can just see out there today we also have a lot of fans coming and watching us.  
  
  Q. So how would you compare this venue to Doha where you've also played? Can you describe how it's different or not?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's much different. Indoor events are always a bit different. The atmosphere is very nice here. It's a lot of people coming. It's a huge crowd. It's very nice.   
 Doha was nice because everything was very close, the hotel and the pool. And the team was lying by the pool the whole day while I was maybe preparing for the matches. And the warm weather. It's kind of different, but, I mean, I think both places are really nice.   
  
  Q. The court surface, it's I guess kind of slow or sticky? How would you describe it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's a little bit different because it's slow but it doesn't bounce high, and it's sticky, so you need to -- you feel it in the legs.   
 And, as well, it's a little bit uneven sometimes, but, I mean, for me I like it. You just need to be prepared for longer matches.  
  
  Q. In your mind, what was the difference in the match today? Obviously you came back in the third set. What was the key to the match today, the win?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, well, in a match like this, it's always small key points and small things that make a difference. I mean, yeah, I won some of the most important points in the third set, and, yeah, I just kept focusing on the one point at a time.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT