CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. PENNETTA/C. Wozniacki
  3-6, 6-0, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What do you want to say about the match you just had? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it was a tough match and we had a lot of good rallies. Of course it's disappointing to lose, especially when you have your chances like I had.
 But, you know, Flavia is a good player. She played very well today. So, yeah, I mean, I'll try to do better next time. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Will you participate in another tournament or simply wait for the year-end Championships? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, now, I mean, I have the year-end Championships to look forward to, so I'm going to go back and practice a little bit and then play in Istanbul. 

 Q. Despite you lose the match, I find out you have changed your skills, such as you have many winners. That seems to be the progress in your skills. So is that kind of idea from your coach? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, no. I just played the same way I always played. You know, I'm just doing everything I can to try to win the match.
 If it's to get a lot balls back or to make winners, yeah, I mean, I play the way I have to to try to win. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Last year in Tokyo as well as in Beijing you won the championship. This year, you stopped in the quarterfinals. Comment on your season. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: My season has been good: I won 6 tournaments and I'm still No. 1 in the world. No, it's still a good season. 

 Q. As we all know, this is first time you lost to Flavia Pennetta. That's wonderful match. But you are the defending champion at China Open last year, and this year you lost the game. The rest of your match is in Istanbul, right? So what's your preparation for Istanbul and defending your world No. 1 ranking at the end of the year? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm just going to go home and practice and prepare for Istanbul and go out there and do my best. 

 Q. (Through translation.) In this match, in the third set you broke Flavia when she was trying to serve out the match, but you did not hold your own service game. How would you comment on your performance for the day?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Again, I did my best today. It just wasn't good enough. I had my chances and didn't take them. Of course it's disappointing right now. 

 Q. (Through translation.) You have been playing in Grand Slams for years, and what do you think is the major difference between the four Grand Slams and the China Open? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, the four Grand Slams have all the tradition has there for so many years. It's just different. 
 Of course China Open is a big tournament, and it's as mandatory tournament for us, but Grand Slams are always Grand Slams. 

 Q. You appeared to be staging quite a comeback there and then you just sort of faded off. Was it just fatigue or were you just outplayed? Were you feeling tired at all?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. Um, you know, I had 6-5, 30-Love and I should have closed the match off. But, you know, yeah, I don't know. Flavia played some good points at that time, and I just made a few wrong decisions and the match can change.
 So, you know, it's unlucky. One time it goes one way and another time it goes the other way. I've won against Flavia also I think it was -- I can't remember. I think either it was 7-6 in the third or 6-7, 7-6, 6-4 or something where it was also a very tough match. 
 So, you know, yeah, I knew that it was going to be tough out there today. Just didn't manage to pull the win all the way through. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT