CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/K. Kanepi
  6-3, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. (Through translation.) We heard that you had a big cake the China Open organizing committee specially prepared for to you to celebrate the one-year anniversary of you becoming world No. 1. How did you feel about it? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, the cake was very nice. (Smiling.) It was really nice of the WTA and the tournament to make that cake for me. I mean, one year anniversary, it's a big deal to me. It's have fun to be back and great to be playing on this stadium.

 Q. The match was really intense, especially in the second set. Are you happy with the way you played tonight? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I'm happy about the way I played. I think it was high level, and Kaia is a good player as well. You know, she's been I think 15 or 16 in the world, so I knew it was going to be a tough match also after losing again her last week.
 I was really happy to get this win and to get my revenge. 

 Q. You're the only top 10 player left in the competition now. Does that fill you with an added bit of confidence? How does that help your psychology?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I don't really think about it. I mean, there are so many good players on the tour nowadays, and you need to play well every time to win. 
 I'm just taking one match at a time. Flavia - I think it's Flavia I am playing, I was told - she's a tough opponent and it's not going to be easy.
 Just taking one match at a time. 

 Q. Stacey Allaster said yesterday that any player from top 40 can beat world No. 1 on any given day. Considering how your opponent played in the second set, do you think it is the case, that it could be go other way if your opponent won second set?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think what she meant with that comment is there are so many good players out there. You know, you have to play well every match to win. It's not like you go out on court and it's a walkover because you're No. 1 or No. 5 or No. 10 in the world.
 Maybe, I don't know, 20, 30 years ago you knew that the top 10 were going to be in the quarterfinals every single time; it's not like that anymore. 
 You know, it's great to be out there. You know that you've worked hard. I just fight for every point, and I'm happy that I am where I am. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT