CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/J. Gajdosova
  6-2, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Are you happy with your performance tonight? Talk about the match a little bit, please.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I started off pretty well. You know, the most important thing is that you win.  
 You know, I played her last week, so I knew how she was going to play. It wasn't an easy match, so, yeah, I'm just happy to be through to the next round and be into the third one.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) In this match your opponent has committed 8 double faults and 19 unforced errors. Comment on your opponent.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I'm just thinking about myself, to be honest. I won the match, and that's what the main thing is. If the opponent makes hundred winners and zero unforced errors, as long as I win, it doesn't matter which way the opponent plays.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) This year in China Open, the three Grand Slam winners have all exited. What is your opinion about such a situation? What do you think is the reason, the cause?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's a sport. I mean, one day you win; another day you lose. One tournament you win, you play unbelievable; the next tournament you play not so good.  
 But that's life, you know. I mean, everyone is a good player who's playing here, so it's not like, okay, I won a Grand Slam, I'm No. 1 in the world, put me straight in the finals.   
 Often in the media you get the question, Oh, so, you know, Caroline in the semifinals you're going to play this girl, and I'm not even laying my first round yet.  
 So that's why I always only look one match at a time.  
  
  Q. When you were in the second set and leading 3-2, your coach came to you and said something. Can you tell us what it is? I only understand, Come on, go. The other part, please?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I think he just said, you know, Keep playing; you shouldn't let her dictate too much; go in and try and take the ball a little earlier.   
 I think that's pretty much it.  
  
  Q. (Through translation.) Next opponent is Kanepi. In Pacific Open you encountered and played each other. Do you have the confidence to beat here in this year's China Open?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I played her last week and I lost to her in three sets. I had chances. But, you know, next match is a new match. We start from 0-0, and I'll go out there and fight what I have and hopefully it will be enough.   
  
  Q. We know that Rory is supposed to play some golf tournaments next week in Shanghai. Do you know maybe or do you know is he going to show up at the weekend in Beijing to watch you play maybe final on Sunday?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, let me put it this way: I hope he's not coming, because he's playing in Korea this week. Hopefully he will make the cut and do well. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. Just staying on this subject, there have been some reports today that some pundits fear this Rory's punishing schedule that's now planned for the next few months may lead to a bit of burnout. His managers have denied that. Not wanting to pry into your personal life, but as professional athletes, do you discuss the scheduling and how you cope and so forth?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, of course, but Rory is still very young. You know, I'm 100% sure that he will enjoy playing to the tournaments he's playing. He has some weeks in between, which is nice. You know, it's not like in a tennis tournament if you do well you play from Monday until Sunday.   
 There you play in Thursday to Sunday. So even if he would win, let's hope, you know, every event, then he would still have some days in between, which will be nice.  
 I think, yeah, I think he enjoys playing, and I think the schedule he has is good for him. Obviously if he feels tired then he will skip an event. I guess he's feeling good. So just about playing and trying to win as much as possible.   
  
  Q. Just about the racquets, have you sent him any special racquets, and will you be using the club that he sent you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, definitely, you know, I think they're pretty cool. The racquets are not ready yet. He has racquets right now, but he needs to change to the real ones. I'm sure that will help his game.   
 I'm not sure how much a good club will help my golf game. At least I'll have the right equipment and look pretty cool.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT