CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Great to see you back?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Thank you.

 Q. Seems that you're now working with your dad again in Tokyo; is that correct? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I've been working with my dad all the time. So, yeah, I mean, I get some input from the outside, but nothing has really changed. I am working with my dad like always.

 Q. One thing we are very curious about is the secret weapon you talk about at the US Open. So can you tell who the person is?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I cannot. 

 Q. So you're not still working with him? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Sorry? 

 Q. You're still working with the separate coach?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm still working with someone that gives me a bit of input from the outside. 

 Q. How would you describe your strategy going into this competition? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, to be honest, I just think about playing my own game and go out there and fight for every point. You know, it's just how I always play. I know if I play up to my best it's tough to beat me. I just try to keep my level up. 

 Q. I'm a student journalist. Firstly, I would like to show you a picture. Remember this?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes. 

 Q. Was your experience last year in China Open a great memory for you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Of course. I mean, I reached No. 1 ranking for the first time here, and it definitely brings back good memories. It's a tournament that I will never forget because it's one of the highs of my career.
 You know, reaching a No. 1 ranking is always something special and not a lot people have done it, so definitely thinking back on Beijing last year it's a great memory.

 Q. It was a sunny moment for me, too. We wish you a great fantastic experience in China Open this year. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Thank you. 

 Q. Talking about the No. 1 ranking, it's highly possible you will get the No. 1 ranking for the second year in a row, the year-end ranking. Can you talk about what that means to you, what a big achievement?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I definitely hope that I will. After being so many weeks at No. 1, I wish to stay there until the end of the season and until the new year. That's definitely my goal. I will do everything to try to do well here and in Istanbul, and we have to see what happens. 
 Definitely that would be something amazing for me, because not only have I finished the year one time, but to finish it No. 1 two times in a row would be something very, very big for me. 
 So, you know, I'm going to keep fighting for the last weeks of the season. 

 Q. Beijing is your lucky place, and you attained your No. 1 spot last year here. You haven't won a Grand Slam title as No. 1, so do you think one more China Open title will mean more than that? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, you know, of course every time I go into a tournament I want to win it, I want to try to win it. You know, it's not going to be easy, and it's definitely going to mean a lot to me if I would win here. There are still a lot tough matches ahead of me, so we'll just to have wait and see what happens. 

 Q. You had a good time with our badminton champion this morning. Talk about your passion in other sports, like soccer, swimming and volleyball. Your mom played volleyball, right? How do you enjoy watching golf? It's a different sport, slow pace, and you're an active girl. How do you like golf? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I love sports in general. I'm a very big sports fan. It was fun today to meet your champion in badminton. Also I know that Denmark is very good in badminton as well and have had a lot of former No. 1s.
 You know, it's fun to follow. I like to play different sports, like football, and I did a lot of swimming before, volleyball as well. But golf is a different sport, a very mental sport. You don't realize until you start playing how difficult it really is and how mental it is. I enjoy to see that mental part of the game, because, you know, in golf especially -- in tennis it's a very mental sport. Everyone knows how to hit a forehand and a backhand, but the head is very important.
 In golf, I mean, you have the golf course, and you make one wrong shot and you're out in the trees and then you need to come back instead of being in the leader. Suddenly after one hole you can go down and it's mental, you know, how to get back and get back on track. I think that's very interesting.

 Q. Of all four Grand Slam winners of today, two of them are have marital life. Do you think that made their game different from you? And what's the key factor, do you think, that keeps you from winning a Grand Slam title?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think definitely the experience comes in. You know, Li Na had an amazing French Open and played very well. You know, Kim is a great player as well. You know, I think to win a Grand Slam you need to play well for two weeks, you need the experience, and you need some luck. 
 Yeah, I will just -- I didn't win one this year; I will try again next year. 

 Q. You become the world No. 1 last year here in Beijing. Looking back to last year's experience, would you mind highlight and lowlight a little bit of becoming world No. 1?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's only highlights. It's a dream come true to become No. 1 in the world. It was always something that I wanted since I started playing tennis and since I was a little girl. So to reach that here was something special for me. 
 It's nice to come back and look back at some of the pictures that were made here. So I'm very happy to be back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT