U.S. OPEN
September 10, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/C. Wozniacki
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did you ever feel at any point you were really getting your teeth in into the match, that you could turn it around?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I was definitely trying. You know, I never gave up. I was always trying just to play the next point, the next point.  
 But, you know, Serena just played very, very well today. You know, she's in great shape, serving well, returning well, playing her hard strokes. Especially that serve was just a killer. You know, I don't know how many aces she made out there today, but it's definitely not fun to be returning those first serves.  
  
  Q. There were times you looked like you couldn't believe they went by you.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I was just looking and I was hoping that they were going to go out, because, you know, I felt like, yeah, I couldn't do too much. She served really precise and really hard, and, you know, it was just too good today.  
  
  Q. Is there any way to prepare for her power when you don't face it that often or at all?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, there's definitely no one on the tour who is playing with as much power as she is and serving as well as she is.  
 You know, just gonna try again next time and try to do better. Yeah, today she was just better than me. I have to accept that and just go back on the practice court and try to improve a few things and then try again next time.  
  
  Q. What exactly would you like to improve?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, a bit of everything, to be honest. But, you know, it's definitely the first couple of shots in the rally that makes the difference, the serve, the returns, the first shot after that.  
 You know, Serena's great at that.  
  
  Q. Do you think there's anything that Sam Stosur can do in the final to try to make a match?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She definitely would have to serve well. She definitely needs to get a lot of first serves in and serve well and try just to go for her shots.  
 But I still think Serena has the edge, and I still think that Serena will win tomorrow.  
  
  Q. With the Grand Slam season over, you're the prize money leader and the ranking points leader. You've had more titles by far. Do you think it's been a successful year for you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's definitely been a successful year for me. I cannot complain. I won six titles. I have made two semifinals of Grand Slams. I'm No. 1 in the world, No. 1 in the race. I'm healthy, which is very important.   
 So I'm just ready to take up the next couple of challenges that are due this year, and then three more tournaments and then I'm done. I can relax a bit and prepare for next year.  
  
  Q. Do you feel No. 1 right now after being out there with her?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I'm still No. 1 in the ranking and No. 1 in the race. No one can take that away from me for now. I still think Serena played unbelievable today and she's a great champion. You know, I really respect her both on and off the court.  
  
  Q. What is it about her that allows her to be able to -- she missed so much time on the tour. This is only her sixth tournament back, and looks like she's right there again. How is she able to do that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I don't think I could do that. I like to play matches and get into that rhythm, but Serena has the experience. She's so tough mentally, as well.  
 She has the power to overpower us. You know, I think you have to ask her. What she's done since her comeback is great. I mean, even before that. I mean, 13 Grand Slam titles is unbelievable. Maybe 14 tomorrow. Maybe not. We'll have to see.  
  
  Q. Can you describe what it's like when she has that serve going on all cylinders and she's just attacking, what that is like to be feeling the ferocity of that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, it's kind of like, okay, you feel like you're in the game, you're in the game, and then bam, bam, you're not in the game anymore. (Laughter.)  
 You know, it feels like you're getting close, and then she serves some good serves. Or she starts off with three good serves and then you try to come back; it's 40-30, and then get she makes a good serve. So it's tough with that big of a weapon.  
 Again, you know, you need to take every chance you have and try to just go for it. You know, I lost today. Again, it's one match. I'll hopefully get a lot of chances in the future, as well.   
  
  Q. You talked about how your game is your game and you can't radically overhaul or change it. You do a lot of things well. Do you think to be able to challenge somebody like Serena with that power you're really going to have to find a way to beef up the power on your own serve? What's your thinking about that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, well, I definitely -- again, I need to -- to beat Serena I need to serve and return well, get a lot of balls in play, and then when we get to the rallies, you know, it's a bit different.   
 But, you know, you need to go for your shots, you need to go for your serves, but also get a lot of first serves in. Because you don't want to make an easy second serve and then she goes in and attacks.  
 So, you know, you need to find that balance.  
  
  Q. Did she come to the net more than you expected?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I don't know. I didn't really...   
  
  Q. Didn't feel that way?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT