U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Petkovic
  6-1, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. If you could first of all just assess the way you played today. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm just happy to be in the semifinals once again here. A little bit of different conditions today compared to what I've been used to.
 You know, today I was just, it was just to get through, basically.

 Q. Can you talk about what it was like to play out there? When is the last time you played in a court like that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it was in -- I can't remember. (Smiling.)
 You know, it was much different definitely. I mean, the court was a bit faster, I felt. I felt the ball was not jumping as high. Of course it's just -- you feel a bit different because the crowd, they are sitting closer. 
 But again, you know, it's a quarterfinals of a slam, so you go out there. The court is the same no matter where you play, at least the measurements. You know, you just have to play inside the lines and over the net.
 Yeah, I won, so that's the most important thing, and the next match I will be playing here.

 Q. Do you have any disappointment at all though that you're the No. 1 seed here and you're on Court 13? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, Andy Roddick was playing on Court 13, as well. I heard somebody say the last nine years he hasn't been playing on any other courts than this one. 
 So, yeah, you know, if he's not complaining, I'm not complaining, either.

 Q. Do you have any thoughts on the schedule change? Looks like the semis will be Saturday night and the finals Sunday. Do you like that? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I actually just heard about it just a few minutes ago. You know, doesn't matter. I'll just go out there and play. I mean, I'm sure they will give us some good times to play on. That's the most important thing. 
 We will have a rest day tomorrow, which will be nice. We can just go out and chill and relax and enjoy the city a bit.

 Q. Did you like the intimacy of having the crowd on top of you and loud and sort of like a junior match from years ago?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It actually reminded me of juniors, to be honest. I think the last time I played on this court was in the doubles or juniors. I prefer to play on this one, definitely. I don't want to go back to juniors. (Smiling).
 Hopefully I can keep my level up so that I can be playing in here for many more years to come.

 Q. I know you were kind of young when 9/11 happened. Do you have any memories of your experience and where you were when that happened?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. I was actually practicing, and I was going home from practice and my brother was in his room. His room was on the first floor when you went in. He was watching TV.

 Q. Here in New York?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, in Denmark. I'm like asking him, What are you watching? What movie is that? He's like, It's not a movie. It's happening. 
 Me and my dad were like, No, come on. Stop joking. It's not funny. We were like changing the channels and it was just on every channel it pretty much showed the same thing. We were pretty much shocked what was going on.
 We have quite a few friends here, so we called them and asked if everyone was okay. And, you know, the people I knew here, they were all safe. But, you know, still, so many people died. 
 9/11 is coming up Sunday, so, yeah, I mean, 10 years. It's gone past very fast.

 Q. With the schedule changes, you might be playing that final match on 9/11. Talk about the poignancy of going out in a New York showcase theater and playing on the 10-year anniversary of 9/11. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, first I need to win my semifinals.

 Q. I know that. Let's just say that you do. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I'm sure -- I mean, there will definitely be -- I'm sure that they will do a big thing out of it and definitely do one-minute of silence and just remember everybody who was affected that day.
 You know, we will go out there and -- you know, definitely everyone remembers that day and what happened. So, you know, definitely before the match it's gonna be definitely a big thing.
 But, you know, when you're playing you just want to focus on that. That's what our focus is gonna be on.

 Q. You played Serena twice, and the first time in Sydney 2009 before you became sort of a big player; I think it was 7-6 in the third. Can you talk about your memories of what you thought about going on court against like a great champion, and then just the match and how intense it was and all that. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, back then I didn't know Serena very well off court. You know, I'd watched her play on TV for many years. Just growing up I was watching her play. 
 Definitely back then it was a little bit intimidating to play against these players like Serena, venus, Martina Hingis. I played some of these girls I watched growing up.
 But I had a very good match against her. I had match points. I didn't take them. I didn't close out the match. But it was a good one, you know, and I definitely learned from that. 
 But, again, it's quite a long time ago already, so, you know, it's gonna be a different match out there. She's playing great. I think she's in great shape. She's been proving that she's back on fire.
 I'm excited to be out there and play, and hopefully it will be a good match.

 Q. This is the first time you're playing her since you were No. 1. There has been so many questions about your rise. Do you think you can answer a lot of questions in that match on Saturday?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I don't care. I don't care what people think and say or do. I care about what I know best. I go out there, and what I care about is that I give 100% every time.
 You win a match, you lose a match sometimes. It's sports. I know I'm going out there and playing a great champion. She hasn't won 13 Grand Slams for nothing. She's been out there on the big stage many times. 
 I'm No. 1 in the world at the moment and I've been playing well and I have had a great year. You know, both have nothing to lose. We'll just go out there, and hopefully will be a good battle. That's all that matters, you know, that I give it my all. After the match we'll see how good that was.

 Q. She was asked in her press conference about an hour ago what she thought your greatest strength was, and she said the fact that you just never give up. Talk about that quality in yourself, and also if you could assess what you think her greatest strengths are. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I definitely never give up. I always fight to the last point. I believe the match is never over until the last ball has been played.
 Her biggest strength is definitely also her fighting spirit, and, you know, she's -- her experience now after playing so many years on the tour, it's definitely, you know, being in these situations a lot of times definitely -- you know how it is. You know, how it feels. 
 You know, she's just a great competitor, a great athlete in general. You know, the thing is, I really respect her as a tennis player, but also as a person. You know, I think it's important to -- you know, I really like her as a girl, as well. I think that's very important.
 I think everyone has a tennis career and everyone, you know, try their best. Certain people reach No. 1; others, maybe their highest is 50, 60. 
 But the most important thing is that you shouldn't be changing as a person. I feel Serena is grounded down to earth and a funny girl, and I respect that.

 Q. Do you consider her a role model in any way?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. She's definitely a role model. She's showing how to fight, how to compete on the court. Yeah, I mean, winning big matches, and also off the court she's a great role model showing that, you know, you should respect others and enjoy life.

 Q. You have often said you like big challenges. Going out Saturday night for you, given your status and how well you're playing, it is a huge challenge, no?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It is, but I enjoy playing out there. I enjoy playing the night match. I enjoy the atmosphere. You know, I feel I always play best when there's something big, when something big is going on. 
 You know, this is what you practice for. This is what you want. You don't want to play on practice Court 15 or, you know, out on the small courts. You want to play in here. You want to play in front of a full crowd.
 I'm excited about that. 

 Q. You, of course, are well known for interviewing Caroline Wozniacki. If you had to ask Wozniacki one question after her run at New Haven and here in New York on the eve of these big matches coming up, what could you come up with? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You really put me on the spot there. (Smiling).

 Q. What are you going to see tomorrow at the movies? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, me and my brother have this tradition here that we go watch a movie every second night pretty much, because I have been playing -- I have been lucky to play a few night matches and a day in between. 
 So I'd like to go out and watch a comedy. I have been watching Horrible Bosses, which is very funny. Then we watched -- what did we watch? What was the second movie? The Orgy. I mean, that could be misunderstood and I made sure to clarify that on my Twitter, as well. 
 But it was very funny. I think the last movie I think we saw the day before yesterday was Stupid Crazy Love. That was hilarious. Yeah, I like to get a good laugh. Definitely these comedies are making me laugh, so I'm looking for another one. Any suggestions? What to watch? Has anyone been at the movies lately? 

 Q. This movie, the Devil's Double, about Saddam Hussein's son is pretty intense. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Oh, yeah? Okay. 

 Q. Bridesmaids. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Bridesmaids is funny. 

 Q. You have always been popular in Europe. You're gaining much popularity here in the States. You like a good laugh. You give everybody a good laugh. What's it mean to you to gain this popularity in this country?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think already a few years ago when I reached the finals I think a lot of people started to know who I was. You know, I just like to be myself, and a lot of people like the way I am. It's great to have the support and the fans. It's always nice to be out on the court and hear people screaming your name and be cheering you on. It's really nice. 
 You know, the U.S. is a big country, so, you know, I'm still -- I'm sure that I can still gain a lot of fans here. 

 Q. Can you be yourself at No. 1? Is it tougher to be yourself at No. 1 than it would be at a lower rank?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. No, I mean, I'm still myself. I'm the same that I've always been. I think that's important. You just have to watch out sometimes what you do because you don't realize, but a lot of times there are cameras. 
 You get recorded even though you don't know, so sometimes you just need to think twice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT