CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/A. Sevastova
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Throughout this tournament, in the beginning you said it was nice to finally feel like you were finding your form.  You didn't drop a set.  Did you feel like this was possible at the beginning?  Did you feel good coming into this tournament, that this is a potential outcome?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I didn't feel great going into the tournament, to be honest.  But I think after kind of the second match I started feeling like I was hitting the ball well and I could see the ball really well.  By the third match, I thought I played really great tennis.  Then I started believing that, you know, I'm really hitting my form, playing myself into shape.
It worked out well.
Q. That's 30 titles now.  Did you expect to get anywhere near that number when you started your career?  As a second part, how many more have you got left, do you think?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  That's a tough question.  I'm just happy to have reached 30 today.  I'm going to enjoy that.
You know, as a little kid, I had a dream of becoming a professional tennis player, becoming No. 1 in the world.  Then after No. 1 in the world, I wanted to win a slam, then I wanted to lift trophies.  Having done everything, all of that, it's pretty amazing.
I think I had a dream of that, but I don't know how realistic I really believed that was going to be.  I have great family and friends that supported me all the way along the way.  Even when I sometimes doubted it, they always believed in me.
I think that's amazing.
Q. If we divide the season into four periods, your results are always better in the last.  What do you think made the difference?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I enjoy playing here.  It's a good surface for me, it's a great tournament.  You have to beat amazing players along the way to get far here.  I'm just happy with my game.
Q. As you said yesterday, she's a tricky player, slices it up, she can be a tough one to sometimes solve.  You've always had success against her before today.  Even when it got a little tricky in the second set, what was able to keep you ahead?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know really.  I just at one point was like, You know what, just try to make her move, try and do something, keep the margins slightly bigger, then wait for your chance.
But, you know, she's a really tricky opponent.  At some point if you don't feel your absolute best, she can really make you doubt your shots.  She doesn't give you two balls with the same pace.  That's what makes it tricky.
I'm happy with the win, and I'm going to take it, for sure.
Q. This is the second time you won here.  What is your memory about last time, eight years ago?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes, I've been told many times (smiling).
Last time was different.  I was 20 years old.  I became No. 1 in the world here for the first time.  They didn't have this stadium yet.  It was the other stadium that I played on.  A lot has happened since then.
I think I just really appreciate still being here, playing well, being able to win these titles.  It really means a lot to me.
Q. Your next stop should be Singapore.  Does winning here give you confidence?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I feel like I'm playing well.  I think it's obviously very difficult in Singapore.  It's going to be the top players.  You have to play extremely well.
But this week definitely gives me a lot of confidence.  I feel like I'm playing the way I want to be playing right now.
Q. I think you must be in a good mood right now, so are you going to watch the game between Liverpool and Manchester City tonight?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's a huge game.  Unfortunately I'll be on a plane, so I'm leaving tonight.  I won't be able to watch it.  I'm going to be sending positive vibes their way.
Q. Do you think Liverpool can win the match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I do.  I believe that they can.  But obviously City has amazing players, they've been playing really well, very aggressively.  It's not going to be easy.
But I believe in them.
Q. Thinking back to your great form in Australia when you won there, how does this level this week compare to that, if you can compare them?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think Australia, just generally the whole tournament, it's a little bit of a blur until the finals.  I saved match points in that second round, could have been out, but ended up winning the whole event.
I think what I remember from that tournament is my feelings and emotions that I was going through throughout the whole week.  The finals, I think I played extremely well, probably some of my best tennis.
This week, it was just kind of like slow and steady wins the race, every day just kind of getting better and better.  It's a little bit of a different two tournaments because, yeah, one I almost was out, then managed to win, and this one I won in two sets all week, just kind of played my way into it.
Q. You are an exceptional tennis player.  You are really good in long distance running.  Are these two related?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know if long distance running and tennis is related.  Obviously I have a lot of confidence when we play those long matches that I can keep my level.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT