NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 27, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/P. Cetkovska
  6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Caroline. 

 Q. Four in a row here, 17 in a row. Talk about your run here, what it means to you. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's a great tournament for me. I love being back here, I said it before. I just have a good momentum every time I play here. The balls are good. The tournament is nice. You always play better when you like to be around a tournament. 
 I'm really pleased to be in the situation. Win four straight times in a row, it's really unbelievable. I still can't really believe I've been here four times already. Feel like the time is flying by. 

 Q. What do you expect next week in New York? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, definitely I feel like I'm hitting the ball well. I'm on a good roll. I'm looking forward to the Open next week. 

 Q. Can you talk about the weather delays today. Were you watching the coverage of the hurricane? Were you aware it might have to go indoors?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was like, okay, it looks like it's going to start raining, let's go indoors so we can go to New York. We got a window and were able to finish. It was nice to play outside, in front of the crowd. It was nice.

 Q. Talk about heading down to New York with the hurricane so close. Any concerns? Thoughts of flying out for a couple days or maybe staying here? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: We're checking the radars all the time. It looks okay now that it's okay to go down there. We're going to be safe inside tonight.

 Q. The first set was pretty tough. After you took that set, did you get a sense she lost focus or got a little down?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was important for me to start well in the second set, just to get a little bit of a lead. Then I just kept my focus, didn't let her back in. 

 Q. School of thought out there that maybe you play too many tournaments. Is that a fair criticism, maybe not concentrating on the Grand Slams? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Everyone is an individual. I play the tournaments I feel like I want to play. 

 Q. Can you talk about having Rory here this week and what that meant. Did his support here help you at all? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's nice support, definitely. It's nice to have him on the sideline. It's great. 
 But when you're on the court, you think about the yellow ball. That's what is most important at that point. 

 Q. When you win a tournament, do you just automatically believe you're going to come back and defend it or is it something you won't know till next year?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, so many things can happen in a year. But definitely this is a tournament that I like to play. I love coming back here. 

 Q. Have you talked to Venus Williams? She's the only other player to have done this. Have you talked to her at all? What does it mean to you to be in that company?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's an amazing company to be in. Venus is a great champion. The same with Navratilova has done it before, and Steffi Graf, from what I've heard. To be in that company is an amazing feeling. 
 I haven't texted Venus yet. I'm sure I'll get a talk from her, a pep talk, at the US Open. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT