NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 26, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/F. Schiavone
  7-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Caroline.   
  
  Q. Going to the finals. How do you feel?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It feels great. I'm happy to be in another finals here. It's a great tournament for me. I'm happy to be through. Francesca is a tough opponent. We had some good rallies out there, one of them where we both kind of stretched all we could, and I came out on top. Very important point in the first set.   
 You know, I'm happy to be there in the finals.   
  
  Q. What happened to your leg? Is it going to be okay for the Open and the finals tomorrow?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, yeah, it will be fine. I did it for protection because I started feeling it a little bit in my groin. But it was more so it didn't get worse. I just wanted to wrap it up and make sure it didn't get worse.  
  
  Q. Just a little pull?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Just a little strain. But I'll be fine. There's no worries.   
  
  Q. What is it about this court, this place? 16-0 is amazing. You've never lost here.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's just the atmosphere. The court suits me really well, the speed of the court, the balls. Just doing a great job making me feel at home. I think it also helps your confidence when you've won here a few times already.  
  
  Q. On the other side of that, can it add pressure when you see what Novak went through at the beginning of this year up to the French Open, had all those wins without a loss, sort of felt a little bit relieved in one sense after the French. Does it also add pressure when you're on a win streak like that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really. You know, it's a good position to be in. I like to win. I like to be out there and compete and win my matches. That's why I practice so hard.   
 You have to lose once in a while. It's sports. But just come back on top again and keep going. If you work hard, and you believe in yourself, it can only go one way.  
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about the celebration at the end. The football team came out again. There was Rory in the Yale jersey.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's funny. It's a good tradition to have, having the Yale football team there sitting in the back supporting. Unfortunately, I don't think I'll make it to their practice this time. That's also a tradition that we usually keep up.   
 But it's great. I love it. It's fun. They like it as well. So it's really cool.   
  
  Q. I think you broke at 4-3 in the second set. She had you 15-40, yet you battled back out of there. Do you feel that frustrated her to the point where the match was yours pretty much?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. You know, I had a lot of breakpoints out there. I don't know how many. But there were a lot I didn't take.   
 You know, I served pretty well on those points where she had breakpoint and I played pretty good points. You know, it goes one way one day, the other way another day. I'm just happy it went my way today.   
  
  Q. Talk about the one point that seemed to be the turning point in the match where you hit the dropshot, she hit it over your head, you somehow got it back.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, we had a good rally before that and then she made -- I tried to pass her at the net. Somehow she made the backhand volley. It kind of was going back towards the net. I just grabbed it, played a really good dropshot there. She made it. I didn't expect her to make a good lob over me. I was just like, Okay, you need to get it as high over the net as possible because otherwise you lost the point already. I already thought I lost it a few times. Yeah, then somehow I saw it was going in. Okay, I'm back in the point here.   
 It was a pretty important one because it was a breakpoint for 5-All. It was good to get that one.  
  
  Q. Have you kept in touch with any of the girls in New York and it feels relaxing for you to be here and not in the craziness they're going through in the next couple days?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, that's also one of the reasons I like playing here. It's crazy in Flushing Meadows right now with the quallies going on, with the limited practice courts, with so many men and women over there practicing.   
 Here you can get your court, playing or not playing. I've been lucky that I've been playing every day when I've been here. You can always get as much practice in as you want. You can get the matches before the Open. One of the reasons why I like coming back.  
  
  Q. Have you figured out what you're going to do through the hurricane?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not sure. First I'm thinking about the match tomorrow. Hopefully it won't rain. If it will, then we want to play it tomorrow so we can get down to New York. Then we have to see. Trying to figure out a plan where we can be safe, yeah.  
  
  Q. How much do you know about your opponent tomorrow? You've never played her.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I haven't thought about it too much. I don't know too much about her. But she obviously is playing good since she's been winning so many matches in a row right now and she beat Li Na, who is a great player.   
 To be honest, I think I will need to see tomorrow what I have to do. But most important is to believe in myself and my ability. If I play up to my best, the opponent really has to play well to beat me.   
  
  Q. Is that harder going into a match, never playing your opponent before?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's definitely different. It doesn't happen a lot. Of course, when there's young, upcoming players coming up, or once in a while like I'm playing a girl tomorrow, it's definitely different because you don't know too much about the girl. But at the same time it's the same thing for the other person, as well.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT