NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 25, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/C. McHale
  7-5, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Caroline.   
  
  Q. What was the difference between this week and last week?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was a different match, first of all. I played better today. But I think Christina played better today as well, actually.   
 You know, today I cut down a little bit on my unforced errors and I made a few more winners than I did last time. I went in there. I was determined. Now I knew how she was playing. Yeah, just went out there. I was like, I'll try not to lose twice in a row.   
 I went out there and won, so I'm pleased with that.  
  
  Q. Did it have anything to do with your comfort level at this tournament?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I definitely played better every match that I've played. I'm happy to get some matches here. It's a good preparation for me for the US Open. I like playing here. So that's definitely also something that helps.   
  
  Q. Can you explain your coaching situation going into the US Open. Where does all that stand?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, I don't want to talk too much about it because the other coach I've been working with, he doesn't want to have his name out. I have to respect that.   
 But my dad is still there. He's still my coach at these tournaments. Still going to be out and coaching me and being my support. But I'm getting some help from the sideline, as well.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the pink fingernail polish.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes. Actually, first of all, I think it's a very pretty color (smiling). Second of all, Anne asked me if I had something pink to wear for this tournament since we're raising money, Anne and the tournament, for breast cancer research. Since I didn't have anything to wear, I said, I have pink nail polish. I just took the color that I thought matched the best. I just wanted to show my support.   
 Also I've been out running four miles on the pink treadmill, so hopefully I can encourage other people to go run there, as well.  
  
  Q. Rory was out there on the treadmill today. He said it was okay if we refer to you as his girlfriend. He said it's nice to have somebody who understands what it is like to be out here?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's great to have him there. Like you said, it's great to have someone who understands. It's pretty unusual situation to be in at such a young age. Rory has achieved something very remarkable and great already, winning the U.S. Open at such a young age in golf. It's something unheard of.   
 It's just great helping each other to keep the feet on the ground, even though that's not so difficult. You know, it's nice to have him here.  
  
  Q. Has he given you any advice on how to get over the hump and win a major? Anything you can get from his U.S. Open win that might help you win your own US Open?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think we give each other some advice once in a while, you know, if there's something we're not quite sure of. It's just nice to get an opinion.   
 Yeah, it's nice.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about playing Francesca tomorrow.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I've had a lot of tough matches against Francesca. Last time I think it was in Brussels where we played three sets. I think we were at it for three hours.   
 Tomorrow will be another hopefully good match. I hope we can play on a high level. That will be great for both of us and for the tournament. So I'm excited to be out there playing another semifinals.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT