WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. McHALE/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you just give us your impressions of the match.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she played well. She played what she needed to do today. Of course disappointing rights now to have lost this match. I feel like I shouldn't, but it's tennis. It's just one week. I'll try to do better again next week.  
  
  Q. Have you felt good in practices coming into this week?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, felt good. Everything has been working well.   
 So, you know, just about getting it into the matches, so...   
  
  Q. Looking back on it now, is there anything you think you could have done differently?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously I could have done a lot of things differently. I probably would have.  
 But right now doesn't help, so just need to move forward and that's it.   
  
  Q. Because your week is ending earlier here than you expected, what are your plans between now and when New Haven starts next week?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I haven't thought about that yet. Probably go to New Haven and prepare there.  
  
  Q. Do you think there is anything that's changed in your game? You've lost more matches recently than you have in the past. Is there anything in your game that's slipped at all in?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It happens. You have good paths and you have some rough paths, but, you know, it's okay. I'm going to come back and I'm going to win a lot of matches as well in the future.   
  
  Q. Anything in particular she was doing that was troublesome for you today?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She served really at the important points. When I was 40-All going into set point or going to game for her, she came up with some good serves.   
 Yeah, you know, I made quite a few unforced errors as well that I shouldn't have.  
  
  Q. It was a pretty clean match. Not a lot of unforced errors.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Did you check the statistics? I think I made maybe 37; normally I'm 7, 8 a match.  
  
  Q. Is that a big difference?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously if you make a lot of the unforced errors and you don't make a lot winners, it's difficult to win - especially when she takes her chances.   
  
  Q. Could you describe the disappointment?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Of course it's disappointing. I would have liked to have won. It's only a week this week, and life goes on. Just practicing and try to do better in New Haven.  
  
  Q. How important will it be to get some matches under your belt before New York?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Of course I would like to have a few matches under my belt. We'll have to see. I'm taking one day at a time.  
  
  Q. This has been a different week for you because you've had all that attention around Rory McIlroy being here with you. Was that difficult for you to adjust to?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I mean, I didn't think about it really, to be honest.   
  
  Q. You don't think it changed any of your mindset or preparations this week?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.   
  
  Q. You're someone who tends to be very consistent week to week. Is it sort of a bit of a shock to have two first-round exits in terms rhythm you're used to having?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I can't remember the last time I had two first-round exits. It's a bit different. I would have liked to have gone further in the tournament.   
 You know, I usually play better as the week goes on, but, you know, what happens happens.   
 So now I just look forward to next week.  
  
  Q. You visited Serena when she was not doing well, and I saw her giving you some words and some hugs. Could you say what she was saying to you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: That's between me and Serena. She's a great girl. I always wish her all the best. She's one of sweetest girls on the tour. It's really nice to have her back and see her doing well.  
  
  Q. Is it a case of some sharpness is missing? Can you put your finger on something that's not quite the way you would like it to be?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's a little bit of sharpness, but it's going to come. I'm not worried about that.   
  
  Q. Two weeks ago Agnieszka Radwanska beat McHale 6-0, 6-2, as I remember. Was it different McHale today, or you didn't play to your expectations?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I didn't see the match. I don't know what happened two weeks ago. It's always a new match. You know, it's a new place, so it's always different.   
  
  Q. We've seen players switch equipment, and it's taken them a few months. Novak is an obvious example. Are you feeling okay with your equipment?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I feel good. I've won five tournaments with it and everything has been going well. Definitely not that.  
  
  Q. As you mentioned, in recent months you've had a few tough results. What do you do you when you go back to the practice court to try and turn it around?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just keep going the way I'm going and everything will be okay.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT