ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 10, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. VINCI/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You have actually never won here in Toronto. Is there something special about this tournament, the scheduling, something that's just not working for you? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. You know, today was definitely not the best match, and I didn't get a chance to really get any rhythm. It was very difficult first with the wind but also the way that Vinci was playing.
 First match back, of course I'd have loved to have won that one, and especially after leading 5-1 in the second, it's not fun to lose this one. But, you know, there's nothing really you can do about it now, and just about to practice and head over to Cincinnati and try to do better there.

 Q. What was the difference after you went up 5-1? What changed at that point?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I probably should have taken my serve straightaway, but then I came against the wind for the next two games and it was pretty difficult on the other side.
 Then, yeah, she served well, and then that pretty much just summed everything up.

 Q. It seemed like the wind was causing you havoc, especially on the lobs. Can you speak a little bit more about what it was like playing out there one side versus the other?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, definitely on one side the wind was blowing in the back. You had to watch out you didn't play it long. The other side you really had to hit through the ball to make it even go. 
 But again, the wind was changing quite a bit, and it was blowing in different directions. Again, it's the same for both players, so I just need to try and adapt.

 Q. What are some of the positives you might be able to take out of your match today, if any?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, right now it's pretty disappointing, and you just want to try to get over this match and just try to analyze what happened. Then I'm gonna take the positives and the negatives and try to improve for the next one.

 Q. I wondered if the wind was particularly troubling on the toss. A couple of times you retossed a couple of times. Was it wind-related?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was. It was very windy, and especially when you threw it up it was going everywhere. So definitely that didn't make it easy. 

 Q. Can you speak a little bit about your opponent's game today? She seemed really tenacious in terms of defending the ball and just keeping it in play. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, that's the kind of game she -- she likes to break the opponent's rhythm. She's slicing the ball. It's tough to -- you need to really get under it, and then she tries to go in with the forehand. 
 Yeah, she was getting a lot of balls back, as well, and just did better today than I did. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT