WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. CIBULKOVA/C. Wozniacki
  1-6, 7-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. First set was obviously great. What happened after that? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, uhm, I started well, serving well, returned pretty well, got a lot of returns in. In the second set, I didn't get too many deep returns in, and then she had the advantage from there. 
 But, you know, I still have so many chances also in the third set I should have taken and I didn't. Then you lose the match. 
 It's kind of disappointing because when you're up 2-Love with a break and have a lot of breakpoints that you don't convert, you know, that's kind of your own fault. 

 Q. Is that how you see it, you let it slip and get away from you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, you know, I was there. I should have taken my chance. 

 Q. What was the effect of the heat out there? There were a lot of long rallies. You seemed to be getting winded. Was the heat a factor? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I mean, it was the same for both of us. I don't mind playing in the heat. It's nice. At least you're not cold.

 Q. Is she an awkward opponent for you to play? You played her several times before with a good record. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. She just goes for everything. She doesn't hold back. So, you know, if it goes in, it's tough. 
 But we had a lot of long rallies, a lot of good points, and unfortunately I didn't win today. 

 Q. You say you should have taken advantage of your chances. What do you feel held you back from that today? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. I mean, you know, that's something that happens sometimes, that you don't take your chances normally. I have a chance and I usually take it. That's why I am where I am. 
 But today it just didn't go my way. She played well, as well. So, you know, I just have to give credit to her. 

 Q. Anytime the No. 1 loses before the semis and finals, people start talking about what it means. How do you sort of see that in terms of where you are at the top and what it means for you going forward?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, to be honest, I don't really care what people think or say or do. You know, I cannot really do anything now. I did my best and it wasn't good enough. 
 You know, I just need to look forward and go back on the practice court. I still have Bastad before I take a little break and get ready for the hard court season. 
 Yeah, I'm looking forward to the hard court season and the challenge there. 

 Q. Is there anything in particular you're going to be working on over the next couple months after you've had a rest?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uhm, well, I haven't really thought about that yet. I was still hoping I was going to be in the tournament after today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT