WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/V. Razzano
  6-1, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You're obviously the world No. 1. How do you feel about playing on Court No. 2? Serena Williams wasn't content with it yesterday. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Obviously I think I deserve to play on one of the bigger courts. Obviously, everyone wants to play in there. 
 It's up to the tournament to decide where we're going to play. I just go out there and I try to win. I'm a competitor, so it really doesn't matter. The court is the same and the size is the same. You know, I just go out there and play.

 Q. I suppose the fans would like to see the best on the best courts. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, yeah. Hopefully my next match I'll have the chance to play on one of the bigger ones. We have to see. 

 Q. You wouldn't see Nadal as men's No. 1 playing on Court 2. You have been No. 1 for almost the whole of the year. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, yeah, but at the same time Serena played on Court 2 and she's won here so many times. So if she can play on Court 2, then I guess I can, too.

 Q. On your second match point, that ball just seemingly fell from the sky. What was your vantage point on that? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think that ball came from the other court. I saw it coming. I saw it moving into the court. Then I asked for replaying the point.

 Q. You won on the fifth match point. The four other match points, did she play too well on them? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she played well. But at the same time, you know, there was one of them where it didn't skid well and I hit it too late. Then, you know, I just kept focusing. 
 I mean, there was only one match point on my serve that I didn't take. Then the second one I really concentrated and I had a good serve. 

 Q. A slow burner for you this tournament so far. Almost like you've not been here for most of the week. How difficult has that been with the rain delays, getting postponed yesterday?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually I think I've handled it pretty well. Yesterday I knew I was going to play late, so I had a late warmup and I hit a little bit longer because I knew that just in case of some rain or something, then I might not play that day. 
 So, you know, I just took it very easy. When they canceled us, I thought, Okay, it's better that they cancel us than move our court and then you don't know. So I thought it was good that they canceled us at that time and told us, Okay, you're playing early the next day.

 Q. Is it hard to assess your form when you have a long gap between matches? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I think I played very well. I've been playing well these two matches, and hopefully I can keep it up for my next one as well. 

 Q. How would you describe how grass is suited for your game? We're used to many of the big players who are very offensive taking charge on grass. How does your game fit with the grass?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I'm playing well on grass. You know, I'm serving well. I'm moving well. I move the ball around well. 
 I enjoy playing on it. I won the junior title here in 2006. I won Eastbourne two years ago. I think I can play very well on it.

 Q. What are your thoughts on your next opponent?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Good serve, good forehand. Playing aggressively. She's going to take the ball early. So it's not going to be easy. She likes the grass. 
 But we'll have to see. I'm just going to go in there and do my best.

 Q. Did you have any fears on Court 2 with bad memories from last year?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really. I mean, I don't believe in unlucky courts or anything like that. I just go in and I play. 

 Q. When you saw you were playing on Court 2, you didn't think, Uh-oh?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I didn't. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on Sabine and her success so far here?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She played very well yesterday. Li Na is also one of my friends, such a nice girl. They had a real battle yesterday, tennis on a high level. On this surface with a good serve, the hard shots, it suits her game.

 Q. Does grass give you the best chance of winning a slam of the four majors?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't think so. I think hard court. I think hard court is my favorite surface. I think maybe that one. 
 But I think grass is a good surface for me, as well.

 Q. Do you feel you need to win a major to validate yourself in terms of the ranking? Consistency clearly is there. For the public to realize the quality of your game, does that need a trophy validation?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really. You know, I think I deserve to be where I am. I won so many tournaments already, five this year. I'm playing good tennis. I'm young. I'm competitive. My time will come. 

 Q. You don't put any extra pressure on yourself at these events because of that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously everyone wants to be there. But everybody else wants to be No. 1. Right now I have one of those two and I want to try to keep it as long as possible. I'm going to try to fight to win a Grand Slam as well.

 Q. When did you first dream of being a Wimbledon champion and what were those images, if you can remember?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I remember when I was a little girl, maybe nine years old, I said that I want to be No. 1 in the world and I want to win the Grand Slams. That's always been my goal since then. 
 You know, to reach one of my goals, it's incredible, especially in such a young age that I have, that it came so quickly. It's just a positive thing for me.

 Q. Did you grow up watching this tournament on the TV at home?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes. I think this is actually the first tournament I watched on TV. Definitely a special tournament for me. I enjoy playing here and being here.

 Q. Do you remember which players you watched then?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I remember I watched Martina Hingis. She was my idol growing up. I watched so many of her matches. 

 Q. Does it feel different here to other tournaments because of the grass and the tradition? Do you sense something out of ordinary?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's definitely a special two weeks. It's a special event and tournament. The traditions, playing on grass, it's something special, everyone is playing in white, and then the rain delays and everything. 
 It's just part of the game here. It's something that you actually look forward to. 

 Q. Most men's matches, the great champions don't play on Court 2, but that's because Centre Court, they always have two men's matches and one women's matches. Is there much talk amongst the girls about that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's tradition here again. And I think the traditions are tough to change here. 
 And if I remember correctly, as well, I remember Pete Sampras playing one time on the Graveyard Court. 

 Q. One time. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, but it's happening. You know, it's Wimbledon, so you never know. Here you just need to play.

 Q. Do you feel the women should some days have two matches on Centre Court?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously I think everyone wants to play on Centre Court. I think some days it would be nice if there were two women's matches in there.

 Q. When you were starting as a professional, which did you think would be harder to achieve, becoming No. 1 or winning a major? How have things played out in your mind at least?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think growing up, everyone knows what No. 1 is, everyone. I mean, if you want to say, I want to be No. 1 in the world, I don't know, in ice hockey or tennis or badminton or in the school, everyone knows. 
 And I think as a little girl, that's what you dream of first. And then after, when you realize, when you start understanding the rules, you start understanding the tournaments, afterwards you want to be No. 1 and win Grand Slams. 
 So I think you want to do both. Obviously that's something that I want, too. 

 Q. (Question regarding Steven Gerrard and team sports.)
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, if I would have to choose between myself and Steven Gerrard, I think I would leave it up to him, since he's doing such a great job. 
 I think I could. I think I would be able to speak well with the players and with the referee. If I would say it myself, I think I could be a team captain. 

 Q. Could you tell us a little bit about the importance of having both your father and your brother here? When you discuss and analyze your play so far, what is your father telling you about the progress?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, my whole family's here: my mom, my dad, my brother. It's nice to have the family here. They're always here. You know, my dad is my coach. Obviously he tells me about the tactics, the matches and everything. He's an important part of my career. 
 My mom and my brother don't really know too much about tennis. So, you know, I don't really listen too much to them when they tell me about the game. Sorry, Patrick. 

 Q. Was it tough playing an opponent with a tragic situation in her private life recently? Was that on your mind at all? Did you say anything to her at the end of the match?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Of course, it's unfortunate when something like that happens. You know, we just want to support each other off the court, if there's anything we can help with. 
 On the court, it's a game; you want to win. You compete and you don't really think about what's going on on the other side. 
 But, of course, if she would need help or anything, we're always here. We're all human so we want to help out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT