CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/Wang Qiang
6-1, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Your opponent had a few supporters out there.  I'm not really sure if you could tell because you seemed so cool out on court.  What do you have to do mentally in that sort of situation to get the win like you did tonight?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I just tried to focus on myself.  I stayed very calm and collected and just focused.  I kind of knew what my game plan was, then just went out there and just tried to do the best that I could.
It worked out for me today.
Q. She had run those three games off in the second set once you had the break lead.  You called your father down.  I'm curious what he said during that timeout.  It seemed like after that you won about eight or 12 straight points.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He just told me to keep doing what I'm doing, try and take the ball slightly earlier.  When I have the opportunity, mix up the pace a little bit.  That was really it.  He said, Stay focused on your serve, just give yourself a little time, be more explosive.
Q. You haven't dropped a set all of this week.  Obviously you'd be happy with everything in your game.  Is there anything in particular you can pinpoint that's been a key this week where you've been especially happy with?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I've been especially happy with just my focus.  Every day it's been very different.  Every day I've played opponents that have different game styles.  So for me it's just been important to keep my focus and just really think about what I want to do out there and stay steady.
Q. You met Wang Qiang last year.  It was closer than tonight's meeting, three sets.  You mentioned game plan.  Could you describe a little bit going into tonight's meeting what you were trying to focus on.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I just focused on myself and what I wanted to do out there, how I wanted to play.  I think game planning is always trying to play your own game, what you're comfortable with.  If that doesn't work, you go to Plan B, which is figuring out what your opponent's weaknesses are, if there are any, then go for those.
Q. Why do you think the courts here suit you best?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think the court is somewhat slow, but at the same time it rewards good shots.  I like this court.
Q. You also played Wuhan last week, but not the ideal result you wanted.  How did you turn it around in such a short period of time?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I felt better this week in general body-wise.  Just mentally I've been feeling much better.  I think my game, I've upped my game, just played better and better for every match.  I found my rhythm.
Very happy with my performance this week.
Q. I know you've played here her a couple years ago.  I don't think you've played a ton of Chinese players at the China Open before.  With this sort of crowd, especially because it was a semifinals, could you articulate if it's different playing at this deep stage a player in China compared to, I don't know, hometown favorites elsewhere?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think every country is different.  It really depends on the culture.  It depends on what they're used to.  I would say, yeah, this is different than if you play someone from South America or if you play someone in Australia or France.  I think everyone is different.  That's why it's fun.  It makes it special.
Here I think they're very respectful.  At the same time they let everyone know who they're cheering for.  It's good.  They also reward good play and good points.  You don't feel quite alone out there.
Q. Obviously you had a really deep run here.  I want to ask, suppose you have more time staying in Beijing, where do you want to explore?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Unfortunately after the finals I'll go home, so I won't have too much time.  It's been a long three weeks.  I like to go home and just sleep in my own bed for a little bit.
Q. So you'll meet Sevastova in the final.  You've had success with her in the past, but she's having a really great year this year on hard courts.  Any thoughts on the next match, what needs to go right in order to pull it out?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, she's definitely a tricky opponent.  She mixes up the pace.  She uses the angles.  She uses the spin and the slice.  So it will be a match where I have to stay steady, I have to stay focused, I have to stay disciplined, go for my shots when I have the opportunity.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT