WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Santonja
  6-2, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Does it add to the pressure that you haven't won a slam yet and there's a lot of talk about that, that you're world No. 1 but haven't won a slam?  
 CAROLINA WOZNIACKI: No, it doesn't. I just go out there and play.   
  
  Q. How difficult were the conditions today?  
 CAROLINA WOZNIACKI: I thought it was very difficult. First, it was my first match on grass, a real match. But then, you know, the wind blowing everywhere, I felt like, you know, I was throwing the ball up quite a few times for the serve. But I thought actually I served pretty well.   
 But anyways, the conditions were pretty tough. There was one point where I hit the ball and it almost didn't come over and then I hit the next one and it just flew.   
 I tried to adapt as good as I could and hopefully I'll be ready for the next match, as well.   
  
  Q. You played on hard courts in Copenhagen before you came here. I imagine you have to play in that tournament, a home tournament.   
 CAROLINA WOZNIACKI: I don't have to, but I wanted to play. And I thought it was a good tournament for me to play before here. You know, I got a lot of good rhythm there, played some good matches, and then I felt ready to come here a week early and practice on the grass.   
 I feel ready for the tournament.   
  
  Q. In an ideal world, would you play a tournament on grass and then practice?  
 CAROLINA WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I wanted to try something different this year. So, yeah, I did this, and we have to see how I do here. Maybe, you know, I'll keep doing this every year.   
  
  Q. What is going to be the most important thing for you these two weeks if you're going to succeed?  
 CAROLINA WOZNIACKI: Definitely the serve, the returns and the first point after the serve or the return, because if you have the advantage there, then it's much easier to start playing. Once you get in the defensive position, it's difficult to get out of it.  
  
  Q. Is that going to be more important than the mental side? Just the way you play or...   
 CAROLINA WOZNIACKI: It's very important the way I play and just keep focusing on my own game.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT