SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. PETKOVIC/C. Wozniacki
  7-5, 3-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You had 14 winners and only 52 errors, a lot of them particularly on the forehand side. What was going on with your forehand today?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, nothing was going on with my forehand. Nothing was going on with my backhand. You know, I lost the match. She played a good match.   
 I had so many chances in my first set. You know, I had set points and I didn't take them. You know, then just the energy level dropped a little bit and I lost the match. That's what happens in sport.   
  
  Q. What made her so tough today?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She played well. She played well in the right moments. I had so many break points, so many 40-15s, 30-Loves, especially in the first set, and I didn't take the games. Every time she had a chance she took it.   
 You know, she played well today, played steady, played aggressively when she had to, but was also able to run a lot of balls down.  
  
  Q. Are you a little bit mentally tired?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, I have been playing a lot of matches, but I have been doing so well. Today I just took some wrong chances -- I took the wrong -- what do you call? I took the wrong decisions. Yeah, so at the important moments. That's what happens sometimes.  
  
  Q. She was a surprise for you today?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. You know, I knew how she was playing. I knew what I was going to expect, so no.   
  
  Q. She looks very aggressive. Do you feel it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes, but I didn't feel -- I didn't feel pressure too far behind the baseline. I still felt like I could control the points and I still felt like I was in the point, but she was playing smart today and she was playing aggressive, but not overly aggressive, as well.  
  
  Q. After the match she said that she and her coach developed a plan to beat you. She said a lot of people make the mistake of going out there and just trying to hit with you, hit harder and harder and harder. But you handled that very well. Today they said, We're going to mix it up. Do you think there's anything to that, mixing it up against you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. You know, I lost the match. That's what happens. If she had a plan, great for her.   
 You know, for me, I'm just gonna take a few days of rest now. I need that, just, you know, maybe on the beach, get some of the tan lines off, and then I will be ready for Charleston.   
  
  Q. You use on-court coaching a lot during the tour, but you can't use it during the slams. Do you think it makes a difference in your game?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think, um, it's nice to have the on-court coaching. I think it's a good rule.  
 But, you know, in the Grand Slams no one is allowed to have on-court coaching, so it's equal for everybody.  
  
  Q. What do you think about returning to clay?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm looking forward to it. Hopefully I can have a better start to the clay season. Hopefully - knock on wood - I will not roll my ankle this year and everything will be fine.  
 I'm looking forward to this part of the season, as well.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about how Maria Sharapova is playing? Do you see her becoming one of the top players again? She's been out for so long and struggling with the arm.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I haven't -- I mean, I haven't seen her play this week. Obviously I saw her play last week because I played against her, but, you know, she's a fighter. She's playing well.  
  
  Q. This tournament you really could have cemented your standing as the No. 1 player. How disappointed are you not to take advantage of that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not thinking about that. I'm thinking about every time I go out on the court I do my best, I give my all. I lost a match. It's what happens.   
 Of course I would have loved to have won today, but it didn't happen. You know, I'm not going to dig a hole for myself or dig a grave. I will just take a few days of rest, and I'm prepared for the clay season.   
 I'm looking forward to that one.  
  
  Q. When you are winning as much as you have lately, does it come as a surprise to you when you lose, or does it hurt a little bit more or a little bit less because you're kind of on a roll?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it always hurts to lose, no doubt about it. You always want to win. I'm a fighter. I'm a competitor. So I definitely always want to win.  
 Um, you know, there's very good players out there, and I cannot win every time. Then sometimes you just need that, you know -- sometimes when you lose, you realize you still have somewhere to work to do, you can still improve, and you go back on the practice court and come back even better.  
  
  Q. Do you think Petkovic has quality to be top 10?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She's a great player, no doubt about it. It's about being consistent all year around, and you need to play on the highest level all the time.   
  
  Q. I don't know really what was going on out there, but there were people around me that were saying that you were being a little more emotional today than you normally are. Were there greater frustrations? There were some screams or, you know, you were upset with yourself in some ways. Was that unusual for you, do you think? Or were these people wrong?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not going to say who's right, who's wrong. I'm not here to say anything like that.  
  
  Q. Do you think you were being a little bit more emotional than you normally are?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I was playing a match. I wanted to win, and that's it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT