SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 24, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/B. Mattek-Sands
  6-2, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I would imagine that you're not thrilled with how you played today, although you had a nice win. Do you think there was some of the fatigue left over from Indian Wells?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really. I think that, you know, Bethanie is a tough player to play. You never know what to expect from her, and she's going for her shots no matter where she's standing on the court and it's difficult to get the rhythm.   
 Especially in the first match you want to get going, you want to have the rallies. But I really couldn't get that today, so I just had to fight. I thought I did that pretty well.  
  
  Q. Was the key on your break points especially, holding those break points? Was that the key?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was for sure.  
  
  Q. What's your fatigue level like after your two weeks in California? Obviously Sunday you had that long match.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, to be honest, I'm actually feeling pretty good. I'm not really tired. I'm feeling fine. Hopefully, you know, I'll play long in this tournament. I'll have a day in between matches, and, um, I'm just enjoying myself out there.  
 Normally when I practice, I practice maybe four hours of tennis a day and two hours of fitness. You know, that's tough, especially with the exercise you do, left, right, left right and all that running, so this is actually really nice.   
 You play a match, but it's maybe what, one-and-a-half hours, two hours? Have a half an hour warmup, and that's pretty much it.  
  
  Q. I think you play Hantuchova next. She really played well today against Melanie. What's your history with her?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Ah, I don't remember the last time I played her. Yeah, so it's a long time ago. But she's playing well. She's going for her shots, as well. Yeah, she's been doing some good results lately, as well. It's not gonna be easy. She's a good friend of mine. We have fun hanging out.   
 You know, in the next match it will just be about focusing on the ball.  
  
  Q. What was the secret to dealing with Bethanie's power today?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was just trying to play my first shots, two shots deep, and try not to make her attack too much. But it was pretty tough, because, I mean, she just went for it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT