BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Kleybanova
  2-6, 6-3, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. That was kind of tough match. Do you think you started a little bit slow, or she did play really well?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was a tough match. I think I made a little bit too many unforced errors in the beginning. She started well, she started aggressively, but I just couldn't find my rhythm out there.   
 Then second set I just told myself I needed to move my feet a little bit more. I need to have a little bit more margin over the net and from the lines, and things started to go my way a little bit more and I started to play better.  
  
  Q. Heat bother you at all? It was pretty hot.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was hot, but it wasn't too hot. It was okay, actually.  
  
  Q. And I like your outfit. The blue one.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Thank you.  
  
  Q. Any concept or story behind that?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, yeah, there's always a story behind. I like the colors. I like when there's more color to my dresses. Yeah, the ruffles I think are typical Stella, to have a little bit here.   
 Yeah, I just like that, you know. It's a simple dress, but still it has some special touches to it.  
  
  Q. What did your father say when he came?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He just told me, Keep moving your feet and play a little bit higher over the net, because it was tough. When I was playing flat she was winning the points, and I was making too many errors.  
 When I started to play just a little bit higher, half a meter over that, it was going my way.  
  
  Q. He was very intense, moving his hands, talking loudly. Do you get everything he says? Are you listening or trying to concentrate at the same time?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I actually thought he was very calm today. In general, I think when we speak Polish we use our hands more. Yeah, I think from football he's used to talking louder. (Laughter.)  
 Actually, I didn't pay attention to that. I just listened to the key words he says and focus on what I want to do and just focus on the next points.  
  
  Q. Can you give us your thoughts about Kim? She had to pull out of her match because of her shoulder. Can you give us your thoughts about that? I don't know if you follow it that much, but that kind of solidifies your No. 1 ranking for a little bit longer.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, yeah, I heard that she had to pull out with a shoulder injury. Of course, that's unfortunate. It's always unfortunate to get injured. It's sad that she couldn't finish the match and keep competing.   
 But it's a sport, and that's what happens sometimes. I just wish her a fast recovery, and hope to see her in Miami fit again.  
  
  Q. Are you aware that of the seeds, it's you and No. 8 is all that's left now? Are you aware of that, or do you like that or does it matter?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I didn't know that. And it doesn't matter, really, because I'm just focusing on myself. And the girls that I are left means they have been playing good tennis so far this tournament, and, yeah, they must have beaten the seeded players.  
 So I'm just looking ahead for myself. Yeah, looking forward for my next opponent.  
  
  Q. You are always very successful in Japan, especially from this year. You started using Japanese racquet. So as the No. 1 player, do you have any like plans to something for Japanese tsunami victims?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I would love to do something definitely, because I think it's very sad what has happened in Japan. I really feel for the families and the people who have been affected. To turn on the TV and look all -- you know, it's just been crushed to zero. I mean, it's very sad.  
 So of course I'd like to help out a little bit if I can, in any way, and I just need to find out which way.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about when you first met Victoria, when you first became friends, and then just kind of take us through the rivalry up to now and the friendship?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Wow, it's a long time ago. I think I met Victoria in Vichy under-14s European Championships.  
  
  Q. Wow.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Back when I was maybe 12 years old. She was 13.   
 Yeah, we didn't play each other there, but maybe even before we met, maybe even at the Orange Bowl.   
 Anyways, it's many years ago. And, yeah, we were competing against each other in the juniors. She moved up one year earlier than me, or one-and-a-half year earlier than me, into the women's tour.   
 But still, we were competing together when we were both young, under-18s, and then again we followed each other. We played one of our first tournaments we played on the WTA was in Memphis, and we played doubles together there. We made it to the finals.  
 We just have such a nice friendship. She's such a good girl. I really enjoy spending time with her. Yeah, it's just great that we're two friends who are doing well, and wish each other well.  
  
  Q. So you became friends when you were in the juniors or not until the pros?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, we were friends in the juniors already, so, yeah, we have been friends for many years.  
  
  Q. And I know this is talked about a lot, the players will say well, I can put the rivalry aside, but you two have played pretty close, had close matches. She's in the top 10; obviously you're No. 1. Does it affect the friendship whatsoever, or do you ever talk about the tennis or anything like that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, it doesn't affect the friendship at all. Of course, when you're on the court you don't think about who's on the other side. You want to win; you want to just compete out there.   
 But off the court again you're friends. I mean, it's a sport. Unfortunately we cannot play a draw, so one of us has to win. We know that.   
 We don't really talk about tennis off the court.   
  
  Q. You played almost two hours today, 33 degrees Celsius heat. You still have perhaps three games to go. How does your body feel? Your fitness level?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel good. I even went running after my match. I feel good. I don't feel tired at all.   
 I'm fine, and tomorrow I have a day off. Now I'm just gonna -- after this I'm gonna have my physio giving me a massage, tomorrow some stretching and just a light hit, and then I'm ready for day after tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You went running after the match? How far did you run?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I ran on the treadmill for like 20 minutes.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT