BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Stephens
  6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How do you feel after that win?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I feel good. You know, it's always nice to have a win, and the first match is difficult. But I pulled through, so it's nice.

 Q. Anything you weren't pleased about your game tonight?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, I felt like the timing was not quite there yet, but I think Sloane, she took her chances. She played well. I mean, she's a newcomer, and I definitely see a lot of potential in her.
 But I would like, of course, just to go match by match try to develop my game.

 Q. Have you found any kangaroos in the parks around here?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Unfortunately, no. I found a dog, but it didn't bite me yet.

 Q. On a more serious note, can you tell us about your interactions with Serena and your thoughts on the situation and what she said to you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, Serena is a good friend of mine. I think she's such a nice girl. 
 You know, I don't want to say too much, but I think she has to say everything what she wants to say. But, you know, she's always a happy person, always positive. You know, she's of course aiming to come back on the tour as soon as possible.

 Q. Did you get the sense that she will be back?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, of course. I mean, she's such a strong character, such a strong person. You know, she can do what she wants. I know that she wants to come back, so I'm sure that she's aiming for that.

 Q. One final thing about Serena. She's always pretty bubbly and has such a sort of glistening personality. Even with this hardship was she okay, or was she pretty concerned or worried?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, she was still bubbly. She's fun. You know, she's always such a positive character, so, you know, she's taking everything with a high head -- with her head held high, I think. (Laughing.)

 Q. With one match down, what are you looking forward to in Indian Wells and going forward?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm looking forward to my next match. I think I'm playing -- who am I playing? Martina Sanchez? Yeah, I never won against her, so it's gonna be a tough one.
 You know, she's always trying to take away your rhythm, but I'm looking forward to it. Hopefully I can get it this time.

 Q. Big picture, you have been asked this many times, but what would be a successful year for you this year? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I cannot really put any numbers or anything on it. I'm doing my best, and at the end of the year I can evaluate what I think was good, what I think was less good. We have to see.
 But, you know, the most important thing is that there's no injuries and that I'm healthy, and hopefully we can go from there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT