CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/K. Siniakova   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congrats on the win today and yesterday.  Does qualifying yesterday from Singapore relieve some pressure from this tournament a little bit?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: For sure it's great to be in Singapore, have that sealed and in the bag.  I'm very happy with that.   
I'm happy with my performance today, as well.  I think I played really well, probably the best match for me in the tournament.  I think I played well yesterday, but I played even better today, so I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  Seven unforced errors today in the match.  When you're playing like that, is there a give-away of what's clicking in your game, whether it's the serve, feeling the backhand?  What do you see out there that unlocks that game?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it sounds a little stupid, but I just see the ball better, I think.  I feel like I anticipate better where the opponent can hit the ball, then the ball kind of just seems a little slower to me.  Then I can kind of switch directions, I can mix up the pace, I can kind of play my game a bit more.   
 Q.  Any difference on playing on Diamond court and Lotus court for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, for sure it's a difference.  I think having a little bit of the roof, it just gives a little bit of a different atmosphere on the court.  But obviously both are great stadiums.  Both are very nice.   
 Q.  Next round you're going to play either Sabalenka or Wang Qiang.  Any thoughts on the next match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes, both are players that are very much in form right now, have been playing really well.  I'll have to play my A game to win tomorrow.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to most about returning to Singapore, whether an on-court thing or off-court thing?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I just love Singapore.  I think it's such a great place.  I've had great experiences there obviously.  I think the court suits my game.  I love the hotel where we stay, the restaurants, the shopping, the people.  I look forward to having some of my friends there, having David there, having my family there.   
It's just a great celebration to a great year for everybody that are there.  I'm really pleased and very proud to be there again this year.   
 Q.  How different of a tournament is it, the eight that qualify?  It's obviously the end of the season, everybody is dealing with a little bit of fatigue, but it's also a big opportunity for points and a title.  At the same time it's a celebration of a season well done.  Does it feel so different than any other event?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's definitely different because it's also a round-robin format, so it makes it a little bit different of an approach.  But for me it's all about trying to do my best, playing my best game.  That's really it.   
You go into the tournament knowing you can go 0-3 to end the year because you're playing against great opponents, but you also know you can go into this event, as you said, great money, great points, a great feeling to finish out the year having beaten some of the best players in the world.   
It's all about going in there and doing my best, just focus on the task ahead, but at the same time enjoy the off-court experiences that are there, enjoy that my family and friends are there.   
 Q.  At this tournament you're making a really deep run here.  A few before this you had to withdraw because of health reasons.  Are you feeling okay so far with all the matches that you've played?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think I'm finally feeling better.  I'm feeling, you know, like myself.  I'm very happy that I've gotten some great tennis in me this week.  I've played some great matches against good opponents.  I'm happy to go far in this event.  Hopefully I can go even a step or two further.  I'm going to do my best.   
Other than that, I'm excited to have qualified for Singapore.  It's exciting to feel like I'm playing well at the end of the year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT