QATAR LADIES OPEN
February 25, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/M. Bartoli
  6-1, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Why was that so easy?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think I'm playing good tennis, and I'm happy about my performance today, and I'm happy that it went like it did.  
  
  Q. I mean, you pretty much didn't put a foot wrong there. I mean, can you play better than that or is that it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think I'm playing my tennis. I'm playing well. I'm hitting the ball well, so I'm really pleased about my performance.  
  
  Q. What do you get more enjoyment of? You come off the court playing like that. It was comprehensive, it was easy. Clearly you're smiling; you feel happy. Do you get more of a thrill out of that or more satisfaction coming out of a grueling sort of three sets where you had to really fight for it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, of course I'm really happy about the way I'm winning now, and it's a completely different feeling to go out of the court when you play, and of course it's fantastic feeling that -- if you've played really well and had a tough three-set battle, then it's a great feeling, but winning like this is amazing, too. It just means that I'm playing at a very high level.  
  
  Q. I just read a stat somewhere that says since the beginning of 2009 you have now made twice as many finals as anyone.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Oh, nice.  
  
  Q. Yeah, nice stat to me, as well. But what does that say? That's not just because you're playing more tennis than other people. That's because you're at the top of your game, right?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it means that I'm playing well. It means I'm playing on a high level, so I'm very pleased about that.  
  
  Q. Marion says your ball is more heavy. It's heavier than last summer. Do you feel like that, too?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, yeah. I think it's difficult for me to say when I'm hitting the ball, but I definitely feel like I've got some more power in there, and I'm making the right choices. I definitely feel that the balls that are coming back are different because I'm hitting the ball better now. I think so. I think I'm improving all the time.  
  
  Q. What would you do if you were playing against you as a tactic? Because it looks like whatever anyone does you get the ball back. It's like playing against the wall.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: What I would do? Why would I tell that? Because, I mean, you know, I would put up the white flag and say, I don't want to play. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. These days, you know, in Egypt we had problems and Yemen had problems, and people had rage, you know. So was it tonight, for you, night of rage, something like that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: If it was a night of?   
  
  Q. Rage, you know, you went out and just smashing ball, and, you know...   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't think you can compare playing a tennis match to what's going on at the moment here. You know, I think the things going on in Egypt, Yemen, Libya, Bahrain, you know, I think it's sad that so many innocent people are killed.   
 You know, I'm fortunate enough to be able to play tennis and play the sport that I love and enjoy myself. You know, I'm just sending a lot of thoughts to the families and the people that are having a tough time at the moment.  
  
  Q. No, I mean considering that in your last two matches, Bartoli had beaten you, so maybe this time you wanted to go out and crush her for that?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: (Smiling.) Well, I don't even know what to answer to that one.   
  
  Q. You made it last week, in Dubai, you won Dubai tournament. Do you think you are going to win in Qatar and whom you prefer to play against tomorrow?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know if I'm going to win tomorrow. I'll do my best. I will try to play some good tennis. Two tough competitors out there.   
 Um, I don't know. It doesn't matter for me who I play. I'll go out there and just fight.   
   
    
  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT