QATAR LADIES OPEN
February 21, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You won in Dubai without losing a set. Are you playing your best tennis?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I played very well in Dubai. I'm very happy about my performance, and I think I can be proud of the week I had. I definitely think I've improved and I still improve and I'm just enjoying myself out there. 

 Q. How tired are you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm a little bit tired, but we just arrived late last night. So I'm a bit tired right now, but I'll be fine in a few days.

 Q. Is the world No. 1 ranking important to you? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, of course it's nice to have it. It's nice to see your name and being in the top spot and that's what I practice for, but, you know, every time I go into a tournament, the most important thing for me is to do my best, try to win the tournament I entered. If I play well, then the rankings will come automatically.

 Q. How do you feel about the draw? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I don't know, because I haven't looked at the draw. I never look at the draw. I know that I have a bye in the first round. That's always handy. I like to play the bye; I'm sure that I win. 

 Q. Can you say something about your Grand Slam goals? Which Grand Slam do you prefer?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I would like to win any of the Grand Slams. Of course, again, I go into a tournament and I want to win it. I do my best. I have to see what's going to happen. I'm just trying to keep improving, and hopefully my time will come. 

 Q. Do you see yourself winning a Grand Slam this year?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. We have to see at the end of the year if I've won one or not.
 If I have, it's fantastic. If not, it's not a disaster. It's okay. I still have hopefully a lot of years ahead of me.

 Q. Kim Clijsters Tweets congratulations to you. Is it fine to have a great rivalry?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I have a lot of friends on the tour, and the girls are nice. Of course we compete against each other on the court, but off the court we're friends. There is no hard feelings. 

 Q. You pack your schedule quite tight. You won last week, came here. It's important for you to come here for the sport, world No. 1, big event here. Do you find it frustrating with other people cutting out? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I don't think about other players. I think about myself, and maybe that sounds a bit egotistical but tennis is an individual sport, and I compete. I'm a sports person, and I go out there to fight. I go out there to win, and that's what it's all about. 

 Q. What does the Qatar Open mean to you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I feel like I've just been here recently, and it's just great to be back. I enjoy it here. I think the organization is always really, really well done. 
 I like the courts. I've played well here quite a few times, so I enjoy being back. 

 Q. Compared to last time you were here, did you improve your serve or any part of your game? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think I improved a little bit of everything, and I think I just try to improve step by step, little by little all the time, and I'm just hoping that, you know, that's enough.

 Q. The semifinals at the Australian Open against Li Na, would you like to meet her again here? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's funny. I always get this question. Last week and the beginning of the tournament, I was asked, So in the third round you're playing Petra Kvitova, and in the quarterfinals you're playing Li Na, and in the finals you probably will play Vera, and what do you think about it? 
 I'm like, Well, first of all, I haven't made it there and my opponent hasn't made it there. It's just -- we just have to see what's going to happen this week, and it's a new week and new tournament and a new start. 

 Q. Do you like to go for revenge?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just play the opponent that's on the other side of the net. Doesn't matter who it is. I go out there and I try to win. 

 Q. About the weather, is it easy to play with this weather? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I haven't had a hit yet here, so it's difficult, but for me, I don't mind the warm weather. I think it's nice, and at least you're not going to be freezing out there on the court.
 Well, I'll just -- I think it's the same for both players, so I think when it's hot weather like this, it's very important to be in good shape and well prepared for the matches. 

 Q. Do you think the tour is missing out on Serena Williams? She hasn't played for some time. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Serena is a really nice girl, and, you know, I have a very good time with her off the court, as well. We have fun, and of course I'd like to see her back. 
 It's sad that she's injured, because it's a sport and the worst thing is to be injured, not being able to compete. I know that myself as a sports person, but, you know, I think she'll be back sooner rather than later, and we will see her back on the tour. 

 Q. All the time you say that I care about myself; I don't care about other players. You have trust? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: My trust? 

 Q. In yourself. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Oh, my confidence. 
 Well, I think you have to believe in yourself, especially in a sport like this. And of course I believe in myself. I work hard, I enjoy myself. I not only have a life on the court but off the court, as well, and I feel safe and secure and have great family and friends. I don't think I can ask for any more. 

 Q. With the big names not being in the tournament, do you think it will be easier for you or is it not more challenging?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: The big names? You know, I'm No. 1. Zvonareva is here. I mean, there's... 

 Q. Sharapova is not here and she won this tournament in 2008. You have the Williams sisters. We have who else? Clijsters is not playing. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, we're in 2011. I mean, there is a lot of things happened since 2008, so I think there is a lot of great players here. I think it's a very strong field, and I think nothing is going to be easy. 
 I think there is -- I don't even know the cut of this tournament. Seven of the top ten, I hear. So I don't think that you can say that the big names are not hear. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT