DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 20, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/S. Kuznetsova
  6-1, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Congratulations.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Thank you.   
  
  Q. Great performance. You weren't really in any trouble at all, were you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I felt really good out there today. Felt like I was hitting the ball well, clean, and I could really stay aggressive today. I knew I had to, because if Svetlana is allowed to stay and dictate, she's just too strong.  
 Sp for me today it was very important to keep her moving and stay pretty close to the baselines.  
  
  Q. Could have been quite nasty. The second point of the game, that was a bit painful, that tumble, was it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know I, think I slipped and then I just fell over, so it wasn't anything major.  
 I actually have no idea how I slipped because it's new shoes, so actually should be sticking more.   
 But anyway...   
  
  Q. Last couple of games were you getting (indiscernible.)   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I was just thinking to myself, Don't wait for the error? You have to go for it yourself. I mean, she started to play really well, she didn't give up, and she started to hang in there a little bit more and wait for the right shots.   
 For me, I was, Okay, if she turns this match around, she needs to do that. I will not give her any free points, but I will not let her dictate as well. I will just keep my game plan.  
  
  Q. On the court you talked about being more aggressive, and you did come to the net. Coming to the net a lot more, was that in response to knowing how she plays? What were you thinking tonight?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I just do what I feel like on court. If I feel to stay back, I do that. If I see an opportunity to come to the net, I do that. I think it's all about feeling. I felt that a couple times that I needed to come to the net to finish off the points.  
  
  Q. What did you see from her that gave you that kind of...  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, when I saw that she was pulled out wide and she had one hand on the backhand side, I knew she wouldn't be able to hit a really great shot. So then I came forward a bit.  
  
  Q. In terms of your year, how important was it to win here?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know in terms of my year. It's always great to win tournaments. (Smiling.) For me, I'm very happy. Is it my 13th title?   
  
  Q. 13th, yeah.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: So I'm very pleased. One title this year so far. It's great.  
  
  Q. On that same note again, it's probably looking forward a bit, but obviously you don't have much time to think about it. You go right to Qatar. But starting to win a couple in a row in tournaments, I mean, obviously I'm not going to bring up who you play or whatever, but what does it mean to start getting on a roll this early in the season? This isn't Grand Slams, but what's the importance of doing that?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um...  
  
  Q. Or is in importance to?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I like playing matches; I like winning, so of course it's important. It's important for me to win. I hate to lose. For me to stand here as the winner of the tournament, it's a great feeling.   
 I have the confidence. I know I'm playing well. The hard training is paying off. So I'm really pleased.   
  
  Q. Is that aggressive style something that you've always had and we don't see that often? You think we'll see a lot more of that this year? I mean, is that kind of when you talk about things you're working on?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, you'll see me play so many different styles of tennis. I'm a player that can play aggressively; I can play defensively; mix it up, I can wait for the right moment.  
 Depends on the opponent as well and how I feel. If I don't feel like I'm hitting the ball great, of course I'll keep it more in the court and play more safe. If I feel that, okay, I'm hitting the ball really big today, I'm going to go more for my shots.   
 So it really depends. It's just great to know for myself that I can mix it up and do anything.  
  
  Q. When you win a tournament, do you ever treat yourself to anything, buy yourself a present?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, no, not really. Usually maybe at dinner I give myself a dessert. Other than that, no. I mean, I just like to chill and be with my friends and my family.   
  
  Q. Where do you keep your trophies?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Some of them are in my brother's apartment actually, and some of them are in mine. Some of them -- yeah, I don't know. The most important ones I have.   
  
  Q. When you talk about hating to lose, you hate to lose more than you love to win, or is there a balance?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I love to win. I really do not like losing. That's why I always try to come up with the right answer to win the match.   
 But, of course if I do my best and the opponent just was better than me that day, there's not much to do and I'm not that upset. Of course I still don't like losing, but as long as I feel like I gave my best out there, that's all I can ask myself for -- ask from myself.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT