DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 19, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/J. Jankovic
  7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Pretty important to win that off her set points, wasn't it? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, definitely. It's always nice to be a set up. You know, I don't know, I just kept fighting. I actually just had a good feeling going into the match, even though I started off a little bit slower today. 
 She started off well, and, you know, I made a few mistakes. But then I actually felt like I started to hit the ball really well. I was thinking, Okay, if she wins this match, it's just too good, because I'm starting to feel this right now. I have a feeling this is going to be a long one. 

 Q. How much of a help to you is your father when he comes on court? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, of course it helps a little bit sometimes. You know, he just gives me the encouragement. Today he just told me that I was playing well, and keep continuing the way you're playing and stay close to the baseline. 

 Q. Did he, because you asked for him early, didn't you, after you played poorly at the start?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, but he just kept encouraging me. He said, No worries. You just made a few mistakes that wasn't necessary, but just keep your feet moving. I mean, you're doing the right thing.

 Q. These are things that you know, or when you listen to him, does it calm you down? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, I know these things already. But it's just nice. Just calms me down a little bit. You know, he's there every time I practice, so it's nice to have him there and know that I have the support.

 Q. You were down 4-1 and actually she had four set points. What were you thinking through that whole process? Because you repeatedly came back that first set. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. Actually, I only thought she had three? She had four? 

 Q. 40-Love and then...
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Oh, really? Well, you know, I think didn't think about the score. I just felt, Okay, just hit the ball. Just make her win the point. Just play aggressively. You have to dictate. 
 If you make a mistake, fine, that's what happens. But don't just put the ball in because you're done.

 Q. One thing that she talked about is she called you probably the best defensive player on the circuit. For people that are maybe seeing you for the first time, you think you showed that today? I mean, you really were reaching the points or going way beyond in the court, and she didn't seem to have that mobility. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. I mean, well, I think Jelena is a very good defensive player as well. I think definitely the opponents, they feel the pressure, because they know that I get a lot balls back. But I get them deep as well, and I make it tough for them. 
 If they play it short for me, I'm there right away and I make them move and under pressure. So I think they don't like that. 

 Q. Back to your father coming on court. The TV commentator suggested that perhaps the reason you haven't won a Grand Slam yet is because you're not allowed to have your father there. How much you miss him during a Grand Slam?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't thinking it is. I mean, Grand Slams, it's seven matches. I've been close before. I haven't had a little bit of luck with me. 
 But, you know, I still have time. It really doesn't matter. It's not about my dad or not my dad, because I'm the one who's playing.

 Q. Do you think it's an advantage having your father as a coach? A lot of women players have fathers as coaches, and maybe fathers can be harder in what they say. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I really enjoy having my dad as a coach. First of all, because if something is black, he tells me it's black. He doesn't tell me it's gray. Some coaches, I feel like they -- i feel like I'm playing poorly, and he goes, No, no, you're playing well. 
 And I don't like that. If I'm playing badly, I need to know, Okay, you're doing this well, this well. So I don't like this in between thing. I have such a great relationship with my dad. I mean, definitely wouldn't have been on this level without him and without his support and my family's support. 
 So as long as he still wants to travel with me, he's always more than welcome.

 Q. Can he be hard on you sometimes?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: As a coach, of course. If I am not ready for practice or if I don't give 100%, of course he tells me, Okay, come on, Caroline, move your butt, because otherwise I'm going to make you run even harder. So I always make sure I'm prepared and 100% ready on the court. But I think that's normal. 
 Off the court, he's my dad; he's my friend. We relax and have a good time off the court. I that balance is very important. For me, I'm this kind of person that I love to work hard and see the results, but I also enjoy just having my own time, relaxing. 
 I have my best friend here, her family, and we are just having a good time in the evening. That just makes me so much more relaxed on the court when I'm there and I can focus 100%.

 Q. I understand both your parents have a sporting background. Does it help that they both perhaps know what you're going through?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Of course. I definitely think it helps a lot, because they have been there before, they know what to do, and they know -- not sacrifices, but they know when you can go out and party, when you have to be focused, one day leave you alone, you can do whatever they want. 
 They know, Okay, maybe she's too relaxed now. We just need to -- they know what to say to make me go. You know, just those things. Without having parents that were athletes, they wouldn't know that.

 Q. How does the first final of 2011 feel to you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It feels good. I mean, after my semifinal loss in the Australian Open, it's great to have this first tournament back, and, you know, see me smiling again.

 Q. No hangover then either, which happens to quite a few players, you know, losing in the Grand Slam semifinal. But you've bounced back. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, I went back on the court already the day after my semifinals. There were a few things I wasn't happy about. I worked hard, and I knew that if I just keep working hard, I take my chances, and my time will come. I'm back here playing the finals.

 Q. You won six tournaments last year. I mean, I'm not sure if you're one of the people that kind of thinks -- would you go beyond that this year? Do you think you're in that kind of form? Do you even think like that? Or is it just one take tournament at a time?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just take one tournament at a time. You know, when you begin the year, you never know -- you feel like you've been practicing great in the off-season, but for me it takes matches to get into that rhythm. You just want to start well, of course. 
 You never know if you're going to win any tournaments, how the season is going to be. Even though the last season was great, you know, the new year is a new year. You just want to start off well. You want to have the other players see, Okay, she's in a good shape. It's going to be tough every time I play her.

 Q. When compare the Australian Open to now, how would you characterize your form? Were you playing the same there and it just didn't work out, or do you feel something come together in this tournament that wasn't there?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I think I've been playing on a consistently high level all this year actually, I have to say. Just, you know, one ball could have made me go in the finals in the Australian Open, and who knows what would happen in the finals. 
 But, you know, it's always like that. If, if, if. I didn't win the ball, I didn't win the match, and I lost in the semifinal. Still a pretty good run.
 You know, I just feeling like I'm playing good tennis, feeling confident, and feeling good out there.

 Q. Do you think it's unfair when people criticize you or when people talk your game and they say, She gets lots of balls back, but she hasn't got a big weapon? You've got to No. 1 in the world. Do you think that's unfair when you hear people say that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, well, if I don't have a weapon, then what do the others have? Since I'm No. 1, I must do something right. I think there're not actually criticizing me. I think the other players should be offended. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT