DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 17, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/A. Morita
  6-1, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Very, very impressive victory. Were you surprised the way you played and dominated the match?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really. I feel like I've been playing really well at practice. And, yeah, I was playing really well today. I knew how Ayumi was playing and how she was going to go and play. She's had a good week, so I was really pleased about the match today. 

 Q. You face Shahar Peer next. Obviously she knocked you out in Dubai, and you've probably faced her other times. When you start assessing her game, what is the biggest challenge?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, first of all, playing on the center court every match and then suddenly you have to play on an outside court. On a small court, it's completely different. So definitely I'll to have get used to that. She has a big advantage there.
 But, you know, just need to stay positive and try to just try to play like I did today. Hopefully that'll payoff.

 Q. What was different about playing on that court last year? Is it quicker?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's quicker; there's not so much space on the sides; there's not really a crowd; the atmosphere is just different on that court. And, yeah, the ball is traveling a bit differently. 

 Q. On though court, obviously you're well aware why it's on Court 1, but would you like to see or do you think organizers should be putting it on center court? What are your thoughts on that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know how the security issue is. Of course the most important for me is that I'm safe. You know, if they think that it's not safe to play on center court, then of course I'll play on Court 2.

 Q. Court 1. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: 2 I think we're playing. They moved us to Court 2 now. But, you know, there's nothing you can do. 
 Of course I would have loved to play on center court, no doubt about it. It's a nice court, and has Hawk-Eye as well. I'm just going to go out there and play. 

 Q. An awful lot of people during the second set last night wondered where your game had gone. You've came back emphatically tonight. That must be very pleasing. You said you struggled to find your rhythm, but from the very beginning tonight you seemingly had it. What's changed in 24 hours, would you say? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: First match is always tough. You need to get into the rhythm of playing the tournament. It's always different from tournament to tournament how you feel, how you feel the balls are playing. Um, you know, I think it was of course unfortunate the way it ended yesterday. 
 But, you know, I think I would have pulled it through in the end and been here today as well. 

 Q. A victory tomorrow would see you return to the No. 1 position, I think. That must be a spur I would imagine for you. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I don't really think about it. I'm going to go out there -- every time I go into a tournament I try to win it; that's my goal.
 If I play well, the ranking will come automatically. For me, tomorrow I'm going to go out there and play my best. That's all I can do.

 Q. When was the last time you played on a small outside court?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Last year here.

 Q. That was the last one?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes. (Smiling.)

 Q. So it really is going to be different. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's much different. I remember last year I struggled to find my rhythm in the beginning because the balls -- the court was really much faster.

 Q. The sightlines were different?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes. But, you know, I got the experience from last year. Hopefully it will help me this year.

 Q. Have you been practicing out there just in case?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, I didn't really look at the draw, to be honest. But, yeah, I mean, I didn't practice every time on the center court. I tried as much as positive to play in there, but I had hits on the outside courts as well.

 Q. Vera and Francesca have gone out today. Your chances of winning presumably have enhanced considering there's only two of the top 5 left, and you're the No. 1. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, you know, I always -- I never like these questions, because it seems like everyone outside top 5 can't play tennis; that's not true. The other girls must have played really well to beat them. It's not easy, and tomorrow it's going to be a tough task.
 I'm just going to try to win that one. 

 Q. And you're pretty friendly with more or also everyone in the locker room, aren't you? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.

 Q. How tough do you think this must be for Shahar to come here in this situation and still play good tennis?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think definitely it's tough for her because she goes on the court, she goes back to the hotel. But on the other hand, it seems like she also likes it, because she's always play well here. (Smiling.) 
 I mean, last year she made to the semis, and this year she's playing well again. It seems like it's pumping her up.

 Q. Do you talk to her about it at all? Have you ever had a conversation with her about it?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I have. She wants to play here, and she feels like it's the right thing for her. So, yeah. 

 Q. You always play a lot of tournaments throughout the year. I wonder, bearing in mind that I'm sure one of your goals must be to win a Grand Slam, have you thought at all about changing your schedule and playing less?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm playing how I feel like. If I feel like playing tournaments, I do that; if I feel like having a break, I do that.
 I like to be in the tournament mode; I like to play matches. That's when I play my best, when I get a lot of matches in. So for now, I like the way things are.

 Q. And you would rather play tournaments than practice, for example? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. I mean, I'm practicing anyway. Sometimes it's tougher to practice four hours a day from fitness two hours than to play a match. And it's more fun to go in there and be competitive, and of course it's more fun when you're winning.

 Q. The only other time I've seen you is in Doha. Today I saw it a little bit where you really get other player going back and forth, back and forth, and just wear them down. Talk a little bit about your style. What am I seeing there for someone who doesn't follow you closely? Were you playing your game today? Maybe describe what your game is to people who don't really follow you so closely. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, for me, my game is to move my opponent around, wait for the right chance, and go for the winner when I have the chance. 
 But I like to watch the opponent run. I like to make them tired. I'm in good shape, so I can be out there all day if I have to.
 For me, the longer the match is, the better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT