AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. LI/C. Wozniacki
  3-6, 7-5, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Where did it get away from you? You were serving for the match in the second set. What happened after that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I had a match point and I didn't take it. I think we played some good tennis out there.  
 Sometimes in matches or in tennis it's one ball that can change everything. I didn't get my match point. From then on, well, she was just better at the most important points. She won the most important one, which was the last one.   
 Of course right now I'm sitting here and I wish I would have won the match. It's quite difficult to get through this one. I just need to get back on the practice court and keep working hard. Hopefully I'll get many more chances in the future.  
  
  Q. If you could play the match again now, would you change anything?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's so easy to say now, I would change this, that. If I could do something, I would like to make an ace at match point and finish it off. It's so easy right now to sit here and think back.  
 But when you're in the situation I thought I did the right thing that moment. Yeah, sometimes you win a match from being up or down with a match point, and sometimes you lose. You know, it's sports. I just need to get through this one.   
  
  Q. What makes her a difficult opponent?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She's definitely a good player. She's playing very aggressively, taking the balls early. She's on a really good roll at the moment; she has the confidence. Yeah, she's definitely playing good tennis.  
  
  Q. Mentally did things change? Because first set and almost all the way to the match point, you were in control and you had depth hitting your forehand, your serve was great, and after you lost the match point it seemed like she took complete control of the match.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know if she did or didn't. I just -- I still had chances even though after I lost that match point I still had chances. I was serving, I had opportunities to go 6-All. I had a lot of chances; I just didn't take them.  
 If you don't take your chances, yeah, you lose the match. That's what happened today. One ball could make a big difference. I could have been sitting here as the winner. But could have, would have, if I would have done something different.  
 Right now, of course it's a bit disappointing. I just need to get through this one; I need to get back on the practice court and keep working hard and I'm sure I'll have more chance is in the future.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like you needed to play more aggressive in the third set? You had so many more winners in the first and second set. In the third you had 0 and she had 15. Probably not going to get it done for you.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. I don't really think about that. I was just trying to keep on going. I was trying to take one ball at a time, and that's it. That wasn't enough today, so, you know, it's just bad luck.   
 Like I said before, I'll try to work through this; I will learn from this and I will come back stronger.   
  
  Q. The heat in the third set, did that affect you at all?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I think it was the same for both of us. So no, not really.  
  
  Q. You were making quite a lot of challenges in the third set. Were you getting frustrated at all?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know if I was getting frustrated. She played a lot of important balls, points on the lines, and I think it was just worth a challenge to see and just get it out of my mind.  
 Yeah, it's -- yeah.  
  
  Q. I realize you're a very tough person, but how emotional was it when you got off the court?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely it was tough. It's never easy to lose a match, especially this way. Yeah, but it's sports. Life goes on. I still have a day tomorrow, and I just -- I believe if I keep working hard my time will come. It just wasn't meant to be for me this tournament.  
 Just need to try to get through this, even though it's pretty tough right now.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you have missed a good opportunity to win your first Grand Slam this time?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You can always say I missed this opportunity. You can always -- if you look at the match, you can always look at the opponents and everyone who's left in the tournament and say, I should have been there. I could have been there.   
 To be honest, Li Na played a really great match today. It was a great effort for both of us. She just came out as the winner of this match. I wish her good luck in the finals. That's it.   
 I will come back. Just need to have an hour or two and I'll be back and on the right track again.  
  
  Q. Do you think she's playing the game to win on Saturday?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she's definitely playing well. She has the belief she can do it. We have to see. A finals is a finals. You never know what's going to happen.   
 It's two great girls in the finals. I just wish both of them good luck.  
  
  Q. Last night Justine Henin announced she will retire for the second time. What are your comments about this news?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, actually I just found out now that she's going to retire. Of course, Justine is a great champion and she's been unlucky since she made the comeback. She's injured and has had some injuries.  
 I think she's thought a lot about this. I think she is just ready to start a new chapter in her life.  
  
  Q. As the current No. 1 and representing the current generation, is it a big loss to women's tennis to lose Justine Henin?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely growing up I was watching and looking at her playing and winning slams. But, you know, um, we're so many young players coming up. We have a lot of great players out there.  
 So I think the tour is very exciting at the moment. I think we have so many different style of players, so it's -- yeah, so it's good out there.   
  
  Q. You mentioned before you like to learn something from that match. What could it be?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, at the moment, for me, I'm just trying to get over and trying to think everything through: what happened, what I did well, what I didn't do so well.  
 Next time I just need to do so the things just a little bit better. You always get experience, you know. You need to learn from your mistakes, need to learn what I was -- what I can do better next time. You know, I'm a fighter, so I'm not going to give up. I'll be back again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT