AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Everyone, thanks for coming back. Caroline just wanted to say a few words, and also make a clarification. So she's going to start out and then we'll take questions.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I want to come back, because I just wanted to clarify and say I'm sorry if I've caused any harm or made your job a little bit more difficult. But the kangaroo story, I made it up because it sounded better than what actually happened. I walked into the treadmill so that wasn't really -- you know, that's my blonde. Sometimes that happens.   
 I'm sorry if I caused an inconvenience. I really didn't mean to. I didn't think you would believe it because I already told the Danish press and they know. I thought it was out there already. So I just wanted to apologize and that's why I'm here. I'm hoping that the press conferences in the future will still be funny. I promise if I make a joke like this, I'll make sure to clarify it before I leave.   
 Again, I didn't think that it was going to, yeah, spin this way.   
  
  Q. I wonder if you ever are tired of being called Wozniacki when you are Wozniacki.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, um, that was a different spin. I didn't expect that one. Um, no, not really, because since I was little in Denmark, it's tough for Danish people to pronounce Wozniacki so I always said Wozniacki. Actually I stayed with it and thought I should just keep it like this and keep it for now. Polish people call me Wozniacki or Wozniacki.  
  
  Q. When people thought you were being serious, how did you feel. Stupid, silly?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I mean, I went to ESPN straightaway and I clarified that this was not true. I didn't think you would believe it because I thought it was a story I thought it didn't sound right.  
 But I guess I did really -- actually I'm a good actress I think. Maybe I should ask for a part in a movie.  
  
  Q. When did you decide to go with that story? Spur of the moment? Walking in?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I just heard that the story was getting out there and actually a lot of people believed it. Then I was like, Okay I think it's better that I come back and apologize. Because I heard that to get the story pulled back again was quite a bit of work. So I just thought I would come back and apologize.  
  
  Q. When did you decide on the story itself, to tell the story?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I just -- actually it came up in the Danish press. They asked me happened to your leg with the cut. I was thinking, doesn't sound too good that I actually walked into the treadmill. I was like, Okay, kangaroo, we're in Australia, so a kangaroo scratched me. I thought that was a bit funny. Afterwards I said it was a joke and everyone was laughing. I just thought to make it a bit more fun and mix if up a little bit.  
  
  Q. Did you have a phone call from Woody Allen already or not?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.   
  
  Q. Will you be going to the zoo to see a kangaroo?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I should now. I heard they can box but I heard they're really harmless most the time.  
  
  Q. Maybe we can all come along and see what unfolds.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, if I go, I'll let you know.  
  
  Q. If you saw a journalist lying down in the park, would you help him?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: (Laughter.) Of course. I'm a good girl, so I always help people in need.  
  
  Q. Was it your idea to do another press conference or did someone ask you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, no, it was my idea. I felt bad. I felt like it was just a good thing to do. I didn't want to come into another press conference knowing that maybe someone was upset with me because of the story. So I just wanted to clear it all. Hopefully we can be in good spirits next time I come in.  
  
  Q. What would you normally be doing now in preparation for the second week?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Probably relaxing, watch some tennis on TV.  
  
  Q. So your mind's been elsewhere for the last couple hours?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's okay. I have a day of rest tomorrow, so I have plenty of time. Seeing all guys here, it's great. All of you good looking guys and girls, it's really hard for me to concentrate right now, because I'm just smiling, everyone is smiling back at me. So it's all good.  
  
  Q. Your press conferences are definitely not boring anymore. Are you happier with that?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, definitely think that this shows more of my personality. I think also the journalists are asking me fun questions. I think it's a bonus for all of us. You don't find me boring, I don't find it boring sitting here. We all gain from it.  
  
  Q. Is it a part of your personality doing practical jokes?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I always do that. I always just joke around with my dad or friends. We have a good time and just laugh about it afterwards.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT