AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/V. King
  6-1, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Was that a No. 1 seed performance today?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I definitely felt like I was playing good tennis today. I was playing aggressively. I was playing my game and I felt comfortable out there.   
  
  Q. What did you like most about the match?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uhm, I think I took the balls early, I made her run. I had a couple of good net approaches.   
 I don't know, I just think in general I played a really good and solid match.   
  
  Q. How much improvement is there? Still got another five matches to go before the final.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm just taking one match at a time. We're going to see what's gonna happen.   
 You know, every time I step on the court I just want to play better. Today, I'm on the right path.   
  
  Q. Were you comfortable coming into the tournament, given you had the couple exhibition losses and then Cibulkova?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was actually very confident. I was feeling very good. Exhibitions, I just wanted to try a few things out, see how things were working. I lost to Cibulkova, but that's what happens sometimes. I lost last year in Sydney first round as well. Coming in from Hong Kong, play Sydney, it's a bit difficult.   
 I felt I've been practicing really well, really hard. I've been feeling confident and comfortable on the court. I had some good practices after Sydney and feeling good here.  
  
  Q. Did you get enough of a break during the off-season and did you actually feel mentally refreshed starting the new year?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. I felt like I had a great off-season. Had some time off where I completely relaxed, which was really nice. Then I started working hard, started to build my shape up.   
  
  Q. Talking about Cibulkova, you're going to face her again in the third round.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know who she's playing. I know she didn't play yet. You know, I'm not going to say anything about the next match as long as I don't know who I'm playing.   
  
  Q. A few words about Kim? What do you think about her for the moment?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I saw her match yesterday on TV. She was playing really well, really aggressively. She showed that she's in good form.   
  
  Q. Do you have higher expectations for yourself now than you did at this time last year?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I believe that I'm a really good player; I can beat anyone on a good day. Again, the way I always look at the things, I just take one match at a time and we see how far I can go.   
 If I win, great. If I lose one match, just back on the practice court, work, and get stronger.  
  
  Q. Percentage-wise, how much better do you think you can get in the next couple years?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I always believe you can always get better. Even Rafa and Roger, who are, I mean, fantastic athletes, they even get better all the time. So they impress everyone every time they step on the court.   
 So I think I can still improve everything.   
  
  Q. Would you consider yourself a perfectionist at all?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I am. I think that's also why I've reached the level I've reached. I'm never satisfied. I always want to get better. Every time I step on the practice court, I always see things that I want to improve.  
  
  Q. Do you get upset with yourself when you're not performing at the level you know you can?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. Then I just work extra hard and I don't stop until the things are working. You know, I think I get frustrated, but I use it in a positive way.   
 Yeah, so, I think that's the way I built.  
  
  Q. In the off-season you played an exhibition in Minsk with Azarenka. You found yourself hitting with the president. Was that spontaneous or planned?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: That was spontaneous actually. We had lunch with him earlier that day. We just thought that was a fun way to break it up a little bit. He was actually playing pretty well.   
  
  Q. Would you rather be a younger player who is still coming up and people don't know as well, or would you rather be in this position at No. 1 where the pressure is obviously going to be greater?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely in the position I am now. I think there's no doubt about it. I think if you ask any player, I think if you ask them if they would rather be No. 1 in the world or No. 50 in the world and coming up, I think everyone would pick No. 1.  
  
  Q. You're playing with a new racquet. What are you stringing it with?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uhm, I am stringing it right now with the strings that I played with before.   
  
  Q. Which was what? Some kind of composite?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's the red string. It's called Revenge and natural gut. But, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT