MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2011
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. CIBULKOVA/C. Wozniacki
  6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What did you think of today?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's always -- at the start of the new season you always need to get into the match play. I didn't feel that I was playing great tennis out there. So definitely now I just need to get some sets going and some training matches, head to Melbourne and get ready for Melbourne.  
 You know, last year I had the same start, so hopefully slow start, good finish.   
  
  Q. Does it knock your confidence around at all, a loss like this?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I mean it happens. Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose. You need to learn from the losses.   
 Again, it's the first tournament of the year. I just want to get the match playing going. You know, there were a few positive things in there that I can take out of it, and then I just need to work on the rest.   
 But I'm confident that for Melbourne I'll be okay.   
  
  Q. What were the positives?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, there were different things, like in some situations where I pulled it off pretty good. But, you know, there are a lot of things I need to talk to my dad and my coach about, and also I just need to get some points going and get to play some matches against some of the other girls.   
 That's what I'm going to do now.  
  
  Q. You've traveled quite a lot in the last week: Thailand, Hong Kong, Australia. Are you feeling a little tired from all that?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely it's a bit tough to go from Hong Kong to Sydney and play really well here. Definitely that's something I have to take into consideration.  
 But I felt pretty good out there. Just wasn't my day. Hopefully I can practice again tomorrow and get some points going morning.   
  
  Q. You going straight to Melbourne, or will you stay here?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not completely sure. I'm thinking I'll head to Melbourne pretty soon.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you game in practicing feels pretty good?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, on the practice, you know, always you practice a lot and you do a lot fitness training, and that feels good. Then you just need to, yeah, get that going in the match as well.   
 It will come for sure very soon. I already feel it's getting better. I just need a few matches, like I said, and I'll be fine for Melbourne.  
  
  Q. You said the other day you were comfortable with the new racquet. Is there anything that you're struggling with to make that adjustment? I know Novak a couple years ago and made a change at the beginning of the year and was struggling.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I mean, it's a very good racquet. There is nothing with the racquet, so...   
 You know, last year I had the same start. You know, I'm going into Melbourne and having my head high. I'm playing good; I'm playing well. Just need to get that going in the matches.   
  
  Q. Did you expect her to be such a tough opponent?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, my dad saw her play yesterday, and she was playing really well against Maria as well. I've played her quite a few times. We've had quite long matches before, so I knew it wasn't going to be easy.  
  
  Q. Do you feel that other players are going to raise their game against you now that you're No. 1?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely they have to try something and go for their shots, otherwise they know it will be difficult. And they have nothing to lose.   
  
  Q. The way she was able to attack your second serve, was that worrying at all?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I mean, you know -- no. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. How do you feel about your serve generally today?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think there was some on and off games. But, again, yeah, it was also a little bit difficult with the wind and the rain. Of course it's the same for both of us.  
 Yeah, just need to stay focused and I'll be fine.   
  
  Q. What do you think your weak points were throughout the match?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I let her decide too much in the match. She was playing aggressively, and I was playing her game instead of playing my own.   
  
  Q. Can you talk generally about looking forward to Melbourne and what you think your chances are there, what it's like going there as No. 1?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm really looking forward to Melbourne. I really like playing there. It's a great start of the season. I like the city as well, and the atmosphere. Looking forward to going over there.   
 I'm feeling good, so I'm looking forward. I don't know how far I can go. Every time I go into a tournament I want to win it. Of course that's what I'll be trying to do when I play there. But we need to take one match at a time. There's a lot of good players out there.   
  
  Q. What's your goal heading to Melbourne Park? What do you want to work on in the next week in your practice matches?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, just to get everything together, all the puzzles together that I've been working on, and to make everything function and not just one thing and then the other thing isn't working. I want everything to just click.   
  
  Q. Do you think you'll be match-fit and prepared for Melbourne?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. Yeah, for sure. Because it's always pretty much like this the beginning of the season. You just want to see where you're standing, what's going on.   
 I'll be good for Melbourne. I'm feeling confident; I'm feeling good. It'll be a good tournament.  
  
  Q. This tournament obviously, because it attracts so many of the top players and it's only a small draw, you kind of go into it and it's almost like midway through a tournament, isn't it?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. You face someone who's very strong and playing well immediately.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. Well, definitely, because I mean, I think the last accepted player is like 31 or 30. It's a real tough draw. You need to be ready from the beginning and you need to play well from the first match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT