WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 31, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/C. Wozniacki
  6-3, 5-7, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Seemed right from the outset that you seemed to struggle right the way through. Partway through you were coming back, and then you backed off. Take us through the game. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I thought we played some good tennis out there today. Kim got a better start than me, broke me once, and won the set 6-3. 
 The second set, it was just one break, and then I came back. 4-All I felt like I had -- I just started playing more aggressively, took my chances, and took the chances that I had. I won the second set.
 In the third set, you know, it was very close. She played really well, especially in the important moments.

 Q. You had your coach come out a few times to sort of give you some sort of advice, et cetera. If you had the match again, would you do anything different based on what he was telling you to do?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's so easy to say, you know, I could have done this different, this differently. But I gave my all today. 
 You know, I couldn't play better today. 

 Q. What was he telling you? Can you say? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He was telling me a lot of things. You know, Just hang in there. You're playing well. Take your time to your serves. Just, yeah, try to do your best. 

 Q. At the second game on the third set, you have a little problem with something in your racquet. You had the break and... 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: There was like a huge bug. It was sitting on my strings and all over the court. 

 Q. Second set give us the impression it would be an easy third set for you. Is it Clijsters' experience that plays here, to make your defeat?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely the experience, you know, mattered a little bit today. You know, I did my best out there, and today it wasn't enough. 

 Q. Have you learned anything as a result of today's game?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Right now, I'm so tired I haven't thought the match through. I haven't thought about the match. You know, I'm going to look back and learn from it for sure.
 But right now, I'm going to enjoy my break. I'm going to have a few weeks off, and then I can start working hard again and be even better in January than I was now. 

 Q. What tournaments are you going to play in Australia before the Australian Open, if any? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not completely sure about my schedule yet. I know that for sure I'm going to play an exhibition in Thailand with Kim, and then I'm going to play in Hong Kong.
 Then I'm not sure exactly where I'm going to play in Australia. 

 Q. Is it possible you'll have time off, or you're definitely playing one of the tournaments there? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not completely sure. Maybe Sydney. 

 Q. Does losing today your match has affects on being the first in ranking, or no? Does losing today the final match of the Championships has affects on being the first in the ranking professional?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I'm still No. 1 at the end of the year, so it doesn't have any affects.

 Q. But psychological?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I've had a fantastic year. I won six tournaments; I've beaten so many good players. You know, you cannot win every match. I've made the finals of the Championships, and I lost one match today. 
 You know, I cannot do anything about it now. I will come back in the off-season and train, but right now I'm proud of my season. I'm happy about how I've been playing. I'm going to enjoy some time off. 

 Q. Is there a reason why you start slowly? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't think so. I did my best out there today. (Smiling.)

 Q. Can you talk about nerves in general during this final? Were you tense all the way? And then when you came back in the second set, did you feel you had the momentum? Obviously you had it. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, you know, always when you go into a match you're a little bit nervous in the beginning. And then, afterwards, I just -- you know, I tried to play aggressively, but Kim, you know, she had that advantage in the beginning. She took the balls early and she made me run and made me play too definitely in the second set.
 I had to step it up, and I did and I had the momentum. I just couldn't keep it all the way through. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT