WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 28, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/F. Schiavone
  3-6, 6-1, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Very well done. What was your predominant emotion? Relief? Delight? What? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm happy. I'm very happy. I've had a great season. I've played some good matches here, and now I can end the year at No. 1. It's a really great feeling.
 Yeah, I mean, I'm only the tenth one to finish the year as No. 1, so I'm really proud of what I've achieved.

 Q. We keep hearing player after player after player saying, I don't take any notice of the rankings. Numbers don't matter. Do they? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, No. 1 is always something you dreamed about definitely since I was a little girl, No. 1, winning Grand Slams. So definitely that means something to me. 
 But when you're in the tournament, the only thing in your matches is you're thinking to win this one. You don't think about anything else and everything around it.

 Q. Were you aware of all the mathematics going on when you walked onto court? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I was told quite a few times that if I won either my match yesterday or my match today that I would end the year at No. 1. 
 But actually, I don't follow myself. I don't know, you know, how many points I'll have or how many points No. 2. will have. I don't know.

 Q. Was it especially pleasing today that she made you play so well to have to win the match? So for all that was on the match, you actually had to play some brilliant tennis to win it. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I thought we played really, really good match today. In the first set, she played very well. And I didn't feel like I was playing badly. I was playing good tennis, too.
 Second and third set I stepped in a little bit more and made her run a bit more and didn't allow her to dictate the balls as much. That paid off. 
 Even though it was 6-1, 6-1 in the second and third set, I felt like it was a tough match and it was a tight match. It could have gone either way.

 Q. It's a remarkable turnaround from last year when you were hit by cramp and abdominal problems. This year you look much stronger physically. Even tonight you looked stronger as the game was going on. What do you put that turnaround to? Is it increased training or better scheduling?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, I think last year I came into this tournament a little bit injured. I think that also made my body work a little bit harder for everything.
 This year I feel like, you know, I'm fit, I'm feeling well, feeling good physically. I've been working really hard off the court as well, and that's paid off. So I'm really happy about that. 

 Q. You quite enjoy going into shops and getting the credit card out. Are you planning any present for yourself for ending the year World No. 1?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Where did you get that from? 

 Q. I think you told me. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Okay, yeah. If I do well, I like to buy a small present for myself definitely. I haven't had time to shop yet. If I find something, I'll definitely buy something. 
 I usually like to shop handbags, I think, a nice accessory, or sunglasses. Then I like to buy presents for the people around me. I like to give presents as well. I think that's a great feeling. 

 Q. Your dad seemed to get quite animated at one stage. Was what was he saying? Anything different?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He just said I was playing good tennis. I should hang in there. He told me to take a bit more time before my serve because I was rushing a bit too much. Told me just to keep playing. 

 Q. Do you think you're now able to perhaps play with even more freedom at the weekend now that you know exactly where you stand?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I felt like -- actually, I didn't think about it too much. I just wanted to win. My next match will be similar.
 So I will just go in there and fight, and we have to see what's going to happen. I'll try to win, of course. 

 Q. Does it mean something to earn the No. 1 by winning today, versus if you would have lost you could have still become No. 1?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's always a good feeling to win. Yeah, definitely it's a good feeling to know that, okay, now I'll finish the year No. 1 after such a good match. 

 Q. And in terms of if you win this, there's all this talk of you haven't won Grand Slam, so should she be No. 1. This is a pretty big tournament. To win this, do you think that will put some of those skeptics to rest, or is that really even something to think about?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, there will always be skeptics. There's always people saying, You'll never reach top 10; never reach top 5; you'll never become this, that, win a big tournament. And if you win a Grand Slam, people will say, Okay, that was just a lucky shot or an easy draw.
 For me, the most important thing is just that I know that I've had a great season. I've won six tournaments so far, and my friends and family are the ones that mean the most to me. That's what I care about. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT