WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 27, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. STOSUR/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. If you have to lose a match, is it better to lose it in a group where you can repair the damage?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I guess, yeah. Hopefully I can win tomorrow so then I can be through to the semifinals.   
 But, you know, it's always -- I never like losing. I prefer to win. But, you know, Sam was playing well today.   
 Yeah, it was tough.   
  
  Q. Was a crucial moment those sort of two or three moments towards the end of the first set where you had the chance to get to breakpoint and didn't quite make it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I had breakpoints in almost every game in the first set. I think I maybe had five or something like that, and I didn't take any of them. Sam had one and she took it. She took her chance and she won the set.   
 Then, yeah, in the second set I just found it difficult to return her serves. And, yeah, that's -- yeah, then afterwards, again, one break, and that's it.  
  
  Q. Did it ever creep into your mind that you could be year-end world No. 1? Was that a factor at all?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I didn't think about that during the match. I just wanted to win and try to get the rhythm and try to get as many returns in as possible. I was just trying to win the match.   
  
  Q. Was it more of a case that she played a really good match or you were making a lot of mistakes or combination of both? She seemed to have a really good forehand and serve going.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She was serving well definitely, and she's hitting with a lot of spin. She's playing different than the other girls.   
 For me today, I didn't take my chances. I had a lot of breakpoints in the first set; I didn't take them. You know, maybe that could have turned around the match.  
 You know, I lost the match. I just need to just try to get over it fast and then prepare for tomorrow. Hopefully I can pull out a win there.   
  
  Q. What will you take from it to help you play better tomorrow?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, um, definitely I just need a little while to just think about the match and what I can improve for tomorrow.   
 Tomorrow's going to be a different match. I think we're going to have maybe a little bit more rallies than we had today.   
  
  Q. Back to the issue of No. 1. The scenario is the this complicated scenario where you only have to win one more match to secure it. Does that weigh on your mind at all, or is that something you just don't factor in when you go on the court?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't think about it. I just go into a match every time and I want to win it. I want to do my job, and that's it.  
 I don't really think about everything else.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT