WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 25, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Does it require a different mentality to start the tournament as a favorite compared with tournaments when you're not? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. Actually, to be honest, for me it's the same. I go into a tournament and I always want to win it. 
 Of course, now I'm the player to beat. You know, it's just a nice feeling. It's nice to know that I've done so good results that I'm the No. 1 player in the world. That's is a fantastic feeling. 

 Q. How important is this week, do you think, for the women's game? It's one week where the spotlight is on the top 8 players in the world, the chance to showcase the best in women's tennis. Do you think it's an important week for the women's game?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think this week is a week that all the players, they are trying to get to when they start the season. That's a goal for every player, to be in the top 8 so they can play here. I think it's a really important week. I think all of the players, we want to do our best here. We know it's not going to be easy because it's, yeah, the top players in the world. So there's no easy matches here. 

 Q. You played a tremendous number of matches last year, I think 87 or something like that. You talked about perhaps cutting down. By the end of this tournament, it'll be almost as many. Can you talk about the issues surrounding that and how you make a judgment on it?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I'm feeling really good this year. I feel fresh now and ready for this tournament. Last year I had some injuries going into here, but this year I'm feeling really good. Actually, I feel like my scheduling this year has been really good for me. 
 As long as I feel fit and healthy and I'm willing to play, I like to play tournaments. It's just a positive problem to have that I'm playing so many matches, because it means I'm doing well.
 Yeah, I'm happy and enjoying myself. 

 Q. How does it feel being world No. 1? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It feels great. It's something that I've always dreamed of since I was a little girl, so definitely to achieve that goal, it's a really good feeling. 

 Q. And talking about your group, is it a bit easier than the other group, or how did you think?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think you can say there's an easier or tough group. Both groups are really tough. It's the best players in the world.
 We have to see. Hopefully I can get through my group. That would be the goal. 

 Q. You've got a two-month break coming up. Is that something you're looking forward to, or any concern you might lose the momentum you've had this season?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I'm looking forward to it. I had a long break after Wimbledon as well where I took five weeks and just really worked hard. Then I came back and played really well after that. 
 I'm looking forward to it. I'm looking forward to this tournament and taking a break, and looking forward to getting back on the practice court and just working hard and coming back even stronger in 2011.

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about the conditions here? You've experienced it before. How difficult is it? Even seems to be warmer this year than last year. I know you already mentioned it on one or two tweets. How tough is it, and how do you have to prepare to play this week as best you can?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I definitely learned something from last year. Hopefully I will not be lying on the court this year like I did last year. It's just about drinking a lot the water, a lot of energy drinks, and just keeping your fluids going.
 I feel in good shape, and that I'm ready for this. The heat, we're used to the heat by playing in Australia or Cincinnati or some of those other places, so I don't think it's going to have a big effect, also because we're starting in this the evening. 
 It's the same for both players. I'm just looking forward to playing. 

 Q. You played such a lot of tennis the last month or so. What's coming up next week after the tennis season? What are you doing then?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm going to take a holiday a little bit and relax and just enjoy my season and look back and be proud of what I've achieved this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT