CHINA OPEN
October 11, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/V. Zvonareva
  6-3, 3-6, 6-3 
  
 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Could you tell us a little bit about how the match progressed? It looked like you came out a little bit slow, then stormed back, and then the momentum shifted again. Just give us a few comments on that and how you managed to pull it out in the third.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I thought in general I played a really, really good match, and, you know, Vera was playing really well, too. I think in general the whole match was just so close, and I had advantages in all the first games in the first set and I just didn't take them.  
 You know, I just stayed focused. I kept running, and I tried to keep the pressure on her, tried to keep her moving. I thought we played a really, really good match.  
  
  Q. This is what, your sixth title this year? To what do you attribute your success this year? What has changed in your game?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. I think just everything is working for me at the moment. I got to believe I can beat anyone, and I feel in great shape. I feel that, you know, I've improved a lot of small things. It just has made a big difference. I'm really happy and pleased about the way I'm playing at the moment.   
  
  Q. What are your plans between now and Doha?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely I'm gonna rest a few days, and then I'm just gonna practice and prepare for Doha. I'm not sure when I'm leaving for Doha, but I will just practice.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) I observed that you have yellow-colored nails. During the match I observed you have some clothes with the yellow color to go with. Would you comment on that?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I did my yellow nails on purpose, because I have the yellow underwear underneath my outfit, and I like to be fashionable and I like to match.  
 So that was, everything, a part of the presentation. (Smiling.)  
  
  Q. (Through translation.) During the awards presentation you said a couple of times you came here to play and you were eliminated even in the first round. You came from Denmark where the fairytale is worldwide famous. Does your success today reflect a kind of fairytale?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I have been playing really well lately, and I came into this tournament and I wanted to do a good result. I knew that I could become No. 1 in the world as well if I won a few rounds.   
 I'm really happy about the way everything turned out this week, and I'm really happy to be the winner of this tournament for the first time.   
  
  Q. (Through translation.) First question: You have already won the crown jewel tournament in China Open, and how far would you think that you are away from Grand Slam title? Second question: You have already played 24 tournaments this season. Do you think you will be physically burnt out to play that many tournaments in a season?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: First question, of course I'd like to win a Grand Slam. That's next goal. I feel I am on a really high level, and I believe that I can beat anyone. But in a Grand Slam you have to win seven matches in a row, and that's not easy.  
 I have been close. You know, next year I will have that as a goal. Hopefully I can achieve that. If it doesn't happen next year, I'm still young, so I still have a lot of years in front of me.  
 Second question: I believe that this was my 21st tournament this year, so I feel fit, I feel healthy, I feel good. I like to play tournaments. I feel like I'm not burnt out. I feel I have done really well in my latest tournaments, and I'm looking forward to Doha, which is my last tournament of the year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT