CHINA OPEN
October 9, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/S. Peer
  7-5, 6-2 
  
 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How's your knee? It looked sometimes like you were having a little trouble moving around. How does it feel? How do you think it's going to be to play on tomorrow?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it felt better today than it did yesterday. I've got a lot of treatment on it, and I had the tape for the support.  
 I still felt it a little bit, but it's not getting worse, so that's a positive thing.   
  
  Q. After the third game in the second set you requested to talk to your coach, and then you just dominated from there out. I mean, it wasn't even close really. What exactly did he tell you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, he just told me to step bit up to the court, to be a bit more aggressive. Yeah, then, you know, it's important for me to get my first serves in.   
  
  Q. Can you just sort of give some general comments about the match, how you felt, and will you be trying to do anything different tomorrow?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm really happy to be in the finals. I've never been in the finals here in the singles before, so it was really nice and it was nice for me to finish it off in two sets.  
 I feel good out there on court. Hopefully tomorrow I can play a good match against Vera. She's in really good shape, so it's not going to be easy.   
  
  Q. Obviously you have a great rivalry between you and Vera. You beat her in Canada but lost to her in US Open semis. So do you think is there anything you can do differently to maybe for you to win the match tomorrow?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: For me, I don't know. Hopefully, you know, I'm just thinking about trying to be 100% fit for tomorrow, and I'm going to go out there and fight.   
 Vera's a good player; I'm a good player. So it's going to be a difficult match, hopefully a good match, and we have to see what's going to happen.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT