CHINA OPEN
October 8, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Ivanovic
  7-6, 6-4 
  
 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How's the knee?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I felt pain when I landed on my left knee during the match. You know, I was really afraid that something really serious had happened. I got it taped up, and it helped a little bit even though I still felt it.  
 You know, now I have been having treatment, and it feels better. Hopefully, you know, it will all be okay. Yeah, I mean, yeah, for sure nothing with the ligaments, so that's very positive.  
 So hopefully it's just I just overstretched it and that's what caused the pain.   
  
  Q. What was it like playing as the world No. 1? Did it feel any different? Did it affect your performance at all?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. Actually, of course, it was a great feeling this morning to wake up and knowing, you know, I was the world No. 1, but on the court it didn't feel different, still the same. I knew it was gonna be a tough match out there today. It was gonna be a battle.   
  
  Q. Just when you went down, you had a few tears. Did a few horrible thoughts flash through your mind there? Did you think 24 hours previously you were on top of the world and now you were lying there with a serious injury?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely. I felt pain when I jumped down on my knee, so already, you know, I had not really nice thoughts going through my mind. You know, I was of course hoping that it wasn't too serious, and as it appears, I don't think it's too serious.  
 Hopefully I'll be okay. Definitely that was a bit of a scare I got there.   
  
  Q. Was there any celebration last night after you were crowned world No. 1?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I just had a nice dinner and had a nice time just enjoying it with my dad and a few friends, but nothing big. I had to play today, so, you know, I just went to bed pretty early and got ready for today.   
  
  Q. You said you had a nice dinner. Where? Which restaurant?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Just in the hotel, actually. Just sat there and enjoyed it a little bit.   
  
  Q. Just a question about your opponent tonight who obviously has been the No. 1 player trying to work her way back up the rankings. How does she compare, particularly in the first set tonight, with some of the other top players you've played? Is she capable, do you think, of returning to the top 5?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, the top 5, it's tough for anybody. To stay up there is really tough.  
 I thought she played really, really well today. I thought she hit some amazing shots, and I thought we played really well, both of us.  
 So definitely, I mean, she's a top player. I'm sure that she will work her way up.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT