CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/P. Kvitova
  6-3, 6-2

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. I guess you know what we all want to hear about, which is how are you feeling about the ranking? How do you feel going forward in the tournament?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm very proud of, you know, I can call myself the No. 1 in the world now. It's an incredible feeling, something I've always worked for to achieve, so I'm really happy about that.
 You know, now I'm through to the quarterfinals, and it's gonna be another great match. I'm playing Ana, I think, so I mean, yeah, it's a tough opponent, and I'm just happy to be through. 

 Q. You once described your life as a fairy tale. I would like to know how you rate the significance of tonight's achievement in your life. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's a very big achievement for me. I'm very proud of it. 
 As I said, it's always been something that has been a goal for me and something I've been working towards. You know, it's a really great moment for me. Yeah, I'm living a good life. I'm playing tennis, the sport I love, and I have good results. I have a nice family and great friends around me who support me. 

 Q. I wonder what your father said when he came on at 5-2 in the second set? Surely he wasn't doubting that you would win, was he?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He just encouraged me. He told me, you know, just to try to get a lot of first serves in. And then he was like, you know, She's still there, you know. She's a good player. So when things are working her way, he just told me I should just keep fighting no matter if she comes back or not.
 So, yeah, he just came with some encouraging words. 

 Q. If I'm not mistaken, the song in the book has the words "Simply the Best" by Tina Turner. How do you feel right now as the best one in the tour?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's a great feeling for me, and again, it's a great achievement. I've been playing really well, and, yeah, it's a really nice moment for me and for my career. 

 Q. There is not so many tennis players from Denmark besides you. Can you tell us how big tennis is in Denmark, and are you right now "the" most favorite tennis figure in your country?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, tennis is getting more popular now, definitely. I see a lot of small kids playing, and it's nice. Hopefully we'll have some more players in the future. Yeah, I think I am the most famous tennis player in Denmark. 

 Q. I don't want to be a party pooper, but there is already some talk out there that to really cement this you now have to go on and go and win a Grand Slam. Would you agree and would that be your next goal?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely that's my next goal, now that I've achieved No. 1 in the world, one of my big dreams. I'm still young, so I still have a lot of time ahead of me. I've had a fantastic season, and I think I can be proud of this. I mean, it's an incredible feeling for me right now to say that I'm No. 1 in the world. 

 Q. You've been known to say that it's always the next game that matters. Can you describe how this, you know, this achievement today, how you can use this in your future games, you know, in your career in the future, in the next, say, year or two? Does it make any difference in the way you're going to play, you know, in your mental preparation, that kind of thing?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think it will make any difference in the way I play. You know, I think I'm doing well the way I am, and, you know, I think I just need to continue the way I go. 
 For me, I'm always a fighter no matter who stands on the other side of the net, and I'll always just look at one match at a time, one point at a time, and that's the things that has been giving me the success I've had. 

 Q. Is being the world No. 1 means more than the motivation for you or pressure for you and concern you about Jelena Jankovic and Ana Ivanovic? They all had a long-time setback after being the world No. 1. How will you deal with this? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, tennis is an individual sport and everyone is different. Every human being is different. For me it's been a career goal. It's something I think I should be really proud of. 
 You know, for me now, I always want to be better. I know that I can improve a lot of things. That's just a great feeling. I know I can go back on the practice court, and I can even be better than what I am now. 
 My goal is always to be better the next time I step on the court than I was the previous. That will always be a goal for me. 

 Q. So now you're No. 1. Serena is No. 2. Can we say you are a better player than Serena this season?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, Serena has been injured for a big part of the season. I think Serena is a great champion. I think, you know, what she's achieved in her career, it's a dream for me to achieve what she has achieved.
 So, you know, I'll always see Serena as a big champion. But for me right now, I think I can -- I should just enjoy my moment. I'm young, and, you know, I can learn from players like Serena. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Your friend Azarenka and Radwanska recently have been injured. You have remained in quite good form physically and you have been successfully avoiding being injured. How have you being managed to do that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I have had my injuries, as well. I had my ankle injury after Charleston which wasn't pleasant, but, you know, I'm doing a lot of fitness, a lot of strengthening training to avoid those injuries. Knock on wood, hopefully I can continue the way I am and continue being healthy.
 I think, you know, you cannot avoid injuries when you play a game like tennis, but, you know, I definitely will do everything to minimize the risk of getting injured. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT