CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Errani
  6-4, 6-2

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. That was a very workmanlike performance. How would you rate your performance there? I think is it now just one more game and then you might, if you win that, then you'll be top seed? Is that correct? How are you feeling about that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I actually don't know, but, you know, I'm happy to have won the match today. You know, I felt like I did what I had to do to win my match, and I'm happy to be through to the third round.
 Hopefully I can play even better tomorrow, and I'm just looking forward to play. 

 Q. (Through translation.) This afternoon in the match for Kirilenko, we were seeing that there is ATP player Andreev, and in your match we were seeing Fernando Verdasco sitting there and watching. I would like to ask what kind of relationship between you and Verdasco?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, me and Fernando are good friends. We're both on the adidas team and we have been practicing together in Las Vegas in the past. He's just a really good friend, and he is out of the tournament, so he thought he was going to come and support me today. 

 Q. Not to make a political point, because it's been done before, but it's quite smoggy today. From a sports physiological/cardiovascular point of view, has that affected your game and that of the others, as well, do you think?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't think so. I think it's the same for both players, so, you know, when you play, you don't really think about it. You're just so focused that you don't really feel it.

 Q. Doesn't have any effect? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I think -- I don't feel it, so for me it's okay. 

 Q. Do you feel like is there any pressure for next match? It should be one of your most important matches of your career to be a new world No. 1 maybe. How do you think?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I don't think about it. I'm really happy to be here and that I won my match today. Tomorrow is just another match, and hopefully I can win it and pull it through. We have to see.

 Q. Do you know that WTA has been preparing maybe a ceremony for you to be awarding you world No. 1?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I didn't know that, and, you know, I still need to win my match, so we have to see. 

 Q. Just about Liverpool, it's been sold today to the Red Sox baseball team. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Really? 

 Q. For 300 million. What are your thoughts on that? What's your message to the Liverpool fans there? They're obviously quite concerned with the current events given that's in a regulation, now after they lost on Sunday, which you watched, I think. What's your thoughts?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I really don't know. I mean, I think it's good that, you know, they got some money, and, you know, maybe that can help save the club. 
 You know, the guys are playing -- you know, they lost last match and they have been struggling, but they're great players, and, you know, we have a fantastic team. We just, you know -- we just, yeah, need to play better together.
 But, I mean, it's gonna come, I'm sure. It's gonna turn. I'm gonna go there and support them in a few games when I have some time in this offseason. I'm looking forward to that. I'm sure that the fans are behind them and are gonna help them through. 

 Q. Which tennis player do you admire or do you like the most? Do you have any idols?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: When I was growing up, Martina Hingis and Steffi Graf were my idols. Now, I mean, I like to watch Roger and Rafa play. I think they're amazing competitors, and, you know, just to watch them play on such a high level, it's really something that can bring the best out of you, as well. 

 Q. Compared with Hingis, do you think you have any aspect of the same or similar to her?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I wanted to play like her when I was growing up. I wanted to know all the shots. I wanted to play smart. You know, I've never been like this power player, so for me it was important to make my opening run and find the best angles. 

 Q. To go back to Liverpool again, I was wondering if you could just explain where and when that interest in Liverpool came from. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I have been supportive for a long time already. I think it's a fantastic club with a lot of traditions and some amazing players. Steven Gerrard and Fernando Torres are some of my favorite players. 
 I like to watch them play and I like the way they're playing. You know, you have to -- when you're a real supporter, you'll support them when they're winning but also when they're losing, especially when they're down. I'm supporting them, and I will be in future as well.

 Q. Since you were a kid?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, for a long time. My family is a very sports family, my brother and my dad. My brother is playing; my dad used to play. My brother was always a Manchester United fan, so, you know, we had the rivalry at home. I was watching Liverpool.
 But, you know, it's fun and we're just enjoying it, so for a long time. 

 Q. Just to stay with that, as a fan - and obviously you're a loyal fan - does it upset you, though, to see these great teams go through these sort of commercial financial nightmares? Do you think it's something that should be addressed?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know what? I'm not too much into these things, to be honest. I'm happy just that someone wants to finance the club and that, you know, I'm sure that this will help them and just get everything settled down a little bit. 
 I'm happy when a club financially is good, you know, because that means they can buy the players they want, they can do what they want. I think that's important that it's the football that it's all about and not everything else. 

 Q. I read that Rafa Nadal actually is helping his home soccer cup right now. I think he's become a part of, a member, or whatever. Do you have any plan in the future maybe helping with the team?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Right now probably not. I think they will handle everything themselves. But, you know, I will support them and hopefully that's good enough. 

 Q. (Through translation.) There are a lot of times when you are leading in a game or falling behind, and you're asking for coaching and your father always have a lot of things to say to you. How do you feel about that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's me who's asking my dad on the court, so obviously I feel great about it. I want some input that, you know, I might not see myself, so I think it's a good rule. Yeah, I'm happy about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT