CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You look a little tired. How are you now?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I look a little tired?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel good. I'm feeling great. I happen to be in Beijing, just arrived this morning. You know, of course today is a very relaxed day for me. I'm just gonna enjoy it, and tomorrow I'll have a hit and then play on Tuesday.   
  
  Q. If you win one match in China Open you will be the new No. 1. So what's the meaning to you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, to be honest, I always go into a tournament that I want to win it. Of course that's also goal here, but if that's gonna be possible, we'll have to see.   
 You know, I'm taking one match at a time, and for me right now the most important is just to focus on one match at a time.  
  
  Q. It's not every day in your career that you're only perhaps one match away from being the best player, the No. 1 player in the world. Can you just expand a bit more on how you're feeling and how are you maintaining composure and will you be changing your game or training or anything?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, to be honest, you know, I've been working hard. I had a good break after Wimbledon where I could really practice and get in good shape. Since then, I've just been playing really well. I had a good streak in the U.S., and for me, I like playing matches, I like the competition.   
 Actually, to be honest, I don't really think about the ranking. I think about the match I'm playing at the moment, and actually, right now I'm just enjoying my victory from yesterday.   
 I'm happy about that, and then, you know, on Tuesday I'll have to focus on the next tournament, but I still just want to enjoy the moment.  
  
  Q. Could you talk a little bit about the victory yesterday? Dementieva dominated the first set. How did you turn it around, and how much confidence does that give you going into this week in Beijing?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, yesterday Elena was playing really, really well in the first set. I was playing a bit too short. She could dominate the game a bit too much, and, you know, in the second set I got a bit more depth in my balls. I got her moving more. I started to play more aggressive, and that paid off.   
 I never stopped believing that I could win the match, and I think that also paid off. And then, you know, I'm really confident after I think I've had a really good winning streak, and I feel like I've been improving a lot. You know, of course it's a new tournament here, and hopefully I can do well here, as well. We'll have to see.   
  
  Q. Your former coach told press that you will take something like boxing training in addition to your daily training schedule, so what are you gonna do in boxing training? Does it help?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I've been doing boxing training for a while now. You know, I was looking for a different way to do the workout. I thought just running on the treadmill or doing all the regular exercises I always did was a bit boring, so I wanted to change it up a little bit.   
 I had this great boxing coach who I also worked with when I was like 12 years old, and I called him and asked if he was interested in working with me again and he was.   
 So I do a lot of cardio on the treadmill. I go in the ring. I don't have anyone hit on me. He has the gloves that I hit. You know, we do a lot of things with the medicine balls and things.   
 But, you know, I feel like it's really paid off, and I feel in good shape and I feel that that also is one of the reasons I'm playing well.   
  
  Q. My question is we all know that you will become the top woman in WTA if you win the next game, so what are your thoughts about this?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I've answered that before already, but again, I don't think about it. I'm looking forward to playing here in Beijing, and I'm just excited to play my first match and we have to see how everything goes.  
  
  Q. I'm wondering what kind of reaction you're getting from your fans back at home. Is your website, are you getting more e-mails and stuff from fellow countrymen and women back in Denmark?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, definitely I get a lot of support, and it's really great. It's nice to know that I have a whole country supporting me and following me no matter what time I'm playing, day or in the middle of the night. Definitely a great feeling, and I think a lot of people start following tennis now.   
  
  Q. You are a fan of Liverpool. They will probably have a match with Black Pool tonight. Do you have time to watch it?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I sure hope so. You know, I don't know if you like my track suit here, but, you know, I'm following as many matches as I can, and definitely I always try to find the time to watch the matches.   
 I think even though they've had a little bit of a slow start this season, I'm sure they'll come back, and hopefully they can win tonight, as well.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT