CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. After Tokyo and Wuhan, how would you assess your game, how you're feeling having played a few events in Asia now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think everyone last week had a little bit of a struggle.  Going into this event, trying to do better.  It's the end of the year, it's all about trying to focus and just trying to do your best.  That's all you can do at this point, hope that it's your best effort.
Q. With the fact that it is a long season, everybody is struggling with fatigue, how do you remain motivated knowing that can happen at the end of a long season?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I just try and stay focused and try to keep my head down, think about trying to qualify for Singapore.  That's really all I can do.  Yeah, not really much else.
Because at this point of the season, it's more about just playing on your routine, playing on your belief, staying positive, fighting, giving all you have.  That's what we're doing out here.
Q. You had a really great beginning of the year.  Now that we're ending the season here, what are some goals that you have?  You mentioned Singapore.  Are you working on anything with your game specifically?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think it's the end of the year, and everyone just wants to qualify for Singapore, play there, then go on vacation, be able to relax a little bit.  I think that's kind of the goal:  qualify for Singapore, play well there, finish off the season strong, then call it a year.  Then you regroup and get ready for Australia.
Q. How would you personally describe your year so far?  How do you feel it's gone?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think winning the Australian Open was incredible.  I'm very proud of it.  I wouldn't have switched that for anything this year.
Q. A little bit away from tennis to golf.  Was wondering if you were paying any interest in the Ryder Cup, some split loyalties?  Who are you rooting for?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not really.  I don't really follow the Ryder Cup, to be honest.  Just keeping busy here.  I know it's happening right now.  But, yeah, I don't really have a favorite, to be honest.
Q. I think Simona said after Wimbledon that her six months at the start of the year left her feeling quite drained.  2017, you had such an amazing year, then at the start of this year winning the Australian Open.  A lot of emotions must have accompanied that.  Have you found that it was a bit draining after the Australian Open, left you feeling a bit depleted at all?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think you go through ups and downs in your career.  It's not always smooth sailing.  I think everyone is tired sometimes.  Everyone goes through periods where they're struggling a little bit.
At the same time, I feel fine.  Just trying to end the year on a good note.  That's really it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT