U.S. OPEN
September 10, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What happened out there today? Seemed like she played almost a perfect game against you.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She played a really good game, definitely. You know, she was not missing a lot. She was going for her shots. Most things were going in. You know, I had chances, and I don't know, I made some mistakes today that I usually don't do.   
 Yeah, it was a tough day for me in the office, and unfortunately it was today. That's the way tennis is sometimes.  
  
  Q. Taking into account how incredibly well you've played coming into the tournament and then in the tournament, does it make it that much more difficult to not get to the finals in that your expectations were, I'm sure, pretty high?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, I always take one match at a time, and I do the best that I can in every match. And, you know, I definitely was playing great tennis up to the tournament and in the tournament. Even today, I mean, I had periods where I was playing really well.  
 So, you know, of course I really don't like losing. I think it's -- yeah, you know, it's always disappointing when you lose a match. But, you know, I just need to learn from this. I made it to the semifinals of the US Open, and still, you know, when I look back on this tournament I can be proud of what I've achieved.  
  
  Q. Seemed like you were missing a lot of forehands.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  
  
  Q. Were you not feeling it today?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I just think in general both -- also the serves, you know, there is a little bit of -- there was a little bit of everything today. You know, points where I played unbelievable and points where, you know, I even didn't know how come I put it with the frame.  
 Yeah, it was just a day like this. I was really trying. I was really trying to move my legs even more, trying to get into this rhythm where I could lead in this game. But, you know, she was really strong today and she played really well.  
  
  Q. You've had a real long run. Are you tired now? Are you feeling weary?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, no, I'm actually not feeling too tired, to be honest with you. I wouldn't have minded playing one more match.  
 But of course I'm sure that, you know, when I get to settle down a little bit of the adrenaline comes down and I know that I don't have anything the next couple of weeks, then for sure I'll feel a little bit.  
  
  Q. How bad were the conditions out there for you today?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely much, much better than last match. But still, of course, it's a little bit windy, but it was the same for both of us.  
  
  Q. You said you made mistakes. Are you talking physical mistakes, like mishitting a shot or are you talking mental mistakes where you're going for something here and you shouldn't have.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, just missed some shots. I framed a few shots that -- usually maybe I do one or two frames in the match today; today maybe I made, I don't know, ten.   
 You know, some things I already saw -- you know, in my head I already knew. Okay, I've played it there, so the next ball will be here. But I need to focus on the ball I was hitting.  
 You know, just made a few mistakes and she took advantage of it. I mean, she played a really great match. She was playing really well. She deserves to be in the finals.  
  
  Q. You played her four times going into this match, now five times; is this the best she's ever played against you, do you think?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think it always has been really tough matches, and we've both played really high-level tennis. It's tough to say. But she's definitely in good shape.  
  
  Q. She's known for being mentally fragile. Were you surprised at how well she handled - I mean, the string thing was bizarre there in the second set - did you think, Well, this is the place where maybe she's gonna crack a little bit? She didn't.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was mostly focusing on myself.  
 For me, it was most important keep my focus, try just to move my legs, get in position, try to hit the balls in the corners so she had to run. Yeah, I just try to hang in there because I was behind.  
 Yeah.   
  
  Q. This is her second Grand Slam final this year, and she did not make the breakthrough at Wimbledon. What do you think will be the issues for her, do you think, in order for her to win it, you having played a final here last year?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: What she has to do to win it?   
  
  Q. What are going to be the decisive things, you think?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. It's tough, because, I mean, she's a great player. It's always tough. A finals, you never know what's gonna happen. It's a finals.   
 She definitely has the chance to win it. I mean, she's a really, really good player. She's playing well, so I don't see a reason why she shouldn't be able to.  
  
  Q. She hits those flat groundstrokes that stay low to the ground. Is that especially difficult on a day when you're not really in sync with your forehand, or like you said, you're not really feeling it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, because, I mean, I was playing really well at periods, and there were periods where, you know, I made mistakes.  
 That's life. You know, I've beaten her before. So, no, it doesn't matter.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT