U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/D. Cibulkova
  6-2, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How tough was it out there tonight?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was really difficult to play today. It was very windy, and from one side you barely hit it and the ball was flying, and from the other side you had to really hit through because the ball didn't go anywhere.   
 So it was tough, but it was the same for both of us.  
  
  Q. Looked like you were running around your forehand. What was going on there?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, the wind just was going everywhere. I don't know. I was just trying to get in position so I could get the balls in the court.  
  
  Q. Is there anything good about playing in the wind?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I won, so that's good. (Smiling.)  
Q. You just recently played Vera. What sort of match do you expect?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely a match that's gonna be tough. I mean, she's a really good -- she's playing really well at the moment. She's playing aggressively, hitting through the ball.  
 Yeah, I'm expecting a match where I really need to play on my best level to win.  
  
  Q. What does it mean to be like the favorite of the tournament? That's something new for you.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I don't think about it. I just go out there and I want to win. I take everything as it comes.  
  
  Q. Does it give you more confidence?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think about it, actually.  
  
  Q. How well do you know Mr. Trump?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Ah, not so well, really. (Laughter.) I mean, it was really nice to have him in my box today, for sure.   
 I mean, it was an honor for me to play in front of him and his wife. It was great feeling and really good support.  
  
  Q. It was reported that when you were quote, unquote, in conditioning this summer that you did some more training in boxing. Could you talk a little bit about your affection for boxing and how it helps you and who some of your favorite boxers might be.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, boxing -- it's just a different way for me to work out. It's fun, it's interesting, and it's great because I have this great coach who knows how to get me in good shape and what I need for my tennis, as well.  
 Yeah, I wanted to try something different, something that was not the usual things. I just love the training. It's great. It's really hard not only physically, but also the conditioning. And, you know, it's great to have a coach there also who just pushes you to the limit.  
  
  Q. There's a lot of similarities between boxing and tennis. You have to have a knock-out punch, fast feet.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely. Fast arms, fast feet. Yeah, definitely, a lot of similarities. Yeah, Mikkel Kessler, Danish boxer, you know, he is one of my friends, as well. I'm supporting him when I can.   
 Yeah, definitely one of my have favorites, I think, Joe Calzaghe. When he was boxing I thought he was really great because he was so fast. It's amazing how he was boxing.  
  
  Q. Ever get a shout out for the old Scandinavian boxer, Ingemar Johansson, who appeared in the city? Did you know him? Did you hear of him?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I've heard of him, but I don't know him. I never saw him boxing, actually.  
  
  Q. Have you ever knocked anyone down?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I'm a good girl. I don't do those things.  
  
  Q. The chair umpire, you and he, what happened on that call?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I definitely didn't think we should replay that point because I thought I had won that point. It was a late call. She already hit it way wide, and then it was called out.   
 I mean, there was no way that she was disturbed on that point, but the umpire thought something different. It was a pretty important moment of the match.  
  
  Q. In terms of languages, you speak Danish, Polish, English, any others?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I understand Russian and I speak pretty good, like, okay. I was trying to learn French and Spanish in school. Didn't work out too well. I'm trying still.   
 You know, then there's languages like Norwegian and Swedish? It's very similar to Danish, like Czech and Slovakian is very similar to Polish.  
  
  Q. Of the major languages, which do you think is the most expressive of the languages?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's tough. I don't know. I think every language has something special in it. It's just great to know a lot of languages, because then you can talk to a lot of people.  
  
  Q. If you could name one famous person or celebrity to be in your box, who would it be and why?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: (Smiling.) I don't know. So many choices out there. I don't know. I thought Mr. Trump was already a great one to have in my box.  
  
  Q. Very diplomatic answer. Speaking of celebrities, you have been linked to Yannick Van Thompson (phonetic), the musician; would you like to have him in the box?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's funny. You know, we're just friends. There's nothing in it.   
  
  Q. Nothing in it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  
  
  Q. Here's a very serious question: Your fingernails early on were a different color and you've changed. Now they've been yellow for I think three, at least three or maybe four matches in a row. Does it change? What's the thing?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was only my first match where I had another color, but then I really needed something that was matching my outfit. This one just was perfect because it matches to my outfit, matches to the balls, to my bag, to everything.   
 You know, I need to keep a fashion part.  
  
  Q. Do you it yourself or have it done?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I do it myself always. I think I do it best myself.  
  
  Q. I think last year just before the Open you were doing some kind of a photoshoot on 48th Street in front of the Intercontinental. A lot of folks were walking by, and they didn't know who this attractive person was. How have things changed in a year, and do you like it better that way?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, definitely a lot more people know who I am now and are following my tennis.   
 I just think it's nice that people support me and think that the way I'm playing is great and they like to watch me on the court playing. I don't know. It's something that just comes -- I don't really think too much about it. I still live my life the way I did before, so no major change.  
  
  Q. Fashion show was last night?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. How was that? Does that help take your mind off of...   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I'm really interested in fashion. Yesterday was the like first opening of the New York fashion week.   
 Yeah, it was a great experience for me. Yeah, I thought it was a lot of fun. I really enjoyed it.  
  
  Q. You're always smiling in here, but you flashed a little temper there with the umpire. What do you think that says about your competitive spirit and how deeply you're into this?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm really competitive. I really don't like losing, and, you know, when I'm on court I'm just thinking about the next point and the match that I want to win. I'm focused on that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT