U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/M. Sharapova
  6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. She had like 36 unforced errors to your 10, 9 double-faults. Do you think she kind of gave a lot of the match to you, it would have been a tougher match if she didn't make all those errors?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uhm, no. I felt like, you know, I was playing good tennis. I felt like, you know, I was playing well out there. I made her do those errors, and I'm really happy to be through and that I won this match.   
  
  Q. In what way is your game different this year than last year?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I definitely think I've improved a lot, not only physically, but also I believe in myself more. I believe I can do it. Also I think I can mix up my game a little bit more than I could last year.   
  
  Q. Did you go out there today knowing you would win or you could win?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uhm, I was going out there and I knew I could win. But I knew it was going to be tough. I knew that I had to fight for every point. I knew that she wasn't going to go away. I knew she was going to hang in there and keep fighting till the end.   
  
  Q. You had a 29-shot rally. You like that type of tennis, just slugging it out back and forth?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. I think that's great tennis when there's good rallies. I think it's good for the crowd, as well. It just feels great. You know, when you feel like you're hitting the ball right, it's in the middle of your racquet, the ball does whatever you want it to do.   
  
  Q. Your next opponent is either 5'2" or 5'3", depending on who you believe will win. How old were you when you were 5'2"?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Wow, that's a tough question. I don't know.   
 You know, I think I wasn't that big, you know. I think I started growing when I was maybe 16. Then I really started growing a lot.   
 I don't know. You know, everyone is different. Everyone has their strengths, their weaknesses. You know, someone is short, someone is tall. I think it really doesn't matter when you're on court.   
  
  Q. How would you describe what your strategy was today?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, my strategy was definitely I knew that I had to be ready for the first ball. I knew she was going to try to attack me from the beginning. I knew she was trying to be aggressive.   
 For me it was important to keep as many balls in the court but still try to move her around and try to dictate, as well.   
  
  Q. You seemed to hit a lot of balls into the center of the court. You weren't really going for lines that often. That's part of that strategy of prolonging points?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, no. I mean, it was really windy out there today. So from one side was easier to dictate than from the other side. You know, I was doing whatever I felt like was working out for me.   
 So I had some feelings, and I was going for those shots I felt like I could go for.   
  
  Q. There was one point where you came to net and fell down, let out a big smile, the crowd cheered. What was going through your head?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, at first I was like, Okay, I should have hit that first shot better. But then I was, Okay, I'm at the net. Then I see her lobbing me. Okay, I have to go back. Then I fall on my butt. I'm like, Okay, well, tough luck, I lost this point. Then I look back, and I couldn't see whether it was in and out. Then I look at the linesman, I see it's out. I'm like, Okay, I was pretty lucky.   
 You know, I thought it was quite funny, too (laughter).   
  
  Q. Last year tennis fans knew who you were. Maria Sharapova is a household name. Now that you've beaten this household name, do you find more endorsements, less privacy? How has your life changed in the last year?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm still the same person. I'm playing better tennis than I was before. I don't know. My life is changing the way that I believe in myself. I know when I go on court I have the possibility to win against every player out there.   
 And for me, you know, the tennis is the most important at the moment. Everything off the court, it's just a plus.   
  
  Q. Do you have more big-name corporations calling you, you're recognized on the street, a loss of privacy?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, definitely, you know, before in Denmark, of course, everyone knows who I am. But now just walking around the city yesterday, a lot of people knew who I was. Going into the shops, very helpful, nice people (laughter). Definitely more people know who I am now.   
  
  Q. Do you think this is a match you would have won one year ago?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's a tough question. I definitely believe that I am playing better now than I was a year ago. I'm just happy that I won today.   
  
  Q. When athletes in any sport reach sort of a peak, they have a confidence like nothing can stop them. Have you reached that, where you're in a zone at all?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I definitely feel I'm playing good tennis. And I've been playing well the last month or so, have had some great tournaments.   
 I feel like, uhm, everything is possible. But I still feel I go out there and I need to fight for every point because nothing comes easy.  
  
  Q. Would anything but a title at this point be a disappointment?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uhm, I never look ahead. I never look at disappointments or what's going to make me happy. I just take one match at a time. And the next match is important for me.   
  
  Q. One of your guests was Wojtek Fibak, the best Polish player from '70s and '80s. Did you have a chance to talk with him after the match?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I haven't talked to almost anyone after the match. I know Wojtek Fibak really well. Also, he lives in Monaco. We've gone to dinner with him quite a few times. He's a nice guy.   
  
  Q. How does that compare to the last time you played against Maria, this match?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: When was the last time I played her?   
  
  Q. Two years ago, 2008.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Where was it?   
  
  Q. I think it was Rome.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Rome. Wasn't is there where I was up 5-1 and lost the set 7-5? Yeah, you know, it's two years ago. It's a long time already. It's tough to compare those matches.   
 I just knew that she was a tough opponent and that I had to go out there and play my best.   
  
  Q. What does it say to you about your mental toughness in tough conditions and against a player who is known so widely for her mental toughness that you made it through?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uhm, I think I'm a really tough player. I never give up. Doesn't matter what the score is. And I think that makes me tough to beat, as well. I think that's one of my strengths.   
  
  Q. How important is it to look good on the court for you?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm so lucky that I am the face of adidas and Stella McCartney and I have my own special line that no one else is wearing. I think that's really nice.   
 For me it's important to feel good on court and of course to look good. Then I can focus on my tennis at 100%.   
  
  Q. In this case, don't you think it's a bit short, your dress?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's nice. I definitely am sure I'll get a lot of male fans now (laughter).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT