U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/Y. Chan
  6-1, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What can you tell us about the wind today? It was pretty hard to play?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was very difficult to play. It was very windy conditions out there. But, you know, it was the same for both, and, you know, I just have to adjust.

 Q. You've got this far in the tournament with the loss of three games. Is that enough preparation to play Sharapova in the next round?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's great. I mean, I have been feeling good out there. Yeah, I think it just says something about how I've been playing and the level I've been playing on. It's nice.

 Q. You said at the press conference before the tournament started that being the No. 1 seed was not pressure, that you felt as though you deserved it. What do you think you've shown so far?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think I've shown I belong where I am, and I think that -- you know, I'm just happy to be through to the fourth round. And I think it's not -- for me, it's just about winning the matches. I think it's up to everyone else to judge what I've shown or not shown. 
 For me it's just important that I've won these three matches pretty comfortable.

 Q. What will the matchup with Maria come down to, do you think?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think we still have one-and-a-half days before we get to play, and I think I'm just gonna go out there and relax, you know, for the next day or so.
 Then I need to be ready. I need to be ready that she's gonna try to attack from the first ball, and I need to be fast.

 Q. You are always very consistent, and you are very good at court covering but not very aggressive, in my opinion. But recently I think you are playing very aggressive, attacking a lot. Does it something you try to do, or does it come fairly natural?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, it's funny. I get asked this question a lot. I play to win, so depends who I play against, depends how I feel, depends on everything the way I'm gonna play.
 If I feel like aggressive style of play is the way, you know, in this match, then I'm gonna do that. If I feel like I need to be consistent and stay back, that's what I'm gonna do. 
 I'm playing to win, and it doesn't really matter how, just win and enjoy to be out there.

 Q. Have you ever been on a hot streak like this before? If so, how different out there do you feel? Do you see the ball a lot differently than other times?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it always goes up and down. There's always periods where you feel you're playing great and you feel like the court is bigger, the balls are bigger. You see everything clearly.
 Then there are times where, you know, you maybe are not playing so well and you see it as difficult. You know, then the court feels smaller.
 But, you know, at the moment I'm feeling happy. I'm happy to be out there. I'm happy to play, I'm happy to be fit, and that's the most important thing. I've really been practicing hard, and it's giving me the results I want. 
 It's great. The most important thing is just to be fit and healthy.

 Q. You played her a couple of times a few years ago. I guess it seems like a long time ago now, but will those matches have any bearing?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't think so. I think the next match will be a totally different match. You know, when we go out there, we both have 50% chance of winning. I just need to get those percentages for me.

 Q. You obviously have a great connection not only with New Haven but with Yale University and all the fun you've had about that. I know you're in the middle of a tournament now, but if you did have a chance to go take some courses there, what do you think you would like to take a course in?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. You know, that really depends what they have. But definitely something like business, something like that. It really interests me. Something -- management, something in that direction. 
 But I would have to search into some courses and then find out what really interests me.

 Q. Was the figure skater Sarah Hughes in touch with you? Is that correct, or is that... 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, no. 

 Q. Would you consider this match coming up a defining match for you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, I don't know. No, I just go out there. It's another match for me. It's just another match that I want to win, and I really see it as every other match I've been playing.

 Q. Three-time Grand Slam champion, someone who's won here before. You're coming in as the top seed. I would think it would be a great victory if you could pull it off. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely, yeah, it would be a great victory. But, again, when I go out there, I really don't think too much who is on the other side. I just want to do what I'm supposed to do out there on court, and I want to win. 
 So it really doesn't matter who's on the other side. I feel like I'm playing well, so hopefully I can just keep my roll.

 Q. When you were a junior, was the whole Maria image thing something that you thought maybe one day you'd emulate?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, which way? 

 Q. Well, she's the big Nike girl. You're now Stella McCartney. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, to be honest, Kournikova was always for me the girl that I thought was just -- I wanted to be like her, definitely, you know. I thought she was very pretty; she was handling everything really nicely. You saw her everywhere in the commercials.
 I think I would more go for Kournikova.

 Q. But what about on the court? Did you watch Maria's game? Did you see her win here in '06 or even Wimbledon when she was 17? What did you admire about her?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, of course. I think when you're a junior you see a lot of matches, in the women's game. And, yeah, I saw some of her matches, definitely.
 But, you know, she's a fighter; she never gives up. I think that's a great thing about her. But, you know, players that I really admired was, yeah, Steffi Graf, Martina Hingis; those were the girls that I really looked up to.

 Q. It's said that one of Maria's greatest weapons is her mental toughness, and that along with Serena she's one of the best on tour. Could you talk about your own mental toughness, how it's evolved, and do you think that's a strength for you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's a strength. I think I'm never giving up. I fight for every point.
 You know, I think players out there, they see that, too.

 Q. What do you think is the biggest difference in your respective styles of play?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: The biggest difference of me and? Who, Maria? 

 Q. Maria. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think we're different players. You know, I feel like I'm maybe moving a bit better. I don't know. I'm placing the balls better a little bit, but she's maybe hitting the balls harder.
 I don't know. You know, she has won Grand Slams; I haven't. Yeah, I don't know. It's tough. I think it's up to you guys to find out what you think.

 Q. Is there a pressure you have to win a Grand Slam, given that you're... 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't feel the pressure. You know, my time will come. If it won't come now, it will come tomorrow, so I'm not afraid of that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT