U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/K. Chang
  6-0, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Yesterday during your doubles match you took a medical timeout immediately during the first changeover. What was that for? Were you feeling any ill effects from that today?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I felt great out there today. Everything was fine. I just got something for a headache yesterday, and that was it. I was feeling good today. No problems. 

 Q. How would you describe how things have gone for you and the feeling you've had as the No. 1 seed, which of course you haven't been here before?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's a good feeling. It's nice to be the No. 1 seed, and, you know, it's nice to play at the big stadium. It's a great atmosphere. 
 I'm just happy to be through to the third round. Yeah, I feel like I've been playing some good tennis.

 Q. A lot of people are anticipating your match, potential match, with Maria Sharapova in the fourth round. Do you look ahead in the draw, or... 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I never look at the draw. You know, if I was gonna say, you know, the quarterfinals I'm gonna play this girl and the finals I'm playing this girl, I mean, you never know what's gonna happen. 
 It's tennis, and you need to fight for every match.

 Q. You played a lot the last month, and the weather here has been rather brutal for the first few days. Have you been feeling any ill effects of the weather, fatigue or anything?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I'm feeling great. I'm feeling good. I feel fresh. I feel like it's a new tournament. I'm all recovered from everything, and I'm just happy to be playing and to be injury-free and everything is perfect.

 Q. You've had two such easy matches so far. Are you at all worried that you're not match-prepared for maybe the tougher test later on?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I've played tough matches in my -- in the previous weeks. I've been playing really great tennis. I'm feeling good, so no worries. 

 Q. Do you normally prefer to play a tough match early on, or doesn't matter either way? Kind of get tournament test and had have that first scare or... 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Really doesn't matter for me, yeah. For me it's just about winning and getting through to the next rounds. As long as I win, it really doesn't matter how the match looks like.

 Q. Will anything less than winning this tournament be a disappointment? You just seem to be incredibly focused and pressure-free almost and heading right in that direction. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I'm just going out there. I want to win definitely, but, you know, I don't think ahead. I don't think about disappointments or what would make me happy. 
 I'm just taking one match at a time. We have to see after the tournament how I do.

 Q. Are you at all familiar with your next opponent?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, Yung-Jan Chan? Yeah, we played a lot in the juniors. She's a year older than me, but we know each other from back then. So, yeah, I'm familiar with her.

 Q. What does she bring to the table? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she's trying to hit the ball flat and hard and trying to take advantage of the points. She tries to make the opening run.

 Q. We just spoke to her, and she described playing you like hitting a wall, just like everything comes back. I have to think that you're at a point right now where you're very intimidating to a lot of players. Do you sense that? How does that make you feel?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I feel that's a good feeling when they are already before the match think like that. I mean, I am feeling strong. I feel confident. Yeah, it's good. 
 I go out there and I don't give up. I don't give any free points away. I think that's one of my strengths, as well.

 Q. This year in Russia we're celebrating 10 successful years in tennis. Just want to know what do you think about Russian tennis in whole, and maybe about last ten years of Russian performances in particular?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, there has been so many great players from Russia, both on the women's and the men's side. I think they've done a really good job coming with new players. 
 Yeah, I mean, there's still a lot of players out there playing really well.

 Q. Are you friends with Russian players?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I do. Svetlana Kuznetsova is a really good friend. I like to spend friends with her. Vera is a nice girl, as well, Elena, yeah. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about the frustration level you had after you got the ankle injury and then through Copenhagen and pretty much when you came back and started winning again? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, I'm that type of person that I like to do everything 100%. If I don't feel like I'm practicing 100%, it makes me frustrated a little bit, when I have to take care of myself, you know, where I have to take care of my body.
 You know, Charleston was, yeah, it was tough, you know. I got that ankle injury and wasn't feeling great. I had to take care of myself. You know, it's tough when I'm used to doing so much fitness off the court, and I really couldn't do that. 
 It was great for me to have that time off after Wimbledon, and that's where I really started to feel like my ankle was feeling 100% and I could really practice 100% and go to sleep and feel, okay, today I've really done what I had to do. That's the way I need to progress.
 It's bringing out the results, and I'm really, really happy now. You know, hopefully I can just stay injury-free and keep improving.

 Q. Do you worry that you might be playing too much because you played a lot from Copenhagen through here, or are you the type of player who says, I need matches, this is the way I'm gonna get my rhythm, and my body is just not gonna break down?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: My body is feeling great. I'm feeling fine. I had those five weeks after Wimbledon where I just practiced, and actually that's -- I almost feel like that's harder than playing matches. I really like playing matches. 
 I would like to get into that rhythm. Especially when you're winning, you have that confidence. You go out on the court and you know what to do. You're in your own bubble. That's what I'm aiming for.

 Q. The New York crowd tends to be loud and especially in the night matches. How does the atmosphere at the Open compare to the other Majors?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, the atmosphere here is great. I really love playing here. I mean, it's a great feeling. Also coming back from last year, you know, being in the finals, coming back here and just, yeah, playing on the big courts, it's a great feeling.

 Q. How have your expectations of yourself changed from a year ago at this time when you were a surprise and you made the run to the championship match?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, the expectations maybe from the outside has changed, but from myself I always go into a tournament and I want to win it. Doesn't really matter what tournament I'm playing, and I always believe in myself. It's not always possible to win every tournament, but at least I give it a shot. 
 You know, the only time I get disappointed with myself is if I feel like I haven't given 100%. You know, I'm almost always giving 100%. It's just about if I lose a match, okay, the opponent was just playing better than me that day, and I need to get back and work harder and be better for next time.

 Q. But how much has the realty in your mind, the possibility of winning the championship here changed from a year ago to now?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, actually I don't really think about it, to be honest. I just take one match at a time. And for me, I think it's just important to focus on the next match or the match that I'm gonna play.

 Q. Are you at all concerned a little bit about facing Kim Clijsters? Has that played a part of... 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, we still have quite a few matches to get there, so I really haven't thought about that yet.

 Q. Has your level of confidence come to a point now where you feel like it's only a matter of time before you win a Grand Slam tournament?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm feeling really good. I feel confident. I feel like I can beat everybody on a good day. Of course, they can also beat me if they play well.
 Definitely I believe it's possible, and we have to see. You know, that's a dream for me. That's something I'm really working hard to reach, so hopefully. We have to see what the future brings. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT