PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 28, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/N. Petrova
  6-3, 3-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Two titles in one week. That's a pretty good week for you.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely. I feel really great. I feel I've been playing some really good tennis and I'm really pleased about the results.   
  
  Q. Are you tired at all going into the US Open?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel great. I have a Tuesday start. So, you know, I'm on a roll. So I'm really happy.   
  
  Q. You really don't go anywhere just to get some work in. A lot of players come here to get in a few matches and get ready. You come to win, right?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Every time I go into a tournament, I want to win. I'm very competitive. Even though I work on some things, I still want to win.   
  
  Q. How tough was this one today? How tough was this whole week?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: This week was a little bit tough. But today especially was tough because yesterday I finished really late. Before I got back to the hotel, got some food, before I could sleep, I didn't really have too much time to rest. I had to be back here already for a 1:00 match.   
 I won, which is the most important thing. I'm really happy.   
  
  Q. The first set went according to plan. You were up 2-Love in the second set. What did she do to get back in the match?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she was serving well. You know, it's difficult because, yeah, she hit some nice winners, some nice shots. Suddenly she broke my serve straightaway. Then we were kind of like where we started.   
 Yeah, I just tried to keep the focus and not be bothered too much that I was up and I lost the set.   
  
  Q. Do you get a sense of appreciation for the people here?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. I mean, I've had the great support here. I mean, not only the Yale football team, but also everyone else. The whole crowd has just been amazing, cheering me on. Yesterday also I was down, but they just got me through that match. That's a great feeling.   
  
  Q. Venus won it four times, you won it three. That's good company to be in. What makes this place so special for you?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's a very special place for me. I like the atmosphere. I like the courts. I like the tournament in general. We get taken care of really nicely.   
 So, yeah, everything, it's a good combination.   
  
  Q. Did you feel like the tenor of the match changed between the first and second set?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it changed. But also the sun changed. From one side it was really difficult to see the ball when you were throwing it up from one side. That made it a little bit more difficult.   
 Afterwards, we were just saying, Okay, just stay in there, stay focused, and that was it.   
  
  Q. With all those breaks, can you talk about when you finally got the one in the eighth game, it's your serve again, what were you thinking about in terms of being able to hold that game and finish then?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was thinking, Okay, I have a great serve. I'm standing on the right side. I almost have new balls. So this one should be mine now.  
  
  Q. Where are the other two trophies and where is that one going to go?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, definitely it's going to get shipped to my home and it's going to stay really nicely on my shelf.  
  
  Q. After Venus won her fourth, she didn't return because her schedule got too hectic. Do you ever foresee yourself not wanting to come here? Do you think this is part of your regular routine now?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I haven't thought about not coming back. I love this tournament. It's been great preparation for me the last couple of years. So I would love to come back.   
  
  Q. Venus won here four times. Two of those four times she went on to win the US Open. Did you know that?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Really?   
  
  Q. Maybe this is your year.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I would love it to be my year (smiling).   
  
  Q. How does this victory work into your mindset heading into the US Open?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's great. I've had two victories in two weeks and three victories in four weeks. I feel I'm in a great shape, playing well. Hopefully I can just continue the next couple of weeks at the US Open.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT