PILOT PEN TENNIS AT YALE
August 27, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/E. Dementieva
  1-6, 6-3, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did that one feel?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, just happy that I won today and that I got through. The crowd really helped me out today. It wasn't easy.   
 I won 7-6 in the third, which is a great achievement.  
  
  Q. Got off to a slow start. You called your coach out at the first changeover. Can you explain about what you talked about that early in the match.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, well, I didn't really feel the ball too well in the beginning. She started hitting really well. I felt my back a little bit. Yeah, I mean, he just told me to keep moving my feet because I wasn't doing that, and that's why I didn't get too many balls in.   
  
  Q. You have a triple match point and she hit the ball into the net three times. She comes back, wins the game. What is going through your head?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, of course, I would love to have finished the match already back then. She started to serve, which gets on the line, and I didn't take it. Then afterwards I hit two short returns, which she just goes in and attacks on. Everything from then just turns around and she had a great start to the tiebreaker. I wasn't too pleased about that.   
 Afterwards, I just told myself, Keep fighting. She still has to win four more points to win the match so you're still in there.   
  
  Q. Talk about the injury. Is that something that happened tonight or preexisting?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I felt it already against Cibulkova in that match where I also called the trainer. Today I felt it again. Today I took some Tylenol and that helped. I'm just going to get some treatment and hopefully that will be fine.  
  
  Q. What is the treatment between now and tomorrow?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: A little bit of massage, for sure, stretching. Yeah, get cooled down and try to see what's going on.   
 But, you know, it's just feeling stiff. Hopefully that's not too bad.   
  
  Q. Are you feeling any pressure from being No. 1 in the Open?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't, because pressure is when you're put in a spot and you don't really feel like you belong there. When you really believe that you belong there, that you can do the things you have to do, there's no pressure. You just go out there and play.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about your unbeaten streak here. Is it just something about this court?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's a great tournament. You know, obviously I'm playing well here. I'm just really happy to be in the finals again for the third time in a row. Hopefully I can win the last match here tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Breaking each other back and forth at the end of that second set. As you're holding, do you feel them ticking away, you have to get that break?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I didn't think about that. I thought I was there all the time. You know, I just felt like, Okay, I need to get deeper returns. Yeah, I knew that, Okay, it's the last chance now at 5-4 for her when she was serving.   
 I just went out there and I said, Okay, it's all or nothing.   
  
  Q. Being ranked No. 1 at the US Open, does it feel any different, notice any difference the way you're treated?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I haven't been there yet so I can't answer that question yet.   
 But when you go out on court, it really doesn't matter if you're seeded 1 or 10. You still have to win your matches. Unfortunately, you don't get straight to the finals and play that.   
 You know, I just go out there, enjoy myself. Feel like I'm playing good tennis. I've showed that the last couple of weeks. You know, hopefully I can just continue at the Open.   
  
  Q. What do you do now looking ahead to the final against Nadia? Do you put to one side the three results that you've had in the past with her?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uhm, yeah, tomorrow's a new match. We start 0-0. We have to see. I don't have too much rest before the finals tomorrow. I'm just going to go over and have a massage, cool down, try to sleep as soon as possible, try to rest as much as I can before the match.   
  
  Q. You came into the US Open last year after this tournament, so you played some matches. Now you had Montréal, bit of a difficult week. Do you feel tired at all?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I feel fine. I feel okay. I feel good. You know, I'm just happy that it's going well. It's a positive problem to have, that you're winning so much. You know, I wish I could have that all year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT