WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 12, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. BARTOLI/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. You broke her to go up 4-3 in the first set, and after that she broke you. That seemed to really change the momentum. You went to talk to the chair umpire after that. Talk about that and what happened from that point on. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I had some chances, especially in the first set. Yeah, I was up 4-3 and I had new balls. But, yeah, I didn't take any chances. I made some mistakes I shouldn't have done. Yeah, it changed. 
 Then she started really well, and I think my energy level went a bit down. Yeah, that was difficult for me to come back.

 Q. What were you talking to the chair umpire about?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't remember. 

 Q. Was it a late challenge that she made?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think it was a late challenge. It was a pretty important point, and I felt like she hit the ball and she was playing it, and saw that she hit it out and then challenged. So I thought it was a late challenge.

 Q. What you think of her serving compared to the past times you've played her?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, you know, she always change her serve, and every time you need to just get used to it. But she's been serving really well today. She made a lot aces on me. Yeah, it was tough to return for me.

 Q. Seemed like the heat was affecting you out there. Can you talk about how hot it was? Was it hotter than your first match you played here?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it was hot, but it's the same for both players. You just need to, yeah, to get over the heat and play. 

 Q. What do you think Marion did well today?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She was playing well, playing aggressively, serving well. Yeah, she was playing good today.

 Q. It seemed like you were playing a lot more aggressively than you had in the first round. You hit a lot more winners and you also hit a lot more errors. Was it a conscious effort to try to force the issue today against a higher-ranked opponent?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really. It was a totally different match today. You know, I just went out there and did what I had to do. It wasn't enough today. I just made too many errors.
 You know, I need to improve that for my next tournament. Hopefully I can do better. 

 Q. How big do you think a factor was the travel and just winning Copenhagen and getting here?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely was a factor, no doubt about that, getting here late and getting used to the weather and playing outdoors.
 But it was my choice to play there and then come here. I have next tournament next week. We'll just try to prepare for it the best way. 

 Q. What are you playing before the US Open?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'll play Montreal and New Haven. 

 Q. And my last question is nontennis. Stella McCartney, do you like the outfits, and what do you have planned for the US Open? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I really like my outfits. I think they're very cute and very feminine. 
 And for the US Open, it will be a black dress with yellow underneath that you can see. It will be a tight dress with like some things in the front. (Laughter.)

 Q. Are you gonna hang around here for a while or head off to Montreal?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm gonna head to Montreal. Just having a look at some flights and getting over there and prepare.

 Q. Also, do you always wear those earrings when you play tennis? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not always these ones, but lately I've been playing with these ones. I like to change it up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT