WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP WOMEN'S OPEN
August 11, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Bammer
  6-0, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. When you bagel your opponent like you did in the first set, is it difficult it maintain your level of concentration throughout the match?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: For me it was very important to not think about the score too much, because I know she's a good player and has the level to step it up. 
 For me, it was just important to maintain my focus and think about the next point.

 Q. Have you ever won a match 6-0, 6-0 before? When you're getting close to that, what are you thinking?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I have won 6-Love 6-Love. When you're out there you just want to win, and you don't think about the score. I really just wanted to close it out. I just didn't want to give her a chance to come back in the match, so that was my thoughts.

 Q. Despite the big lead and how dominant you were, you only had, I think, ten winners the whole match. How do you manage to be so dominant without hitting a lot of winners?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, I hit quite a lot of shots where she got her racquet on, and that's not a winner. For me, it's about keeping the balance about winners and my unforced errors. 
 You know, my game is working well for me, so I don't see any reason to change it.

 Q. When a match seems to go this easily, do you work on different aspects of your game that perhaps you wouldn't if the match was closer?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, for me, today it was just about finishing as soon as possible, try not to stay too long out there on the court. You know, still just came from Europe, so I was very happy with the result.
 Today I was just so focused just on finishing. 

 Q. You're playing Marion Bartoli next, I think. What are your thoughts on that match?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she's a good player. She's playing well; playing aggressively. She has been here for a while now, so she's used to the weather, the conditions, and everything.
 But, you know, I'm a good player. I felt good out there today. Hopefully I can play even better tomorrow. Yeah, I'll try to win.

 Q. Is your play gonna be the same sort of defensive tennis you've been playing recently against Bartoli?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think I'm playing defensive tennis. I think I'm playing the way I have to to beat my opponents. I think I'm playing aggressively when I have to. You know, every game a different. 

 Q. What do you do to prepare for an opponent you never played before? This of your first match with Sybille. Walk me through that process. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, my dad and coach went out and saw her play the match before just to know how she was playing. I been practicing a few times with her as well, so I had kind of a feeling how she was gonna play.
 Um, other than that, I just focus on my own game. I know what I want to do. I know how I want the match to go. You know, I want to play my own game. If that doesn't work out, then I have to figure out something else. 

 Q. Speaking of how you just got back from Europe, you travel so much, so how do you adjust to different time differences, and what effect does that have on your tennis?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm very lucky that I can sleep anywhere, everywhere, at any time. Just if it's comfortable, than I'm fine. 
 But, you know, definitely it's a bit different. You know, you start getting tired late in the day here because, you know, it's already like 1:30 in the morning in Europe.
 But, you know, I've been lucky I could sleep the whole night through and try to get a normal rhythm. I tried to practice early yesterday and then once in the evening just to keep myself going the whole day, which is very important for me. 
 Yeah, it has, of course, an effect, because you need to get your body ready. But it's also very mental as well. You just need to say to yourself, Okay, you have the match. Just prepare for that. It's the most important thing.

 Q. It seems like the speed has been greater on your serve. Would you agree, and do you look at the speed reading?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, yeah. I've been working a lot on my serve actually. I made my own personal record if Copenhagen. I was very proud of that one. I served 199 kilometers per hour in my doubles match. I had a look there, because it really felt good. I actually stopped playing the point because I was so proud of myself. (Laughing.) 
 Yeah sometimes, yeah, in the singles matches I have a look at the speed readings just to have an idea, you know, how I'm serving.

 Q. When the weather moves in, and obviously it delayed your match, how does that change your schedule? Does it change your preparation? Talk about that. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. I went warming up at 10:00, and I had an idea, Okay, maybe I'll play around maybe 12:30, so I wanted to have a little bit of time before. It was a long match first of all before me, ane then it started raining. I think I warmed up maybe four times before, because I thought, Okay, now it's time, and then it started raining again. 
 You know, it's the same thing for my opponent. Yeah, you just try to adjust, but you never know what's gonna happen. You try to adjust, but you can't do anything about the weather. 

 Q. I have a nontennis question. You debuted a new hairstyle in Copenhagen. What was the thought process behind that? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I just wanted to look different, to try something new. Just see if it was gonna be comfortable to play like that. 
 Actually, I thought it was quite cool I thought. It was very comfortable, so I'm thinking about doing it again. 

 Q. What aspects of your game are you really happy with right now with this match, and what do you want to work on to get better and also to run deep in the Open?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, in this match, just happy to keep my consistency. I served pretty well and got a lot of the returns in. 
 But in general, I'm very happy about my physique now. I've been working out a lot, and I feel in a great shape. Yeah, after my ankle injury I had, that was a thing that I was lacking a bit because I couldn't do too much. I couldn't run like I usually do and everything.
 Now I feel in great shape and I'm serving well and returning well and I have the confidence because I won last week's tournament. Of course, I can always improve. There's always small things I want to improve. I want to step into the court when the ball is short. I want to mix the ball up; play a little bit higher sometimes. Just small things. 
 But I think that in general, if I play on my highest level I can beat anyone.

 Q. Are the conditions here different than Copenhagen? The humidity, does that affect you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Very different. I think the balls are very light here and the heat makes the ball fly a little bit more. Yeah, of course you have to get used to the weather that it's so humid and everything. 
 Today it was nice because we played during the evening. If I have to play during the day tomorrow I really have to get used to it and remember to drink a lot.

 Q. So when the ball goes high and flies on you, do you step in the court or do you take it later? What do you do technically to adjust to that? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it really depends. Like definitely play with a bigger margin and play with bigger spin, and then you try to figure out where the best spot on the court is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT