WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/T. Garbin
  6-1, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You were wearing a dress by Stella McCartney. Do you think women's fashion is important in tennis?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I like to dress up and look nice. I think it's nice to have a nice-looking dress on as well. 
 I think that you don't think about what you're wearing on court. If you feel comfortable, you just think about your tennis. So I think it's important to feel good. 

 Q. I wanted to ask you a question about the tour. You've had a great early career, reaching No. 2, great run in New York. You're not going to be a teenager much longer. There really hasn't been a big breakthrough by a teenager on the WTA Tour since Maria here. Why do you think that is? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think I'm an exception to that. And I think that reaching No. 2, it's not easy. Not everyone can do that. 
 I think the tour has just become very tough. A lot of players are playing well. Just look at the clay court results that have been, you know, Martina Sanchez winning Rome, Rezai winning Madrid, Schiavone winning French Open. 
 I mean, there's a lot of good players out there. It's not easy to be in the top of the rankings. I'm happy about my own progression, the way I've been playing. 
 Tennis is an individual sport. So I think about myself. I really think that age doesn't matter. I think you can be 30 and be on the top of the ranking, and you can be 17. It really doesn't matter. It's just about going out there, doing your best, and you can see how far you can go, how far your own limits are. 

 Q. I don't mean this in a negative way. What are your thoughts that the two finalists from Roland Garros have now lost here first round?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, uhm, you know, they're great players. And reaching the finals of a Grand Slam, it's tough. It takes a lot out of you. I mean, I even know from myself after the US Open. You know, clay and grass is two different surfaces. So it's a bit of a change. 
 You know, again, as I said, there's loads of good players out there. It's never easy. The first round is always tough to get through. 

 Q. Sam Stosur is of Polish origin. Are you ever going to get together and talk about your heritage? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, we were laughing about it sometimes in the locker rooms, as well. When we were in the locker rooms, we're like, Oh, all kind of Polish people everywhere. Molik, as well, Stosur, Wozniack, Lisicki. So many players out there, Molik. We were laughing about it.

 Q. Why do you think so many of Polish heritage have come on recently?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think we all consider ourselves as the nationality as we are. I think Sam feels Australian. You know, again, I say it's an individual sport. I think it really doesn't matter what country you're from. I think it really matters just how hard you work, a bit of luck, and of course the dedication to the sport. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT