SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 31, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. HENIN/C. Wozniacki
  6-7, 6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. In that second set when she was up 3-2 and she went over for treatment, did you they're maybe she was in trouble?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually I didn't really think about it. I just focused on myself and my part of the game.  
 Yeah, I really tried not to pay attention to what happened on the other side of the net.  
  
  Q. That was your first time playing her. What were your impressions of her game?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she's a good player. She's taking the ball early, trying to get the good angles, and mixing up the game. So she's definitely a good player.  
 Of course right now after being in the sun and running and fight for three hours, you're a bit upset that you lost. That's normal, especially because I felt like I had my chances and I didn't take them, and she was there straightaway.  
  
  Q. The critical call, the critical break in the second set, baseline, it really led to the break to go up 5-3. Did that bother you at all mentally?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I actually didn't think about it. I mean, I could have challenged if I wanted to, but I didn't because I wasn't 100% sure. I thought it was out, but I didn't want to risk it. I lost the point, and that's the way just it goes.  
 Unfortunately, I got broken. That's the one break that in the end decided the match.  
  
  Q. How do you rate the quality of that match?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's difficult for me to say right now, but I feel like we had some really good moments. I felt like, I mean, we're two very good players.   
 Justine has been No. 1 in the world, and she can play unbelievable tennis as well. So I feel like, yeah, she won today.   
 I need to go back and improve and come back stronger and hopefully I can win next time.  
  
  Q. You're much younger than she is. Was she one of the players you watched a lot, and what preconceived notions did you have about what it would be like to play against? And how was it once you did it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I definitely saw her play quite a bit when I was growing up, and also playing the juniors.   
 But, you know, it's always different to watch on TV and then play against a person. I tried to watch a few games the other day when she played Zvonareva, but I just watched a few games and went back.   
 Today I tried in the beginning to just keep my game and also stay closer to the baseline, because I knew that's what I had to do today. Otherwise, as soon as I went two steps back she was there and she was the one deciding.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised by her power? She has such a petite frame. Especially her forehand. Never used to be such a weapon. Any surprises?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really. I kind of knew what I was going into. You pick it up really, really fast also already after one, two games. You know what you want to play and how the opponent is playing.  
 So it was okay. I just didn't take my chances today.  
  
  Q. We've become somewhat accustomed to women's matches in which it's a question of who's going to hold, not who's going to break. But this was a little bit different. You both held your serve reasonably well throughout the matches. Is it the quality of your serve, do you feel?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think we're both serving well, especially she had quite a bit of first serves in, I think.  
 Her second serve was not really attackable. I just tried to make her run straightaway, but it was not an easy serve.  
 So, yeah, I think -- I don't know if people are saying that who's gonna hold or who's gonna break, and I don't really care because I lost today. She broke me once, and that's it.  
  
  Q. For someone who'd been off for 18 months and went to the finals of the Australian Open, does it surprise you the level of play that she has at this point?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she had a break for 18 months, but she was still practicing hard and she is been working out a lot and she's been No. 1 in the world. She has the experience, has ever -- all the package that she needs to become a great player and be a great player again, and she is.   
 So, no, I wasn't really surprised. It's really difficult to play matches again after you haven't played for a while, but I think she just didn't feel the pressure. She just went out there and enjoyed, and she's why the results also are coming. If you practice, then the results will come.  
  
  Q. Your tennis today was definitely showing a side that's much more aggressive and you're hitting the ball and really moving into your shots very well and consistently. Do you feel that that's something that has helped you get farther into your -- I mean, you're No. 2 in the world right now.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. I think it's important to know every shot that there is. I think it's important to be able to play aggressively if you want to and also play defensively if you want to and just change it up.  
 Of course, yeah, I've tried to work on my game, and definitely that's also a part of the game that I wanted to improve.  
  
  Q. She plays a high-risk game, almost like the Williams girls. Is that who you would compare it to? She goes for it. Did that surprise you in anyway, her high risk?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, it didn't surprise me really. She was taking her chances and taking the ball early. If you take the balls early, then the balls are coming faster to you.   
 So, no, it didn't really surprise me. She's a great player, like I've said, and I need to go back and work and try to win next time.  
  
  Q. Talk about in general how the tour is more interesting with her and Kim back compared to before. It's two more people that are definitely in the mix toward the end of a tournament as someone who's competing against them.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm happy for them if that's what they want, to come back and play. I think people should do what they feel like and what brings them joy, so...   
 And, you know, it's just more players that you're competing against. It's another reason to go back to the practice court and work even harder.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT