BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 21, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANKOVIC/C. Wozniacki
  6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Jankovic was very aggressive today. Is there any point where you thought, I've got to do something different or I have to change gears? Did you try to change something that took that away?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Jelena was playing a good match today. She didn't make a lot of mistakes, and, you know, I tried to do something. I tried to change it when I saw it was not going way, but, I mean, I just made a few too many errors at the important points.
 Yeah, I couldn't really get to play the game that I wanted to play. I mean, Jelena took advantage of that and she played a great match.

 Q. What game was that? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I wanted to get her moving a little bit more. I wanted to stay on the baseline a little bit more. But, well, it's the way it went, and it's okay, you know. 
 I just need to get back on the practice court, and there's always next week. Yeah, now I just need to get ready for Miami. Anyways, I had a good week here, or great 10 days.
 Yeah, now I'm ready and confident to going into Miami.

 Q. You appeared to be having some trouble with your forehand today. Can you talk about what happened with that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't really feel like I had problems with my forehand or backhand or anything. In general, I just think that, you know, I was making a few too many errors and I didn't have too many first serves in. 
 Normally the other matches I set the points up with my service well. That didn't happen today. Then I was on the back foot and she was deciding.

 Q. Do you feel like you let her dictate too much today? She was playing a little bit further inside the court. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, she was playing a little bit further inside the court and I went a little bit back. I tried to get in all the time. I tried to, you know, just hang in there and stick -- you know, tried to stick to the court. 
 But, you know, it's just -- it didn't go my way today, unfortunately. Hopefully next time. 

 Q. Do you feel she's a tough matchup for you, just the style she plays and given she's a veteran she knows how to play points pretty well?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. She's a great player, no doubt about that. I don't know if she's a tough matchup for me or if she -- I mean, she's definitely a tough player to beat, and I have to play well to do that. 
 Yeah, today she was playing better than me.

 Q. In our country, we often say No. 1; No. 1, that's all that really matters. Now that you're No. 2 in the world, how hungry are you to become No. 1 to get that top slot?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Of course I'm always hungry to get that first spot, No. 1 spot. That's what everyone is dreaming about. And also winning Grand Slams, that's what everybody wants.
 So definitely that's also something I want to achieve. Hopefully that will happen one day. I have one spot left. Serena is a great player, and everyone else, also. There are a lot of tough players out there.
 Just taking one match at a time and doing my best, and we have to see what the future brings.

 Q. And to get there, what do you think you have to do to get to the very top?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just need to keep improving. There are so many things I want to improve. 
 Then we'll have to see if that will be enough.

 Q. You seem pretty disappointed. Did you feel coming into the match that this was maybe one you could win?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I always believe I can win when I go on the court. I always think that I can win the match. I will always be disappointed when I lose. I'm a fighter, and I hate losing.
 I think that's also what brought me here to this final. I mean, I'm fighting for every point. When you lose, that's a bit disappointing. I just need a little bit of time and I'll be okay.

 Q. Do you think that's the best she's played against you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's tough to say, you know. She played definitely a great match today. She has had a great 10 days, as well. Yeah, I mean, I need to congratulate her for the win.

 Q. What kind of advice did your coach give you? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He just said, You're playing well. Just need to stick to your game. Remember to fight for every point. 
 Then he was trying to say a few things on my toss, on my serve.

 Q. You do pretty well in this country. What do you like about the United States? What gets you going?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I really like playing here. I mean, the US Open was also a great run for me. 
 I like New York. I like the atmosphere there. You know, everything is loud. So many things going on. 
 Here it's so calm. It's quiet. It's nice. It's clean. People are so friendly. 
 I just like being here in the U.S. It feels like being home, like being -- yeah, it's just great.

 Q. Some of the reporters yesterday were saying that the people are a little bit on the old side, but you enjoy it a lot here. You find it relaxing?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I find it relaxing. I find it really, really homey, you know. I've been staying at this two-bedroom house with a kitchen and everything, so we've also been cooking a little bit. 
 It just makes that home atmosphere that makes it feel great, and want to come back here next year.

 Q. What town is that in?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: La Quinta. 

 Q. Is the No. 2 ranking any compensation for today's loss?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, definitely. When I think back on this tournament, I think I've done a great job coming into this tournament. Everyone was playing here except for the two Williams. 
 It was a strong field, and then coming out as a finalist and then coming out as No. 2 in the world tomorrow, I mean, that's still a great feeling.
 I just need a few more hours just to get this loss worked on. I just need to get back on the practice court and get better for next time.

 Q. So if there's anything you could have done differently today, other than just execution, what would that have been?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's tough to say. Right now I don't know. I think she played a great match. Maybe, you know, it would be different if I would just have gotten one of the first points instead of being down 4-1 from the beginning.

 Q. Can you compare today's final with last year's US Open final? Looks like it was easier for you to play with Clijsters than today with Jankovic. Do you agree? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Two completely different matches. You cannot compare these two. I mean, it's two big tournaments. I was in Grand Slam final, which was amazing for me; and now also being in this final here at Indian Wells, it was great. 
 Of course I'd have loved to have won both of them, but it didn't happen. I just need to get better for next time. It was two completely different matches, two different completely different opponents. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT