BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/A. Radwanska
  6-2, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. When are you buying dinner? Tonight or tomorrow?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Probably tomorrow. Yeah, I don't know if we're -- if anything -- what's the time?   
 THE MODERATOR: Everything's closed here.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: So, yeah, probably will be tomorrow or in Miami. But I have to buy dinner for sure.  
  
  Q. Not the Beer Hunter?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She actually owes me an ice cream. She thought we were going to play first match. And I said, No, we're going to play late, or 7:30.   
 Then we made a bet, as well. And I won, so at least I get an ice cream. But she -- I have to buy dinner.   
  
  Q. What does it feel like now that you're going to be No. 2 in the world?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, right now I'm just happy about my result here. I'm thinking about this tournament, and that's the most important thing for me right now.  
 So, yeah, the rankings is just a bonus.  
  
  Q. Does this kind of confirm, do you think, to everybody that after the US Open last year and coming here to this event and getting to the finals that maybe you do belong in the top 2 or 3 and you're somebody to be reckoned with?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think I'm a great player and I've done a lot of good results; it's not easy to beat me. The opponent has to play really well to beat me.  
 I don't know. I think I'm just a fighter, and I think the rankings talks for itself.  
  
  Q. You played a pretty good level most of the match tonight. Do you want to talk about that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I thought that I played a really good match. I played consistent and tried to be aggressive, but there was a fine line between playing over aggressively and too passively.  
 So, you know, we know each other so well. We know each other's strengths and weaknesses. Agnieszka is a great fighter. She doesn't give up. I knew that I had to fight till the last point to win this match.  
  
  Q. You were mad about the net cord when the serve hit the net. Looked like that really got you going.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't think it really got me going. I just asked her, I said, It was net. She said, Well, it didn't beep. I asked her if it was beeping when I touched the net.   
 She said, Well, no, it didn't beep because I didn't hold it down. I asked her if she was holding the button down when it touched the net. That's the only thing. It really didn't affect anything.  
  
  Q. You want to talk about Jelena? She's given you some problems in the past.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I haven't won against Jelena yet. She's a great player, a former No. 1. She's had a good tournament here, as well. It's gonna be a tough match.   
 But it's the finals, and I'm looking forward to playing in the finals.  
  
  Q. So what's happened the last few matches? She's very consistent? She's fast?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, the last match I had the cramping thing in Doha and I wasn't feeling 100% going into the match. The matches before I've played with her she's just been very consistent, and, you know, been running a lot of balls down but stepping in when the balls were short.   
 That just gave me some problems, but hopefully on Sunday I'll try to do my best to win.  
  
  Q. If it's hot, you know, like it can be out here, do you like those conditions, or do you like the night, the cooler?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't mind. I can play at any time and anywhere, so...   
 You know, I think it's the same thing for both players, and you just have to make the best of it.  
  
  Q. Based on your past matches with her, what do you think you have to do differently come Sunday to beat her?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. I haven't thought about that yet. I just came off the match against Agnieszka, and I'm really happy about that. Hopefully I can get to enjoy that performance still tonight and tomorrow and just relax and enjoy the moment.  
  
  Q. I know you really don't want to talk about the No. 2 thing, but getting there at 19 is a pretty big accomplishment; what does it say about yourself?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. I think I've done a lot of good results. I've been playing well the last year and more.  
 I'm really happy about that.   
  
  Q. Sven and your dad share the job beside you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, my dad is my main coach, and he's the one who's coaching me also when I'm at home, when I'm at most tournaments.   
 But Sven and Mats, who was also there from the adidas team, they're just helping out. It's great to get that little help on the sidelines and some things that, you know, maybe my dad and I didn't really pay attention to.   
 So it's great, that combination.  
  
  Q. With Serena pulling out of Key Biscayne and Dinara hurt, do you feel like there's a chance for you to make even more progress up the rankings?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. I haven't thought about that. I really don't think about the rankings too much.  
 I think it's important for me just to keep focused on this tournament and do as well as I can here. I've said it before, I could have been out in the first round against Vania King, but now I'm in the finals. Now I just need to be happy about that and do my best.  
  
  Q. With your match tonight, could you sense Radwanska was struggling? I was looking at the stats, and she had a lot of unforced errors. Did you sense she was struggling? And how do you take advantage of that early?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know if she was struggling or not. I was playing some good tennis; I was keeping my consistency. Yeah, I was keeping her under pressure and making her do mistakes, as well.   
 That's what tennis is about, and sometimes we play unbelievable matches. Sometimes we play a little bit worse matches.  
 But, you know, you just need to find a way to win, and that's what I've been doing these two weeks.  
  
  Q. For you, what is your best weapon?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know. I think I'm a fighter. My heart is at the right place, and I think that's very important.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT