BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/J. Zheng
  6-4, 4-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How hard was it today? Long match?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was a long match. It was really tough. She played really well and got a lot of balls back that I thought I had won already.   
 But, no, I'm really pleased about my game today.  
  
  Q. You're up against Radwanska next. She was talking about her game is different than anybody else's in the top 10. Do you feel the same way? Do you feel she's a different player in the sense she doesn't compete in the same way, her balls are a little bit different when she strikes them? Do you agree with that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. Last time I played against her was in Stockholm. That was actually my first time that I won, and the year before she won against me in the same round and that was the first tournament she won.  
 She's a good player. She's getting a lot of balls back. She's thinking. She's smart on the court. But she's a good friend. Tomorrow I think we're just going to relax, have fun, and then we have to see what's gonna happen the day after.  
  
  Q. She was attacking you a lot in the second set today. Talk about how you turned that around in the third.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, both of us, I think, played really aggressively and was trying to make the other one run, because the one that opened up the point won the point most of the time.   
 Sometimes even I thought that she was already far from the court, and somehow she made the angles still on the court.  
 I mean, she played really well. She played aggressively, really flat. I mean, it was a tough match, and we had so many long rallies. Yeah, I won it, so I'm so happy about that.  
  
  Q. So what's been different for you this week? We can consider it now the best tournament you've played this year consistently well. What have you been doing right?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I think I've played pretty well all the tournaments that I've played. Opponents have just been playing better than me on that day when they beat me.   
 And then I've had some lacks of concentration where I've playing really well and went down a little bit, and now I've just been staying on the top all the time. I just think it's nice when I get some matches. That's what I need. I need some matches to get into that rhythm.  
  
  Q. You've gone three sets, but you really turned it up in the third set, Vania, Petrova, this one. How do you feel physically? How have you been able to do that, sort of peak at the end of the match?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel great. I have been working out a lot and done a lot of fitness training. Because, I mean, when you're not allowed to play tournaments or when you don't play, I just want to keep my shape, and that's a really important part of my game.  
 I just think that I kept my concentration because I was feeling fine. I didn't feel tired. Maybe Zheng was just a bit more tired than I was, and that helped me today.   
  
  Q. When you go out with Radwanska, I know you go to dinner and stuff; do you ever talk about tennis?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.   
  
  Q. Never?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. We don't talk about tennis. There's so many other things we want to talk about, so we prefer just to have a totally different conversation.  
  
  Q. So if you didn't know if she had won or lost, you'd never say, How did you do today? How did you play?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, we do that on court; we do that over here. We always know who won and who didn't, because we just keep each other updated.  
 But once we go for dinner, we already know who won, who didn't, and we don't talk about.  
  
  Q. Do you speak to each other in Polish or English?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, Polish, yeah.  
  
  Q. A lot of the players say that, and, you know, we find it a little strange, because we tend to talk about work a lot. So is it because it makes it uncomfortable, or is it because you just want to keep tennis out of the brain for a while?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's just because we want to -- yeah, there are so many other interesting things and we want to -- we have so much tennis in our daily life and we practice so much, we work so hard. So when you have the opportunity just to relax, it's nice just to have the brain think about something else.  
  
  Q. So what do you talk about, clothes?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Clothes, fashion, makeup, nail polish, boys. (laughter.)  
 I don't know. Everything.   
  
  Q. Your parents are friends together?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, they are. Yeah, so they're teasing each other, as well. Probably tomorrow we're gonna have a small jokes to each other, but it's just fun. I mean, we're friends off the court, and we want to win and fight on the court.  
  
  Q. What's the hot nail polish these days? Is there a color that's in?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Really bright. I really like the really pink ones. And actually, I always have my nails polished, but this time I haven't. I don't know. Maybe -- I probably should have done my nails.  
  
  Q. If you reach the final, will you do your nails?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. Maybe I'll do them tomorrow. Maybe not. Depends on my mood.  
  
  Q. So Agnieszka says that the winner of the match has to buy dinner.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, the winner has to, so...   
 Well, I hope I'm gonna buy dinner. (laughter.)  
  
  Q. So how long have you known her? All the way through juniors, or did you know Urszula better?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I know both of the girls equally well. All the way through juniors since -- I think we also played some under 12s, under 14s together a few tournaments.   
 But then in the juniors, just because we spoke the same language, it was easier to get the contact. It was nice to have some friends on the tour.  
  
  Q. Can you really go on court and say, I don't really know her? That's just an opponent? I'm playing the ball?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, you have to do that. You have to keep professional in that way and see that little yellow ball and hit it inside the lines and over the net. That's really important that you do that.   
 Because once you start thinking, okay, it's my friend, what happens, then you lose the match. So it's just important to stay focused and don't think about who's on the other side.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT