BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/N. Petrova
  6-3, 3-6, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. So you want to talk about the match? Up, down, and then up.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. Yeah, it was a match where it just went up and down quite a bit, and you know, I just -- you didn't really know what to expect. It was not really a great rhythm there. I didn't feel the ball as well.  
 But, you know, I'm just happy that I fought through and I won the match. That's the most important thing. I just think that, you know, yeah, I will be more ready for the next match.  
  
  Q. She's powerful, and she's got a lot of different elements in her game. What do you feel you did well to keep her off you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, she's a great player. Serving really well, serving hard, so it was tough for me to break her serve, especially in the beginning.   
 In the third, yeah, I took my chance. She's a very powerful player just going for it, so it was difficult. I just told myself to stay in there and to keep my legs moving.  
  
  Q. Are you coming into these big events now really thinking you're going to win?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I believe in myself, of course. I just go in there, and I actually never look at the draw. I just take one match at a time, because there's a lot of great players out there.  
 There's a lot of tough matches. I could have been out in the first round already.  
  
  Q. You mentioned the lack of rhythm. After the second set, what were you thinking? I mean, it didn't seem like there was a lot of rhythm in the match. What did you think to turn around in the third set? What was your goal going into the third set, besides winning the set?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, just I told myself to keep my legs moving, keep going and coming into the right position, because that was the most important thing today. You know, when I stood still, then it's difficult to get the balls right in.   
 At one point in the match, I was standing too still and she had the advantage of the match.  
  
  Q. So Zheng is going to present an entirely different set of challenges ti Petrova. Can you talk about that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. Last time I played against Zheng I lost to her. It was a tough match. You know, she's a great player. She had a good start of the year, playing aggressively, taking the balls early. I need to be ready and focused.  
  
  Q. Are you going to have to take it to her a little bit? What are you going to have to do exactly?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I haven't thought about the match yet. I'm just happy that I'm through now, and we'll have to see tomorrow what I'm going to come up with.  
 Most importantly I think it's just important to stick to my game.  
  
  Q. You're one of the top players that's really embraced Twitter. Can you talk about that and how it helps you communicate with your fans directly?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's great. Actually, I have to say I've been bad the last week with my Twitter. Actually, I have to say I haven't been on the Internet for a week now, so... (laughter.)  
  
  Q. Going through rehab? Having withdrawal?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: So many other things here to do, and I just enjoy it actually not being at a computer.   
 But, you know, I will get back on Twitter. I like communicating with my fans and with people following me. I think it's a great way to get an insight from like not just on the court, but also how it is behind the scenes.   
 I think it's nice for the fans, and they are following and coming with comments. I think that's the great way to do it.  
  
  Q. What are your feelings about allowing the coach onto the court? Is that positive for you?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think so, yeah. I think it's nice. It's nice to get some inputs from the outside. Sometimes you don't see it yourself, and it's nice just to get just an advice or two. I think it brings more to the game.   
 I think the crowd likes it, too. But more when you hear it on TV that you can understand what the coach is saying, and I think that brings some excitement to the game.  
  
  Q. Do you really find yourself listening to the coach, or is it just kind of words going by during the match? Do you really take it all in, or is it hard to listen in the heat of battle?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I think it's important to listen, because they can come with some inputs that you really don't see yourself, and that can help you.   
 But, of course, there are some things that just goes in and out. Some things stick to you, because there are some things that you already know and some things that, Oh, okay maybe he's right. So I'll try to do something differently.  
 So you have to be selective, but I listen to it.  
  
  Q. Do you remember a time when your coach told you something important? You brought him onto the court, and then you ended up winning basically because of what he said?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it happens. It happens, yeah. I mean, it's difficult now in this moment to say it, but there are just small things. Like your throw to your serve to get the rhythm there, or I don't know, stand a little bit closer to the baseline. Just those small things that can make a big difference.  
  
  Q. It's interesting, because you request the coach to come there. It would be the other way around if he was the one requesting to come out to the court. Would you like to see a change where the coach can request to come out to the court during the match? Because if you don't want to talk to him, you don't have to. That's unusual for a sport. Usually the coach can say, I want to come out and all that.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think that you have such a good communication with your coach, and I have with my dad, who is also my coach. I think that when you see he wants to say something or you feel you need help, I think you communicate so well, so it would be the same thing.  
  
  Q. Jie Zheng, is it kind of complicated, because you want to play aggressive, but in other ways you want to play steady at the same time because she likes players who play aggressive and counter punch, huh? How do you approach that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think she likes -- she likes when the ball is going flat over the net and when the ball goes fast.  
 I don't know. I just think I need to play my game, play aggressive, but also being able to run the balls down if I need to and changing the rhythm.   
 But, again, most importantly, I think it's important for me not to think too much about her game.   
  
  Q. You said you weren't on the Internet for a week, and there were other things to do here. What are some of the other things that you're doing?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I have a lot of friends here. Actually, some Polish people that are living here or have a second home here. So I've been at their place.   
 Then I went to play golf one time. Nothing to really talk too much about. (laughter.)  
  
  Q. Where did you play?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: La Quinta.   
 And then I went -- I don't know. I just have been going for dinners with Radwanska, Azarenka. I don't know. Just spending a lot of time outside my room.  
  
  Q. No pressure at Indian Wells, but you're the highest seed remaining. All the other former champions are gone. Any pressure there?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't feel the pressure. I like this tournament. I like playing here.   
 But I know that tomorrow is gonna be a tough task, and I'll do my best to win that match.  
  
  Q. So what have you been eating out, restaurants?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Cheesecake Factory.  
  
  Q. That's a nice one; the one in the mall there.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's a good one. Mamma Gina's, and a Japanese restaurant. I don't remember what it's called.  
  
  Q. Sushi?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  
 THE MODERATOR: Okura?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's on Al Paseo, as well.  
  
  Q. When you gonna update your Facebook and Twitter page?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'll have to see. I need to keep my fans updated, so I will do that soon. I will. I promise.   
  
  Q. Nicole Vaidisova retired. She's just one year older than you. What do you think? Can you imagine why she decided to retire?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's difficult for me to say, and the reasons also I don't know. I haven't talked to her for a while. And, you know, I think she should have thought about it.   
 She went down in the rankings, and maybe she finds it tough to play the small tournaments again when she feels like she actually should be playing the top, on the top level.  
 I don't know. I think she made a decision that's up to her, and maybe in a little bit she'll say that she wants to come back and work hard. Maybe we'll see her on the tour again. We'll see.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT