U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
L. TSURENKO/C. Wozniacki   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Looked like you were struggling with your rhythm and range off the ground tonight.  Talk about what the difficulties were for you.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think I started off pretty well, then I think I played well in parts of the first set, just trying to stay aggressive.   
But she was playing smarter than me.  She played the game that I was supposed to be playing.  She got a lot of balls back.  She played with the angles.  She waited for the short ball.  When the short ball came, she played aggressive.  She went back and kept the ball in play when she had to.   
I tried to play aggressive because I saw openings.  I saw balls that I felt like I could finish off, I felt like I could hit big on.  Yeah, the court is a little bit slower I think.  I should have made better adjustments.  I just didn't.   
Then I was trying, you know, to play a little bit higher, maybe change the rhythm, but it just wasn't really going my way.  I think the problem also was my serve and returns weren't great today.  That kind of didn't help me.  I feel like if maybe I'd served better, I could have put more pressure on her.   
 Q.  You played your first match on Ashe.  Halep, Muguruza lost on Armstrong, now you.  Anything in particular about the new court?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I thought Halep played on Ashe.   
 Q.  It was Armstrong.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think it's a great court.  It's a beautiful court, it's nice.  Guess Wimbledon used to have a Graveyard Court.  Maybe that is going to be the new Graveyard Court.  I think it's a little too early to tell (smiling).   
It's definitely a nice court.  It's intimate.  It's definitely a cool court.   
 Q.  What was your preparation?  Didn't get a lot of matches this summer.  Could the lack of match prep coming in here feel like it was catching up to you at all?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  Maybe, maybe not.  I felt like I'd been practicing really well, playing really well for the week leading up to the tournament.  Obviously it wasn't an ideal preparation.  I usually play more matches and just kind of to get into the rhythm.   
But I felt like I did everything right under the circumstances.  I just came out here today and I did my best, and it just wasn't good enough today.  She played really well, and I was trying to find everything that I could today, but it just wasn't going that way.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your season?  Great high in Australia, but hasn't gone quite the way you would have hoped since then.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm always going to say it's a great season because I won my first major.  I've won so many tournaments throughout my career, but I'd never won a Grand Slam.  I think regardless what happens for the last few tournaments of the year, it's still going to be a great year because I won in Australia.   
If I hadn't won in Australia, we would be talking differently.  But I did.  I'm very proud of that.  It's something that nobody can ever take away from me.   
 Q.  You've been saying since Australia you're still a competitive person obviously, it's not like you're going to slump.  Is the sting of the losses the same or is it easier now that you have the trophy?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't think it's easier.  I don't think it ever gets easier.  I just think, you know, yeah, the last couple of months I've just tried to find my rhythm, the last month, just trying to keep my body healthy, then find my rhythm.  That's kind of been key.  The rest of the year I've been healthy and I've been doing well physically.  Just tried hard.   
I think grass was for me a little disappointing in Wimbledon because I really felt like I was playing great tennis.  I guess it wasn't meant to be at Wimbledon.  This part of the season, it's usually a part of the season I really look forward to, one I really play well usually.  I definitely would have wished to have played more and gone further.   
But it is what it is.  All I can do now is regroup, think what I can do, and also just make sure my body is 100%, keep it that way.  I'm going to go to the Asian swing, just go out there and give it my best.  That's all I can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT