BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/V. King
  5-7, 6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It was a very kind of streaky match. She had 12 straight match and at one point you were down 4-1. How did you turn it around?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was a tough match. Vania was playing really well, but it's tough when you haven't played matches for some time to go in and start playing points again. It's different from practice to play a real match, but I'm happy that I fought through. I just kept fighting for every point and fighting till the end. 

 Q. In boxing parlance, it could be said you got off the floor to win today. Mikkel Kessler would be proud of you. As you noted, you were behind 4-1 the last set, and Vania just won 12 straight points. What was going through your mind at that point?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean -- I don't know. I was just telling myself, It's not over yet. She still has two more games before she wins the match. 
 You know, I just, yeah, I think I stepped it up a little bit at that point, and then I think she -- I think she got a little bit more nervous as well, because she knew that she could finish the match. But, you know, I just kept hanging in there, and that was the clue.

 Q. Were you surprised by the level of her play throughout the match?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, no. I knew that she was a tough player and that she wasn't going to give me too many free points. You know, I just have to, for the next round, be more focused, especially in the important moments, because I gave too many free, easy points away today. That shouldn't have happened.

 Q. Did you do anything tactically to adjust? It looked like you went after her second serve more in the last set. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I tried to do that and tried to be the one who were dictating more, because I knew that the one who was dictating the game was winning.
 And of course I was trying to make my legs move a little bit more, because, yeah, so I wouldn't make too many unforced errors.

 Q. Your movement is such a strength, but it can also be sort of a defense. How are you going to use your movement offensively? Is that something you want to do?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, I have to. In my game, I have to be able to do both, and change also in one rally to go from defense to offense or the other way. 
 You know, I just need to get some -- a few more matches, some points going, and I'm hopefully can just play better and better. 

 Q. I saw a little bit of the match. Your father came out. What kind of things was he telling you, and how helpful is he?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He just kept telling me, Stay positive; move your legs; take your time till your serve. He told me to, you know -- he said, If you don't start playing more aggressively or do something differently, you're not gonna win this match. You don't have anything to lose now, because she's ahead anyways. 

 Q. Do you have any trouble, because it's your father, listening to everything he says?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. You know, when he's on the court I see him as a coach. I don't see him as my father. As soon as we go off the court, he's my father.
 Now it's easy for us to take these two parts and separate them.

 Q. Do you think having that testing match will make you tougher for the rest of the tournament?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Hopefully. (laughter.)
 You know, you never know, but hopefully. For sure I got some points in play today, and I got to run and I got to try a little bit of everything, to playing well, to playing not so well, to playing okay. 
 So hopefully that can make me stronger for the next round.

 Q. Who do you like to win the fight on Saturday night against Joshua Clottey?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Who's fighting? 

 Q. That's what I thought you would say. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Who's fighting? 

 Q. Manny Pacquiao. He's widely considered the greatest fighter in the world at the moment. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Really? 

 Q. He's a little bit small to be fighting Mikkel Kessler. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: What's the weight class? 

 Q. Welterweight, 147. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, those I don't know too much. No. Sorry. (laughter.)

 Q. Are you at all interested in watching the matches tonight?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Tonight? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely. I mean, that's very interesting, and I think it's nice to help the people in Haiti. I think it's nice that when you're able to help other people that you also think about others than yourself. I think it's a great event, and I will support it tonight for sure.

 Q. Will it be fun for you to see Steffi? Not many people get to see Steffi play. She doesn't do this very much. Do you remember her when you were growing up? What do you think about watching her tonight?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, she was one of my favorite players. I remember her when I was growing up, and she's still a great player. I saw her play a little bit in Las Vegas last year when I was there. I didn't get to hit with her myself when I was there. I saw her hit some balls, and she's still striking the balls really well. 
 It's going to be good fun, and I'm sure they're going to enjoy themselves on court tonight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT