BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 17, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. PEER/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 7-5 
   
  Q. Caroline, what went wrong?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She played well today. She really did. She was changing the rhythm and going in and attacking the balls. At the beginning I was making a bit too many unforced errors, and afterwards I started to get into the game. And then, you know, we had a lot of long rallies and I didn't take many chances. I had my chances especially in the second set, and I didn't take them.   
  
  Q. Did the conditions play a part in it? Was it windy or extremely hot out there?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, it's the same for both players. So, you know, just need to play and fight for every point. And I did my best, but it wasn't good enough today.  
  
  Q. It must be unusual for you these days to play on a small side court. Was that strange to you?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was different, for sure. I mean from the Centre Court where the court was a little bit slower on the Centre Court to playing a little bit faster courts on Court 1, but I understand the security issues.   
 I prefer to be secure and sure that nothing will happen on Court 1 than playing on Centre Court and not being able to know what's going to happen next, so that's fine.  
  
  Q. You say the conditions. The weather conditions are obviously the same for both players, but pressure conditions aren't the same for both players out there. She's out there playing knowing there are countless security men around watching her every move, and, you know, maybe she's looking up into the crowd and wondering. How difficult do you think it must be for her?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, when I play against her, something happens to her, something can happen to me. So I think it's the same for both players. Again, especially, when you play against her.   
 I think that security is doing a good job. So hopefully they'll continue like that.   
  
  Q. You must have been a little upset with your own serving today. You weren't serving too well.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely my serve was not working the way I wanted it to. I had some periods in the match where I served some good serves, and then suddenly I didn't get a first serve in. So, of course that could have been better, much better.  
  
  Q. Have you ever played a match before where you've had breakpoints on every one of your service games?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know (smiling).  
  
  Q. Don't remember?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.   
  
  Q. How's the trip been to Dubai?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it was my first time. I thought it's a nice tournament. It's a nice organization. The hotel is nice, the courts are nice, so I enjoyed my stay here.  
  
  Q. Would you prefer to play in the evening because both the matches you played were in the afternoon?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I don't mind playing during the day. It's nice to play first match. You play the match, and -- I mean, of course, when you win, it's nice because then you have the rest of the day off and you can relax and do whatever you want.   
 Okay, now it's not that much fun when you lose and you have the whole day to think about the match. But, you know, that's sports sometimes. I just need to keep improving and keep working hard and the results will come.   
  
  Q. Where is it to now? The Carolina states or do you have anything in between?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I play Indian Wells is next. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT