BARCLAYS DUBAI TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 16, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/D. Cibulkova
  6-2, 7-6 
   
  Q. So why was that so tough?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, Dominika's a great player. She is a fighter. She's running well, getting a lot of balls back, so I knew it was going to be a tough match. And the second set, I just kept fighting. Even though I was down 5-1, I kept playing for every point, and that paid off in the end.  
  
  Q. You came back very strongly toward the end of the second set, didn't you?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I was playing much better once I was down 5-1. I just started to play more relaxed and trying to get my rhythm. I thought maybe I was going to play the third set, so I thought I just need to start playing and being more aggressive, and playing with a little bit more depth because I thought that's the way I have to play in case of a third set. But I didn't have to, so I was really happy about that (smiling).  
  
  Q. You're top seed here, yet you're playing in the midday sun. Were you given any say in the schedule matter?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I didn't request anything. So I mean, no. I like playing first matches actually and just play, and then you can get out of here and relax and enjoy the rest of the day.   
  
  Q. The heat didn't bother you then?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I mean, it was hot, but it's warm for both of us. So I don't mind. I prefer it a little bit hotter than if it's too cold.  
  
  Q. Can't get many hot days like that back in Denmark?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, it's not really too hot over there, but you know, we're traveling all the time. Also I practice in Monte-Carlo in the summer when I have some time and in the winter time, so it's a bit warmer, for sure.  
  
  Q. How much time would you spend in a year and last year how much time did you spend in Denmark?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Couple weeks. Maybe a month? I don't know. Something like that. Not a lot because I mean traveling a lot, I spent some time in Monaco, so it doesn't turn out to be too much time.  
  
  Q. What did you do in the off-season? Where did you go?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I went first I went straight from Doha to Maritius, and I spent ten days there, lying on the beach doing absolutely nothing. And then afterwards I went to Barbados with my family.   
 And, yeah, in Maritius I was with some friends with the Azarenka and another girl. And then we went to Barbados with the family, and I spent eight days there. It was really, really nice, beautiful. And I played an exhibition with Serena there, so that was really great.  
  
  Q. It's very unusual for players to go on vacation together?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, but we have some good friendships on the tour, and also Victoria Azarenka is one of my best friends. So, yeah, we have a lot of friendships, and we enjoy each other's company off the court, and on the court we fight against each other.   
 But, you know, I think we're pretty good at separating those two things.  
  
  Q. Do you think the fact that you've had a tough first match might help you as the week progresses?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: We'll have to see. I hope so. Definitely the first match, Dominika already had one match, so it's always difficult to come in and play your first match. And, you know, I learned from today. Hopefully tomorrow can be even better.   
  
  Q. Are the conditions a bit tricky? I mean you said out on court, the court was slow. I imagine the ball goes pretty quick through the air, doesn't it?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: The ball goes pretty quick through the air, and the courts are pretty slow, so you have to get used to that. But it's the same thing for both of the players, so it's just about keeping your head cool. Yeah, do your best.   
  
  Q. Going back to only spending a few weeks of the year in Denmark, what do you miss about Denmark?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's a beautiful country. I think Copenhagen is a beautiful city and the people are very nice. And I have my friends there also, so I try to make them come to Monaco, and also sometimes they come with me on the tour to different tournaments.  
  
  Q. So did you spend any time in Denmark at Christmas, for example?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, at Christmas I spent some time in Denmark. My brother is still there actually also. So he's playing football there. So I spent some Christmas at his place.   
  
  Q. What do you expect for the next matches? Do you think it's an easy way for you or it will be some tough matches?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Shahar is my next opponent. She's a great player and good form. I played had her in Australia. She's a fighter. Playing really well at the moment, so it's going to be a tough match.  
  
  Q. In the second set did you just lose concentration?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I relaxed a little bit, and Dominika started to play really well, get more balls in play. And maybe I lost the concentration a little bit and started to play less aggressive, and she got the advantage over me.  
 Then once I started to hit more freely and hit with better depth and a little more aggressively, I got the advantage.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT