AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2010
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Peer
  6-4, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Have you ever served as well as that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, I didn't make any aces I think, did I? I mean, for sure the serve percentage was really high today, and I was really pleased about that. Felt like I was serving well and winning a lot my points on it.
 But I think some days you serve well and some days you serve less good. All in all, it was a good performance. 

 Q. So tough a first set, but then you kind of ran away. What was the key for you? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, she started really well. She started to -- she was changing the rhythm, and it was difficult for me just to get into the match. I just kept fighting, hanging in there, and in the end it turned out that I just had that extra gear. 

 Q. Where were you when Baghdatis retired and you found out you were going on?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I came here and warmed up at 6:00 at the stadium. Afterwards, I just had a quick look at the scores. I could see it was 6-Love for Hewitt, so I went to the gym and started working out a little bit just to get the match rhythm, and I got into match mode. 
 Afterwards, I heard that he retired, so I was already ready. I went and changed fast, and then we went on court.

 Q. So overall, the matches score-wise have been pretty easy. I know you've had a tough fight. You've got to be pretty pleased with your form going into the week. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, you know, I'm happy about my form and the way I've played. I feel like I've done a good performance here so far. Hopefully next match I can do the same.

 Q. When you got here, did you feel like, I need more matches? You didn't get that many in. I know you got some in Hong Kong, but you lost early in Sydney. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I felt really good going in here. Even though it sounds weird after I lost first round in Sydney, I felt in a great shape, great fitness-wise. 
 I came here and started to practice and play a lot of practice sets and I started to feel really well on the court. I was feeling confident going in here.

 Q. Li Na again. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I'm gonna do my best. She's a great player. She beat me last time. You know, it's gonna be a tough fight. We will see what's gonna happen.

 Q. What didn't work for you in that match in Sydney? What do you have to do better this time?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just think I need to keep steady and be -- I don't know, keep being a little bit aggressive. She can't be the one dictating the game because then she's dangerous and playing really heavy balls. Just important for me to keep her moving.

 Q. Up to this point, you still have a chance to be No. 1 after this tournament. Have you ever thought about that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. (Smiling.) Not at all. I mean, I think about one match at a time. We take it as it comes. 

 Q. Do you consider yourself a bit of an experienced player now? Because it's not like this is your first time around. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely I'm more experienced than I was just one year ago. I've got a lot of matches under my belt, so it's a great feeling. There's still a lot of players out there much more experienced than me. Venus, Serena, Dementieva, all of these players have been on tour many more years than I have. 
 I feel good out there and I feel like every time I step on the big courts I enjoy being there. So that's a good, big thing for me.

 Q. So you don't have the younger player's nerves as much?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. Not since I've been on the big courts. I know how it feels. I'm just going in there in my own bubble and I know what I have to do. I try to do it the best that I can.

 Q. You are pretty good friends with Serena. Have you been doing stuff together here in Australia?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, we've both been playing on the same days and everything. When we have the off days we're still here a little bit and chit-chatting, having fun. She's a great and funny girl. We have great laughs in the locker room. 

 Q. You were a well-known personality in Denmark. What are your thoughts about three-time world champion Nicki Pedersen?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He's a great athlete, for sure. He's a great champion. I know, I mean, it's not easy, no matter what sport you're doing. 

 Q. You're wearing Stella McCartney, which is very nice clothes. How would you describe your fashion taste off court?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I'm feminine, but casual. I like to dress up when I'm going somewhere. Cute summer dresses are always a hit for me.

 Q. Do you exchange tips with Serena about fashion?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. If she sees something that I have that she thinks is nice she comments on it, and the other way around. Yeah, we talk about that kind of thing.

 Q. Another question about your clothes line, was there problems with your socks that fell off?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was the pom poms. I don't know what happened.

 Q. Will you be wearing those again?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'll probably think twice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT