SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 31, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/C. Wozniacki
  6-4, 0-1 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Caroline, please.   
  
  Q. Can you explain exactly what you feel.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I feel pain in my stomach muscle and my abdominal muscle. Like also yesterday I had problems serving. But today after a while, it went over, and also when I was hitting my shots, just regular groundstrokes, I started feeling it. So, yeah, it was just too much for me to keep playing.   
  
  Q. It's special because you have one match with tears and you have a lost match with a smile. How can you explain that? After this match, you were smiling.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, I could either smile or I could cry, and I chose to smile. I mean, there's nothing else you can do. I had a great year. I did all I could. I used all my strength I had left. But today, I just didn't have any more left. So, yeah.   
 And I think the crowd deserved for me to say thank you to them, as well, because they've been a great support all week. And, yeah, I mean, I've had a great tournament. Doesn't matter that I couldn't really finish today.   
  
  Q. Did you take a bit of a risk to even play the match today, considering all that you'd been through earlier in the week?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I really felt like I could play today. I really wanted to go out there and do my best.   
 But the pain, as I started to feel it more, I said, Okay, now it's enough. Once I felt like it was a risk, I said, Okay, I can't play any more.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised to see yourself in the semifinals after what happened yesterday?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, actually at one point yesterday I already thought that today I was gonna lie by the pool and just relax. It really didn't look great for me.   
 But then afterwards, yeah, everything changed. Yeah, I was in the semifinals today.   
  
  Q. Considering what's happened during this week, do you have any regrets to have played Luxembourg?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't have any regrets. I believe that, you know, I did all I could. I believe that for me it was the right choice at the time to play Luxembourg. I wanted to get some matches to get in good shape again.   
 I mean, it's a sport, so you never know what's gonna happen. I could even go down the stairs and twist my ankle. I don't have any regrets. I just think I've had a great season and I'm really happy about everything I achieved. I started the year at 12 in the world, now I'm 4, so I think I've had an amazing season.   
  
  Q. Considering the first two big matches and the two last ones, are you happy with your tournament?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm really, really happy about my tournament. The two first matches were two marathons where I played more than six hours in total. I gave everything. I beat two great players.   
 Yesterday I didn't have any power left, and I think that's understandable after what happened the day before. Plus, I got the injury in my stomach a little bit. Then today I went out there and I tried my best. But, yeah, that's what happened.   
  
  Q. Did you learn anything you didn't know before coming here?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely. I learned that I'm a huge fighter and impossible is nothing. Yeah, I mean, I just need to keep improving. Next time I step on the court, I will try to play even better than I did here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT