SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 29, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/V. Zvonareva
  6-0, 6-7, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, for Caroline.   
  
  Q. When you were lying on the court two points away from victory, it looked pretty scary. Were you scared at the time?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I wasn't scared. I was just thinking, How can I get up from here? I mean, doesn't matter which muscle I'm moving right now, I'm cramping.   
 Then I wanted to get a help, maybe get a hand, a reach of hands from someone. But I wasn't allowed to, so I kind of had to find my way up. I have absolutely no idea how I won that match.  
  
  Q. How do you feel now physically?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm feeling much better now. I got cooled down. I got some cold and hot showers. I got some ice massage, some food. So I'm feeling much better now.  
  
  Q. There's every chance you will play tomorrow?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes.   
  
  Q. You have no intention whatsoever of conceding that matching?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I want to play.   
  
  Q. You won two big matches. You are not sure to be in the semifinal. How do you deal with that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really think about that. I'm doing my best. I'm trying to recover for tomorrow. That's my main priority.   
 What's gonna happen is gonna happen. You know, I did my job so far. Yeah, I can just hope to be in the semifinals.   
  
  Q. You seemed on the verge of victory there up 5-2 in the second set. Can you explain how she fought her way back into the match? Did you lose focus or did she start playing better?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think I lost focus. I think she started to play better, more aggressive. She went for her shots. And, for sure, I should have closed it out now thinking back. I had two match points. One of them, she was really pressured. She went for her forehand down the line, which touched the net. It was called out. I thought I had the match. The Hawk-Eye showed it was good.   
 I mean, yeah, it was just small things that I lost that second set. Yeah, I just had to stay cool and try to fight all what I had left in the third set.   
  
  Q. You won two very emotional matches so far. Somehow you kept your mental strength. How can you explain that?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I really like playing long matches. I thought the public should have some good matches here (smiling).   
 No, I mean, I don't know. I'm just focusing on every point and trying to do my best. Yeah, it turned out. It's great players I'm playing against. Yesterday I had a slow start. Today I had a fast start. It was kind of two different matches from my perspective.   
 But I pulled it through, and that's the most important thing.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us what treatment you had?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes. I went to the doctor, got cooled down. Got some ice massage, got some massage. I got some food. I got hot and cold showers. I'm still going to go to the physio when I get back to the hotel to get another massage, and some more food in my body.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT