SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 28, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/V. Azarenka
  1-6, 6-4, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Caroline, please.   
  
  Q. That must give you a degree of some satisfaction, losing the first set probably you want to forget, losing a game in the second set the last 20 minutes, still keeping together and coming through in three hours?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, after the first set I thought I was gonna be in the locker room in no time. Yeah, I kept fighting. Especially the game, I think it was 2-2 and we had like this unbelievable long game. I don't know how long it took.   
  
  Q. 20 minutes.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: 20 minutes. I mean, yeah, I think that turned it a little bit around, even though she won that game.   
  
  Q. Having said that, you were 3-5 down in the final set, two match points against you.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Two or one?   
  
  Q. One, was it?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: One.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about that stage of the match?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I just felt like I hadn't lost the match yet and she still had to win one more point to win the match.   
 Yeah, I mean, I played a really good point. I played aggressive. And she kind of also -- then she was running out and playing her backhand down the line. Yeah, we had a good point there. I pulled it through. And, yeah, I don't know, I'm happy to be here as the winner of the match.   
  
  Q. To perform out there for three hours in a match of such intensity suggests that the left thigh is not as bad as it looked with all the strapping.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, the strapping definitely helped. No doubt about it. And, you know, when you're on court and you're running, then, you know, you try not to think about it too much, especially in the important situations.   
 But, I mean, yeah, now I need to get some treatment, some ice, yeah, just settle it down because definitely it's not great for the leg, running this much.  
  
  Q. Do you think you'll be able to get through the week safely?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I hope so. I mean, otherwise I wouldn't play. Yeah, I hope so, definitely.   
  
  Q. Jelena was saying all the players here are injured. Why do you think that is?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I'm not sure. Is everyone injured?   
  
  Q. That's what she said.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think everybody's injured. And I just think, you know, tennis is a sport, and, I mean, people get injured. You can't really do anything about it.   
 Anyways, I think that people are fighting and want to do their best. And, I mean, small problems, you always have some small problems. It's just about dealing with them, and go out there and fight and do the best that you can.   
  
  Q. How significant was it that Victoria totally lost her composure at the crucial points of the match?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I just, you know, wanted to focus on my own game and the next point. And I really didn't think too much about her at those moments.   
  
  Q. You chose to use the heat rule, which is unusual for a night match. What can you do in those 10 minutes to get yourself together a little bit?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was actually really hot out there, and I felt really hot. And when the heat rule is in, if one player asks to take the 10 minutes, then I thought I'm gonna take it as well. The only thing I did was just to get some ice under my armpits to cool down, change my dress, change everything so that I get some dry clothes on, cool down a little bit.   
 And, yeah, that's about it. You can't really do too much in those 10 minutes.  
  
  Q. Correct me if I'm wrong, but she's about your best friend on the tour, isn't she?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. She's definitely one of my best friends. And we have a great relationship. And, of course, we're competitive when we go on court, no doubt. We both want to win.   
 But it's great that, yeah, we're both here. It's exciting that we both are so high in the rankings. Hopefully for many more years to come.  
  
  Q. We obviously are quite used to see two sisters play each other. A lot of the Spanish guys say it's difficult to play good friends. What can you say to Victoria in the locker room after something like that, or did you not talk?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, we just talked now because, I mean, it's tough to talk after such a tough match. Of course, we need just some space just to cool down, both of us.   
 But, I mean, we both have won one match in our group, and we were just talking about it would be great if somehow it would be possible both to qualify. That would be the dream scenario for both of us.   
 I mean, we still have -- I have two matches, she has one match left in the group. So, I mean, yeah, there's still a long way.   
  
  Q. What did your father tell you when he came on the court?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He just said, Enjoy it and keep fighting, you haven't lost the match yet, even though I was down. And he just said, yeah, Just go out there and do your best.   
  
  Q. The two of you personify the new generation. We can hope that you'll go on and play many great matches like that in the future. Do you view yourself as the new generation, with the Belgians coming back and everything like that? Do you think there's a new wave in women's tennis coming through?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think so, yeah. I think there's quite a lot of young players coming up. And it's great to see the players that you've played against in the junior times, to play them on the main tour, as well. And, yeah, I think we have a great relationship, all of us.   
 It's really nice to, yeah, have them in the top of the women's game. And I think the generation is changing a little bit.  
  
  Q. Who else? There's yourself and Victoria.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Then there's the Radwanska sisters, Sorana Cirstea, Cibulkova. Those are my closest friends.   
 Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT