U.S. OPEN
September 9, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/M. Oudin
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You took out sort of the giant slayer of this tournament. I would have to think about the way you played tonight, you feel pretty good tonight and the way you're playing?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, thank you. It was really tough match for me against Melanie. I mean, she's had such a great run, such an amazing tournament. It's always tough to play against a home favorite.
 And I knew how I was going to feel to be out there and the crowd, but I just used the energy and tried to covert it into some good tennis. I'm just so happy that I fought so well today and that I managed to pull the match out.

 Q. She's sort of been the crowd favorite this year, but it seemed like there was a lot of support for you out there. I think people have embraced you and your style of play. Did you feel it from the crowd?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I feel like playing here at New York is almost like playing at home. Also when I played Kuznetsova, the crowd was cheering for me a lot. I really love it out there. And playing on the center court, it just feels amazing.

 Q. You're going to be playing Yanina Wickmayer next round. What do you know about her? Have you followed her? Have you seen her play?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I've tried not to watch too much tennis while I was here. I mean, I watched Melanie's matches because they were shown a lot. I mean, she was -- I mean, she's a young player coming up, so I wanted to see her play. 
 But I haven't seen Yanina playing too much this tournament, but I know her really well from the juniors and we've played each other growing up.
 So, I mean right now I'm just so happy I'm in the semifinals. I'm just going to enjoy a day off tomorrow, and I'll talk to my dad who is also my coach about the strategy. But right now, I don't really have any.

 Q. In the on-court interview, when Pam spoke of her, she almost spoke of it like it was a foregone conclusion, like, Who is she? She sort of said, you know, you'll be the overwhelming favorite. She said her name in a way that sounded a little bit belligerent. Do you think there is a danger in taking a girl like this for granted? She's not here just by good luck and chance. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't take her for granted at all. She's played great tennis to make it this far. You don't make a Grand Slam semifinals without playing great tennis. So, I mean, I'm going to go out there and fight for every point. I'm not going to give you mean. 
 I'm just going to try to do my best. There's nothing else I can do. Hopefully I can pull it out. But, I mean, you never know. It's a 50/50% chance when you get out on the court.

 Q. What do you make of what Melanie Oudin did during this tournament? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think she had an amazing run. I mean, she's only 17 years old. She has been playing some great tennis. I think that, you know, she had a lot of attention here, and I think the way she handled all the attention, I think she did very well. I think she has a great team around her, and I'm sure that she'll win many, many more matches in the future, as well.

 Q. What was your strategy going into the match? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: My strategy today was just to -- I don't know, to try to -- I knew that she had a great forehand and that she's good on the defense, as well, that she's running well. 
 So I just wanted to keep her mostly on her backhand side, but also make her run to her forehand.

 Q. You said you played Yanina in juniors. Can you remember your first match against her?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, I remember -- I don't remember my first match. I just remember that -- I think we met each other when we were we were both under-12. So, I mean, that's many years back. 
 We're friends off the court, as well, and she's had an amazing run and I'm happy for her, as well.

 Q. Would you like to tell us how you practiced with adidas team and how the organization of this team?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, the adidas team is very -- it's very nice. We have Darren Cahill, Sven Groeneveld, Matts Merkel as a hitting partner, and Gil Reyes is the fitness coach.
 So it's a great team to have, and it's nice to have someone there to hit with during the tournaments, as well. My dad is my main coach, but it's nice to get some input from the outside, as well. It's great that adidas has made such a great effort to do such a program, and it also makes us a team. The adidas players have a great connection with each other, and I think that's great.

 Q. How crucial was it to not fold up like the Russians did before you? How much was that part of the strategy?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, Melanie, she beat some great players. No doubt about it. I knew that it was going to be tough and I knew that she was going to fight to the last point. I just -- yeah, I just thought about one point at a time, one ball at a time, and tried not to think too much about the score, even though it's difficult. 
 I'm a fighter, so I don't give up. I fought to the last point.

 Q. Melanie said that you played a very consistent game. Was that your game plan going in, is to make sure, limit your mistakes?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, today definitely I was like, I have to get as many balls back as possible and try to make her run. Keep her on her backhand, but also, you know, make her run on her forehand. 
 That was my goal, and I think it was a good way to play the match today.

 Q. Your body language was positive the whole time. Was that part of the deal, too? Never show her that you were frustrated even if you were?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, today especially today it was important for me just to keep positive, try to just fight for every point. Because I knew if I show her too much emotions she will pick it up straightaway. I've seen that before in her matches. I mean, the crowd helped her through, as well. 
 So today was just important, just to keep positive, keep fighting for every point.

 Q. Going into the semis, you're highly the favorite. Isn't it a frightening here to have a final ahead of you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Um, I still actually cannot believe that I'm in the semifinals, so it's going to be great to play that match. I'm looking forward to that. 
 But right now I just want to enjoy this moment. And to be in the semifinals for the first time here in New York, it's incredible.

 Q. You have played a lot of matches for the past three weeks because you won New Haven and now. I was wondering, how are you feeling about your body, like fatigue or are you tired? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I feel great. I feel really good. I feel like I've played a lot of matches. I've been playing some great tennis. I'm really happy, and I like playing matches. I have to practice, anyways, so to me I like to compete. I love to compete. Playing matches just makes it more fun, and I don't really feel tired at all.

 Q. No injury?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No injuries. I'm fit for fat. I'm okay.

 Q. For people just getting familiar with you as a tennis player, how would you describe yourself as a player, what your strengths are?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I have a -- I'm thinking well on the court. I think that I make the right decisions. I think that I'm a fighter. I run well, but I'm also capable of changing the rhythm, be aggressive. I think I'm an all-around player.

 Q. Are you going to change your game plan against Wickmayer?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I really don't know yet what I'm going to do. I haven't thought about it. You know, I go out there and I will try to stay aggressive. I think that's the way to play.

 Q. You come from a small country. Wickmayer, too. Yet this afternoon she has 2,000 boyfriends. How many do you have in Denmark now?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I haven't read the newspapers in Denmark, but I'm sure they can find a boyfriend for me. (laughter.)

 Q. And real boyfriends, how many do you have?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't have any real boyfriends right now, so -- and usually I keep to one (laughter.)

 Q. When you walk into center court, such a big center court, when you walk into the center court, what sort of feeling you get? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's an amazing feeling, especially when you're playing at night. Playing on Arthur Ashe Stadium, 23,000 people watching you going on the court, I mean, it's -- you cannot really describe the atmosphere. It's just -- it's magical. It's amazing.

 Q. Your box was very loud today, the box of people. Do you think they just try to unite to be against the whole stadium?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: That my box was loud? I think that they're trying just to encourage me and trying to make me stay positive and try to give me energy.

 Q. Do you have any special plans for celebrating tomorrow, day off? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really. I don't have any plans. I just want to enjoy my time with my family and friends who are here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT