U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Kuznetsova
  2-6, 7-6, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What are your thoughts about Melanie Oudin?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, she's a really good player. I mean, she made it this far. She's been winning some amazing matches. She's on a good winning streak. 
 It's going to be tough, especially also with the whole crowd supporting her. But I'm just going to go out there and enjoy.

 Q. Was that the biggest victory of your career?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: For sure one of them. I mean, I think I played a really good match. I'm so happy that I pulled it through. Now I'm in my first quarterfinals of a Grand Slam. 
 I beat Svetlana, who is No. 6 in the world. So it feels amazing.

 Q. What was the key to victory for you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just kept hanging in there, and I stepped a little bit more into the court in the second set, yeah, put more pressure on her. 

 Q. Getting towards the end of the second set, she had some chances there. What were you thinking you needed to do?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I wasn't actually thinking too much. I was just trying to fight for every point. I mean, I knew it was going to be tough. 
 Yeah, I mean, maybe I was a little bit lucky, but that's what tennis is all about. Sometimes you're playing amazing and you lose a match, and sometimes you're a little bit lucky. It's one point that can change the whole match.

 Q. Were you thinking there were times she was playing super aggressive, then she would go off a little bit, but towards the end of the second set, were you thinking maybe I have to play a little bit more aggressive?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, she was playing unbelievable. First set I couldn't do anything. She was hitting winners from everywhere on the court. I just thought I need to hang in there. There's nothing else I can do. I have to be a little bit more aggressive. That's what I did. 

 Q. So match point was a pretty big point. Talk about that. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I don't really remember the match point too well. I just remember -- the last ball I remember she hit it in the net. Yeah, that was the match. 
 But now, yeah, I had a feeling where she was going to go. I just took my chance. 

 Q. Roadmap of next year just came out. Copenhagen is on the map. How do you feel about that?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's great that Denmark can have a tournament now. It's nice to play in front of the home crowd. It's going to be very nice. 

 Q. Most of the tournament you were under the radar. Now you're more in the spotlight. Is it going to be tougher for you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I think about just as a great run from both me and Melanie. I think we've played some really good tennis, both of us. I think it's going to be a great match. I don't really think about who's the favorite, who is not. 
 I just enjoy playing on the big stadiums with such a huge crowd.

 Q. The crowd was behind you tonight. Did that feel good?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, that feels amazing. When the crowd is behind you, it always helps a little bit. Now I know that the crowd will be behind Melanie next match. So that always helps, that's for sure. 

 Q. Compared to the other Grand Slams this year, when you lost matches earlier, what was the important thing for you coming into New York to get to this stage?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I just wanted to take one match at a time. Actually, I feel like I've done some really good results this year. I feel like I've done well at the Grand Slams as well. I just lost to some players that were playing better than me that certain day. 
 This time I just wanted to try to do my best again. I mean, if someone beats me, they have to play better than me, but I'm not gonna stop fighting, that's for sure.

 Q. Do you feel the hard courts here are your best surface?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uhm, I like it here. I like this kind of surface, that's for sure. I've been playing well here. I like grass, as well. 
 So I don't know. I think I'm a little bit all-around player. 

 Q. How do you like Stella McCartney's outfit?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I really think it's so nice. It's really feminine. It's really comfortable to play in, as well. I feel a little bit like a ballerina. It feels really nice. 

 Q. You're the highest seed, the only seed in your quadrant. Does that make you the favorite now?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I don't really think about it. I just think about the next match. I know the next match is gonna be tough. I'm playing against Melanie, like we said before. So I'm just looking at one match at a time.

 Q. Melanie said her favorite player is Justine Henin. Who was your idol growing up?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: My idol was Martina Hingis. I'm saying this because she was thinking so well on the court. She knew where to place the balls. She took advantage of the other girl's hard shots. I just liked the way that she knew every shot. 
 I also liked Steffi Graf. Her footwork was unbelievable and her forehand was amazing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT