PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 29, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/E. Vesnina
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Very pleased with the way you played this week?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I'm very happy the way I've played. I think I've played some good tennis. Yeah, to win this tournament two times in a row, it feels really good.  
  
  Q. First time since Venus Williams did it that anyone has won this twice. Can you talk about what it's like to have names like that associated with your own?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, it's great. I've been working hard, as well. Now it's my time. It's my turn to win some tournaments. I just feel I've had a great year. I'm so happy that it's my name coming up a lot of times now.  
  
  Q. Talk about the difference between winning it this year and last year. You were unseeded last year.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was different. I mean, the last year was my second final and my second tournament win. It was something new. I never tried before.   
 This year it was already my seventh final this year. You know, so people expect me kind of to go further in the tournaments.   
 But still the winning never changes. You know, the feeling you have when you've won a tournament, I mean, it really feels just great.  
  
  Q. You dominated here this week. Didn't drop a set. Talk about where your tennis is.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel I'm playing on a really high level. I feel like I've been consistent all week. I've, you know, gotten the Open on the back foot, and yeah, I feel like I'm improving.  
  
  Q. In the second set particularly, how much of a factor was the wind?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was a little bit. But, I mean, it was the same thing for both of us. So it's just about, you know, getting your feet going, yeah, play with a little bit bigger margin.   
  
  Q. The tennis aside, you had to have fun playing on the big court at Yale, talking with the football team. Talk about the fun stuff you had this week off the court.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I've had so much fun. I mean, I really love coming back here. One of the first days I came, I was playing tennis at the Yale Bowl, the largest court in the world. I got to meet the football coach of Yale. Yeah, he actually promised me a jersey, so I'm looking forward to that. I really wanted one. So, yeah, I think I'll get one.   
 Then, you know, I got to go for the football practice the other day. It was raining. So I thought it was a great opportunity. I met all 105 guys. I mean, that was great. Being the only girl, and 105 guys, that wasn't bad. That could happen a little bit more often (smiling).   
 No, and then I've just been walking around downtown. I've been eating at a lot of different restaurants. I've watched all the students come in, because it's the time now where everything is going on. You know, just getting the atmosphere, I mean, it's been feeling really good.   
  
  Q. Do you find yourself getting recognized more as you win more?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think so, yes. I think I get recognized more. You know, I'm still a young player. So maybe not as many knows me as, you know, they do, for example, in Denmark. Everyone knows me.   
 But, you know, it's coming. The most important thing is that I am playing well on court and then everything else will come.  
  
  Q. When you're watching all the college students come in, do you think to yourself you could have that experience or are you enjoying this?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I really love the life I've chosen. I think it's great to be able to, you know, live my dream. I've always dreamt about becoming a top 10 player and living in the world of a professional tennis player.   
 But, you know, I've always also wanted to do some university. I mean, obviously it's nice to see everyone walking around. You know, I'm thinking about maybe taking one course or something at one of these -- maybe here at Yale, but probably would be online or something. It wouldn't actually be too much on campus.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little more about your popularity in your native country. First Danish woman to win. How popular are you in your country?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think there is not one day where I'm not in the newspaper. And if I go outside, people wants pictures, autographs, and recognize me on the street. So, yeah.   
  
  Q. Is that fun still or is it overwhelming?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, uhm, I'm actually almost never in Denmark, to be honest with you (laughter). So, I mean, it's fun. It happens very rarely that I walk the streets in Denmark. So it's fun when it's going on.  
  
  Q. When you were here last year you talked about when you first started to play tennis, playing your brother. Are you surprised at the success you've had so far or did you think this could be the level you could reach?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I've always believed that I could become a great tennis player. I never actually knew how good the good tennis players were. But I've always had a family that has supported me and told me I could be the best. That's what I've always believed.   
 It's really surprised me how fast everything has been going and that I'm right now 8 or 9 in the world. That's just amazing at age of 19, being one of the youngest players out there. Yeah, I mean, it's what I've been working for so hard. I'm happy everything is going my way.  
  
  Q. Obviously the next step would be a Grand Slam championship. Do you think you're on enough of a roll that you can make a run at the US Open?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You never know what can happen. Everyone's dream is to win a Grand Slam. No doubt about that. But you always have to have the luck. You have to play really well. There's so many factors that goes into playing. You have to win seven matches in a row to win a Grand Slam. So it's a lot.   
 Uhm, I believe that my -- that I'm playing well and I can beat anyone on a good day. But people can also beat me if I don't play up to my best level. So I think it's just about taking one match at a time and just enjoy right now that I won this tournament and I'm going into the US Open, I just need to focus on my first match and try to get through that.   
  
  Q. Do you expect it to be a very competitive US Open? Do you like playing there?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes, I expect it to be very competitive. I think there's a lot of players in a good shape right now. You know, Dinara Safina has not won a Grand Slam yet, but she's been in a lot of finals. She's always dangerous. She's No. 1 in the world, won so many other good tournaments. Then Serena, Venus, always good playing, playing well at the Grand Slams. Flavia Pennetta has been playing really well here at the US Open Series. I think that there's a lot of good players out there that has a chance.   
  
  Q. Do you like playing there?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I like playing at the US Open. I think it's great. I like living in Manhattan and being able to do something also other than just seeing the court and the hotel. I think it's nice. You can go to the movies, to the theater, go shopping, go eating some good food. I have some friends living there, as well, so it's going to be nice.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about what it meant to you to have your mother here this week.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: My mom is always a great support. I'm so happy that she was here this week. It's always different to have your mom here. You know, you can always talk girls talk. Just relax.   
  
  Q. Does she coach you at all or is it just your dad?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, my mom she doesn't coach me at all. It's just my dad.  
  
  Q. What is your mom's name?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Anna.  
  
  Q. Will she be with you in New York, too?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She will, yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT