PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 28, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/F. Pennetta
  6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Talk about that experience. Kind of unusual playing indoors, wasn't it?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm used to playing indoors. But, yeah, we were waiting around all day and it's always hard to wait. You never know if it's going to stop raining or not or if you're going to go. I was here from like 9:30 in the morning. So it was a pretty long day. 
 But I'm happy that I won and that's the most important thing.

 Q. What did you do to stay focused and occupy your time all day?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I didn't do anything. I mean, I was just lying in the bed. I was reading some magazines. Yeah, I read all the books that I had with me here, so I couldn't even do that. 
 Yeah, oh, and I went to watch some of the football practice. That was a lot of fun. That was nice to meet all the boys. 

 Q. Is it hard to stay focused not knowing when you're going to play? When did you find out they were thinking about playing indoors?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I asked us if they couldn't put us indoors because it was a long wait to wait all day. They told us that they would wait as long as possible to put us outdoors because of the TV and the crowd and everything. 
 So, I mean, actually I wasn't focused on the match until maybe one hour before we started when I knew we really were going to play, because it's tough to stay focused all day. I think it's important to just, you know, keep your mind off the tennis court sometimes. 

 Q. When you said you were lying in bed, did they have somewhere here for you or did you go back to the hotel?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, they have some couches here. They're really comfortable, so... 

 Q. Once you started playing the match, how distracting was the other court in action?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I didn't actually really pay attention to the other court. I was so focused on my own match. So I didn't really pay attention to the other ones. 

 Q. The boys over at Yale were joking about you attending Yale. They were all in favor of that. Did you have some fun with them?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. I mean, they were really nice. Yeah, I enjoyed to be there. Who knows. Maybe one day I would go to Yale. I love to come back here every year. I've done good results. I like the atmosphere. Yale is a great school. 
 I mean, if it would be possible somehow to combine those things. But probably it would have to be like maybe one subject at a time. 

 Q. They were joking about getting you their phone numbers. No one got one, did they?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Unfortunately not. I don't know. I wasn't there for too long or they were too slow. I'm not sure.

 Q. Talk about getting back to the finals now for the second straight year. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's great. I really enjoy playing here so I'm really happy to be in the finals again. Yeah, we'll see tomorrow what's gonna happen. I'm just happy to make it this far. 

 Q. As a player, do you want a decision made early tomorrow so you don't have another prolonged day like this or do you hope to get it in tomorrow so you don't have to wait until Sunday?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just hope that it's going to be sunny tomorrow and we can play at 1 like it's scheduled. If not, then I just hope that they'll make a quick decision to let us know what's gonna happen. I know it's tough with the weather. I don't think it's possible for us to play Sunday because the US Open starts Monday. I think we have to play the finals tomorrow. 

 Q. Can you talk about playing indoors. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was so focused on the match, I didn't really think too much about the other things. I like to play indoors, so I didn't mind playing indoors. The most important thing is that I won. All the other things really doesn't matter. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT