PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 27, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/V. Razzano
  6-3, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was that a bee bothering you there?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was.  
  
  Q. Was that giving you more trouble than some of your opponents this week?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I mean, I just -- I don't know what to answer to that question (smiling).   
 No, I feel good out there on court, and I feel like I'm playing some good tennis. I'm happy to be through to the semifinals here. I mean, yeah, looking forward to getting a good match tomorrow as well.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about the bee. Seems like it was really coming after you.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it just didn't want to let me go. I just kept attacking me. I was trying to, you know, hit it with the racquet, but still it didn't give up. Kind of felt like, you know, my opponent didn't want it to give up in the match. The bee didn't want to give up either.  
  
  Q. Some of the players choose to take this week off and prepare for the Open. You feel playing matches, you can't duplicate that in practice?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, exactly. For me, practice is totally different than match. I just enjoy playing matches. To get a few matches, you're never sure you'll get a couple of matches, but I just like to get some realistic matches before a Grand Slam and just feel the balls, feel the atmosphere.   
 It's not the same as playing the US Open. But, I mean, you still get matches and you still feel, you know, the important moments you want to win, yeah.   
  
  Q. Razzano is having a good year. This is the fifth time this year you've beaten her. Can you explain why you match up so well against her.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She's a very good player. I don't know. I think my game just doesn't fit her. I like playing against her, get some good rhythm.   
 But, I mean, it's tough to say why I win all the time, all of these times. I just feel like, yeah, I win the most important points.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about playing against Flavia potentially in the semifinals?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She's a great player. She has been playing well here at the US Open Series. So she's in a good shape. I beat her last time in Bastad, but it was on clay after Wimbledon. So, I mean, I'm just looking forward to another good match.   
  
  Q. What did you discuss with your coach after she made it 4-3 in the first set?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: He said just keep playing like did you in the beginning, stay more aggressive, make her run. Yeah, it paid off.   
  
  Q. Why do you think you've been so successful here at this tournament?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just enjoy playing here. I like the atmosphere. I like being here. And I think that also means a lot. When you go out on the court and you like a place, I think you play better.   
  
  Q. How many times did you meet with Stella McCartney for the new collection?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I haven't met with Stella because we both have really busy schedules. But I met with the whole design team. We've met like four times maybe. And, yeah, I mean, we have talked about the line, what could be better, what is good. Yeah, I mean, I'm really looking forward to wear it at the US Open.  
  
  Q. Do you listen to her father's music?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: My dad and my mom do (smiling).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT