WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/K. Krumm
  5-7, 6-3, 6-1

 Q. Were you surprised at how strong your opponent was today? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I knew kind of what to expect from her, and I knew that she's been doing good on grass before. The game is just different from what I am used to. She was playing really flat, and I really had to get under the ball a lot. She took advantage of that when I was playing short and came to the net and was playing well.

 Q. What do you think of that game she plays? Is it kind of a 1990s game, or how do you see it?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I mean, it was difficult for me to do anything about it because she was really playing so flat. So the only thing I could do was just put it up, so it's very effective. I know why she did well on grass before for sure. 

 Q. What would you learn from today's game? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, I just fought for every point today. I don't know, I always get experience from every match that I play, and today was another lesson, too. Started well, and I have to be the one deciding, because otherwise I could easily have lost this match. 

 Q. You went into the tournament in decent form. How far realistically do you think you can go in this tournament?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know, we'll see. You never know. Today I could have been out. I'm just looking at one match at a time, and next match -- who am I playing, Kirilenko? She's a good player, so I need to be 100 percent focused.

 Q. Do you think you have to bring a different mentality into the Grand Slams than you do at other tournaments? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I actually think I should bring the same mentality into the Grand Slams as I do to the rest of the tournaments, because I'm doing really well at the other tournaments and relaxed. So I just need to be relaxed and enjoy. 
 A Grand Slam of course is a big tournament, but if you lose, what happens? Nothing really happens. Life goes on. So I think you just need to be relaxed and have fun on court.

 Q. But does it feel different to you when you come into the majors? When you came here on Sunday, is there a totally different feeling than from this point?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It is different, for sure. It's a Grand Slam, a lot of people are coming, it's busy. Everyone knows everyone, wants to say hi, and there's a lot of things going on outside that there isn't at the other tournaments.

 Q. Who's the oldest player you've played? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think she was the oldest one. She was doing good, though. 

 Q. How much did you know about your opponent? Did you know her when you were small or did you learn about her after she came back?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I've learned about her since she came back. I know that she has been working with Sven Groeneveld for a bit, in '93 I think it was. So he's told me a lot about Kimiko I know that she's been a great player. She was in the semifinals here in '96. So I mean, yeah, I know that she's very big in Japan and that she's a big name and a big role model. 

 Q. How confident are you with grass? Here at Wimbledon you did well a few years ago in the juniors. Do you like grass compared to other surfaces?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I like grass. I think it suits my game, and I usually like to -- I mean, I like the grass, like that it's fast, I like that it's shorter rallies. Yeah, I like it.

 Q. Do you think your game suits a short, powerful kind of rallies, quick points, ace?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think so. I mean, it's about being the one who decides, the one who opens up the court first. And I think that my game suits the grass, and I think that I've showed that, also, by winning Eastbourne and playing some good matches there.

 Q. How incredible is it that she actually played Wimbledon the year before you were born? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: (Smiling) Yeah, it's amazing that she's still coming back and still playing at this level. I think that's great, and she's in such good shape. So yeah, I'm really impressed. 

 Q. So you don't feel odd that you're sitting here in interview room two, while she's in the main interview room? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.

 Q. Is that all right for you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, that's good. I mean, I know that for sure there's a lot of interest in her and also coming back and playing a good match today. So for sure I'm okay. 

 Q. I know you said that you want to play match by match, and a lot of players say that. But if you left here and were playing well and didn't reach the second week, would that be disappointing? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No. I mean, I think it's important that I play well. If I play well, the results will come. If I get beaten and I've played up to my highest level, then it just means that the opponent played better than me that day and I have to improve some things. 
 I would be disappointed if I play badly and lose, but if I play good and if I feel like I did and I fought until the last point, then I mean, it's okay. Then the opponent was just better than me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT