MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2009
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  C. WOZNIACKI/D. Cibulkova
6-1, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How was your first match?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I really felt good out there today, especially in the beginning. I felt I was playing really well. 
 You know, Dominika is a really good player. We've met so many times before. I was expecting a really long match, but I'm really happy that it turned out this way.

 Q. I guess it's almost sort of the perfect start, isn't it, that kind of a match. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's great. I mean, I love playing matches like this. You know, when you feel like you're playing well and I was serving well, then it gives you good confidence also going into the Australian Open next week.

 Q. What have you done in the off-season?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I've just been training. A lot of fitness, and then just tennis training, training, training.

 Q. You made such a great improvement last year. At the end of year, did you sort of assess what you've done that year and what you need to make that step into the top 10?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. I mean, I've tried to work on some things. You know, I feel like I've improved in the off-season. It's always difficult in the beginning of the season to get everything out. You just need to get some rhythm in the matches and everything. It's easier in the practice, you know. You make a mistake and it's okay. In the match you lose the point. 
 Just doing some things differently. You know, I feel like I'm getting better for every match that's going. 

 Q. So what have you worked on? What do you feel you've improved on in the off-season?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel I've improved everything, actually. But my serve has improved, and I think my return has improved a little bit as well. 

 Q. Have you set yourself any goals for this week, or is it just a matter of getting as much court time as possible?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I just want to stay out there for as long as possible and win as many matches as I know I can. You know, I have a tough draw.
 Next is either Bartoli or South, so, I mean, it's two good players. You know, I'm just going to try to win one match at a time.

 Q. What about a goal for the year having made such a big improvement last year?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, last year I went from 64 in the beginning of the season to 12 in the world, so that was a big jump for me. I just want to keep improving my game. 
 That's the most important for me, and then the results will follow. So the main thing is just to improve my game.

 Q. Do you feel that in some ways the year after you've had such a good year it's more difficult because people are learning how to play you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think you think that, but I think, you know, I just -- I can change my game as well. You know, I can play different ways, so you know, I'm just going out there and fighting.
 You know, I just -- of course it's a bit more difficult because people know you, but I think people also have more respect for the game you're playing. 
 It goes both ways. You know, I'm just happy every time I go on the court, so I'm just -- yeah, I'm looking forward for every match. Every time I win that makes me really happy, and I'm looking forward to the next one. 
 That's the way I'm thinking. I want to think positively. You know, like not thinking about last year I did this result, so I need to defend points. 
 I'm just looking one match at a time, you know. If I play well, then my ranking is going to stay up there. 

 Q. Did you take a holiday as a reward at the end of the year?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, we have an apartment in Monte-Carlo, so I went there and just relaxed with my friends there. It was a lot of fun. Yeah, I didn't feel like going anywhere far. A lot of my friends were going to the Maldives to have holidays there. I was thinking about it, but then I was like, no, I'm traveling too much already. That will be -- I'll just stay, you know, at home. 

 Q. I think your best result in Grand Slams is fourth round. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Uh-huh.

 Q. Is it one of your goals to get further than that sometime this year?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely. I'd love to go further than that this year. That's my goal. 

 Q. And do you feel like the surface for the Australian Open suits your game?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah. I like the surface a lot. I like hard court and grass the most. So, yeah, I like when I'm stuck to the ground.

 Q. Have you undergone any special preparation for the Australian summer of tennis?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: This year I just played two tournaments before the Australian Open. The previous two years I just played an exhibition in Hong Kong, so this is a little bit different. But I feel this is good to get some matches, feel the real tension in the match. So, you know, that's the thing. 
 When I'm on the practice court, of course there are small things that you want to adjust and try to put into the match before the Australian Open.

 Q. So you already feel you're better prepared this year than you have been previously for Melbourne?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think so. Definitely different. I've played some real matches, and I feel like I'm ready. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT