U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2008
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. JANKOVIC/C. Wozniacki   
3-6, 6-2, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You got off to a great start. Something turned around then going into the second set. Can you explain, you know, the difference out there?  
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, I started out well. I played my own game. I played aggressive. The second set, you know, I don't know, I think I just got a bit more defensive.   
 You know, I felt like even though I was hitting the ball it wasn't going. I felt a bit tired. You know, Jelena, she's not No. 2 for no reason, you know.   
 She took advantage of that, and she came in and she was the one deciding where to play, you know.  
 I just didn't feel like I could overpower her today, you know, and -- I mean, I've played a lot of matches, and, I mean, she was just better than me today.  
  
  Q. And you have played a lot of matches here. More than you've played in any Grand Slam prior.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: In Australia I was in the fourth round.  
  
  Q. Of course, which segues into my question. This has been a breakthrough year for you. You come here with, you know, a win at the Pilot Pen, a couple victories this season, and have gone quite far here. Do you feel like this is sort of a breakthrough year for you?   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, for sure. I've done really well this year. I've won two tournaments in three weeks. I went to the Olympics, I'm 18 in the world. Probably after this tournament I'm probably going to be higher, you, know.  
 For sure, I think this has been a breakthrough year. I started the year like 68 or something, I think, so for sure I've improved a lot. You know, I'm happy of the way that I've been progressing.  
  
  Q. Each Grand Slam has a very different atmosphere, a very different feel. Here, in the large stadium playing, New York City, if you could just talk about your thoughts, likes and dislikes of this particular tournament, and especially having the opportunity to play in Arthur Ashe Stadium.   
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, I love playing on big stadiums, and especially if it's full and good atmosphere on the court. You know, I like playing here.   
 I mean, there's always something happening, you know, going on. It's not like quiet. Everyone is screaming and yelling. I think it's great. I think that atmosphere is great. I mean, we're in New York. Couldn't be a better place.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT