PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 21, 2008
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  C. WOZNIACKI/M. Bartoli
6-4, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Talk about your match today. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I played really well today. You know, in the first set, I broke her once. We were both holding our serves. In the second set, I started really well. I broke her serve from the beginning. Yeah, and then I just thought one point at a time. 
 Yeah, everything was just going my way today. 

 Q. Seems like the whole year is going your way. Is this beyond your expectations?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, for sure. I mean, when I started the year, I was 68. I was hoping for a top 50 finish this year. So for sure it's beyond my expectations. 
 You know, it's just going so fast and I just enjoying every second of it. 

 Q. Any thoughts on playing Cornet in the next round?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, I've played Cornet so many times before. We're growing up together, if you can say it that way. We've played so many times in the juniors and twice last year. She's a really good player. It's gonna be a really tough match. We always have tough matches. 
 But, you know, we'll just see. Today I'm just happy that I won and I'll take tomorrow tomorrow. 

 Q. Alize also mentioned your rivalry. You only played her on the tour last year at the Open. How different do you think your games are now? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's kind of the same because players, when they grow up, they have a style of play that they have. But, of course, the shots are stronger and you think differently. Generally, I think it's the same, but we've just matured more as a player, if you can say it that way. 

 Q. This is your first time here?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: First time, yeah.

 Q. Can you talk about the experience so far. 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, this is my first time. I actually didn't know that we were playing at Yale University. You know, I was really positively surprised. I really want a tour. I haven't had a chance to have a tour here at the university. But I'll try to get a sight-seeing tour, if you can say it that way. 
 You know, I've been to downtown. I ate at a few restaurants. I think it's really nice. A lot of good places to go to eat. I like the hotel, too. It's really nice. No bad words to say about it. I really enjoy it here. 

 Q. Do you feel smarter just playing here?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes (laughter). 

 Q. You've played Bartoli three times now and never lost to her. She's tricky for some players. What makes her easier for you?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know, maybe it's my game that doesn't suit her game. I think there are always some players that you don't want to meet, that you don't like to play against. You know, I think for me I'm fighting for every point. I'm running everything up. I think she doesn't like I get everything back, if you can say it that way. 
 But, you know, every match, it's different. When you go on the court, it's 0-0 and you never know what's gonna happen. Yeah, hopefully I'm gonna continue this way, but you never know. 

 Q. You mentioned you are playing better this year. Is there one or two things you would focus on that are causing you to play better? 
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think there are a lot of things. But I think physically I've improved a lot. I also think that my serve and returns have improved. And, of course, when you believe -- when you have won some matches, you believe you can win. If you believe, it gives a lot, as well. 

 Q. With the US Open coming up, will you look at your whole draw or just one match at a time?
 CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just look one match at a time. That's the way I always do. Yeah, I mean, every match is different again. I'm playing Ahsha Rolle in the first round. She can be a really tricky player. She has a good serve and a good forehand. Yeah, I really have to try to keep my game and not be too defensive in that match. 
 Still have this tournament to go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT