AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2006
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Did the conditions have any impact on the match today, or was yesterday a warm-up for that?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  I mean, I think it was an advantage for her that we played indoor.  It's different, and it feels like the ball's going faster and she's like hitting every shot.  So I think if we were playing outdoors, it would have been a little better for me.  But I can't complain.  I won, so it's great. 

Q.  How have you coped with the indoors, outdoors, rain, sitting around, all that stuff?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  I hate waiting, so that's the worst thing.  But indoors and outdoors, I mean, in Denmark we're used to play indoors.  So after a while, after like 15 minutes, it was normal for me.

Q.  You hate waiting.  Are you impatient?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  Yeah, real impatient.

Q.  What did you find yourself doing?  Were you just kind of pacing around?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  Yeah, I was like listening to music, watching others play cards, I was playing cards myself.  Just like trying to, like, keep going so I wouldn't be too tired.

Q.  Did you win at cards?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  Yeah, I won.  So it was good.  So I won everything today until now (smiling). 

Q.  You may have two more matches yet. 

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  Yeah. 

Q.  The tiebreak was very close and very hard-fought.  Do you think taking that was a key?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  Yeah, I mean, she was always leading in the first set, like 2-1, 3-2, 4-3.  All the time she was leading.  So I think when I won the tiebreak, she was like a little bit down.  I don't think she knew what to do.  At first she was trying to hit the ball again, like even harder, and she lost the two first games.  And then she was like more patient.  So I think it helped me a lot. 

Q.  Were you thinking at all of Osaka when she stopped you defending your title there?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  Not really, because before the match, yeah, maybe a little bit because, you know, I was thinking about what she was doing right to beat me that time and what I had -- what I was doing wrong.  So, yeah, before the match, yeah, but not in the match. 

Q.  Have you had a chance to kind of think about the fact that you're in a Grand Slam junior final?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  I still can't believe that I'm in the finals.  It seems unreal because, you know, I just came here.  I was like, you know, I lost first round over there in Notting Hill.  You know, I was practicing hard and I was hoping to, like, go far in this tournament.  But the finals, it's great. 

Q.  How do you think it's happened? 

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  I was just playing my, like -- I've been playing my game and just, you know, concentrating on each ball.  Yeah, I think that happened that way.

Q.  When we talked to Anastasia, she said she was looking over and watching your match, watching you play.  Have you played her before?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  No, I've never played her before.  I don't think actually she could watch my match and look at how to play against me when she was playing because if she did that, I mean, well, then good job.  But, I mean, I think she was concentrating more on her own game.  So I'm not scared of that.

Q.  She hasn't lost a set yet, and of course she hasn't lost since she's been in Australia.  What do you think of that?

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  I mean, she must play good because she haven't lost a match yet.  I'm just gonna go out there and play each ball, and hopefully I'll -- she won't win every match over here.  So hopefully she'll go back home with one loss (smiling). 

Q.  Have you seen her play? 

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  A little bit.  She's hitting the balls well.  I mean, she have a good serve, so I just, you know, have to keep my -- try to keep the returns in and keep my serve going. 

Q.  Does a player like your today opponent playing both-handed forehand and backhand, does it affect your game in any way? 

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  Not really.  I mean, she's hitting hard on both sides.  She don't really have any worse side or what to say.  So if I just -- I was just thinking about changing the rhythm, and it doesn't really matter for me if she was two-handed forehand and two-handed backhand.

Q.  You were serving mainly on her forehand all the time. 

CAROLINE WOZNIACKI:  Yeah, I mean, because I knew every time I served on her forehand she would go directly on my forehand.  So that was easier for me, yeah. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT