THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 4, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. MAKAROVA/C. Wozniacki   
6-4, 1-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You saved the three match points, must have thought that was a good chance you would be able to turn it around?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, for sure.  I think I did everything I could.  I fought as hard as I could.  I can't even be mad at myself because I played up to the level that I can.   
I think she played above her level and really raised it and got a little lucky and played well when she needed to.   
 Q.  Having got that first Grand Slam, how frustrating is it to have another relatively early exit here at Wimbledon?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't understand what one has to do with the other.  I lost today.  It's obviously not the way I wanted the day to go.  I played someone who, you know, went all in with every single shot.  In the second set, I think that showed to me that that was in my head, how I wanted it to go.  Then she started again hitting a lot of lines, a lot of crazy shots that were going in.  She was playing well.   
At that point, what can you do?  You just have to keep fighting, wait for your opportunity.  I fought all I had.  I just lacked just a little bit today.   
 Q.  What impact did the flying ants have on your game?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think it had any impact.  But it was definitely a first for me here.   
 Q.  Do you have any thoughts on maybe why this is the slam you've had the least success?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: When I look at the draw, there's 90% of everyone else I would have played today, I feel like I would have won.  The last 10% I feel like I would have had a chance or a good chance.  Sometimes it just doesn't go your way.  Sometimes it just doesn't flash.  Things just don't add up.   
Today I played someone who played extremely well.  As I said, I don't know that she would be able to keep up this level for the rest of the tournament.   
 Q.  Was there some sort of interchange between yourself and the umpire about the insects?  Was it that off-putting?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I just asked if they had some repellant, insect repellant.  There were a lot of them at one point.  All of a sudden it kind of died down.   
 Q.  That wasn't what you called the supervisor on?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, that was just because it was drizzling.  Then it stopped drizzling, we kept on.   
 Q.  I have the impression that Wimbledon is probably the one slam where we can see the most upsets in the women's draw.  Do you have any explanation for that?  Is that something to do with the grass?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I don't really -- I only care about myself in this situation.  I had a chance today.  I fought all I had.  I'm out.  That's it.   
It's life sometimes.  You just have to keep working and come back and hopefully next time luck will be on my side.   
 Q.  A lot of potential Grand Slam contenders are wary of playing a tournament the week before a slam.  Eastbourne was hot.  The conditions were perhaps more tiring than normal.  Do you think in hindsight it was wise to play that tournament?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: 100% yes.  I played really well.  I think I got the practice that I needed.  The weather was great.  The conditions were great.  It's a great tournament.  I feel great.  My body feels great.   
There's no reason why I shouldn't have played there.  The fact that I played an opponent today that went all in, everything was going her way, sometimes it happens in tennis.  I still almost found a way to turn it around.   
It's frustrating because I feel like I could have gone and done something really great here.  For her to keep this level, I would be very surprised if you saw her go far.  But with someone playing like this today, I really did what I could.  It just wasn't enough.   
 Q.  She took a bathroom break at the end of the first set, which as it turned out helped you.  You came through the second set very well.  She then took an extended bathroom break at the end of that set.  Did that disrupt your rhythm?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She definitely took her time.  But, you know, it is what it is.  I just tried to be ready.  I tried to stay focused.  She came out firing again in that third set.  Things were going in.  She was hitting lines.  She was hitting shots that I just couldn't look at sometimes.   
I don't necessarily think that either way, bathroom break or not.  You just try and stay focused.  That's all.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT