THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/V. Lepchenko
6-0, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I actually want to talk to you about some comments Judy Murray made today.  She said that there should be a #MeToo movement in tennis because she said there was a lot of vulnerable young women on the tour.  She suggested it's kind of known in the game that there are instances of abuse.  Do you think tennis did need a #MeToo movement really?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: We have a lot of help within the tour of people that you can talk to and psychologists and so on.  We have people that you can go and speak to behind closed doors and nobody else knows about it.  I think if anyone has any issues, they all know they have that opportunity.
Personally, I haven't heard of any instances, but I think we're in this age and this point where, of course, if something is going on, I think if people are willing to talk about it, it can help other people.
Again, as I said, I personally haven't experienced it.  There is help to get it on tour if you need it, which I think is the main thing.
Q. You've had a good warmup to Wimbledon.  Must feel good getting such a straightforward win today, would you say?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was great just to get in and out.  Didn't have much of a turnaround from Eastbourne.  It was nice to get on court today, win, then I have a day off tomorrow.  I can enjoy a little bit of downtime.
Q. How do you feel playing on the grass?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I love playing on the grass.  It's great.  I love this surface.
Q. What gives you a boost mentally as you go through the fortnight, Eastbourne or the Australian?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Right now I think Eastbourne.  I just won that a couple of days ago.  I feel like I'm hitting the ball well, I'm doing great.  Obviously Australian Open is a great booster, as well, knowing that I can do it and I've gone all the way in a Grand Slam.  It feels great.
Q. Chris Evert came out today, in the interest of gender equality, she thinks it's worth Wimbledon and the other Grand Slams considering holding their women's final on the second Sunday of the tournament.  If that's too much trouble with the scheduling, perhaps having the reigning women's champion up on Centre Court, alternate it year by year.  Your thoughts on that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Personally I think about the equality, I have no problem.  It's always one half or the other playing Monday or Tuesday.  It really doesn't make a difference to me if you play Monday or Tuesday.  In my opinion, for the men to start on Monday, in case the winner play on Monday, having a bit more time in case they go far and play five sets.  In my opinion, playing on a Saturday finals is fine for me.  It's good.
We have enough time in between.  On this point, I don't really have a strong opinion.
Q. Many consider athletes creatures of habit, they do the same thing going onto the court, before the match.  How about for you?  What are your most unusual prematch routines, if anything, like the music you listen to, things of that nature?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I don't really have any, like, something crazy.  I listen to different music.  Today I didn't listen to any music at all.  It really just depends on how I feel.
For me, it's just important that I have enough time to kind of, after my warmup, be able to eat something, tape my ankles up, have enough time so I don't stress.  I'd rather warm up half an hour too early than half an hour too late.
Q. What goes through your mind when you hear athletes say they have superstitions, they have to do everything the same way every time?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Whatever works for everyone.  I think it's such an individual sport.  Whatever works for you, I guess that's great.
Q. Unrelated to tennis, did you watch Denmark last night?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I did.
Q. What were your thoughts?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: A bit of a rollercoaster.  We got excited after one minute.  Then obviously after three or four minutes, we were kind of sad.  The penalty, that extra time, that was nerve-wracking.  I think the defender did the right thing.  Obviously he tried to go for the ball.  At the same time at least the other guy didn't score.  Then our goalkeeper managed to save that, kind of get us into the penalties.
It was even more nerve-wracking from there.  I think everyone around in our complex where I live, I think they could hear us.  It was nerve-wracking.  It was a tough loss.  But they did their best.
Q. Will you carry on watching?  Who are you going to support?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I'll still watch just because I'm interested in it.  I think obviously it's sad when your own team is out.  I'll keep watching.  I think England has done great.  We'll see if they can go all the way.
Q. If this was Serena or Maria or Venus in here, there would be 20 or 30 journalists in here.  There's nine of us.  Does that strike you as curious?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not really.  I don't think that's correct either.  I really think it depends on the match.  First-round match, played less than an our.  Venus today played three sets.  I'm sure there's more to talk about.  Plus I just had media yesterday and the day before yesterday.  I'm sure I've had enough questions asked for the next two days.
Q. One thing that's changed, LeBron James went to the Lakers.  As someone who has followed basketball a little bit more, what are your thoughts?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I kind of had a feeling that was what he was going to do.  Good for him, I guess.  I don't really have any other opinions on that other than it's going to be interesting to see now if and when other players are going to join the Lakers, whether they can put a fight up against the Warriors.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT