THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 1, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You won your first major title earlier this year.  What does it feel like coming into a slam with that under your belt?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It feels good.  It's something that I worked hard for for a long time.  It's great that I finally have one.
Q. Does it feel like a relief to you?  Is there still that pressure?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's excitement and it's a lot of things.  You just worked so hard for something, and it came true.  I'm just having a good time.
Q. What were you most happy about your week at Eastbourne, apart from the title obviously?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I got a lot of great matches in.  I got a lot of tough competition.  It was a fun week.  I played a lot of, you know, different types of players, which was great.  Hopefully can get me in top tune for this week.
Q. What is the feeling when you walk out to Centre Court here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's special.  The Centre Court has so much history.  The sound of the ball and everything.  It's just a really great and neat feeling.
Q. How do you compare it with all other court entrances, would you say?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think obviously every Grand Slam has its own kind of feel.  But this is special.  The grass, the smell.  I don't know, there's just something special in the air when you walk into Wimbledon Centre Court.
Q. Women in other sports have faced this conundrum where if they want to start a family, their sponsors, sometimes they lose sponsorship because of requirements to make a certain number of appearances or whatnot.  Have you talked to your sponsors about that?  Is that something you're even concerned with at this juncture?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I honestly haven't thought about it.  Yeah, it's not something that, yeah, I've really asked into at this point.
Q. When you look at what Serena is juggling, does that make you think, Oh, yeah, I can have a family and do this?  Are you more inclined to wait till you are retired?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely not.  Serena has a lot on her plate.  She has so many things going on.  I think it's amazing that she's managing to do everything.  It's not only being a mom, but also being a tennis player, also having a hundred other things going on at the same time.
She's definitely a busy woman, so...  Yeah, I don't think it's easy.  I don't really know.
Q. What is the reason that you haven't made a quarterfinal here despite having done so at all the other slams?  What's the main issue?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  Played someone who is better than me in the fourth round.
Q. This is the 10th anniversary of the classic 2008 final with Federer and Nadal when Rafa finally broke through.  What do you remember most about that match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: To be honest, I don't remember too much about it.  Was that the year when Rafa was 1 and Roger was 2, they switched the seedings, then Rafa ended up winning the tournament?
Q. That was the year almost five hours into the night, rain delays.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I don't remember.  They've both won so much, it's hard to keep track.
Q. You mentioned the different feel here going out to Centre Court.  One of the obvious differences is wearing white.  What do you think about your outfits when you have this requirement to wear white?  What does it do to the atmosphere here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I like it.  It's nice.  It's been the tradition forever here.  It's fun.  I think it looks clean with the green court.  It just looks nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT