NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 29, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/A. Kerber
2-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Always a tough one, I guess, with Angie?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely.  We know each other's games so well.  We have had a lot of tough battles.  I knew it was going to be difficult again out there today, but I got a little lucky in that second set and just kept my head down for the third one.
Q. What do you think was the turning point for you in that set?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously I got lucky to break her there at 6-5.  You know, I saved a match point when we had a great rally and I managed to, I think, hit the corner on that match point.
Then, you know, in the tiebreaker, I started off aggressively and it went my way and I hit a few lines.  Yeah, just kind of went from there.
Q. Have you ever managed to pull a tweener off?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think the last match and Australia.  Yeah, I just -- I didn't get there, so I didn't get to the ball.  But, yeah, in the last match I did and in Australia I did, as well.
Q. You had a couple of opportunities to speak with your dad.  What was he sharing with you to kind of keep you focused?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think just to keep me positive and try to give me a few pointers, just more tactical things than anything else.
Q. The first time out, I think he was trying to calm you down.  Were you just frustrated with the way Angie was just not letting you get into...
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, but also I felt like my balls were landing a little long.  I thought I should probably -- I switched my racquet and then it felt a little better.
Q. Given how durable and fit you are as a player, does it almost help when it does get a bit hotter?  Other players are kind of struggling and you look pretty fresh.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I don't think it was that hot out there.  I felt pretty fine.  It's a nice temperature.  I think it's perfect weather to play tennis in.
Q. Sabalenka will be a different challenge?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, but again, she's been playing well this week and trying to play aggressive.  I just have to be ready for the first ball.
Q. You're in back-to-back finals.  Is there anything about this event that works well for you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I really enjoy playing here.  I think my game suits the grass and I enjoy playing on these courts.  You know, it's great, for sure.
Q. How much confidence does this give you looking forward to the next couple of weeks going to Wimbledon?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I feel like I'm hitting it well.  I'm just going to try and do my best.  I have this tournament first, and then I'm going to focus on Wimbledon after tomorrow's match.
Q. Sabalenka has had continual three-setters and is in the doubles, as well.  (Question about possible fatigue.)
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I'm just focusing on myself.  Whatever she's doing, she's doing.  I have to focus on myself and just try and play aggressive and just play my game.
Q. You seemed to produce your very best tennis when it really mattered on the most important points today.  Do you put that down to your sharpness on court?  How do you explain being able to do that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think that's what the best players do.  I think that's what Angie was doing, too.  She was playing extremely well and when, you know, when she was down, she came up with some great shots.  When I was close to closing it out, she came up with some great shots, too.  I think it's just experience and confidence.
Q. Did you sort of tell yourself that you needed to produce a little bit more because otherwise the match was going to go away from you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really.  I just stayed calm and tried to stay focused.
Q. If you had to rate your ability under pressure, today versus five years ago, where would you say you are?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think you learn all the time.  I think you get experience and maybe you make smarter decisions.
But I think I have always been good under pressure, and I have always been good in tight situations.  So I think it's all about just, you know, learning from previous mistakes and there will be mistakes in the future, too.  But, you know, I think you just try and eliminate those and try and minimize those as much as possible.
Q. It's not Sabalenka's first final but it will be her first premier.  If you think back to your first big final, what was it like for you, like a premier final?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really remember, to be honest.  I don't remember when that was.  I think 2007 maybe.  New Haven maybe I think I won?  I think I won -- what did I win?  I won Stockholm and played a few weeks later.  I think I played in New Haven and I won that tournament, as well.  It was kind of back to-back wins and it felt great.  But really no pressure.  You just go out there and have fun.
Q. Given how you look so natural on the grass, it's weird, then, to not reach a quarter at Wimbledon.  That has to change soon, doesn't it, just by the law of averages?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, do you want to play?  You make it sound so easy.  So if it's so easy, then please go ahead (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT