NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 28, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/A. Barty   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just describe some of the challenges that Barty can give you, because she's had a great run already.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, first of all, I think she serves very well.  She has a big serve.   
You know, in the first set I didn't win many of her first serves, especially.  I was lucky to get that break at 5-4.  And then the second set I feel like I got a little bit of a better hold of her serve, and I think the wind also helped me a little bit with that.   
It got a little tricky.  It was swirling a little.  I just stayed consistent and got a lot of her tricky slices back.  I was able to do something with that.   
 Q.  Is that a skill that you think we Europeans have over Australians having to do with winds swirling around?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think they get some wind there too sometimes (smiling).  You know, I think growing up in Denmark, it's been windy there, too.  We're definitely more used to it.   
 Q.  You have now beaten Barty on every surface.  What do you think you do well against her that perhaps other players don't?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think she's a very talented player, and I think we'll see a lot of her in the future.   
It's been tricky matches against her, so I'm just happy to have won one more.  You know, it always is a tough challenge.   
 Q.  I think I'm right in saying this is your sixth semifinal at Eastbourne.  Why do you think you do so well at this tournament?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel very comfortable here.  I love the grass and it suits my game.   
You know, I think just going to the same restaurants and meet the same people and staying in the same hotels, I think it just kind of gives a sense of home.   
 Q.  Is it possible you like playing in the wind, as well?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, I wouldn't prefer to play in the wind, but, yeah, I guess I can adapt pretty well to it (smiling).   
 Q.  I was asking Aga, and not that either of you are particularly old, but we have a lot of upcoming teenagers, just turned 20.  They seem to be fearless.  When you were back in that age facing players in the top 10 or 20, were you as fearless then or was there a kind of bit of respect that held you back a bit?  How was it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think -- I think we were fearless in the way of we were always competing and competitors.  But I think we would always have that respect and we knew our place.  You know, you're playing Serena, Venus, somebody who had been on the tour for a long time, and I think there was always that respect of, you know, we know we're new to this game and we're showing the respect of you having been here for a long time and we're just getting there.   
So I think our fighting spirit has always been there, but I think there was maybe a little bit more of a, you know, you go first, you know, and then...   
 Q.  Out on to court or at changeovers?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, just small things.   
 Q.  And now?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Now I think, you know, everyone just fights for themselves, and it's everyone for themselves, every life for its own.   
 Q.  And neither of you are particularly old, but what do you feel when you see some of these youngsters?  Is it kind of a benevolent, Oh, I remember what it was like, or is it, like, Right, what do I have to do to get on the end of your serve?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's like everything.  You know, it goes into generations, and we have been in the game for a long time.  You know, obviously, you know, being on tour since 2005, so it's been a long time for me.  It's inevitable that eventually there will be young ones coming up.  But once I see a year 2000, that's when I start thinking, you know, it's really young.   
 Q.  Considering there are a lot of talented young players coming through and sort of threatening the established players, how reassuring do you find it that you're through to the semifinal, Aga is through to the semifinal, Kerber is looking like she will get through, as well?  How reassuring is it the players you came up with are still competing at the highest level?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think we have proven that for years now, and I think we are still playing very good tennis.  You know, we have obviously the generation of Serena and Venus still playing really well.   
You know, I think we had a very strong generation, '89, '90 kind of age, '88, '89, '90, where there was a bunch of us coming up at the same time.  I think at one point there was 13 or 14 of the ones that I played junior with that were in the top 100 in a very young age.  So I think that was extremely strong.   
I think now we are going to start seeing the juniors again -- I think there was a little gap where the older generation kind of and our generation held the top spots for a while, and I think now we're going to start seeing again the young ones coming up one by one and, you know, trying to break through.   
I think it's not easy.  I think the game has evolved a lot, as well.  You know, you have to play consistently well to get up there.  You know, we definitely see a lot of talent.  For me, seeing someone like Barty is, you know, someone I think we're going to see a lot of in the future.   
 Q.  Angelique, Aga, your Polish roots, Poland haven't done that well, Germany haven't done that well.  Remind me, where is Denmark?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm very happy.  Denmark has done great.  Yes, we all went actually to see the last Poland game, and after the first half, I was, like, You know what?  I can't watch this.   
Angie was, like, Yeah, at least Germany, we're doing great and we have a good team.   
Yeah, I'm -- we're still here.  So I'm happy.   
 Q.  So you're buying the drinks for the other two and commiserations even though you guys will all be in the semis?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I think they don't talk about the football anymore.  I think they have kind of left that behind.   
We have a tough game.  I think we play on Sunday.  It's exciting.  We are playing Croatia and they have been playing really well, but we'll see.  I'm hoping for the best.   
 Q.  How would you feel about facing Kerber in the semifinal if she gets through?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: We have had so many tough matches in the past, and it would be another tough one tomorrow, for sure.  I'm looking forward to the challenge.  And again, I think my draw this week has been extremely challenging, playing some players that love the grass.   
So I'm excited.  You know, I'm just up for another challenge, and, you know, fine-tuning my game for Wimbledon next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT