NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 27, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/J. Konta
4-6, 6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What is it about Jo's game that's tricky or has been tricky for you in the past?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she has a very good game.  She plays very aggressively and she's a good player.  She loves playing on the grass.  I was happy with the win today.
Q. When she made it 2-2 in the third set, broke you straight back, were you worried it might be a long set at that point?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really.  I don't really think you think about it like that.  It's obviously frustrating when you've gone a break up and then getting broken right back, but you just kind of have to stay calm and focus on the next one.
Q. What are your thoughts on your next opponent?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She plays really well in the grass.  Obviously feels very comfortable and confident on it.  She's a tricky player.  Serves very well.  Picks her spots.
She has that slice that stays low in the grass, so, you know, I'm going to go out there and just try my best.
Q. You said in your all-access that you felt the committee would do the right thing in giving Serena a seeding.  Obviously they have, but the fallout is Cibulkova gets bumped out.  Do you think the committee have now set a precedent for more women coming back from pregnancy further down the line if they're good enough to be seeded?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, I think -- I'm not sure exactly what they base their seedings off of, because in my opinion, I think Azarenka deserves to be seeded, as well.
But, you know, I don't know why Serena is seeded 25 and not 24 or 16 or 32.  You know, I don't know if they have a system or not or if they just, you know, sit and then discuss.
But, you know, I think Wimbledon has always been the tournament that, you know, kind of have done their own thing.  I think Serena deserves to be seeded and she got her seed.
Q. Obviously Wimbledon doesn't normally do a formula for the women, but we have so many players that actually are very good, almost grass court specialists when this comes around.  Do you think they should actually start to reintroduce a formula like they have for the men?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think they have done something rarely at the men's, and it's been, you know, switching Roger and Rafa.  That doesn't really make a difference to the draw, to be honest.  I think it's more of a, you know, what they think.
But in the end of the day, they're going to be in opposite sides of the draws.  And then, you know, Andy -- did Andy win last year or two years ago?
Q. Two years ago.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Two years ago.  Andy won two years ago and obviously has won Wimbledon two times, right?  He's a great player on grass.  You know, I don't know.  Did he deserve to be seeded or -- you know, there is always that question.  I think it's a hard one.
I think it's a lot of pressure on the committee, as well, because what do you do?  What do you choose to do?  In the end of the day, I think if you want to win the tournament, you have to win all your matches regardless and you have to beat great players along the way.
Q. You mention that Serena's seeding, it seems there are lots of competing factors.  Could the players, whether they support it or not, want a bit more clarity as to how that number has been fallen upon?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, to be honest, I'm not really that, like -- she's seeded and that's great, and I'm not really that, you know, focused on it, to be honest.
But, you know, just if someone is interested, I'm sure that they can give you an answer.
Q. Do you think there is actually a turning point where players will think differently about how to balance their career and their private life?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think so.  I think you'll see more of that in the future, because players play for longer.  You know, it used to be mid-20s and you're done.  I think now you just see the tendency of players playing for a longer time.
I think a lot of the women would like to start a family and still have the opportunity to come back, and I think it's starting to be possible.
Q. What are your own hopes for Wimbledon?  Do you set any specific targets?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I don't really, because the target is always to win.  That's the target.  But, you know, to get there you need to win seven matches and it's a long ways.
Honestly, I start with the first match and then kind of go from there.  You know, you have to beat a lot of tricky opponents to go all the way.
Q. Do you feel like that's something that's achievable for you?  You're generally best on hard courts.  Would that be fair to say?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I play great on grass.  I think I play really well on grass, and I see no reason why not.  I think if there is one Grand Slam that I think I have the least chance of winning, it's the French Open.  But I think Wimbledon, US Open, Australian Open, I think I don't see why not.
Q. Do you think the way you're playing this week so far is definitely going to help you win there?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, I hope so.  We never know.  I try my best every year, and we'll just have to wait and see, I guess.
Q. There has been some suggestion about changing the name from Wimbledon Ladies' Championship to Women's Championship.  Maybe seems old fashioned.  Is that something you have a view on?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I really don't.  I think Wimbledon has been there for many years, and I really don't mind whether it's ladies or women.  I guess "ladies" sounds kind of fancy.  I don't mind that (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT