ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. KASATKINA/C. Wozniacki
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Do you feel if you had a bit more light last night and were allowed to continue the match yesterday, you would have won in three sets?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  It's so easy to say now.
She's a tough opponent.  She played really well, and I think yesterday could have gone either way, as well.
Q. How was the emotional experience of playing a match like that and then stopping and the whole intervening time on Sunday night?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's definitely not easy, but it's the same for both, obviously.  You just try and recoup and regroup and come back and get a strong start.
I honestly didn't think I played badly this morning.  She didn't miss one ball, and she was playing very close to the lines.  I was trying what I could, but it just wasn't enough today.
Q. What makes her such a difficult opponent?  Does the clay make her especially more difficult?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think the clay, for sure, is her surface.   Any slow surface, I think, suits her, because, you know, obviously she tries to slow the pace down.  She doesn't give you two of the same balls, so she changes the pace.
But she tries to slow it down, and then, once she has the opportunity, she's going to go in and hit one really hard and then slow it down again.
I think the slower the surface is, the better for her.  She has very good hands and good angles and everything, so I think that suits her.
Q. Yesterday the match was much closer.  You went head to head with Kasatkina.  What was the difference today in these three games?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's not like the games weren't close.  She just won the three games and that's it.  That's tennis sometimes.
Q. Can I ask you about Simona if that's okay?  She's playing really well.  She's hunting for her first Grand Slam title.  You won your first in Australia this year.  How would you focus your mind to get to that first title?  What would you say about her performance so far at Roland Garros?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, obviously she's been playing well.  I haven't watched her much, to be honest, because she's on the other side of the draw.  You know, I have just been doing my thing.
But she obviously loves the clay, and this is her favorite surface.  So we'll see, I guess.  You know, there are still a few matches to go.
Q. And the mindset of getting that first title?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think, you know, it's not like she hasn't won a tournament before, so she knows what it takes to win.  You know, it's all about just making it work for the two weeks of a slam.
Q. Process-wise, what did you do last night?  Again, having to resume a match is a little different than most occasions.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: So what I did last night?  Nothing.  I just took a shower and went back and had some food, really.  And then tried to go to sleep as soon as I could, because I had an early morning today.
So that was really it.
Q. Is that tricky?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Sometimes.  But actually, yesterday I was fine.  I fell asleep somewhat soonish.  Yeah, it's not always easy to fall asleep when the adrenaline is still pumping and you have played a tough match.
Q. We have another important girls' match on center court later today.  One of your close friends, Serena, is playing.  Can you give us your expert opinion on that matchup?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think it speaks for itself.  I think Serena has won, what, the last 17?  Is that right?  17?  19?  19.  The last 19 matches.
It's obviously a little bit of a different situation right now because Serena is coming back after having a baby, and she hasn't played that much.
We'll see.  If Serena is playing her best level, I think she's gonna win.  You know, I think it's all up to Serena.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT