ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/P. Parmentier   
6-0, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  A lot of us journalists are very worried about our job security.  Do you think it's fair for our world-class athletes to come in press conferences and ask wonderful probing questions that sort of upstage us?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think we upstage.  I don't think my question was that good, actually.   
 Q.  Were you disappointed in his response?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I was disappointed myself for not asking a better question, because I don't know, I didn't expect it, I was just wanting to tell him to hurry up, and he asked me a question and it took me by surprise.   
 Q.  Are you still trying to live up to your splendid kangaroo moment?  Will you ever top that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Probably not.  Yeah, I think I should keep it more calm for the future.   
 Q.  How are you feeling through three rounds here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel pretty good.  I feel pretty good.  I think I played some solid tennis, and I'm happy to be through to the fourth round here again.   
You know, it gets harder and harder for every match.  I'm happy to be here.   
 Q.  You have spoken very openly in the past about the great relationship that you've got with Serena Williams and the strength that you draw from that personally and on the tour.  Other players have said recently that they like to distance themselves from other top players on the tour because of the level of competition, and they have that respect but not a friendship.  I'm just wondering what that friendship gives you on the tour and can you also understand why other professional athletes decide to distance themselves?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I can't really speak for anyone else.  I can only speak for myself.  I have a huge amount of respect for Serena, and I think, you know, she has a lot of respect for me, too.  I think that's why we can have this great friendship, because, you know, I think if you have two great players and we know our value on the court, and when we are out there, we're going to compete at our highest level and at the best of our abilities.   
And I think because we have such a huge amount of respect for each other, I can also, you know, after the match or in the match, I can differentiate that.  You know, we do our job on the court, and we do as best as we can, and whoever wins, once you're off the court, it's different.   
I think it's great to have a friendship like that on tour, because, you know, it gets lonely.  That's why I think it's great for me, you know, I have been lucky that David has come for a couple of tournaments now and has been here quite a bit this year, which has been amazing for me, and he's been such an amazing support, and just kind of gotten me to relax off the court and do other stuff.  I think it makes a huge difference.   
 Q.  I'm doing a story on Mihaela Buzarnescu, who made fourth round here, and she previously hadn't won a match at a slam because they'd all been against you at the previous two slams.  Wondering what you make of her as a player and what your experience is playing against her, and her really, really fast rise, because she went from being qualifier at US Open to being seeded here.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I know her from juniors, so I have known her for 15 years.  I was going to say 20, but it's a little exaggerating.  15 years I have known her and we played juniors against each other, and she was always a great player.  She got a lot of injuries then.  You know, had to fight her way back.   
I always knew that she had the level.  You know, I think I had tough first rounds playing her both at the US Open and the Australian Open, but, you know, it was tough matches.  And I knew that it's just a matter of time before her ranking goes up and she's seeded in these events.   
I'm not surprised she's in the fourth round here.  I think it was a great win for her today against Svitolina, because I think Svitolina was one of my picks for one of the favorites of the tournament.  I think she's played really well lately and on the clay.   
So I didn't watch the match, but I'm assuming that Mihaela played very well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT