ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/G. Garcia Perez   
6-1, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Was that as easy as it looked?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was definitely a good match.  You know, I neutralized her serve, which was the main thing.  And then from the baseline, I felt like I was in control for most of it.   
It felt good out there.   
 Q.  I remember here at Roland Garros last year in the first or second round you had a similar scoreline, 6-Love, 6-Love I think.  You seem to get on a real roll in the early rounds of the tournament.  Does that help your momentum?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I try.  You know, I honestly just take one match at a time.   
I think there is no real easy matches ever, and especially on clay.  So I'm just out there trying to keep my rhythm and trying to play my best tennis.   
 Q.  I guess if you're in a tough match that you win or lose you look back and analyze your performance.  Do you still do that when it's a relatively comfortable win in terms of the scoreline?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I think especially when you play Grand Slams, if there is something particular that I didn't like about my match, I'll go and work on that the next day.  But other than that, honestly I just play and then I move on and then you just focus on the next opponent.   
But, you know, you try and use your day off to actually relax, because otherwise two weeks seems like a very long time.   
 Q.  When you have a match that's as quick as yours was today, do you sometimes wish that you could have been on the court a bit longer, or is it a blessing in disguise?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely not.  I wish all my matches were like this and I could win with this scoreline.   
 Q.  There has been a lot of talk over the last few days about Serena Williams' cat suit.  If you could nominate one male player on the ATP Tour to wear that, who would that be and why?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I feel like -- I don't know.  I don't think any men could pull it off, to be honest (smiling).   
No, I don't know.   
 Q.  Sorry to linger on the cat suit but since it's been brought up, I'm interested to hear your thoughts on the look and on the sort of meaning behind the look that Serena gave.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's really cool.  I think it's definitely different, and we always know that Serena sometimes brings out something different.  She had the jean skirt at one point and the high boots and everything.  I think it's cool.   
For me personally I think it would be a little hot.  I'd probably choose a short version of it.  But, you know, I think if anyone can pull it off, it's her.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT