CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. OSAKA/C. Wozniacki   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you describe how you think the match went today.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously not as good as I'd hoped because I didn't win. But I thought she played very well. She played a bit better than me today.   
 Q.  At what point in the match do you think the momentum shifted?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think we both played very well in the first set. Then she started serving big on the important points in the second set.   
Yeah, the chance that I had kind of disappeared after that.   
 Q.  The first set, it was nice and tight for a while. What was the difference, apart from her serve improved a little bit? Tactically she tried to rally a little bit more.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I think had I gotten a couple of the breakpoints I had in that second set, the match could have looked different.   
As I said, she really played well in those important points. That's what makes the difference. I think she won a couple of points more than me in the first set. In the second set, as I said, I had breakpoints in at least two or three more games. I just didn't get them.   
 Q.  When you look back on the breakpoints, six in the second set, do you feel there were things you could have done differently or was that her stepping up?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know. I'm not sure. It's always easy from now to sit back and say you could have done something different. When I watch a match on TV, I've never lost one because it looks so easy.   
She just played a little bit better than me today. She deserved to win this one.   
 Q.  Making the semifinals, finishing off your season with a good run, a lot of points to defend, how pleased are you ending it not necessarily with the result today but in the macro sense?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I can be proud of the way I fought all week. I think I can be proud of myself for playing and stepping up this week, playing well. All in all, it's been a good week. I can't really beat myself up too much.   
I'm happy with the week. I'm happy to have felt good this week. That's all I can ask of myself.   
 Q.  Could you talk about the difference between your opponent yesterday and Osaka in the second set?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really think you can compare the two matches. It's completely different players, completely different matches. I don't really know how you want me to compare that.   
 Q.  The second set between today and yesterday was a bit tough for you, especially today. Powerful forehands. Talk about your movement for yesterday and today, receiving their serving.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really want to look back. It's a completely different match. She played better than me today. That's really all I can say. There's nothing to compare. Two completely different players, completely different opponents.   
It's not fair for the players to compare them because they're great in their own way.   
 Q.  You've been coming to Beijing several years now, had quite a bit of success here. What does this tournament mean to you, to other players at the end of the season?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's a very big tournament. Prize money-wise it's the biggest tournament outside of the slams. I think a lot of players want to do their best here. A lot of people are fighting for the year-end championships. Some of us are just trying to win the tournament, do as well as I can.   
Obviously it means a lot to me because this was the place I became No. 1 for the first time, about 10 years ago. It's a place where I've had a lot of great matches. It's a place where I feel like I can play very well.   
 Q.  As you look ahead to the off-season, what is the main priority for you? How much impact do you think the fact that next season starts a week later, calendar shifts a little bit?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think this year doesn't really have that much of a difference to me that it shifts later because I finished so early. I think this is the earliest I've ever finished my season, which is good. I'll take a lot of time off, just recharge, make my body feel 100%, then I'll start slowly getting back into it. That's really it.   
 Q.  Next year will be the Olympics. Any goals or expectations?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's a long way ahead. Haven't really thought of the Olympics yet. I'm going to work through the off-season and enjoy some time off first.   
 Q.  In the second set we observed you had several breakpoints, but Naomi was able to save those breakpoints with her forehand and big serves. Did you feel pressure from her serves or were you impacted in terms of your return?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: As I said earlier, she obviously served big on those points. A lot of the serves on breakpoints didn't even touch the racquet or barely got a racquet on it. Really not much I could do.   
 Q.  This run, will it boost your confidence for the next season?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, for sure it was a good run. I'm really proud of the way I've been playing this week. I think I can take a lot of positives with me from this week.   
 Q.  Will Beijing be the last stop?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm done for the year, yes. I'm going to relax now and enjoy some time off.   
 Q.  Are you leaving tonight or tomorrow?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think I'll make a flight tonight so I'll leave tomorrow morning.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT