ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Traditional football question:  Have you been following Liverpool's progress in the Champions League?  What have you made of it?  Will you be watching tomorrow night?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I have and I will.  It's been great.  It's been great to see the team play together the way they have, I think it's amazing.   
Obviously Mo Salah has been playing incredibly and Firmino as well.  I think it's great.  There is a lot of attacking going on and a lot of goal scoring.  I think when they play on their highest level they can beat everyone.  It's going to be exciting tomorrow.   
Obviously two great teams up against each other, but I will be supporting and hopefully Liverpool can pull it off.   
 Q.  How is your preparation been going since Rome?  Have you found your form here so far?  How have the practices been going?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's been fine.  You know, I was home for a little bit after Rome, and just practiced every day.  Got some good rhythm in.  Hit a lot of balls.   
It's been good.  I feel fine and looking forward to the tournament.   
 Q.  Looking back on the last few weeks, just how did you feel like your leadup was coming into Paris?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it was all right.  You know, I think it could have been better, but it could also have been worse.  You know, it was fine.  I think I got some matches in me.  You know, some of the matches I think I played really well.  So we'll see.  Hopefully I can do all right here.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts about your good friend Serena coming back into singles playing here at Roland Garros again, back on the circuit of the Grand Slams?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's great.  I think it's so nice to have her back.  I think it's always great to have the best players play, and it raises your level.  You have to play your best level, and I think, you know, having someone like Serena back, it's keeping us all on our toes and we have to keep improving all the time.   
 Q.  Speaking of Serena, since there are so few women who are mothers playing as opposed to fathers who are playing, what effect do you think that has on her and on women overall playing professionally?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think you see it more and more now that you have, you know, some of the women come back after pregnancy and wanting to play and obviously playing at a high level.  You know, Kim did it and Davenport did it, and there was quite a few.   
I think you see a trend as well where players play for longer now.  They keep playing till their mid 30s, late 30s, and, you know, I think it's great.   
It's obviously very different to be a man playing tennis while they have a baby, because obviously they don't have to carry the baby for nine months, and they don't have to give birth.  So it's much different.   
But, you know, I think it's great to see, and we have seen Vika come back and play very well.  Now we are seeing Serena come back, as well.  You know, I have no doubt that she'll be playing very well, as well.   
 Q.  How different does it feel coming to a Grand Slam knowing you're now a Grand Slam champion?  Does that feel different coming here thinking, well, I haven't got that with me anymore?  You can always enjoy it more?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think the biggest difference is really when I'm in here in the press conferences.  I think that's the biggest difference, because I'm not getting asked anymore, you know, what it takes to be a Grand Slam champion, why I haven't gotten there yet.   
It feels amazing to have that with me now, and hopefully I can build on that.  You know, we have three more Grand Slams left this year, and this is the first one after Australia and I'm going to try and do my best to go as far as I can.   
 Q.  Last year the run to the quarterfinals, you had a good week, week and a half, really, came up against somebody who was on fire.  But do you take confidence out of that, like, does that run build into this year at all, or is it just new tournament?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's a little bit of both.  I think I have had some decent runs here in the past.  I lost to Schiavone in the quarterfinals one year where she obviously won the tournament after.  I lost to Ana Ivanovic in the fourth round one year when she won the tournament and then Ostapenko last year and she won the tournament.   
I think I have proven myself that I can actually play on this surface, and, you know, it's all about trying to get the timing and trying to get the head right, really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT