MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/A. Barty
6-2, 4-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a really tough win today, 4-2 down in the third.  How did you turn that around?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not sure.  She played extremely well, I thought.  She wasn't making any errors at one point.  I think it kind of turned around when I got that net cord.  It went over.  Instead of being 5-2 for her in the third, I still had a chance to kind of survive.  I think that's where it changed a little bit.  I just kind of, you know, stayed in it.  Then I served pretty well to close it off.
Q. In that third set when you guys are battling, she's not an accomplished clay court player, not as comfortable out there, but how much do tactics go out the window, especially with all the slices and everything, you're just kind of reacting and playing by instinct?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, there were a lot of tactics out there, I think.  I was trying to keep it away from her forehand.  Obviously she was really hitting that well.  She was hitting every line at one point.  I'm like, This is incredible.  If she can keep this up, there's nothing I can do about it.  I thought I just have to keep going for it.  If she's going to hit it one inch from the line every time, then that's that.  Eventually hopefully she'll play with a bit of a margin and give me a chance.
I think I served pretty well.  Then I started to return pretty decent, as well, when I had to.
Q. With these combined events, there's always so many people around, many families and players.  How do you feel at these kind of events?  Whenever you want to be alone or before a match to focus, is it difficult?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, it's okay.  I think, well, we're lucky because we have a separate locker room for the seeded players.  I just kind of chilled there.  There wasn't really any people in there, so that was kind of nice.
I think it's nice when we have the combined events because I think it gives more life to the tournament.  I think it's good.
Q. In a parallel universe, can you imagine if the men and women are on one tour?  Do you think that would work?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: We play against the men?
Q. No.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Every tournament is combined?
Q. Yes.  Like the tour is just one.  Squash, for example, is like that.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Okay.  I don't know.  I haven't really thought of that.  We already have quite a few tournaments combined.  But I think we have some tournaments that we have tradition, kind of nice for us to go.  The men have some of them, which is nice for them to go by themselves.  I kind of like that balance.
When we have the tournaments by ourselves, it's easy to get practice courts, all that.  I think it's hard to find in every venue enough courts for both men and women.
There is one tournament that I wish we had, as well, is the Monaco tournament because it's so amazing.  There's a lot of players that live there, we train there.  I wish there was a time in the calendar where we could play there, as well.
Q. What is your big takeaway from a match like today?  What are the positives?  How are you feeling at the moment?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think there's a lot of positives to take with me.  I thought we played pretty well.  The first set I won 6-2, but I made most of my shots.  I got the important ones, as well.  Even when I was down Love-40, I still managed to come back.
Second set, the only negative I can say I think I didn't play my best game when I was up 4-3 and serving.  I made a double-fault.  She also played a really good game, so...  I wish I could have just gotten it right then and there.
I think there's a lot of positives to take with me.  I thought she played really well.  I think I played well, served well.  I moved pretty well.  I have to say I think there's a lot of big things coming from her.  I think we will see a lot of her in the future, as well.
Q. Most tennis players throughout their careers, especially when they're younger, have to leave home, live somewhere else.  How do the different places you've lived in or spent time in because of tennis affect your personality growing up?  Do you feel these are qualities you've taken from the environments you've been in?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, obviously it shapes you I think as a person.  I think it's great because you learn different languages, you get to meet different people, different cultures, all that.
As much as I thought I was very international, it was funny because David actually got this book for his birthday called 'Hygge', which is about Danish kind of coziness.  He was like he literally couldn't stop laughing.  Okay, now I understand your little quirks and stuff.  You're just Danish, it's what it is.
I guess after reading that book, I guess where you grow up kind of stays with you throughout your life.
Q. Kiki Bertens in the next round.  Give me your thoughts on that match.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Another tough match.  Big server, big forehand.  She loves the clay.  I haven't had an easy draw here, but I don't think anyone has.  It's just about going for it again.  That's all I can do, is go out there and do my best.
Q. You've previously talked about your love-hate relationship for clay.  It's been seven years since you won a title on the surface.  How much harder is it mentally to play on clay?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's definitely a surface that I think evens out a lot of the playing field.  I think there's more people that has an opportunity here on this surface.
I played a finals on clay last year.  I think I played Stuttgart finals a few years back.  There was one year I didn't play on clay at all.  It's just I think part of the progress.  I actually don't mind it.  It's not my favorite surface, but I think I can play well on it.  It's just all about getting the mental attitude right.  I think I have that.  Then you just kind of take it from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT