BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. KASATKINA/C. Wozniacki
6-4, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What do you think made the difference today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I think obviously it's a frustrating match because it felt like a lot of the match was on my racquet.  I was trying to dictate a lot.  I was making winners.  I had mistakes.  And coming to the net quite often.
You know, she did well getting the serve really high.  On this surface especially, the ball bounces really high.  It's unusual that we play on surfaces like this, but I think it fits her game that it slows down the ball.
You know, it is what it is.  She outsmarted me today, which is fair enough.  But, you know, at least I tried, and I tried to do what I thought I needed to do out there today.  I just couldn't execute as well as I wanted to.
Q. It's been said that the conditions here can play differently even from day to night.  Did that affect you at all today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I definitely think it plays differently.  I don't think it affected me in a negative way.  I started off very well.  I played very aggressive.  I had control over the points, and it was exactly what I wanted to do.
And then she started just getting a lot of balls back, running a lot of balls down, and started playing high over the net.  And, you know, I started overplaying a little bit.  And then when I wanted to, you know, get the margins in or I played short, she went in and attacked.
Q. Did she show you anything different from the last time you played earlier this year?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not really, no.
Q. I'm not suggesting this be the case, but I'm curious, how difficult is it to back up, follow-on from a major win like winning a major when you haven't done it previously?  We saw in the past that Kerber struggled after winning the Australian.  Wawrinka struggled.  Murray experienced it, as well.  How difficult is it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it would be difficult for some.  But, you know, I think, you know, I played semifinals in Doha.  I think I played some great tennis.
These are completely different courts than what we were used to all year round.  I think it reminds you a little bit of clay, this court, except the ball bounces even higher and goes even slower.  I think for the people that love to play on clay and the game style that fits that kind of court, I think this is an awesome court and awesome tournament to play, but I definitely think they have slowed down the courts this year even more than it used to.  And, you know, it's just different.
And then she played better than me today.  With that, and obviously she likes to play on clay, and I think she really took advantage of the high bounces today, which is hard for me.
You know, I did my best and tried to go out there and play aggressive, and it didn't work out the way I wanted it to.
Q. What positives, if any, do you take from these matches here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I can take a lot of positives with me.  Yesterday I didn't play well at all, but I won, anyways.
The first match I think I played pretty well, and then today I think I had periods of the match where I played well and I can take a lot with me from that.  Then I will go to Miami and just practice on a few things that I think I can improve on and go from there, really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT