BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/A. Sasnovich
6-4, 2-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. She played so well today.  You were able to get it done.  What did you make of the match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think she played really well.  I didn't really feel comfortable out there today.  Didn't really get my game going the way I wanted to.  There were periods of the match where, okay, now I'm starting to feel it.
She made it difficult, as well.  She was taking the ball early, and especially the backhand she was redirecting it really well.
Q. Was that something that was making you uncomfortable or other things that were disrupting your rhythm?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just think --you know, it just wasn't my day.  I was just really trying hard, and I was making a lot of unforced errors, as well.  Didn't really feel the ball off the racquet.
You know, I think I managed to get my feet going more, and I managed to start playing more steady, and that paid off today.
Q. Given the trend with some of the lower-ranked players really challenging the more-experienced players, were there nerves going into today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not at all.  I was feeling pretty good, but I feel like these courts are really difficult to play on.  I think that's also why you see a lot of upsets.  The ball bounces really high and it goes extremely slow.
I think those two things, you know, are making it trickier to play.  But at the same time, I feel like I'm just trying to adapt and trying to just do my best out there and trying to move well.
Q. Next match is either Stephens or Kasatkina.  Thoughts?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Two different players.  Kasatkina is getting a lot of balls back.  For me, it will be important to just stay aggressive but not overdo it.
Stephens, you know, obviously playing well this week.  I think the court suits her well because of the high bounce, as well.  Very aggressive player, serving well.
So it will be fun either way.  I'm looking forward to it.
Q. Sorry if you were asked this at the beginning.  Why would you have been possibly nervous in the match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I wasn't.  No, I wasn't.  It just -- I was struggling finding my rhythm.  But, you know, that's also comes down to her game.  You know, she wasn't making it easy for me.
Q. How are you working your training blocks given wanting to maximize results but maybe not push to where you're tired for matches?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think you kind of just learn as, you know, you have been on tour for a while when you can push the body and when to not push too hard.
For me, I had a great training block after Doha.  The first week I just did a lot of gym work, and I started getting on the court and was practicing hard and really getting ready for this tournament and Miami.  Because I know these are big tournaments, so I wanted to do well.
You know, once you're in the tournament mode, I don't do much gym.  It's more recovery for me, just making sure my body feels 100% every match.
Q. On the No. 1 ranking, from what I think I understood, there is a chance of you getting it back here.  Does that matter to you that you do or don't?  You got it back after so many years after the Australian.  Or is it a case of been there, done that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, it doesn't really matter to me at this point.  It will matter to me if I have the chance to finish the year as No. 1.  But at this point I think, you know, winning the Australian Open and getting the No. 1 ranking back at that point, that was extremely important to me and something that I'm very proud of.
Right now, that No. 1 ranking isn't what's on the forefront of my mind.  It's really just trying to win every match I'm playing and trying to win this tournament.  That's what's in my head.
Q. Sofya Zhuk is out there.  She's 18 years old.  She said you were a really big inspiration for her and that she always wanted to wear your Stella McCartney dresses growing up.  Is that weird to hear that somebody playing right now on the tour looked up to you?  Because you're still fairly young.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think that's awesome.  I think that's great.  You know, you try and behave well.  You try and be a good role model for kids growing up and playing.  You know, it's awesome when someone says that they wanted to play like you or play in your dresses or, you know, I think that's just a very big compliment.
On the other hand, it does make me feel slightly old (smiling).
Q. Have you had a chance to see her play at all, or no?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I actually haven't, but obviously she's been playing really well, so I definitely have to keep an eye out.
Q. What are your memories of your prior win here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's been a few years, but I remember it as being a great tournament.  I think I played some really great tennis.  I played Bartoli in the finals, tough three-set match.  I have played well here in the past.  Three finals and one of them is a win.
You know, it's a tournament that I have done well in the past, and I think, you know, everyone loves to play here because of everyone takes good care of the players and the fans.  They are amazing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT