BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 10, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/L. Arruabarrena   
6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a pretty commanding finish for you.  Talk a little bit -- it's not the best of conditions out there today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I thought it was great conditions, because it wasn't too hot, wasn't windy.  It was kind of nice.  It was drizzling slightly, but it wasn't really affecting play.  You know, I was just keeping an eye on the lines, making sure they weren't slippery, but everything was fine.   
Yeah, it was definitely not an easy match.  You know, the courts are extremely slow and the bounce is extremely high.  You definitely have to grind out there.  There's no easy points.   
I think you realize that in practice, but you don't really until you get out and play some points out there.   
 Q.  A question off the match.  Obviously your dad has been the key to your whole career as your court coach.  Talk a little bit about Morten Christensen.  When did you first meet him and how did he help you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, as a kid training at the National Center in Denmark, I think maybe I was, I don't know, 10 years old or so, and he was one of the main coaches there.  So, yeah, I have known him for years and years.   
I know now he's coaching at Berkeley and coaching the team there.  It's great to see him, and I saw him out here today.  He's a great guy.   
 Q.  Did he help you in your game when you were young in any way?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  You know, I think every coach that's been, you know, helping me out at one point or another in my career has helped me with some things, for sure.  I think mostly it's been a help for my dad, because, you know, obviously my dad has also learned along the way.  I think, you know, just watching the practices and, you know, asking and having questions and all that are -- I think that's been great for my dad.   
You know, Morten is very nice guy, very positive.  You know, I remember he would always say -- for some reason, I'd always finish off with serving, and I'd always miss the last serve when I said, "Last serve."  And he would always go, This is the last one, match point, Grand Slam finals, match point.  Now you have to make it.   
Then I started making the serves, and, you know, it was just funny.  That's why in Australia it was very special, you know, moment.  I didn't serve it out, but I returned it out.  But, you know, still knowing that I had match point, that's what we have talked about since I was a little kid.  It was kind of fun.   
 Q.  He was always very positive?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Very positive, very happy person.   
 Q.  This is the first big tournament for you, like, really big tournament, since the Australian.  I'm wondering, does it feel different going into it now as a slam winner?  Or is it back to the grind?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I think both.  We played in Doha, which was a very big event, as well.  This is obviously just a step bigger.  But, you know, it feels different just because I think, you know, I feel like I have done everything that I wanted to do in tennis, basically.  Obviously I keep having to put new goals for myself.   
But, you know, I feel like I have nothing to prove to anyone or to myself anymore.  I can just go out there and enjoy it.  But it doesn't feel different at all in the way that, when you're out there on court, it's just a grind.  You know, you have to -- nobody gives you anything.  You just have that target back on your back.  You just have to try and play your best every single time.   
 Q.  What element of the Australian final were you most proud of?  I mean, that was a real battle.  You were playing a really tough player who had certain elements similar to yours.  What was your one take away that you're most...  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I think staying focused, not being overly nervous.  For some reason, when I walked out there, I had that calmness about me.  I think I walked out there on court, and I started playing very aggressively.  I was very proud of that.  I stepped it up from the first point, and I think the first set was very high quality for me.   
Second set she started playing more aggressively, and she won that second set.  Then just keeping my head cool in the third set.  You know, I think that was very important.   
You know, it was very physically demanding game.  I think I was very proud of how generally my body and my fitness held up.  I think once again it proved that, you know, all the work that I have done off the court really paid off.   
 Q.  Could you talk a little bit about what do you think about the murals around the Tennis Garden with all the champions from the past?  What do you think about them and what do you think about the grounds themselves?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's awesome.  You know, it's very special.  As a past champion, to see a big poster of yourself is kind of cool.  To see that with all the other champions, I think it makes it special.  It reminds you of how amazing it was to win here and how big that was.   
I think it's special to be up there amongst so many great champions.  I really enjoy that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT