QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 17, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. KVITOVA/C. Wozniacki   
3-6, 7-6, 7-5   
 Q.  Caroline, tough match, but can you just kind of give us your read on it, where you think that it kind of slipped away from you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  Definitely disappointing when I had a chance to serve it out twice in that second set, and I didn't get many first serves in in the first game, and in the second game I just -- she played aggressively and I made a few unforced errors, and I felt that was frustrating because I had my opportunities there.   
 Q.  In the third set, though, it was nice and tight for most of it.  Did you feel like you were kind of starting to reel it back?  I know she started getting hot with her baseline shots and everything.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I was just trying to stay in it and stay focused.  Obviously she's a powerful player.  She has a difficult game to play against when she's on, but as well when she isn't, because you don't get any rhythm and you know that eventually she's going to start hitting those balls in and you need to be ready for it, so it's a very tricky mental game for me when I'm out there playing against her.   
 Q.  I was going to ask that, the unique pressures that she kind of creates for players, because, yeah, many players have said that, when she's off, you don't really know what's going on, and when she lights up like that, you don't know what to do.  So what are the unique challenges of facing her?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think you just need to try and stay aggressive, try and serve well and get a lot of returns in play, and I think I did that pretty well for most of the match, but again, when I had my opportunities, those are the chances you need to take and close the matches out.   
 Q.  What positives do you take from this week?  Semifinal finish is still strong.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I'm going to take a lot of positives out of this week.  I think yesterday, tennis wise, I think we played both really well, and I can take a lot out of that.  And today I just need to live and learn and try not to make the same mistake when I play her next time, and that's really it.  Lots of positives to bring with me, and I'm going to take a couple of days off and then go from there.   
 Q.  Do you fly home now?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes.  I'm not planning on staying.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT