QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 16, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/A. Kerber   
7-6, 1-6, 6-3   
 Q.  Caroline, hard-fought match out there as you two normally have.  What do you think was the difference there as she served for the opener and had the break in the third and you were able to get it back.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I feel like I had a lot of chances in the first set to win a lot of the games that I ended up losing and then she had a chance to serve it out and win the set, and I somehow came back.  So I feel like playing the tiebreaker to decide the set I thought was fair after that.  And I think I played very aggressive and played well in that tiebreaker and then second set she played very well.  I made some unforced errors going for a little too much but she played really well.  And third set, again, she had a chance in the beginning to go up 2-0, and I managed to just stay tough, and it could have gone either way really.   
 Q.  You both have obviously played each other many times, and the way that these matches have been played has evolved quite a bit over time.  You hit 46 winners today.  I think Angie hit about 37, which is different than how the matches looked earlier.  Was that just a mind set going into today that you just knew you had to hit the ball or how do you kind of describe it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think both of us are great in the defense, get a lot of balls back, but at the same time I think once we get that short ball we are good at changing direction and taking it early and taking time away from your opponent.  And I knew today that I couldn't just stand behind the baseline and wait because she's not going to miss, and she's going to go for it when she has the opportunity.  So whenever I hit a good shot, I followed it up at the net as much as I could, and I thought I played really well today.   
 Q.  And next match, obviously either Petra or Julia.  Both again opponents you know well.  But can you talk through the unique challenges that each one presents?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think they're very similar game styles.  That's how I feel when I play against them.  Both try to play very aggressively, big serves.  So it's going to be very difficult and players that it's uncomfortable to play against.  But I'm going to be out there and try my best.  I need to stay steady.  I need to serve well.   
 Q.  And then just obviously you secured No. 1 for the week, so we don't have to talk about it anymore.  But how good does it feel to just be able to hold onto it and roll with it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  It feels good, but honestly I'm just happy to have won today.  I'm more interested in that.  And then whatever happens happens.  I'm not playing Dubai next week.  So if I was really that worried, I would have played next week.  But I'd rather take some time off and rest and make sure my body is fine and then hopefully I can do even better here.  I'm going to give myself an opportunity tomorrow.  And then just get ready for Indian Wells/Miami.   
 Q.  Muguruza is already in the ^ final waiting for her opponent.  Halep has withdrawn.  How does that make you feel?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It must feel nice for her to be in the finals already.  I wish I had a day off tomorrow.  But yeah, it is what it is.  Sometimes, you know, it happens.  But I'm just going to go out there tomorrow and fight and that's really it.  I'm with the mindset that you know, everything happens for a reason and you just go out there and try and do your best.   
 Q.  So Halep won and had to pull out.  How tough is that?  To see something like that happen?  Is it tough for you guys to think about her being injured?  Have you ever been in a situation where you had to do that, too, where you had to pull out after a win?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I don't know exactly what happened.  I thought it looked like she was moving well today and playing well.  So I'm not sure what happened after the match.  But obviously she has her doctors and everything, and I just hope that she's back soon and fit for fight.  It's never fun to be injured.  So I wish her a speedy recovery.   
 Q.  And how important is good health?  You're playing this weekend and then taking off until Indian Wells, because you want to make sure you're healthy or because that's always been the plan?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's always been the plan going into the year, but I want to make sure I'm healthy.  I'm not so young anymore.  Obviously I'm not so old either, but the body just can't handle it anymore.  So I need to take care of my body and make sure I'm fine.  And after Australia I've had a few things that are bothering me and hurting a little bit.  So I'm just -- I'm ready to take a few weeks off and just regroup.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT