QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 15, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/M. Niculescu
7-5, 6-1
Q. Caroline, just thoughts on that match.  Tricky one, in some kind of tricky conditions as well.  How do you think you played and handled it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think in periods I think I handled it well, and I think I played really well in periods, and then there was periods where I got really frustrated and let her get into my head, and that's exactly what she wanted, to get in my head, and I should be smart enough not to let it bother me.  But once I kind of calmed my nerves a little bit, I got more control of the situation.
Q. Does fatigue play any role in that?  It's been a long trek.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  Actually, I feel pretty decent.  I think the body obviously is feeling a little bit of beating, but mentally I feel okay.  And I think I just need to stay on track and stay focused and not let things like that bother me.
Q. Your next match, they're playing now so we don't know.  But whether it's Angie, who you obviously know very well, or Jo, how do you break down both those matchups?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Both great players.  Obviously Angie has great defense, great movement.  And she gets some really good angles.  And it's going to be tough with a lot of long rallies.  And Jo is very aggressive, tries to serve big and go into the court straightaway and hit big shots.  So both great opponents, great people, and either way it's going to be fun.
Q. Do you prefer to play in Doha during the night or during the day?  What suits you better?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really mind either way.  I don't think there's that big of a difference.  I feel like Australia there's a huge difference between night and day.  Here, I feel like it's a little bit more even.
Q. Can you explain what was happening in the altercation with the umpire in the ninth game?  The court-side microphone seemed to suggest that you were upset and claiming that she was grunting when you were trying to hit the ball.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Which she was.
Q. Can you just explain your side, what was happening and why you were getting so angry?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you know, obviously she's a player that tries to get into your head, and it was no altercation with the umpire.  Just tried to let him know to pay attention to her grunting because she'll hit the ball and two seconds later when the ball is on my side and I'm right about to hit she'll start grunting and make a noise, and she will change the grunt according to what she feels like.  You know, and it's disturbing.  It's one thing if you hit the ball and you start grunting straightaway, then you can grunt a little longer, and I don't have a problem with that, but it's when you're about to hit your shot and you're prepared and all of a sudden the grunt is coming.  Also it's in the rules that they're not supposed to do that.  So I was making sure that the umpire was paying attention to that.  And she stopped doing it after.
Q. And basically you were saying that she was doing this deliberately?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think that she didn't do it in the second set, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT