QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/C. Witthoeft   
6-2, 6-0   
 Q.  How does it feel to be back in Doha and what do you like about playing here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's great to be back.  The court suits me well, and obviously it's a very relaxing place, and I really enjoy being back.   
 Q.  And can you compare being No. 1 the first time in 2010 and then how it felt to be back this time, the two of them?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's two complete different feelings.  I think the first time I reached it it was an incredible feeling because it had always been my dream and something I never knew if it was ever possible.  And I think getting back there was even harder just because a lot of things had happened in the meantime, and I think that, you know, it was a long time in between.  And then doing it winning the Australian Open was a very special feeling, and it's something I'm very proud of.   
 Q.  And Federer is trying to do something similar in that he's coming back to No. 1 maybe this week after six years.  What are your thoughts on that kind of achievement for him?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Roger is such an incredible athlete and obviously a great champion.  And you know, I think he deserves it.  I think both him and Rafa deserve to share the No. 1 spot.  So yeah, it's pretty great.   
 Q.  Caroline, just the match today, I mean first one out there, kind of some tricky, windy conditions, but you seem to be all right in that kind of stuff.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I grew up in Denmark where we have wind every day.  So I don't really mind the wind as much.  But I think it does even out the playing field a little bit once it's windy.  But I felt very comfortable out there today, and the court suited me well.  So I was pleased with the win.   
 Q.  Are you just kind of playing -- I don't know, what is it like to play right now?  You're obviously playing great tennis, and it seems like the level is consistent from match to match that you're hitting as long as you have a full tank.  Do you have to think too much these days when you're on the court?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  I think, honestly, it's all about just keeping motivated and setting new goals, because at this point I feel like, you know, everything is great and I'm really happy where I am and how I've played.  And obviously Australian Open, coming from that big of a high to then, you know, obviously still playing big tournaments and great players, but having to start from the first round, you know, it's different.  So it's all about for me just trying to stay focused and trying to stay relaxed and just enjoying it.  That's really it.   
 Q.  You know, a lot of players when they do get that first Slam there is kind of that little honeymoon period of resetting the goals of trying to figure out where the motivation does come from.  Do you feel like you're still kind of in the front stages of that?  Are you done with it?  Where is your head at?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  I think I can definitely see why that happens.  But I think for me the fact that I got a Slam and the world No. 1 ranking back, you know, I've basically achieved everything that I wanted.  It's hard to beat that, and you definitely have to rethink and refocus and just try and think of what's the next thing you want to achieve, you know.  And I think I've been so great at that throughout my career and just keeping my head down and just keep working at it, and that's what I'm trying to do now.  And obviously I'm playing great tennis, and I played well today.  So hopefully I can just continue and honestly just see where it takes me.   
 Q.  And the next match, you have a couple of slicers and dicers no matter what.  It's either Niculescu or Rybarikova.  Thoughts on playing that type of opponent which you don't necessarily see every day?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  It's definitely different.  I've played both players quite a few times.  I've played Rybarikova in Australia and Niculescu I had a crazy match against her in Madrid.  So you know, you know what to expect, but at the same time you don't know what to expect.  So it's kind of a funny match to go out there to, and I'm just going to go out there and try and stay aggressive like I did today.   
 Q.  You're obviously a very famous person, but the Doha cat is also a very famous entity here around these parts.  Has that cat come on court for you before or is that the first time you've seen one?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  That was the first time and then I couldn't see it because it kind of went in between something and then I could just hear it meow all the time, and I was like, where is this cat.  But yeah, it was definitely interesting.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about how you spent time after Australian Open?  Did you go back to Monaco or Denmark before you go to St. Petersburg?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, after Australia I went back to Denmark for a day, but then I went to St. Petersburg, and after St. Petersburg I was in Monaco, and I was just chilling.  I was sleeping, not doing anything.  I went for a hike.  I went to the gym a little bit, once.  And that was really it.  I just needed to recharge the batteries and sleep and just have some good food and enjoy the trophy.   
You know, I came here knowing that I can play great tennis, and for me it was more important just trying to be fresh.  And after this tournament I'll have a little bit of a training, you know, training period where I can get ready for Indian Wells and Miami.  So it'll be nice I think mentally for me to just be able to recharge my batteries and not having to play a tournament and just really have almost three weeks where I can just enjoy, be with family and my fiancé and going out for dinners and just doing normal stuff as well.   
 Q.  And you are very excited about bringing the trophy to your home.  And I saw you on SNS you bringing the trophy and going through the security.  So could you talk where that trophy is now?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  Daphne doesn't like to be in the luggage, and she doesn't like to be squashed in between luggage.  So I had to bring her and have her own seat on the plane and everything.  But you know, it's a little bit of separation anxiety right now.  But she's with my mom and she's at my parents' place.  So they're all doing great.   
 Q.  So it's Valentine's Day.  Do you celebrate, and if yes, how on the road and all the challenges with that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  Obviously, you know, I'm not with my fiancé this week.  He's back working at home.  But yeah, he sent me flowers and some chocolates and that was very sweet.  And we normally just celebrate nicely with a nice dinner, and that's really it.  I feel like, you know, it shouldn't just be one day where you celebrate each other, and you know, the love for everyone.  So I think it should happen every day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT