CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/D. Kasatkina   
6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was the problem with your right arm? Is it going to stop you or hinder you in some way tomorrow?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I hope not. Got some treatment. It was my right elbow. But it feels already better now after getting some treatment on it.   
Hopefully by tomorrow, getting some sleep and rest, it will hopefully be fine.   
 Q.  Can you take me through the match. It was straight sets, but she pushed you to a tiebreak.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I've always had tough matches against her. She's a good player, very talented, mixes up the pace. I just tried to stay focused. I think we both played some great points, some great rallies. I was happy to finish it off in two sets, finish it off in the tiebreaker.   
 Q.  How does the drop in temperature today affect your strategy? Your opponent very aggressive player, especially with her forehand.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it was the same for both of us. The ball goes off the racquet a little bit slower. Other than that, it's the same. You just try and play your game, try and stay aggressive. That was really it.   
Once you started moving, it felt fine.   
 Q.  Why do you think it maybe took you a minute to close her out in the second set?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she was up 3-0 in the second set. I was just happy to come back in the first place. Yeah, then we went very even from there.   
 Q.  You'll either be facing Bianca or Naomi in the next round. What is your mindset going in?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, two good players, two players that have been playing well this year. Going to go in and play the same way I have been playing, try and stay aggressive. That's really it.   
 Q.  From last year and this year, you have had 10 victories in the China Open, and 20 sets in a row. Three times in the top four in the China Open. This year you're in the top four again. Do you think the China Open is a good place for you, a place of fortune?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely. I feel like I play very well here. It suits my game. I'm happy to come back here. I have a lot of great support from the fans.   
Yeah, I've enjoyed playing here a lot.   
 Q.  Your parents are here in the China Open. Any special feelings you'd like to share with us?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's great that my parents are here. My mom hasn't been here for quite a few years, so it's great that she's back. They had some of their friends come in early this week. It's been a fun week where we also got to explore a little bit.   
 Q.  Through your social media two days ago you went to the Great Wall. How was that experience? In between matches, did you go to any other places in Beijing?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: We went to the Great Wall where the tournament started, which was an awesome experience. I hadn't been for 10 years, so it was nice to go back. Other than that we went to this park where you could see the Forbidden City from up top, which was really cool. We saw a couple of temples. Yeah, we saw Tienamen Square. Yeah, saw a couple of things.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT