QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 11, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is Daphne and where is she now at the moment?  Daphne, your trophy?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, Daphne is in Monaco she's at home.  She's just chilling.   
 Q.  And she feels good?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I miss her a little bit, but you know, sometimes you need to separate and just move on.  But she's waiting at home for me whenever I get back.   
 Q.  I presume the break after St. Petersburg was enjoyable.  And at that point how much of it is about putting the racquet down and how much of it is trying to stay within competition mindset?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I'm very lucky.  I'm not one of those players that feel like I need to hit every day to play great tennis.  And so I didn't hit at all when I was home and just enjoyed some hikes and walking around.  I went to the gym a couple of times just to kind of keep active and get a sweat going, but other than that it was a lot just about having good food and relaxing, sleeping, just catching up and those things that I haven't had the time to do yet.  So it was very nice.   
 Q.  Do you still feel as of now that you've had a chance to soak it all in or is it still a heady experience at the moment?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think a little bit of both.  You know, sometimes it hits me and I'm like I actually really won the Australian Open, and sometimes, you know, you forget and just kind of -- you keep just thinking forward and trying to push yourself to do better.  And I think it's a healthy combination.  But at the end of the day we need to remember just to enjoy ourselves and have fun as well because that's why we play, right?  When you achieve something that big, I think it's important to just give yourself a break and just have fun with it.   
 Q.  Are you following the Olympics at all?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I am, yeah.   
 Q.  Okay.  And what sports are you following?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, the other day -- actually yesterday I was trying to see what sports were on and I saw some ski jumping because there was a couple of Polish people in there.  And then I watched luge, but it wasn't really that interesting to me because I didn't understand it.  Then I watched curling.  But I'm waiting for the downhill.  Lindsey Vonn is one of my good friends, so I'm excited to watch her and support her.   
 Q.  A lot of the players who have been coming through have said that they're not really winter sport people.  It gets kind of in your DNA as a tennis player, I presume, to kind of chase summer.  But as you've watched winter sports, is there anyone that you think I might have been able to do that, like at the Olympic level or that you would have wanted to even?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  I used to ski all the time.  We used to ski at least a month out of the year.  So I'm a pretty decent skier and snowboarder.  But no way I could be an Olympic skier because at this point I'm a little bit too nervous when it goes too quickly.  When I was a kid I wasn't afraid of anything.  I would do jumps and all sorts of things.  But now I'm more conservative.  And I think if anything if there was a sport, it would probably be curling because Denmark I think one of the only Olympic medals we've ever won is curling.  And I feel with a good team around me and a little bit of good hand-eye coordination I could do probably maybe do that.   
 Q.  Three quick questions.  Since the win in Australia has life really changed?  Do you actually feel different?  You have a massive smile here, but do you feel different as a person?  Has life changed?  Are people treating you differently?  Secondly, does it make it hard for you to motivate yourself for other tournaments such as this one?  And randomly, following on from there, did you receive any call of congratulations from Liverpool regarding your victory?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Life hasn't changed at all.  Life is the same.  Still the same when I go back on the practice courts.  I still have things that I need to work on, and I still get stuff from my dad saying move your feet, do this.  So nothing has changed in that regard.   
People treating me differently, I think the only thing that has changed with people treating me differently is that I have not gotten the question of being No. 1 without a Grand Slam.  So that's a difference, that's a big difference and that's a change that I'm very happy about.   
And no, I actually haven't gotten congratulations from Liverpool.  I saw that Edmund did.  So I felt kind of jealous a little bit.  But I guess I'll have to wait.   
 Q.  Did you see the main draw yesterday?  I think maybe you will play against Tatjana or Witthoeft.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  So I never look at the draw.  I know my first-round opponents, and I play either Tatjana Maria or Carina Witthoeft.  And both good players.  And I know one is here, one is playing Fed Cup.  So I'll play on Wednesday.  But I'm excited for the challenge, and at the end of the day I think I'm just going to go out there, have fun and see what happens.   
 Q.  Between last year and this year what did you find of the changes here in the courts and the complex and also in Doha, talking about the weather maybe?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously the courts have changed color.  And they've changed the speed, I think.  So it's faster courts this year.  And I haven't really been outside of the complex.  I don't know what they have done for the fans.  But yeah, every year I come back, there's new buildings up and new things happening.  So that's been nice.  And the weather, obviously the sun is shining.  So we're back to normal Doha weather.   
 Q.  You ran the New York Marathon.  Is there anything more in sport outside of tennis that you would like to try to be good at?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, eventually I think -- I don't know if I would be good at it, but I think I will try to do a triathlon eventually.  After I'm done playing, mostly to keep in shape so I can still eat whatever I want.  I think that's the main motivation.  And I think after doing a marathon, I've done that, I did a pretty decent time.  So I think triathlon would be fun to do.   
 Q.  You were the No. 1 in 2010, '11 and now you are again No. 1.  How has your game changed, mentally?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think you keep getting experience and you keep learning.  And I think the tennis keeps improving, so you need to constantly improve your own game to be on top.  And I think, yeah, you just get smarter.  You know, you learn how to properly train and how to save your body and hopefully try to prevent injuries, because that's the main thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT