AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/M. Rybarikova
6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How would you rate your performance today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I thought I played very well today.
Q. Were you surprised it was so comfortable, given the start of the match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think it's never really comfortable.  You're out there and you want to win obviously.  I was just very focused on each point.
I thought I played very well.  I tried to stay aggressive.  I got a lot of returns back, which I think for her was obviously something that she felt pressure on after a little bit.
Yeah, I felt good about my game.
Q. Have you kept the momentum from the end of last season coming into this season?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I've just been doing everything I had to do in the off-season.  I worked hard, given everything I could, prepared as well as I could every day.  When you put in the work, then you just hope that's enough.  If it's not, then you go back to work and try and get better.
For me, it's just been no pressure, just go out there and have fun.
Q. I don't know if you have seen the stats yet, but 25 winners is impressive.  Do you have a practice where you work for making more winners?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really.  I think I was serving well today.  I was waiting for the right opportunity to go in and go for my shots.  I was really happy with the way I was playing today.
Q. We see a few new faces coming up in the draw, usually common in Australia.  Do you know Elise Mertens?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I know her.  I played against her in Bastad last year.  She already had a good season last year.  She's a good player.  She's young.  She tries to take the ball early.  We'll see more of her in the future.
Q. If I tell you that she trains at Kim Clijsters' academy, does that mean something?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Kim is such a great person.  I talk to her on a regular basis.  She's definitely missed on tour.  I think she's having a great time at home, doing what she's doing.
Tennis-wise I'm happy I don't have to play her again.  I never beat her.  She's one of the few ones I never beat.
She's just a great ambassador for tennis and for the tour.
Q. What has a close call in the second round done for your confidence?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel good.  I think being almost out of the tournament, you have nothing to lose after that.  You just go out there and you enjoy yourself.  I played really well from being down 5-1.  Since then I've just kept that going basically.
Q. How would you compare where you were six years ago when you last made the quarterfinals of an Australian Open to where you are now?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  It's so long ago.  I don't really know.
Right now all I can say is I'm in a good place.  I think I'm hitting the ball well.  Yeah, everything has been going well the last year and a half or so.  It's been good.
Q. You have Suarez Navarro next.  You played in Madrid last season.  She won.  What are your thoughts on this matchup?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, obviously hard courts is a little different.  But we've had a lot of tough encounters on hard courts as well.  Three-set grueling matches.
I'm expecting a tough fight.  Obviously I think she had a tough season last year.  She also had a few injuries.  Obviously she's back playing really well.
I'm expecting a great fight and some really good tennis.
Q. You had some warm words to say on court afterwards about her.  She's a friend of yours?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yes, she's really a great person, one of those girls you like to see around.  She's also a great player.  It's a very good combination.
Q. There have been a lot of rule changes in tennis recently, as with the warmup clock.  Are you a fan of change?  Are you a traditionalist?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  Personally I don't really think there was that much of a need for that.  I don't know why they put that into play.  In the end of the day, it doesn't really make a difference to me.  I usually stay within those times.
Yeah, unusual the umpire would say something if you're running late anyway.  I don't really think that was a big difference.
Q. In general, do you think tennis needs to be careful of losing its soul with all the attempts to modernize?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think some change is good.  Sometimes we have to go with the times.  We don't play with wooden racquets any more.  Racquets keep evolving, strings keep evolving, balls keep changing.
I think a little change is good.  I think tennis is obviously known for its long traditions.  A lot of people know tennis and the rules.  I think as long as you keep the ground rules there, I think small changes are fine.
Q. Do you think about going all the way and lifting the trophy?  Do you visualize that sort of stuff?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  I just play one match at a time.  We've played four matches, is that right, so far (smiling)?  There's still three to go.  There's still a long way.  So I really just focus on the task ahead of me.
Q. With your form personally, do you think you're close to being back to your best?  Do you think there's more improvement left in your game?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think we always can improve.  I think that's the fun thing and the most frustrating thing about tennis, is that you can always get better.  You can even see that on Roger or Rafa, who obviously are incredible players, some of the best players ever.  They come back year after year, and they play even better, though you think it's almost impossible.  You're like, How?
I think it just inspires everyone else to try to step it up, try to play better, too.  I'm always thinking if they can get better, then I can too.  I have a long way to go.
Q. You don't have to answer this, but last year the winner of this tournament won it while she was pregnant.  Kim was just mentioned, who has had children.  Do you reflect on becoming a mom someday?  Is that something that's active in your mind?  Do you put it off for a future date?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, if you're asking me if I want to be become a mom right now, I'd say no.  I'm still here.  But obviously, yeah, I think that's something I've always wanted.  I think it's definitely something that I see in the future, no doubt about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT