AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2018
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/K. Bertens
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Back in the second week here for the first time in a few years.  How good are you feeling about it?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I feel good.  It's nice to be back in the fourth round here.  I was happy to play at night tonight, not during the brutal heat.
Yeah, it's been good so far.
Q. Do you think that could give you an advantage in some way, having avoided the heat?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  Honestly I'm just still happy to be alive in the tournament.  We'll see.  I'll just do my best in the next round, hope that's good enough.
Q. What are your thoughts playing in the extreme heat?  Do you think the matches should be moved or called off?  Do you think it's dangerous?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it can be dangerous.  I saw yesterday on TV, I was in my air conditioned room, watching Monfils against Djokovic.  I thought it was a shame that the roof wasn't on because I think that could have been a really high-quality match.  All of a sudden, you know, Monfils was basically passing out in the heat.  You could really see both of them struggling.
I think that could have been an incredible tennis match, but it was hampered a bit by the heat.  It is what it is.  I don't really know exactly the rules of when it gets too hot, but I thought yesterday was brutal.
Q. Players talk about feeling freer on court when they saved a match point in a previous match.  Have you felt any second leases on life?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was close to being out.  Yesterday was a nice day, still feeling like I'm still alive, I still have an opportunity.  Today I walked out and I thought I started better in my match, started playing a little better.
She played well today, served well.  Yeah, I'm just happy to be through.
Q. How would you assess your performance?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I played well in a big part of the match.  She stepped it up.  She started serving really well, getting a lot of first serves in, which made it difficult.
All in all, I'm just happy to be through.
Q. Lots of arguments with the chair umpire this tournament.  You've had a few this week.  Have you sensed anything different from the officiating?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I've never had this guy before, I think.  Maybe I just don't remember.  But I think he did a poor job today.  If the court is wet, I think it's normal to ask for a towel.  I don't think someone needs to be rude, and I told him so.  I think there were some questionable calls, as well.  Obviously on the first match point, it was out.  He should have seen that, as well.
I don't know.  I think there's a way he can be strict but not rude, if that makes sense.  I just think he was being rude today.
Q. In your last match there were arguments about challenging.  Gavrilova had a challenge not allowed.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think that's a call that can be made, if they think that was a late call.  It is what it is.  We have the right to say we didn't think so.  We just moved on.  I think last match was fine.  I don't think really we had that much.
But today I think for both sides, even Kiki came up to me and said, Yeah, I asked for this one, I told him so after the match, that the court was actually really slippery.
It really shouldn't be that big of a problem just to clean it.
Q. You were wearing Stella tonight, or changed outfits?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I changed outfits.  We're back on track in the next tournament.
Q. (Question regarding Shenzhen.)
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It excites me it's going to be the biggest prize in tennis, is that correct?  I think it's exciting.  I honestly haven't looked into it too much.  I quickly saw some headlines.  10 years in Shenzhen, I think that's a long time.  I hope that it's going to be a great tournament, a great organization, because obviously as a player, if you make it to the Finals, you want it to be special, you want it to be a great crowd, you want it to be a great atmosphere.  That's what I'm hoping for.
I can't really state my opinion until I've seen how it's all been done.
Q. Does tonight give you confidence you're back on track after a shaky couple of days?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was definitely a little bit easier today than it was the other day.  I'm going to take it and move forward and just call it a day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT