CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/K. Siniakova   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Before today, you defeated Siniakova three times. Did you go into today's match confident you would win?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think every match is always different. I just go in and try to do my best. I had a game plan in mind. Just tried to execute that.   
 Q.  In terms of that game plan, you had to scrap a little bit out there in the second set. What did you find was working well against her? What do you think the key was to closing it out in two?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was trying to stay aggressive. I was trying to move the ball around a lot. I think I was successful most of the time.   
But, you know, there was a couple of games where she played good or I played a little sloppy.   
But all in all, I think I did that pretty well. Then I tried to just stay aggressive on her forehand side, as well.   
 Q.  Back in the quarterfinals here. You've been talking about playing more aggressively, at least executing on your aggressive game here in Beijing. Is there something about the conditions or things like that that allow you to set up a little bit more comfortably to play that brand of tennis here? It's obviously been a successful tournament for you.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think the court here plays slow if you put spin on the ball, but plays fast if you play through the court.   
I think that's a good combination for my game because I can mix up the pace better, my aggressive shots go through the court really well here.   
That means you can both play offense and defense, and both can be successful. I think that works well for me.   
 Q.  How has the recovery been from match to match for you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's been fine. I had a day off yesterday, which was nice. I'll be ready to play tomorrow, as well. So just taking it one day at a time.   
 Q.  Just looking ahead, obviously either Kasatkina or Alexandrova. Can you talk through each of them.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Alexandrova is playing aggressive tennis. She hits big from forehand and backhand side. Yeah, that's that.   
Kasatkina mixes up the pace very well, tries to slow down the ball, uses the forehand to open up the court and play the angles.   
 Q.  Back into the quarterfinals here. You were saying before this is your last event of the season. How pleased are you with being able to kind of finish things off with a good, deep run at your last tournament?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I'm happy to have played well so far in the tournament. I've been feeling pretty good. That's always a plus. We'll just see. Hopefully it's not the end of the tournament for me. Hopefully I have a couple more matches in me.   
I'm just going to go and see.   
 Q.  We know that you went to Harvard University a few weeks ago. How was your experience there?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, so far it's been pretty good. I'm going back again in October. We are in October, so later this month (smiling).   
Other than that, just reading a lot, doing my homework. It's been good.   
 Q.  So what did you exactly learn there?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's the business crossover program. It's learning business. You know, if you want to start your own business one day, it's good to know what goes on behind the scenes, what decisions are good to make, and how to make the most revenue.   
You know, just trying to learn the basics.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT