BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 28, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/K. Pliskova   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough match, roller-coaster match.  Can you just talk us through the first set?  In particular, how do you think you were able to get over that line in the end?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, that was a pretty crazy first set.  I thought we both played really, really well.  I was down 4-2 but managed to break her back straightaway.  Then we kind of went hand in hand, and she had set point before we got to the tiebreaker.  Then I got a good start in the tiebreaker, 6-1, and I was feeling pretty good about it.   
Then, you know, all of a sudden it's 6-2, 6-3, 6-4, and I said this isn't fun anymore.  Let me just try and finish this off.  At 6-All I was ready to just kill myself, basically.  I was, like, this is not fun.   
I started thinking I should have lost this set already, so actually this is just a bonus.  So I had a lot of talks with myself at that point.   
Yeah, just kept fighting.  It went back and forth.  Still, she had a few more set points, and I managed to win that first set.  I think it was very important.  You know, I think that broke her a little bit.  I think it was important for both of us to get that first one.   
 Q.  What does it feel like to be back in a WTA Finals final after seven years?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's great.  I feel like I have had a great year and a great tournament.  I think it's a nice way to finish off the year.  No matter what happens tomorrow, I'm very happy and proud of how I have been able to fight this week.  You know, I can go on vacation feeling good about it.   
 Q.  This will be your eighth final of the year.  What lessons have you learned from the seven before that could help you tomorrow?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I have played a lot of finals throughout my career.  It's nothing new to me.  I'm just going to go out there and have fun and enjoy myself.   
I have played against great players this week, and it's going to be another great fight tomorrow.   
 Q.  Talking about the conversations you were having with yourself in that first set, as much as it was painful to get to that stage, how much did you think about the fact that if it's hurting me this much, across the net, I mean, that's your game is to run around on that court and to defend and attack, but for her, it looked like a struggle, as well.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  You know, you obviously think a lot of things.  I was, like, you know, when she got back to 6-All and I was really, you know, upset about the whole situation, you know, that's when I was thinking, you know, she had her opportunity way before me, so just keep thinking and you're really going to be upset if you let this set go.  So just keep fighting.   
You know, then she had a few more set points and missed opportunities.  I knew that that was hurting her, too.  I just, at that point, I knew that it was important for any of us.  Whoever wins that first set, I was, like, going to have a big advantage mentally going into the next one.   
 Q.  Six matches against Karolina.  3-3.  What do you make of that rivalry and what do you make of it throughout the season?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's been a great, I think, rivalry this year.  You know, I think we both have had great seasons and have had a good year.  I think, you know, we have had great, tough matches.   
It's never easy playing her.  She's a great player.  She plays aggressive, great serves.  You know, today was my day.  We have kind of been alternating this year, which has been nice.  It was my turn today.   
 Q.  Can you talk about both possibilities for the final, Venus or playing again Garcia one more time this week?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, Venus, I have had a tough matchup against her in the past, but I haven't played her in a while.  You know, she's obviously a great champion and a great player.   
You know, it would be really tough.  She's had a great year.  She hasn't played many tournaments, but the tournaments that she's played she's done really well in.   
Garcia has had a good couple of tournaments at the end of the year, and she's had a nice week so far this week.   
 Q.  Martina Hingis played her last match today.  I think when you were a teenager you played an exhibition with her I think in Copenhagen.  What do you make of her career and your own longevity now having been on the top of the game now for so long?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, she's had an amazing career, both in singles and doubles.  You know, I was watching her growing up when she was playing singles, and that's when I was, you know, really following her closely.  I was still very young.   
She obviously did very well and won everything there was to win and was No. 1 in the world.  You know, it's very impressive.   
In the doubles she's had a good run, too.  You know, I think she's had a long career.  She obviously felt like it was time now to stop on a high note.   
 Q.  If it is Garcia you play in the final, is it the approach or mindset to be tricky because you played her yesterday?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, it's going to be the same.  I'm just going to go out there and play my best tennis and hope that that's going to be good enough.   
I feel good.  I feel comfortable and confident, and, you know, regardless of who I play in the final, it's going to be a tough battle and it's going to be a tough match to win.  But I'm excited to play and get another opportunity.   
 Q.  If I can just take you a little away from the women's, what do you make of Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal's year this year?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, they have had an incredible year.  You know, Roger winning everything, and then he took a little break, and then Rafa winning everything, and then both of them winning everything.  It's kind of incredible.   
You know, I'm impressed with Roger, but, you know, his technique, he makes it look very easy.  Obviously he's older and he's been on tour for so long.  You know, that's impressive.   
But what really surprised me this year I think was Rafa, coming back and playing such a high level, because his game is so physical and it takes a lot out of him.  For him to come back and play on such a high level, that, to me, was more surprising, if that makes sense, although, you know, obviously they are both amazing players, amazing champions.   
You know, they have really made this sport better.  I think it's great for the sport to have both of them playing at such a high level and pushing themselves to play even better.   
It's really great to see.  Yeah, all you can do is take your hat off and, you know, bring your popcorn when they play and enjoy the tennis, enjoy the show.   
 Q.  The fan question today is what is something that you really enjoy, if it's a movie, a TV show or something, that you think is really cool or you really like but maybe your friends might make fun of you or think isn't that cool, like a guilty pleasure?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, if I told you a really guilty pleasure, you'd laugh at me.   
 Q.  I'm ready.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, before David got here this week, I managed to watch a full season of Teen Mom 2, because I needed to keep up on the last season that I somehow had missed.  So Teen Mom 2 and Teen Mom OG are my guilty pleasures, but now I'm caught up and waiting for the new seasons to come.   
 Q.  Do you have a favorite?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, you know, I kind of like the drama, but then I also like the ones that kind of now has everything together and they seem to be doing well.  So I like -- I just like the show.  You know, you don't have to think too much, and it's great entertainment (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT