BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 25, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/S. Halep   
6-0, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You made that look easy.  Was it as easy as it looked, or do you still feel it was quite a challenge?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, I don't think it's ever easy when you play a world No. 1.  I thought I played really well out there.  Yeah, I felt comfortable and played aggressive when I needed to and ran the balls down when I needed to.   
I was happy with that.   
 Q.  How would you rate that in terms of just level, sustained level throughout a match as of late?  It looked like one of your best performances in a bit.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I played really well.  I don't know really how I can rate it, but I think both the other match and this match today I think both I played on really high level.  I think it must have been really frustrating for the other girls.   
I just ran a lot of balls down and I played aggressive and I mixed up the pace, and everything that I wanted to do kind of was going my way.   
 Q.  You mentioned that the court rewards players who have that variety in their game.  Could you sort of elaborate on what characteristics in particular played best to your strengths?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think this court is great for, you know, the all-around player who can play both aggressive and defense.   
I think, you know, making it indoors, as well, it helps the big servers.  I think I -- I just have been feeling good.  That's really all I can say.   
 Q.  Can you talk about maybe the preparation for this tournament?  You seem to be perhaps even fitter than usual, if that's possible --  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Thank you.   
 Q.  -- between Hong Kong and now.  Anything special between there and Singapore?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was in Thailand on vacation for a few days.  Maybe that kind of helped (smiling).   
Yeah, nothing really.  I think it's the end of the year.  I think everyone, you know, just everyone prepares differently.  But for me just not practicing too long and not hitting too much, you know, I think that's been the key, because at this point, you know how to hit the ball.  You know what works.   
We have all had a good year.  So it's more about just feeling refreshed.  I have gone into the gym and had a couple of runs, but that's basically it.  I didn't do anything special, to be honest.   
 Q.  You obviously played really well here in 2014, also.  I'm just kind of wondering, what is it about -- is it the court?  Is it just the fact that these happen to be seasons where you're obviously coming in playing very good tennis?  What is it that you think unlocks something here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think playing the top players in the world, knowing you have to play your best level to beat anyone here.  You come into the tournament knowing that you can easily go 0-3 in the group, and, you know, if you don't play to your best tennis, and sometimes even if you play great, you know, you can still leave a tournament and not having won a match.   
But I think that kind of motivates me to just start off strong and just go for it.  You know, you have nothing to lose at that point.  You know, even if you lose the first match, you still have a chance to go through.  I think, you know, it's just a nice cushion to have.   
 Q.  When your dad came in at the end of the first set at 6-0, what did he tell you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Not much, actually.  He just kind of walked in and reminded me of the couple of things that he told me before the match, just to keep the level up, you know, to keep those few pointers in my head.   
 Q.  And also, his name came up as Victor.  Does he use that...  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.   
 Q.  Is that a second name, or...  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  Yeah.   
 Q.  I'm curious, many tennis players talk about their biographical films now, and we have Billie Jean King's movie that came out, Battle of the Sexes, so if you have a choice to choose one actress to play you, who would that choice be?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  Probably Scarlett Johansson or Cameron Diaz.  They're both hot, so I'd like someone hot to play me (smiling).   
 Q.  A fan question today is you had a lot of people in the crowd saying "Go Caroline" and rooting for you.  What is the funniest or weirdest thing you might have ever heard a crowd yell out to you that you were able to understand in a match you played?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think a lot of people yell a lot of different things.  I think, you know, "Will you marry me" has been yelled quite a few times.  That's probably one of them (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT