BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 23, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/E. Svitolina   
6-2, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Quite impressive today.  Was that a combination of your playing really well and her not playing really well?  How did you see it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I played really well and I served well.  I stayed aggressive.  It was close, especially in the beginning.  Then I think I just kind of broke her down a little bit.  Then I think she lost the belief or she tried to go a little bit more for it.  You know, she just couldn't find a break or find a way to break me.   
So, yeah, I just stayed really aggressive and really tried to just go for my shots.   
 Q.  Do you remember what you were doing this time last year and where you were?  Reflecting on that and comparing that to this year, how did it feel to be back?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I was on vacation and just enjoying my time.  You know, both are great, but I'm very happy to be here and be playing and competing at this stage.  I'm happy to have the first one under my belt.   
 Q.  Obviously you're no stranger to this kind of format and the loss of two games and a format where every game, every win counts, in particular.  How much more confident do you feel now facing Simona next?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  She had the great win today, as well.  She played really well.  It's definitely not going to be an easy one.  I'm looking forward to the challenge and happy to have the first win under my belt and going through the tournament feeling really good.   
 Q.  Can I just ask where did you take your vacation last year?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Quite a few places (smiling).   
 Q.  Reflecting on the year that you have had, coming back to the Top 10, can you talk a little bit about how you did it and your mindset, whether you have changed throughout the year?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I have just stayed healthy.  That's been the main thing.  You know, I have been playing very well this year and consistently, but I think the main thing is that I have stayed healthy all year and that's really allowed me to play my best tennis and work hard.   
 Q.  You have been in No. 1 position for 67 weeks and also achieve year-end in 2010/2011.  What would be the advice you give to the girls fighting for year-end No. 1 position?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not going to give any advice to anyone.  I'm going to save it for myself (smiling).  I guess I still have a chance.  I'm not sure, but, you know, either way I'm going to keep the advice to myself, at least for as long as I'm playing.   
 Q.  Which one do you think is more difficult to achieve, the Grand Slam champion or year-end No. 1?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I think you can ask and everyone will have a different opinion.  I think both are difficult.  And obviously I don't have a Grand Slam, but I think peaking for two weeks or peaking for a full year I think it kind of speaks for itself.  I think staying No. 1 and finishing No. 1, you know, I think that's very difficult to do.  If I had to say one, I would say that, but, you know, I think both are difficult to achieve.   
 Q.  Do you feel like this win is a bit extra special, given Elina's beaten you a couple of times this year in big matches?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think every match here is a special win because you play against the top players in the world, so obviously it makes it special to win.   
I just am happy to be through, and it doesn't really matter if it's Elina or someone else.  I'm just happy to have won.   
 Q.  On the court, it seemed like today you were quite effective particularly pulling her out wide.  Short crosses were particularly effective.  Is that just a great tactic, or does this court in particular kind of reward you even more for that kind of ball?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think this court rewards being able to go from offense to defense, defense to offense, and I think it rewards the player that has good hands, in particular.  I think because this court you can't just play offense or you can't just play defense, you'll get -- you know, maybe you can win one match like that, but to play consistent on this court, you need to be able to run a lot of balls down and wait for your opportunity to really hit through the court.  So I just tried to do that today.   
 Q.  I think, if I understand Danish TV, which I don't, but anyway, Twitter told me, you got some good personal news, I think, with your brother?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I am officially an aunt, and my brother had a baby yesterday.  Yeah, so my first win.  He was watching apparently today.  I had photo evidence.  You know, we're schooling him very young.  One day old.   
 Q.  It's going to be one of the more spoiled babies on the planet from his aunt?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Probably, probably.  You know, he's kind of giving me baby fever.  He's so cute.  He's adorable.   
We'll see.  They say so far they have slept tonight, so we'll see how it goes through this week (smiling).   
 Q.  You're actually the second-oldest player here, although 10 years younger than Venus.  If you could talk about whether you think you'll be playing 10 years from now?  And also, since you've played her longer than most of the others, have you seen any adjustments in her game that she's been able to keep at it this long since you have played her?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I mean, I don't think I would be playing 10 years from now.  I would be very, very surprised.  I don't have plans to do that.   
But I'm very impressed with Venus.  It's incredible she's been able to play at the top of the game for so many years.  I can just take my hat off to her and it's very impressive.   
I think you have to keep improving to stay at the top of the women's game.  I definitely think that she's improved her defense, too.   
She has always had great offense and great serves and all that, but I think she also has improved her defense.   
 Q.  You're pretty close to Serena, I know, too, but how is Venus different?  Is she like quieter or a little bit more introverted or maybe not?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think they are very different personalities, but I think Venus is amazing.  She's always taken me under her wing and just kind of treated me like a little sister and made sure I was okay.  When I was 16, she asked me to play doubles with her in Doha, and that was kind of the first experience I had with both Venus and Serena.  Yeah, since then, I have just always had so much respect for both of them.   
 Q.  This fan wants to know that if, instead of playing a match, you had to lip sync to stay in the tournament, what song would you choose and why?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, since I just watched Backstreet Boys, I'd probably pick one of their songs.  But my go-to karaoke song is Cher, "If I could turn back time," do-do-do... (singing).   
You get the point.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT