BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 21, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Coming from Hong Kong, how's your body feel right now?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It feels good.  I have been practicing the last few days and the body has been feeling good.  I'm ready to compete in a couple of days.   
 Q.  With the practices on this surface, how are you finding it playing?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's a little bit of a different surface.  I think if the balls hit through, it kind of skids through the court.  If there is a bit more spin on it, the ball stops and it's very slow.  But, you know, I have played well here before, and I'm just excited for the challenge.   
 Q.  Given how the ball is playing on that court, what do you make of the group that you've been drawn into, a bunch of other players who aren't going to get a ton of stick on the ball other than Garcia?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  You know, Halep obviously takes the ball very early, and, you know, she's played well here in the past, too.  And Svitolina runs a lot of balls down.  So it's all about just being aggressive, but in moderation and just kind of pick your targets and the right shots.   
With Garcia, she's been playing really well lately, and I just, yeah, need to be aggressive with her and keep her moving.   
 Q.  About Caroline Garcia, who is in your group, are you surprised about her run the past few weeks, the way she played and that she made it to Singapore?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I don't think anyone expected her to be here before the Asian swing, but, you know, she had a great couple of weeks in Asia and  obviously played very well.  You know, she deserved to be here.   
 Q.  You have talked so much about the importance of staying healthy.  How much does it mean for you to be here now, given that qualifying for Singapore means you have been so consistent throughout the whole year?  What does it speak about your physical improvements?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think it's awesome.  I have had a great year.  You know, I have stayed healthy all year, which has been a huge thing.  You know, I'm happy with the year I have had, and I'm just trying to enjoy this and try and play as well as I can and try and finish off the year on a strong note.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on women's tennis today, especially given the fact that there have been five different world No. 1s this year?  Coming into the WTA Finals, there are seven women, including you, who could end the year as No. 1.  What do you think this says about the women's game today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's a strong era and there is a lot of great players out there.  You know, I think all of us have had a great year.  Everyone who is here has had a great year.   
I'm just focusing on this tournament and trying to do as well as I can and then take it from there (smiling).   
 Q.  Most wins on tour.  You have played a lot this year, a lot of matches.  At this point, final tournament of the season for you, does it feel like the finish line is that much closer regardless of things?  Does that provide motivation, or is that even tougher because it's just a week away?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not sure.  You know, I'm just excited that we are done after this.  It's been a long trip to Asia, as well.  I have been here for a long time.  I'm excited to just go on vacation after this.   
Honestly, I'm thinking obviously about my matches, but other than that, I'm just planning my vacation and already thinking myself over to the beaches and the sun and a bit of time without tennis (smiling).   
It's nice you can kind of see the end of the tunnel now, and it's been a great year and I just want to finish it on a high note.   
 Q.  One very important question:  Are you on Team Backstreet Boys or Team NSYNC?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Team Backstreet Boys.   
 Q.  Just for tonight or generally?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, generally, yeah.  And for tonight.  I'm going to be screaming out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT