U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/M Buzarnescu   
6-1, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you feel about the win today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Feel good to be through.  First round's always, you know, tricky.  You just want to get through them, get them done, and move on, especially in Grand Slams.   
I was happy to finish off in two sets.   
 Q.  Did you know anything about her going in?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I did know a little bit.  I grew up with her in juniors.  Until yesterday I thought she was a righty, then I realized she was a lefty (smiling).   
Yeah, I just kind of had to feel my way through that one.   
 Q.  With all the changes around the grounds, what do you make of the constant evolution here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's great.  It's great to see that there's constantly improvements to the grounds.  I already think they had great stadiums.  I think -- and I heard that the new Armstrong is going to be really cool, with a roof.  I think that's going to be really awesome.   
Yeah, obviously it takes time.  It doesn't get built in one day.  But it's really awesome how fast everything is getting done here.   
 Q.  How are you adjusting to the new grandstand?  How does it compare to the old one?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think you can really compare it to the old one.  I have kind of some sentiments to the old grandstand.  It was very cozy.  It was very close.  I really loved that court.   
This court is also awesome, but it's obviously bigger and just wider.  I think the atmosphere in there is great, too.  But it's just two different feels.   
 Q.  What do you think about the coaching, them giving you the chance to get coached during the match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, we didn't in the main draw, so I don't know how it was in the quallies.   
 Q.  Is that something you would like?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, I only heard positive feedback from all the players that tried it.  I mean, I guess every other sport has it.  So on one side, why not?  On the other hand, I guess tennis has never had it, so I don't know.  It would definitely be different.   
 Q.  Do you consider this your home tournament now living in New York?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I love this tournament.  It's my favorite tournament of the year.  I think it's very special.  I always get great support.  So, yeah, it definitely is a very special tournament to me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT