U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Normally you play the week before the Open in New Haven.  What was your methodology or decision-making in not playing and how is it different not being match tough  the week before?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I have a couple of years where I haven't played there.  I just decided I have had a good run, been playing a lot of tennis, been playing a lot of matches.  I wanted to be here and kind of just prepare and just settle in before the Open this year.
Q. More than half a dozen players have a shot at being No. 1 at the end of this tournament.  What do you think that says about the wide number of opportunities there are for players?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think the ranking system at the moment is done so that if you don't make finals and win tournaments, you don't even have a shot at that.
So you'll see how the ranking system is done, the top 6, 7, 8 players maybe have a lot of points and then from 10 to 20 or 25 it's kind of like everything kind of goes really close together.
You know, I think you can make big jumps if you have, like, a great event.  So, you know, I think obviously it's been a good year for me, and I'm excited to be in the position I'm in.
Yeah, I just -- I'm here.  I love playing here.  That's what I'm thinking about.
Q. But in terms of how wide open you think the field is and who can win, what is it in your estimation at this particular tournament, given players who have won tournaments this year and who isn't here in the way of Serena?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think obviously Serena is always, you know, the favorite when she plays, and she's at a level on her own when she's playing her best tennis.
But, you know, we're here, and I think everyone has a shot if they play their best.  But it's all about playing well for two weeks.
Q. You have made six finals without winning.  What do you need to do to get over the hump when you come here?  Has that been particularly frustrating to you?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, as long as I keep putting myself in those situations, I'm pretty happy with that.  You know, it will always go up and down.  The finals count.  I had one year where I won almost every finals I was in.
It is what it is.  I have had a good year, and I'm happy to be where I am.
Q. We talked about people who aren't here, but what are your thoughts on Maria Sharapova's return to Grand Slam tennis here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I don't really have much of an opinion.  She's a player like everyone else in the draw.  Yeah, I'm just doing my thing (smiling).
Q. When you get to New York, obviously you love this city, what are the things the minute you step off the plane you need to do to get in the zone?  Is it getting to a certain restaurant, or...
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's just kind of getting into my apartment, just kind of settling in, and then -- yeah, I don't know.  I see my friends, call my friends, have a nice dinner somewhere.  And I think as soon as I get here, it's just a vibe of the city.  I really feel like it's electric and positive and happy, and it just gets me in a good mood.
Yeah, I love being here.  I think it's such an amazing city.
Q. We know you're friends with Serena.  Wondering if you went to the baby shower?  It was sort of a retro shower, and if you could tell us what it was like if you were there.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I know, I didn't go.  I was invited but I didn't go, because I was playing in Toronto.  Well, it was right before Toronto and I was in Toronto already.
I was a little bummed out, because I heard it was so much fun, and I heard it was great and they had a great time.
You know, maybe I'll make the next one (smiling).  Just sayin'.
Q. You travel to so many cities throughout the year.  I'm curious what it is about New York that made you want to live here?  Do you remember that moment where you thought this is where I want to get a place to stay?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think New York is so special.  First of all, it's easy to get in and out of New York.  Especially when we have such a busy schedule as we do.  It's a nice base to have in America.
And then, yeah, growing up I went here when I was six years old, first time in New York, and I loved it here.  I just always thought that that would be a really cool place to, a really cool city to have a place in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT