ROGERS CUP
August 13, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/C. Wozniacki
6-4, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough day at the office today for you.  How would you assess your performance out there today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was a tough day.  She played well.  She mixed up the pace and made it uncomfortable for me out there.
Q. I know it's not the result you wanted today, but you've had a great hard court season so far.  You actually lead the tour in hard court wins.  What is it the most that you like about this surface and how does it help you going forward as you approach US Open?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I like that I can move well on it.  And usually it's some somewhat fast, so I can use the speed of the court to my advantage as well.
Q. I'm curious what do you think made the difference in the second set?  Because it was pretty close.  And how tough were the conditions out there especially with the wind?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, the wind was a little bit of a factor but not so much more as it had been earlier in the week.  I think it was tough to serve, especially at the end of the first, middle and end of the first set from that far side.  I thought it was, like, right there.
But other than that, I thought the conditions were good.  And it was obviously warmer than it had been earlier on in the week.
Q. You beat a couple of really big hitters the last two rounds.  Karolina, after you beat her, suggested that you were kind of using her pace against her and doing a good job of that.  Do you prefer playing an opponent like that as opposed to someone who is a bit more of a grinder, a similar style to yourself?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know really.  Today probably I could have used some more pace.  But she played really smart today and, yeah, used my pace to her advantage.
Q. After a match like this or even after a victory, what stats do you pay attention to?  Do you pay attention to winners, errors, first serve percentage?  What stats do you really think you pay attention to?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, not really.  Sometimes the first serve percentage.  That's it.
But mostly, you know, you feel how you played out there and you know what you can improve on.  And you don't look so much at the stats and more at just some key points in the match and what you could improve maybe more tactically than anything.
I think stats you use more when you're playing against an opponent that you don't know that well and maybe look how fast they serve, average first and second serve, and maybe where they go in important moments and how far they are behind the baseline.  It's more things likes that.
Q. A strong tournament here, Caroline.  Just want to get your thoughts on being in Toronto and the week here in Toronto.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I like Toronto a lot.  I think it's a great city.  And people are very friendly and obviously the tournament is great.  They do a great job putting this event on.
You know, I wasn't really expecting much out of myself when I came into the tournament.  Obviously I haven't won a match here before.
But it was a good week and I beat some great players, and I can really take a lot with me and be proud of that.
Q. Especially on days like this, how special is it to have your father in your corner and in your locker room, both on the sidelines as well, because not many players have that luxury.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's nice to have obviously family here and the people closest to me.  It's nice to get that support.  And whether you win or lose, it's nice to -- yeah, just to have that support and go through the ups and downs with them.
Q. Your dad came down during the match.  You seemed a little bit more vocal with him than you normally are.  What were you guys discussing?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'm not sure.  I don't remember right now.  Yeah, I don't remember.
Q. And just you seemed to have a few more unforced errors during that match than you usually do.  Were you going for it a bit more or just not feeling the ball today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, obviously I had to go for it a bit more.  It was longer rallies, so normally you have the opportunity to have more unforced errors.  And it is what it is.
Q. How has the experience working this year with Sascha been?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's been good.  Obviously he has a lot of the experience.  And it's been a nice addition to my team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT