ROGERS CUP
August 12, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/S. Stephens   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Sloane has had such a great week.  You have a really good record against her.  What were some of the keys to getting it done in straight sets today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she was playing really well, I have to say.  I think she played very powerful, very aggressive, great angles and stuff.   
You know, I think I was moving very well and retrieving and just trying to stay aggressive when I could.   
But it was a difficult match.  And I think it was closer than what the score line showed.   
 Q.  When you had to wait a couple minutes before serving out the match after the break, were there any nerves?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think you would rather just keep going.  You know, once you've broken you're kind of like, Let's just get this done.   
But I thought I served pretty well and managed to finish off in a good way.   
 Q.  You mentioned the other day how you changed your hotel up this year, changed your driver up this year.  Wondering, have you look booked them yet for 2019?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's been working so far this year.  So, you know, if I'm back here in two years, then I would definitely do the same.   
 Q.  In all seriousness, with your previous record here in Toronto, how unexpected is the success you're having here this week?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely I know I've been playing really well this year and, you know, beaten a lot of top players.  But at the same time, you know, with a record like I had here in the past, I wasn't really expecting too much of myself.   
But, you know, maybe that's also the key why it's been going so well, because I just walked in and I was more relaxed about the whole thing.   
 Q.  How fresh were you feeling today after finishing yesterday's match five hours after it was scheduled to begin?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I felt fine actually.  I had a good massage and food yesterday and felt fine this morning.   
 Q.  What was the game plan going into today, semifinal?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Just try to stay aggressive, serve well.  And I know that she likes to dictate and she hits the ball powerfully.  So it was important for me to go for the defense and then try to lengthen the ball and the shots so that, you know, it would move her back just a little bit.   
 Q.  How much of a relief is it, then, to be off the court now that it's pouring?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, it's great.  Obviously it's nice to be done now and can relax.  And I can go back to the hotel and relax and watch Game of Thrones and have some good food.   
 Q.  So either Halep or Svitolina tomorrow.  What is your game plan going into that one?  A very different opponent.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Both great players and both play very similarly.  You know, it will be a tough match, long rallies.   
But, you know, I'm going to look forward either way.  It's going to be a good one.   
 Q.  Your opponent had a pretty good run here herself and coming off a long break.  I think she was off almost a year.  What did you make of her fitness level and just her fighting spirit out there?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I thought she played very well.  You don't get to the semifinals of a big tournament like this without playing really good tennis.   
And I was very impressed with how she was handling herself out there, especially when she hasn't been playing for a long time.  It's not easy.   
But I thought she played very aggressively.  She wasn't going for too much.  At times she could also just hold the ball in place but mixing up the pace.  I think she was playing really well.   
 Q.  Is it safe to say this is the most fun you've had while in Toronto?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, it's always more fun when you're winning.  So definitely.   
 Q.  You took out the No. 1 seed yesterday.  Just when you enter a tournament like this with the depth of the women's game right now, does it feel like anybody can really win up and down the whole tournament?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really think too much about others when I'm out there on court.  I just think about myself and what I need to do.  And every time I step out on the court, I believe I can win.  And that's really the way I think.   
 Q.  You were asked earlier this week about your thoughts of Karolina assuming the role of World No. 1 and talked about your experiences when you were in that position.  And I got the vibe that it was very much, you know, you've been there, you've done that.  But with the success you're having this year, does that now cross your mind that you could get back to that position and what would that mean to you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think everyone wants to be No. 1, and I think everyone that's their dream.  If it happens, it happens and I will be very happy obviously.  But if it doesn't, then that's okay too.  You know, I just try and play my best and do my best.   
And, you know, I've obviously been there before.  So, yeah, obviously it would be awesome to go back, but it's not something that I'm really thinking too much about.  I just think about the tournament that I'm playing at this moment.   
 Q.  Will you do anything different in your preparation for tomorrow's final?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No.  I'll keep doing the same thing and just stay consistent.  And, yeah, keep to the routine.  It's been working so far.   
 Q.  It's your sixth final of the year and you're still looking for your first win.  Does that weigh on your mind at all?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not unless I get asked about it.  (Laughter.)   
So, you know, I put myself in great positions and, you know, I'm going to try and make the most of it tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT