ROGERS CUP
August 11, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/K. Pliskova.   
7-5, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Down 5-1 in the first set, you break and then the rain comes.  Did that rain delay help you turn the match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, the rain came before that.  So, you know, we kind of went on and off from the start, basically.  So it wasn't really at 5-1 when it started raining.   
So it is the same for both, obviously, and I just kept fighting and just kept doing my thing.   
 Q.  Karolina said she didn't feel that you changed tactics at all, that you were just very solid playing your game and she kind of started to break down a bit.  Did you feel like that's true or did you change your approach?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I thought she started off really strongly and she was attacking and playing really, really well.   
And after that, I feel like I stepped a little bit closer to the line just to try and take away a little bit of time.  I once I kind of got on a roll, I started serving better.   
But other than that, I just tried to stay steady, tried to take the ball on the rise and try to stay aggressive when I could and keep my serves aggressive too.   
 Q.  You mentioned your serving just now.  It seems like that's something that worked a lot for you in this match and it's something that you have improved generally.  Could you talk about that a little bit?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, just something I've really been working on.  And it was really working for me today and it was important in the match today.  So I was very happy and pleased with that.   
 Q.  Can I ask you, in the bigger picture, what you think has turned around for you in the last year that you have been able to have such a resurgence in your career back up to six from, I think, down in the 70s someplace.  What do you think you've been able to tap into?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think obviously when you're hurt and you can't play, you know, it's one thing, and when you can't practice.   
So, you know, staying healthy has really been key.  Probably changing my approach a little bit, too, to my workouts and stuff just to really focus on my body has been a big thing.   
And, yeah, then it kind of starting going my way and, yeah, started playing well and playing better and get the confidence.   
 Q.  Was experience important today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think it was more -- I think I was maybe a little bit less tired towards the end.  You know, I just kept hanging in there.   
And I thought we both played a really good match.  So I think mostly I think I was just -- I tried to keep steady also in the end.   
 Q.  Your first career win today over somebody while they held the No. 1 ranking.  How does that feel?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Good, I guess.  Obviously she's had a great year and she's been playing really well.  I don't really think about it too much.  I knew I was going to play someone that was really tough today, and I'm just happy with my win and that's really it.   
 Q.  You mentioned on court that you've run a marathon before.  Was this marathon today more fun?  Was it more grueling?  How did it compare?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You can't really compare it.  It was definitely a little easier.  Both are fun, both are different.   
Obviously, this is my job and this is what I do and, you know, I kind of know what to expect.  A marathon you have no idea what to expect and it was really, really, really hard and, at the same time, was a great experience.  So a bit of both.   
 Q.  I know you just finished but have you started to think about your next match yet?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I haven't really.  You know, either way, it's going to be tough opponents.  So I'm just happy to be there.   
 Q.  You mentioned earlier this week that you've been doing things a little differently in Toronto and obviously you've come very close to winning this year.  I know this is looking ahead, but what would it be like to get a win here in Toronto?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: That would be great.  It's a big tournament and everybody's been playing this week.  And, you know, I just try to do my best.  I don't look too far ahead.  And it's been a good week so far.   
 Q.  How challenging was it in your first set with all the rain delays and the interruptions?  How did you manage to stay focused and eventually turn that set?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's okay.  I've had a lot of rain delays this year, so wasn't really too worried or too concerned.  You can't really change the weather.   
So I just think about what's in my control, and I was ready when we had to be ready.   
 Q.  You said you had a lot of the rain delays.  Do you have like a routine you do during rain delays or does it depend on how long it is?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, like today we were on the court for a lot of the time.  So you don't really have much of a routine.  I just kind of relaxed and chilled for a while.   
 Q.  Is Sascha the highest level of play in terms of hitting partners that you've had and can you talk about a couple of specific things he's helped you with.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think every hitting partner that I've had has been great and has been working really hard and doing everything, you know, in a great way.   
You know, Sascha obviously have the experience and stuff, and it's been working well so far.   
 Q.  When you look at the last year, what have you learned about yourself coming from 74th to 6th in the world?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I just think I'm enjoying it a little bit more.  And I just think I've learned to tone down some of the workouts and really just tailor it to my body.   
Because, you know, everyone wants to stay young.  And I'm not old, but, you know, I've been on tour for many years and, you know, getting older and the body can't handle the same as it used to when I was 18, 19.  So I just had to really think of that.   
And I had some time to just be home and enjoy spending some time with friends and family and then came back and was recharged.  So it was nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT