ROGERS CUP
August 10, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/A. Radwanska   
6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How does your approach change when you're playing against somebody for the seventeenth time in 10 years?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I've known Aga since we were probably five and six or six and seven.  So there's really no surprises or, you know, any secrets.   
So nothing really changes.  We got there and we battle it out every time.  And, you know, we've played each other a million times also in juniors and in practice.  And, you know, we hit together a lot.   
So, yeah, every match we just go out there and we try our best.   
 Q.  You've had two pretty nice score lines in your matches so far this year.  Is it safe to say you have lifted the curse of playing in Toronto?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think I lifted it in the last match.  I won my match and I was happy with that, and then I could kind of just move on from there.   
And, you know, I'm happy to be through to the quarters here for the first time.   
 Q.  When you come to a tournament that you've played so many times before but haven't had success at, does that weigh on you?  Is that something you're conscious of coming in?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's the only tournament where I have ever played where I've tried so many times and haven't been successful at all.  So obviously you think about it.   
And to be honest with you, I just laughed at it and I said, You know what?  I'm going to change something up.   
So I usually have had a driver here and I changed that.  And then I changed my hotel.  And it's like, I'm going to mix that up too.  I'm going to try everything to try and win this time.   
And maybe it isn't the driver or the hotel or the food, but, you know, I'm winning.  So I'm going to stick to this.   
 Q.  It looked like Aga was really starting to come back at 5-Love, saving those match points.  How important was it for you to have a strong start in that next game to close it out as efficiently as you did.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I definitely didn't want to give her any belief there.  She played some good points there when I was up 5-Love and 40-Love, and she played some steady points.   
And, yeah, 5-1, I was, like, I'm still ahead and I just need to try and stay aggressive.   
 Q.  So you're playing Karolina Pliskova the next round, her first tournament as the World No. 1.  Any thoughts on that match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, she's obviously having a great season and playing really well.  And we've had tough matches against each other this year as well.  And I'm just looking forward to playing her.   
You know, it's going to be tough, but I'm just going to go out there and try my best.   
 Q.  If you look back at the time you spent as the World No. 1, how did you find that period transitioning into that role and what was the most difficult part about assuming that responsibility?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was actually just really enjoying it.  You know, it's a dream come true.  It's something that I dreamed of since I was a little girl.  And I was very lucky and fortunate and, obviously, worked hard to get there.  And, you know, I just enjoyed every moment.   
I think the hardest part was I remember, I think, I lost the finals to Vera Zvonareva -- or semifinals.  I don't remember -- and she was No. 2 in the world at the time.   
And I come back in my press conference and my first question was like, You must be extremely disappointed.  How does it feel losing to someone who's lower ranked than you?   
And I was like, Is that a serious question or are you actually just joking right now?   
But that's serious.  And I was just like, Well, if you haven't noticed, everyone is lowered ranked than me at the moment.   
So at that point, I was just like, you know, I'm playing great players and, you know, it is what it is.  You just kind of have to go with it and enjoy it and just laugh at some of the comments you get along the way.   
 Q.  It's going to be the fourth time you play Pliskova this season.  Just talk a little bit about the match-up because the others have been pretty tight.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, we've had tight matches this year.  And I lost twice and I won once.   
And obviously she's a great player.  She's playing very aggressive and she's playing fast.  She's had a great year.   
And it's going to be difficult, but I'm looking forward to it.  I'm going to have fun out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT