THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 10, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. VANDEWEGHE/C. Wozniacki   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously she's a good player on grass.  How tough is it matching up against her?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was tough today.  She served very well.  I thought she played pretty consistent.  You know, I think she played pretty good volleys, too, when she had to, came up with those.   
So it was tough.  I didn't get many openings on her serve.  When I did, she came up with a good serve.  Yeah, that was key today.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the way you played today, putting it to such a forceful player?  What do you think you showed?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: What?   
 Q.  You played such a strong match, a tight match.  What do you think you showed, for people who are always asking you, can a counter-puncher stay with a forceful, aggressive player?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think, first of all, I don't play tennis for anyone else.  You know, I play tennis for myself.  I love being out there, you know.  I'm not there to prove anything to anyone except for myself.   
It was, yeah, a tough match.  It was close.  Maybe if I'd gotten that first set tiebreaker, maybe it would have been different.   
Again, it's the small things on grass, as well.  When she had to, she came up with big serves today.  So hats off to her for playing a good match.   
 Q.  There's been a fair amount of discussion with the women today about court assignments, men getting more assignments on the top two courts.  How much of a lingering issue is this for women at Wimbledon?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think that's something we've talked about at Wimbledon for the last 10 years.  It's been the same for 10 years straight.  I think the other Grand Slams are more equal, positioning of men's and women's matches, whereas here there's always two men's and one women's on Centre Court.  Most days, as well, there's more men's matches on Court 1, too.   
It is what it is.  I play wherever they put me basically.   
 Q.  How would you compare the depth on the tour now to the way it was when you started?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think definitely the depth is deeper.  I think there's a lot of good players that on a good day can beat any given player.  It's all about being able to do that on a consistent level.  That differentiates the top players from the rest.   
But there's definitely quite a few players that on a good day can go in and hit winners right and left.  Yeah, I think it's a strong tour.   
 Q.  Looking at the draw now, is there anyone you look at who is favorite to win the title?  Jo is into the quarters now.  Is she somebody that you think could win now?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really look at the draw.  At this point, when I'm not in it...  I mean, I don't really pay much attention to it any more.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT