THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/A. Kontaveit
3-6, 7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough out there, but you made it through.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I did make it through, yeah.  It definitely was a tough match, but happy the way I fought.  I didn't give up.  I felt her getting just a little bit nervous towards the end, and I took advantage of that.
Q. The way the draw was shaping up in the ladies' competition, it's wide open now.  Do you have excitement about that?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I just play.  I never look at the draw.  I never really know anything.  I just play.  I have a match in front of me, and I try to beat the opponent that is right in front of me.
I don't really worry too much about anything else.
Q. Do you feel like it took you a while to adjust to her game today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I felt like I wasn't playing my best in the beginning.  It definitely took me a while to get into it.  But I thought I played really well in the third set and in the end of the second set.  I was pleased to just keep fighting.  I started just, you know, going for it a little bit more.  At that point I had nothing to lose.
Q. Unlike the other majors, at Wimbledon the second Monday, all the men and all the women who are left are in action.  What are your thoughts about what that day must be like for fans?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think it's awesome for the fans.  You know, they get to watch so many of the top names playing at the same time, get to play on the outer courts, as well.  I think for the fans, it's great.
Q. What are your thoughts on facing Coco Vandeweghe?  You played two times and won both, but neither was recent.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She's a big server and a big hitter.  Obviously she likes the grass, so it's not going to be an easy one.
For now, I'm just happy I survived today.  I'm not really too worried yet about Monday.  I'm just going to enjoy to have won today.  Obviously it's going to be really difficult when Monday comes around.  But, yeah, I'll take that when that day comes.
Q. What was your opponent's biggest weakness today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know.  I think she played very well.  She has played against tough opponents, given a lot of people trouble.  I was very pleased with my win today.
I can't really say what was her biggest weakness.  I think she played very well.
Q. Do you feel better prepared for facing a big hitter like Vandeweghe on Monday after facing a big hitter today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Probably.  But I guess we won't know until Monday comes around.  Yeah, I definitely think I played a big hitter today.  I managed to get out of that.  I've been playing a lot of big hitters lately.
Q. There are a few of them around.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, and a lot in my draws lately, too, yeah.
Q. Early on we were interested that you used boxing as part of your training regime.  Courageously you ran the New York Marathon.  We in the United States love our NBA.  Can you share what you've been learning about hoops and basketball recently?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I've always been a fan of basketball.  I think it's a great sport.  It's fun to watch.  A lot of things happening.  It's impressive that these big guys can do what they do.
Q. Are you a Spurs fan?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, I have been I suppose.  But my first proper team was obviously the Heat.  I still support them.  Obviously my boyfriend plays for the Spurs, so I support the Spurs.  I support wherever he plays.
Q. You saw some games with Serena, she's your friend.  Have you been in touch with her?  Can you share a little bit there?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I talk to Serena all the time.  She's doing great.  Yeah, I'm very happy for her.  She's going into a very exciting time.
Q. Do you think she'll make you an honorary aunt?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I would think so.  I would think I'm a great baby-sitter.  I'm not sure she agrees.  She has told me already some set rules that I'm not allowed to do that I usually -- I usually have candy around the house.  That's not allowed any more.  I'm trying to follow her rules, but we'll see.
Q. So much of success, whether it's athletics or being an artist, just about anything, is refining your skills and working at it.  What motivates you most to fine-tune your craft?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I hate losing, so that's motivation enough in itself.  I love winning.  That's why I'm out there.  I want to win every match.  That's really what motivates me.
Q. What match do you think in your career you've learned the very most from?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's been a lot.  I don't have a very good memory.  I can't really tell you one.
I think there was one against Serena in Sydney where I had match points like years and years ago when I was just coming up, and I lost.  I think I learned a lot from that match.
Q. You spoke a while ago about the number of big hitters in your draw.  What is the challenge to dictate when you're playing a big hitter?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you need to be ready from the start.  You need to be ready for the first two shots.  That's really the challenge, to be able to redirect from the start.  You know, once you get into defense, there's almost no way out of it.  You need to try and stay aggressive yourself.
Q. Before the US Open last year, you'd been struggling for results for a long time.  What do you think is the secret of how you've turned it around, now in great form this year?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't know if that's correct.  I mean, obviously I had an injury that had me out for quite a while.  Then I didn't play much at the U.S. hard court season.  I played the Olympics.  I played one match in Washington, then had to retire.
I've been staying healthy since the US Open basically.  It all started kind of coming together.  I've been able to stay healthy so far from that point on.  Yeah, I work hard, and results show.
Q. Do you think fitness is the key?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, if I'm not fit, I can't run a lot of balls down, and I can't get into position to hit the balls where I want to.  So obviously that's a big key for me.
Q. You're a proud Danish citizen, but spent a lot of time in the United States.  Can you say one thing that the States could learn most from the Danish approach or culture, what would you say?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: There's a lot of things.  One of the things I love about Denmark is that everyone -- I think everyone loves to spend time outside.  Everybody bikes everywhere.  I think that's awesome.  It keeps it very sporty and very healthy.  I think that's one of the great things.
Q. That might be an upgrade for Midtown Manhattan?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: New York is trying to get the bike paths.  But Denmark is still way, way ahead on that one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT