AEGON INTERNATIONAL
July 1, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/C. Wozniacki
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Commiserations.  It looked like a good battle out there.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was definitely a good battle out there.  I thought both of us played very well.  I think it was pretty high level from both of us.
Q. The conditions seemed a little blustery at the start.  Can you talk us through what it was like out there on court?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I actually thought they were pretty good conditions.  No wind and not too cold and not too hot.  Yeah, I thought it was pretty decent.
Q. If ever there was a crucial game, second set, sixth game?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I played one bad shot, I feel like, in the whole match and that came in that game where I missed a forehand where I went for it, and it kind of just, yeah, just kind of went away from me a little bit.  But at least I went for it.  I did the right thing.  I just didn't hit the right shot.
You know, in the end of the day, you have to go for it and it is what it is, I guess.
Q. What aspects of your game were you happy with today?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I was happy with most of my game.  I think I played really well.  I hit good forehands and backhands and I served well.  Yeah, so I think I moved well, too.  So I think there is a lot of positives to take with.
Q. Obviously in your last match you were a little bit in discomfort with the injury, but today it didn't seem to be anywhere near as bad.  Is that right?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It definitely felt better today.  And also, I got taped up before the match and that helped.
Yeah, I was ready for it.  It was important for me to serve well today.  I knew that, so definitely did everything I could to be ready for today.  It felt good.
Q. In terms of preparation, the grass court season is so short.  I think people don't really appreciate that it's more about getting a feel for the grass more than overplaying.  Is that right?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  For me, I really enjoy playing here the week before Wimbledon.  I have played well here.  I feel at home.  It's been great to get the feel, because especially on the grass, if you don't feel 100% comfortable, it can be pretty tricky.
That's why I think I'm feeling good, and hopefully that will mean that I can play well at Wimbledon next week.
Q. Obviously many people have already told you who you're going to be playing in the first round.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I'm playing Babos.  She's a good player.  She serves well and hits big shots.  I just have to keep playing the way I have been playing and hopefully it will be enough.
Q. You're obviously quite friendly with Serena.  I wonder what you made of John McEnroe putting out men's world No. 700?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't really think you should be comparing like that.  You know, if you want to compare results, then, you know, I think the greatest tennis players of all times right now is, in my opinion, is Roger and Serena, and if you want to compare results, then compare the two greats.  That's only fair.
Q. Is there a particular pleasure that you have in playing at Eastbourne on the grass here?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's great.  You know, the crowd is always amazing and coming out and supporting, and I feel like it's the same faces you see year in and year out.  Yeah, the grass just suits me here.  Yeah, I enjoy it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT