AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 30, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/H. Watson
6-2, 3-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How is the injury?  What was it affecting in your game in the second set?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It was my ab, left side of the ab.  I felt it when I was serving.  I wasn't really affected by it in any other way, but yeah, I got some treatment on it now.
Hopefully by tomorrow it will be better.  We'll see.  It's not that bad, but it's something that can get worse if I don't watch out.
Q. Just talk about today's match.  It was a sort of tough sprint to the end.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It definitely was very tough.  Heather is a great player.  We always have tough fights when we're out there on court.  I knew it was going to be a difficult one today, but I was pleased to finish it off.
Q. What are your thoughts on playing Pliskova tomorrow?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's going to be a tough match.  Obviously she didn't play today so she will be more well rested for tomorrow.  That's a small advantage, but at the same time, I'm just excited to be in another finals this year.  Hopefully I will try to make it fourth time lucky (smiling).
Q. Is it as much of an advantage as people think if you don't get to play, I suppose especially with the way the schedule was mapped out this week?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely.  I mean, have played eight sets in a day and a half.  That's a lot.  That's a lot of tennis.  So definitely it's an advantage for her to be able to rest and just kind of do her normal routine with getting some stretching and stuff done or whatever she does.
She'll definitely be feeling, you know, fresh tomorrow compared to me, but at the same time, you know, I'm pleased to have gotten a great match in today.  Yeah, I feel very happy and good on the grass.
Q. The home crowd have lost their two special favorites.  Do you think they might adopt you tomorrow?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I hope so (smiling).  I feel I usually have great support here.  I'm hoping that they will come back out tomorrow and support me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT