AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 29, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/S. Halep
5-7, 6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. There is something about Eastbourne that agrees with you.  You have never not made the semifinal here.  What is it about this particular tournament that gels?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I really enjoy it here.  I think it's a great event.  I think centre court is very cozy.  I like how the fans are sitting close to the players.
I don't know.  I really enjoy it here.  It's been a good tournament for me over the years.
Q. It's been a tricky time, obviously.  Two matches in one day.  That's nothing new, but how do you sort of keep yourself amused during rain delays?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I kind of just read or watch a series, relax, eat.  There's not really much else to do.
Q. Your first match today, no disrespect to Elena, but was that a little bit easier than you expected?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I thought actually she played well.  I really felt like I was hitting everything and everything was going my way.  I served really well and put a lot of pressure on her.
Obviously she loves grass.  Has had great results on grass.  I knew she was going to be a tricky opponent and I had to be focused from start till finish.  I was pleased how I managed to finish it off.
Q. Simona's match, you were in control in the first set.  What happened?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I was in control and felt like I was really dictating the game.  Even at 4-1 I still felt like I was dictating, but all of a sudden, even when she was in the corner, all of a sudden she came up with these crazy shots and angles.  It's, like, I don't know what to do with that.
You know, I think she really stepped it up and really started to play well and forced me to do some errors and really go even more for my shots.
And then obviously it's frustrating losing a set like that, but then I just kept keeping my head down and tried to keep staying aggressive.  It paid out in the end.
Q. Some thoughts about your next match.  You're either going to be face Barbora Strycova or Heather Watson next.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, they are both tough opponents.  Obviously we're all going to have a lot of tennis in our legs tomorrow.
It's all about just recovering and eating well tonight.  It's going to be tough regardless of who I play.
Q. The tennis club is putting together a book to be produced in 2020 when the completion of the redevelopment here is finished.  I wondered if you have a recollection, a memory, because you have been here a few times, a humorous anecdote that we might be able to use in the book, or even just a general reflection on Devonshire Park?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I love Eastbourne, obviously.  I have won the tournament here before.  That brings back great tournaments.  It's a few years now since I won here, but every year I come back I really look forward to it.
I get excited and have my favorite restaurants to go to.  You kind of know your way around, and I really enjoy that about Eastbourne.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT