ROLAND GARROS
June 6, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/C. Wozniacki   
4-6, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  She's been a tough opponent for you in the past couple of matches, and you have played plenty of big hitters or aggressive hitters in your career.  What makes her such a difficult opponent?  What is it that she does that gives you so much trouble?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think she's played very well every time she plays me.  She goes for her shots.  Her shots are hard to read, so you don't really feel comfortable at any point in the match.   
 Q.  Long day obviously with the matches going on and off.  What was the toughest part of all the breaks and everything?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I guess this year I have been used to it.  Almost every tournament I played I have had rain delays.  So it wasn't really anything new.   
In the beginning of the match, yeah, first two sets really was extremely windy out there, which made it tricky and was hard to get a rhythm.   
But other than that, you know, you just have to try and stay focused and go for your targets, or at least that was my thinking.  I guess she didn't think so.  She was going for her lines.   
In the first set, she was missing but then she started hitting it a few inches from the line the whole time.   
 Q.  When you look back at how you have played at Roland Garros over the last week and a half, did you think you have played your best tennis for the past couple of years?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, yeah, I didn't play last year, so coming back this year was nice.  You know, it's obviously the Grand Slam that I have had the hardest at and the one I probably like the least.   
But, you know, at the end of the day, I tried my best.  Today it wasn't good enough.  But now I'm going to try and do better next time.   
 Q.  What makes her a difficult opponent?  Obviously you have played her before without much success, as well, I think a few times this year on clay, as well.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, as I said before, she's a big hitter.  You know, she doesn't go for the big targets.  She goes for the lines.  Going in, she's tough to read, you don't really feel comfortable.  It's hard to read her shots.  That's what makes it tough to get to the balls.   
 Q.  Obviously you weren't enjoying the wind but you were doing well on the scoreboard while it was at its worst.  Wondering if you'd have wished it could keep going, because those conditions were more favorable to you than to her.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I don't know.  It's easy to sit now and say I maybe would have won if it was more windier.  You know, but in the end of the day, I didn't win.  She played better than me, and I just have to respect that and try and do better next time.   
 Q.  You said her game is hard to read.  Does that have something to do with her technique, which is quite distinct and different?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, you know, it looks like she hits it late a lot of the time, and you think she won't be able to do crosscourt or down the line in certain moments, and she does anyway.   
But, you know, in the end of the day, obviously she's playing well.  She has been playing well, especially against me.  I don't know how she's been playing, you know, in the other tournaments throughout the year, but, you know, I feel like she's beaten some good players.  So obviously she's on her way up.   
 Q.  Does this equal your best performance here and does this give you confidence for the rest of the season, favorite part of the season coming up soon?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I try to do my best.  I keep my head down and try and work hard and try and get better.  Obviously I love grass.  I love playing on grass.  I think it's such a great surface.  I really enjoy Wimbledon, and obviously the US Open is around the corner.  I'm really, really looking forward to that.  You know, those are some of my favorite tournaments throughout the year.  I'm looking forward to that part.   
 Q.  Does it feel like a lost chance for you, considering the draw?  Is there another emotion that's, you know, overwhelming?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, in the end of the day, I did my best and I tried to win today.  It didn't happen for me.  You know, in the end of the day, I'm just looking at it in this certain match.  And, you know, I'm going to get another chance in a few weeks at Wimbledon, and I'm going to try to take advantage of that.   
 Q.  Looking at the stat sheet, you had fewer winners today than the last couple of matches.  Is that, like you said, hitting with more margins or was she not letting you set up the way you were able to against Bellis and Kuznetsova?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think a little bit of both.  Obviously the wind in the beginning was pretty crazy.  And it was hard to really go for the lines and really go for it and then get a good rhythm.  She just kept me on my back foot for most of the second part of the match.   
It's hard to hit winners from behind the baseline or really out wide, you know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT