US OPEN
August 31, 2019
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. ANDREESCU/C. Wozniacki
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What regrets would you have in the match? You had a couple of openings at different times.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think if anything I wish I could have served better today. It wasn't as easy with the sun, obviously for both of us. But if there is one thing that I could change, it would probably be that.
Otherwise I think she's playing very well and, you know, mixing up the pace. She's taking it early. She has a lot of shots in her game that she can pull out. I tried my best. I fought hard. That's it.
Q. The foot...
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think I just jammed it or did something like that. I'm not sure exactly. I went to the physio just to check it out. But it's okay. It's fine.
Q. When you came back in the second, did you see anything different? Did you see anything different in her game that you maybe took advantage of?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, not really. Just, you know, she mixes up the pace well, and if she gave me a short ball I tried to take advantage of that, just as well as she did take advantage of my short balls.
Q. You faced her in January. How different was she today on the court? Did you see any evolution in her game?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Honestly, I'm not sure. I think she played very well in January, as well. I didn't know her back then. Obviously she's had a great year. A lot of the players know who she is. She's made a mark. She's won two big tournaments this year. Obviously she's playing well.
You know, I'm sure she'll continue playing well if she can stay healthy.
Q. The Grand Slam season is over and obviously you probably didn't get to play nearly as many matches as you wanted to. How motivated are you to go to Asia and try to end the year on as high of a note as you can?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Obviously there is few tournaments left and I'm just going to try to do my best. You know, the positives I can take with me from this week is that my body has been feeling good. It was feeling good the week leading up to here, so hopefully I can continue that and finish off on a high note, as you said.
Obviously it wasn't the best year for me, but really, there's nothing you can do when your body sometimes doesn't cooperate. At this point you just have to stay positive, and I'm going to go into Asia feeling like I can play some good tennis and pull off some good shots.
Q. You're the most famous and important athlete in Denmark. Of course when you lose, do you feel sometimes you're sorry also for our media colleagues that sometimes follow you and they have to go back home because once you lose, there's not money enough to support them when they are abroad? Is it something you have ever thought is also related to your wins and defeats and losses?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I mean, if I had to think about every single person that I should feel sorry for when I lose, then I think my life would be very sad, you know. I think the people that expect a lot out of me, in the end of the day, all I can do is do my best. All I can do is every day go out there and fight my hardest and try and win. In the end of the day, that's all you can do.
You know, it's tennis. Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose. I think I have had a great career with a lot of wins, so I think, you know, everyone has had a lot to write about over the years (smiling).
Q. It's true what you said, but at the same time, there are countries where journalists, media, can afford to stay even if their own bigger player lose. My question was related to how important is tennis to Denmark also when you're not around?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I think, you know, in Italy you have a lot of players that you can follow and there's a lot of players on tour. So I think that's also the difference. In America you have a bunch of players playing in the tournament. We have some young ones coming up. You know, hopefully they one day can carry it on, you know.
I hope that I have made a good path and shown the way. And now it's also the young ones' turn to, they have already done well in the juniors, and we had one guy going to college and now also going, playing in the quallies here and winning a few matches.
You know, we have some other players now that are on their way.
Q. What's most unique about her game compared to most players?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I think the one that I can most compare her game to would probably be Kim back in the day, Clijsters. I think because she moves well and she can stretch out and get to some balls and also play the aggressive and using the angles. Obviously she prefers the forehand just like Kim.
But she can move around the backhand and put the angle on it, so I think if I were to kind of compare to someone I know, everyone has their own style, but for me, playing her, it's a little bit brings me back to when I played Kim.
Q. It's too soon probably to tell, but do you think you'll stay in New York for a few weeks? What is your thought process and how do you prepare for Asia?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I'll stay here for a little bit. I have an exhibition in Greenbrier in a couple of weeks, 10 days, couple of weeks. So, yeah, I'm going to stay around for a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT