ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/S. Kuznetsova   
6-1, 4-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  As somebody I think who doesn't always love the clay, that's a pretty darn good win for you.  Talk about that.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was definitely a good win.  Svetlana obviously plays really well on this surface.  I knew it was going to be a tough match going in.   
I started off really, really well.  My game plan was working and kind of kept her on her toes with putting in some dropshots and mixing up the pace.  I knew it wasn't going to be easy.  I knew that she was going to try to fight her way back.  She did in the second set, but I managed to close it off in three, which I'm happy about.   
 Q.  It's been a while since you have been in the quarterfinals here.  What do you put your return to form down to?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I felt good all year.  I have been playing well and confidently.  I felt pretty good going into the tournament.   
Yeah, obviously it's just kind of clicking this week.  Hopefully I can keep going this way.   
 Q.  How do you keep yourself from getting negative about clay?  We have seen players over the years, especially American men, who give up on the French Open because they don't like clay and be okay with an early exit.  How do you keep the faith going at this point in your career?  You have been here a lot of times and had not great results here, but now you're going as far as ever.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I just try and stay positive every time.  It's a Grand Slam.  I'm going to do the best that I can.   
You know, doesn't matter if I feel like I'm comfortable or not comfortable.  In the end of the day I'm just here to do my job, try and win, and that's that.   
You know, I stay positive.  I feel like I can play well on any surface, and I really believe that.  I have won tournaments on the red clay, too, so it's not like it's foreign to me.  But, yeah, it's a surface where it's been very much up and down throughout my career.  But now I just try and stay focused and keep my head down.   
 Q.  You have had some quite different matches on the way to the quarterfinal, because you had three long ones and a double bagel.  What do you take more out of?  When you destroy somebody or come through like you did today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, you obviously want to win quick (smiling).  I mean, I think if you ask anyone they would want to win two sets all tournament and get the win.  But in the end of the day, a win is a win, I'm going to take it no matter how it looks and what the result is.  You know, I felt like I played some good tennis today, which I'm proud of.   
 Q.  Judging by some of the photos, you had a pretty brilliant day the other day.  Wondering how much general happiness helps, comes into your tennis and whether that's making a difference?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it definitely does.  I think if everything is calm and good in life, it makes it much easier to focus on the court.  I have great support.  I have great people with me here.  It's nice to know that they have my back no matter what.   
 Q.  Everyone says you're enjoying your tennis, playing positively.  How important is it for you to have that competitive streak, as well?  It's not just about being nice on the court.  You can be ruthless when you need to be, as well.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think it's important for me to fight for every point and stay positive out there no matter the result or no matter what's going on.   
You know, that's how I have won a lot of matches throughout my career.  It's just grinding.  You know, just trying the best that I can and finding ways to win.   
 Q.  You mentioned the dropshots.  That's not usually your thing, particularly on the forehand side.  Was that something you have been working on recently?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I mean, I have been working on a lot of things.  You know, it's one thing that early in my career I would get told off from.  But I guess they have more faith in me now, so now they're, like, We should try these dropshots and see how they work.   
They have been working so far.  I haven't gotten a slap on the wrist yet (smiling).  Yeah, it's all good.   
 Q.  I'm sure you have heard about the terror attack in London.  Are you at all worried about going to London or the UK at the moment?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I think, you know, it's obviously very awful what's happening or what's happened the last few weeks and obviously what happened here in the past, as well.  You know, I don't know what you can do to prevent it.   
In the end of the day, I think they are here and the UK trying to do everything they can to keep the security at the highest level, and I think here they are doing a good job.  I'm sure that when we go to the UK to play, they will do a great job, too.   
 Q.  Sam Stosur or Ostapenko next.  How does your game match up with them?  How do you fancy your chances?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Definitely two tough opponents, two very different opponents.  Sam loves the clay.  She's had great results here in the past.  She has a big serve, a big kick, good forehand, moves well.   
Either one is going to be tough.  Ostapenko goes for her shots and plays flat.  When she's on fire, she's tough.  I think she can be a little bit more up and down.   
But both very tough opponents playing really well so far this tournament.  Regardless, it's going to be a hard one.   
 Q.  Do you think this better run on clay, are you shifting your game towards clay or trying to sort of be surface neutral and play your standard game and hope it's good enough to translate to anything, just in terms of adjustments either way?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, I don't think you can play the same game on all surfaces.  You definitely need to adapt.  Otherwise, you know, shots that would work well on hard court doesn't work as well here.   
You definitely need to mix the pace more up here.  You need to try and get more depth on hard court sometimes.  You can get away with some shorter balls or some balls that have less angle.  Here you really need to have a purpose with every shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT