ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/C. Bellis
6-2, 2-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. How was it just overnight?  I know it's probably not the first time you have been in this situation, but just what was it like for you to stay in the right mindset?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's always tough.  You know, once you start a match you want to finish it.  It's tough coming back, but it's the same for both of us.
Honestly, last night I just came home, didn't want to think about the match, because the more you think about it, the less you can sleep.  I just watched a series, that kind of got my mind off of it, I got a great night's sleep.  Came out here early, prepared, prepared like it was any other match.
Q. What did you watch?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Actually, I just started watching "Billions."  It's pretty good.  I'm enjoying it so far.
Q. What do you think of CiCi's game?  She's already top 50 at a pretty young age, as you would know something about.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, she's young, playing well.  I have a lot of respect for her game and the way she's grinding.  I think we are going to see a lot more of her in the future.  Obviously you never know what's going to happen, but at the same time, you know, she's one of those youngsters I see working very hard, and fighting for every point, which is, you know, she just keeps her head down.  I like that about her.
Q. Next up is Svetlana Kuznetsova.  You have played her many times.  It's going to be the first meeting on clay.  How do you look forward to that match?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I look forward to it.  We have had a lot of crazy matches in the past, and some thrillers.  You know, she obviously loves the clay.
I would give a little bit of the favoritism to her, but at the same time I feel like I have been playing well.  Hopefully I can play well tomorrow and I win the match (smiling).
Q. Today was a new day.  How important was it for you to win the third set in a good fashion?  Does that give you confidence going into tomorrow's game?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it was all about just winning today.  I didn't really care if it was pretty or ugly, as long as it was a win, I was happy.  To finish off with two aces is very unusual for me, especially on clay.
I was happy with that.  I really stayed focused.  Did what I had to do out there.
Q. I was wondering if you have seen Serena around?  If you did, what's it like seeing her pregnant?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, it's awesome.  Obviously I already saw her pregnant before, but we had lunch the other day.  It was really awesome.  She's in a great, great place.  I'm really happy for her.
Q. Both No. 1s have been struggling, men and women.  You have been under that spotlight, if you can relate to the pressures and tension feel different when you're at the very top of the ladder?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think it's important just to keep your head down and not think much, honestly.  Everyone sees you as a target and everyone wants to find a way to beat you.
Also, you know, whether you want it or not, there is a lot of pressure from the media, as well.  If you lose a match, doesn't matter if you lose to No. 2 in the world, I remember I got a question when I lost I think to Zvonareva, at the time she was 2.  How does it feel to have a disappointing loss to someone who is lower ranked than you?  I was, like, she's No. 2 in the world.  It's not like I lost to someone who is bad.
I think you just -- yeah, I just didn't read anything about myself or about the tennis, really.  I just kind of did what I had to do out there and just focused.
Q. It's the Champions League final tonight.  How excited are you to watch Liverpool in the Champions League next season?  Are you hoping to go to 20 games?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, obviously I would love to go to some Liverpool games, and especially Champions League next year.  It's been a few years now since we have been in Champions League.  So I'm very pleased with that.  I think we have a great team.  I think Klopp is going to add a couple more players.  I think he's done a really great job.
I'm excited for next season.
Q. I don't know if you have heard, but Liverpool are in talks with Mohamed Salah, the Egyptian guy.  Do you know him at all?  He plays in Roma and was in Chelsea.
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Okay.  Honestly, I haven't -- I don't know much about him, but, you know, I think if they are in talks with him, it means he can help the club.  That would be awesome.
Q. Going back to a bit of earlier question, I have been in your press conference you had to, especially when you were No. 1, you had to defend your position to the people and you were under a lot of pressure in that sense.  At what point did you get comfortable with that and just let go?  Has it changed for you or do you still feel when you're talking to the press or the public that you have something to prove?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I honestly never felt like I had anything to prove.  I think that's what a lot of times -- I don't know.  Maybe the media feel like they want me to prove something, whereas, I'm, like, hey, I'm just living my dream.  I love what I do.  I'm playing well.  I honestly don't feel any pressure.  You know, I go out there every day.  I try and be better.  That's all I can do.
There are people who's going to love what you do and people who are going to hate what you do.  You can't please everybody.  I think I came to terms with that at a very young age.  At the end of the day what's important to me is friends is family and the people closest to me and what they think.
You know, I was brought up to just fight for everything that I have today.  Nothing came easy.
Q. I know you like to be comfortable when you're at a tournament and you have apartments in a few places to do that.  What's your arrangements here?  What do you do in Paris?
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: We are actually very comfortable.  We have rented a big house, so we have a big house here.  We have the whole family staying.  My dog is here, so, yeah, it feels good.
Q. Close by or...
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, we are very close by.  My mom will walk every day over to the site.  I'm a lazy athlete, so I take the car (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT