ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/F. Abanda   
6-0, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  A double bagel, 6-0, 6-0.  Was it as easy as it looked?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I thought it was good that I got the first game there and kind of, you know, got a good, got off to a good start.  It's a loud court.  It's a fun one to play on, but at the same time, if you get behind and the crowd starts going wild, it's a situation you don't want to be in.   
It was fun to play out there for me today.  I thought I played well.  I played consistent, aggressive when I needed to and mixed it up.  Very pleased with my tennis today.   
 Q.  Your clay court schedule.  It was different from most of the other players.  What went into that and how do you think it's affected your preparation and readiness here?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, the whole thought behind it was that I get bad allergies in Rome, so I literally can't breathe.  And I get fevers and stuff.  That's one of the reasons.  I also still had a little bit of a shoulder pain from Madrid.  So those two things combined kind of, I was like, I'd rather take it easy and then make sure I can get 100% for here.  Obviously Strasbourg I had planned a little differently.   
But, you know, at the end of the day I feel good, came in here feeling comfortable and confident.  My body is feeling good right now, so that's the main thing.   
 Q.  Is that kind of a hay fever thing you get in Rome?  Do you get it anywhere else in Rome?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: No, it's really strange.  It's really only at the courts, which is even more strange.   
Any time I get on-site, I think it's those big trees that do it, because when I'm into the city center and walk around I'm feeling fine.  I have literally tried all the medicine we are allowed to take and nothing really helps, or it puts me to sleep, which either way isn't really great.   
 Q.  How would you gauge your form at the moment?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I'm feeling pretty good.  I think, you know, clay isn't my favorite surface of all surfaces, but at the same time, I feel like I'm hitting the ball well.  I felt I played really well today, and hopefully I can just keep going.  I felt like I have been very comfortable and confident all season, so hopefully I can just keep that going in the second half of the season.   
 Q.  Do you feel any sort of clay mojo?  I know you have never been a dirt-baller, per se.  Anything feeling better?  You have been here a lot of times.  I don't know if it's grown on you at all or you have figured anything out about clay.  I heard Sascha say you finally tweeted something nice about clay.  What was that?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think I said the courts are really good this year and different from what I remember from previous years.  I think they are a little faster.  And I think you slide less.  So I think those are the two things I said.   
Yeah, I obviously didn't play last year, so I don't know how the courts were last year, but I think they are just a little faster.  Could also be the weather.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you can also play with a sense of freedom that you haven't put a great deal of expectation on yourself and you just can play with a smile on your face and see how far it takes you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, honestly I'm just out there.  Every match I play is a bonus.  Obviously I want to win everything, and I want to win every match I play.   
But at the same time, you know, I try and have fun out there and do my best, and that's really it.   
 Q.  A lot of players, Australian players, have commented about Margaret Court's comments that she kept making about antigay marriage and things like that.  I don't know if you followed any of that.  There has been people talking about changing the name of the arena in Melbourne.  Is that new to you?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I haven't heard anything.  I haven't really -- I guess I haven't paid attention.   
 Q.  I will tell you after.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Okay.  Yeah.  I don't know.  Yeah.   
 Q.  You used to be quite good friends with Vika.  I wonder if you're Auntie Caroline and whether you have seen the baby and everything.  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I haven't seen her here, actually.  I haven't seen the baby.  I know she was at the pro-am and know she's been around.  I honestly haven't been on-site very much.  I have just practiced early mornings and then gotten out of here.   
I did see Serena, though.  Looking forward to welcoming that baby and hopefully spending a lot of time with her.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT