MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
April 1, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/C. Wozniacki   
6-4,6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel you played out there today?  What do you think was the difference?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I tried my best.  I tried to fight.  She played really aggressively.  She played well.   
You know, I kind of gave the game away at 4-All in the first set, and then missed a couple break points at 4-5.  Those are the ones that you need to take if you want to win a match like this.   
 Q.  You rely a lot on your feet and on your running.  I saw you had treatment on your feet out there.  How much of a factor was that for you?  How much discomfort did you feel throughout the match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: It's okay.  It wasn't something that would've made a difference in the match, so I'm not worried about it at all.   
I just needed some re-taping so that it wasn't pushing -- or it wasn't holding as tight.   
 Q.  The eventual break point in the second set clipped the net, and the last point was that little lob that went over the end.  Did you feel like you got a little bit unlucky there towards the end of the match?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I think usually it goes up and down.  Sometimes it goes your way; sometimes it doesn't.   
In the end of the day she played well and a little bit better than me today, and she deserved the win.   
 Q.  Let's look at the positive side.  How did you feel out there being in the final, Miami Open?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You know, I think I can take a lot out of these two weeks.  It was a good run.  I can take a lot out of this first part of year in general.  I think I can take a lot of positives from that and just build on it.   
That's what I'm going to do.  I'm going to learn from the things that I can do better, but at the same time not beat myself up too much and just keep working and doing what I'm doing.   
 Q.  It was a great stretch the last threes months.  Obviously being out and injured this time last year you have really nothing to defend until Wimbledon.  What will your preparation be like heading into clay, and how excited are you to maybe be at a point of the year where there is really in pressure?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, I think I have nothing to defend until the US Open actually, so I have a long stretch here where I can gain a lot of the points.  But in the end of the day, I think I'm just going to keep my head down and just keep working hard and keep playing, and then I think everything will hopefully come together and be fine.   
 Q.  Caroline, congratulations on a great final.  Can you talk a little bit about Konta?  We don't know a lot about her.  Miami; second time she ever played here; couldn't qualify a few years ago.  Obviously she has power.  Late bloomer.  What do you see as maybe an upside for her down the road?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: She takes the ball early.  Very aggressive.  She, yeah, takes the ball early and stresses the opponent, I would say.   
 Q.  Three finals this year; three losses.  How is it going to be the fourth time?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I'm going to try and make it a win.  Can't promise, but let me get to the final first and then I'm going to worry about that later.   
Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT