BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2017
Caroline Wozniacki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. MLADENOVIC/C. Wozniacki   
3-6, 7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You looked in control through about a set and a half.  How do you think it kind of slipped through your hands there?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I felt pretty much in control there for a while, but, you know, sometimes it is what it is.  Maybe lost a little bit of concentration, let her back, and then she started playing better.  And, yeah, it happens.   
 Q.  You called the medical in early in the second set.  Achilles or heel issue?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah, but it should be fine.  So I'm not too worried about it.   
 Q.  Did you feel like it affected your concentration a little bit?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I don't think it affected my concentration.  You know, I was trying to be very focused out there and just do my thing.  And, you know, I fought until the end, but it just wasn't enough today.   
And, you know, you can always learn and I can do better.  But, at the end of the day, I tried my hardest and that's all I can do.   
 Q.  What did you think that she did well today that kind of got her that third set?  Was it the forehand kind of firing, coming on line, just when she needed it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Yeah.  I think, you know, I didn't take some of my opportunities in the third set.  I didn't break her when I had the opportunity.  I didn't hold when I had the opportunity and, all of sudden, those games kind of slipped away.   
And she had some big forehands when she needed to and then, all of a sudden, I see myself down 5-2, and it could maybe have been different.   
 Q.  Overall, do you see this tournament as a positive that you walk away from?  Is it more like disappointing or is it more like, yeah, got back into a quarterfinal?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: I think a little bit of both.  Obviously, I would have liked to have been further and tried to win the tournament.   
But, you know, I can take some positives with me for this week and, yeah, just keep working towards Miami and then other big tournaments that are coming up.   
 Q.  You said you take an opportunity to learn from an experience like this.  So what did you learn today?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Well, I just finished, so I think I just need to sit down and kind --   
 Q.  Process it?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: Look through and process it for now.  I really haven't thought much about it.  Obviously, I have a few thoughts about it, but I think I just need to sit down and really analyze and learn from it.   
 Q.  You know your game is definitely more baseline oriented, but there's a number of younger players like Kiki coming up through the doubles and singles game style.  Are you looking at that at all and maybe considering some adjustments to the way you play, but also you have got to stick with your natural style?  So is that something you think about?  
CAROLINE WOZNIACKI: You will definitely not see me become a doubles player.  That's 100 percent.   
And I think 12 years on tour, I'm fine with just playing singles.  It's enough of a grind.  And, you know, I think you will always try and add to your game.   
And I think, you know, if you play well in the singles, I think just it's too much to play singles and doubles, although, you know, it's a fun game.   
But, you know, I keep improving.  I think I have improved my net game.  And I think if you look overall the last weeks and tournaments, I think I've come to the net more than I have in the past.   
And, you know, it's something that I'm -- you know, you won't see me do serve and volleys, but when the opportunity comes, I'll come to the net.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT