UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2015
Johnny Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Arizona - 17
  Stanford - 55 
 Q.  So your takeaway, Johnny, from this game?  
JOHNNY JACKSON: We didn't play up to our intensity level.  We were facing adversity early and felt like we didn't play as hard as we could.  That's just something we need to bounce back and get right next week.   
 Q.  What was it that set you guys back early on?  
JOHNNY JACKSON: I'm not really sure.  It's not just one thing or one person.  It's just us as a group collectively.  We just didn't finish.  I mean we were getting stops early and we couldn't bounce back, and when we did have a positive drive, I felt like offensively we needed to help our defense a lot more.  We had a lot of three-and-outs, and our defense was on the field the majority of the time and that's just something we've got to face.   
 Q.  Yeah, they were arm tackling a lot in the second half.  They were tired?  
JOHNNY JACKSON: Yeah, they were definitely tired.  That's on us as an offense.  We'll get it corrected next week.   
 Q.  I know you haven't watched the film yet, but to the best of your recollection, was it more Stanford's defense or was it you guys just not clicking?  
JOHNNY JACKSON: I don't think it was their defense.  I think it was just us not clicking offensively like we should have.  We should have executed a lot better.  We'll have one good drive and then the next drive will go three-and-out, we can't do that to our defense.   
 Q.  How important are the next two games to getting this season back on track?  
JOHNNY JACKSON: Oh, yeah.  We look to bounce back next week against Oregon State.  They're a good team.  Two ranked teams we just lost to, and we just look back to get back on a positive.   
 Q.  How much not having Anu here affect you?  
JOHNNY JACKSON: He's a leader.  He's a big part of our team, but Jerrard held his own.  He was dealing with a hamstring, I think.  But it wasn't just him.  It was us as an offense collectively.  Nobody really clicking like we needed to.   
 Q.  How tough is Stanford to prepare for?  They're so different than every other team you've faced.  
JOHNNY JACKSON: I don't even think they're that much different than a lot of teams we've faced.   
 Q.  Really?  
JOHNNY JACKSON: No, not at all.  I mean, offensively they have a pretty good offense.  Our offense, I felt like we should have done a lot better, we just weren't clicking.  We've seen -- we're running those looks all week in practice against our scouts.  We just didn't execute tonight.  That's on us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT