COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP: CLEMSON VS ALABAMA
January 3, 2017
Ryan Anderson
Bo Scarbrough
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Bo Scarbrough and Ryan Anderson.   
 Q.  Could you please provide a brief comment on how the focus has shifted since the Peach Bowl in preparation for the National Championship game.  Bo, we'll start with you first.  
BO SCARBROUGH: We're just focusing on Clemson and getting our mindset right of this is the National Championship and not let the Peach Bowl game go to our head and come out with a better performance.   
RYAN ANDERSON: Like Bo said, we just have to shift our focus to the next game and put it behind us and get ready to play the best team we're going to play all year for the biggest game of the year.   
 Q.  Ryan, when you look at what Jeremy Pruitt has done as the defensive coordinator, what's the biggest thing that he's brought to this defense?  
RYAN ANDERSON: I would say simplicity.  He just simplified a lot of things, made a lot of things easier so we could play faster and get more guys on the field and give us more depth.   
 Q.  Bo, when you look at Clemson's defense on film, what do you see from their last performance against Ohio State that could be troublesome for you guys?  
BO SCARBROUGH: Well, Clemson have a very great defense.  I think they have a great front seven, and we're going to have to run the ball effectively and open up some stuff for our receivers.   
 Q.  Bo, just curious what sort of interactions you've had with Coach Sark.  
BO SCARBROUGH: On the sidelines, he always tell you to keep my helmet on and stay ready, because you never know when your number's called.   
 Q.  Ryan, can you just talk about Deshaun Watson, how good of a player you saw him last year and what film you've seen of him this year?  
RYAN ANDERSON: Deshaun Watson is a prolific player, a game-changer, can do a lot of things to hurt you, do a lot of good things with his team, run the ball and can spread you out.  And he's a very smart player.  He understands the situations in the game, and it's going to be tough to stop him.   
 Q.  Ryan, I know that part of the reason why you think Clemson is the best team is because of Deshaun Watson.  Give me some of the other reasons why you think this will be the most significant challenge you guys have faced?  
RYAN ANDERSON: I feel like it's not just him, they're a complete team.  They've got a good offensive line, good skill players, a good running back, and an up-tempo team.  So you know you've got to be in shape and gotta be ready to play.   
 Q.  Bo, I know that a lot of people have asked you recently about your health.  When did you feel confident about your health?  Because I know a lot of your teammates, after the game in the Peach Bowl, said they could see this coming.  
BO SCARBROUGH: I probably was healthy, probably the seventh or eighth game of the season, and I was reinjured during the Auburn game.  And I just felt good.  I just felt great.  I'm 100 percent.   
 Q.  Ryan, what do you see -- we talk a lot about Deshaun Watson.  But what do you see from Clemson's ground game and what they can do running the ball?  
RYAN ANDERSON: Well, you know, he's part of that, too.  They've got a good running back, No. 9, he's good.  But he's also good in the run game.  They know they have an extra hat, extra man to block, uses quarterback counters and Q leads and Q sweeps and all that stuff.  Just makes it harder to stop.   
 Q.  Bo, wondered if you were surprised at the change with Lane leaving this week and start coming in and wondering how different you think it's going to make the offense look this week?  
BO SCARBROUGH: We're just focused on Clemson.   
 Q.  Do you think the offense is going to look different with Sark, or is he pretty similar to --  
BO SCARBROUGH: We're waiting.   
 Q.  Bo, what does sitting behind Derrick last year and watching him work mean for you, and how much of a motivation was he to you?  
BO SCARBROUGH: I mean, it was a blessing to see him work like that.  Most people don't get a chance to see things like that, and makes you want to change the mentality and work as hard as he did.   
 Q.  Bo, what do you think the IMG Academy did to help you get ready for Alabama?  
BO SCARBROUGH: I just think that it put me in the right position to have the strong mentality and have mental toughness.   
 Q.  Ryan, what has Reuben meant to you this year and your time playing with him?  
RYAN ANDERSON: He meant a lot to me.  He's a great teammate, great person, great leader, and he's a real tough competitor.  I mean, that's the kind of person you want to play with and he's the kind of person you want to be around on and off the field.  So I say he meant a lot to me.   
 Q.  Bo, the success that Kenyan Drake has had in the NFL, is that kind of a model for you and what does that say about just the depth in the Alabama program?  
BO SCARBROUGH: Watching Kenyan play here at the university and watching him play for Miami, I think that he came a long way and he was a great leader to look up to at the university.   
 Q.  Ryan, you mentioned Coach Pruitt has simplified things this year.  I'm curious, do you think you guys are better equipped to defend this offense than you were last year; and if so, maybe some details as to how?  
RYAN ANDERSON: I'll let you all decide on that, how well we're equipped to defend somebody and all that other stuff.  I'm just focused on beating Clemson.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT