FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 3, 2015
Gunn Yang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ALEX URBAN: We would like to welcome Gunn Yang to the interview room.  Begun is the 2014 U.S. Amateur champion.  He won at Atlanta athletic club.  Went to Torrey Pines High School locally.  Talk about your playing schedule and being back playing in the San Diego area.   GUNN YANG: So, after I played in this tournament I'm trying to play in the Arnold Palmer Invitational.  I'm going to Florida in March and then after that will be the Masters tournament.  So, I'll be there pretty much the whole time after the Arnold Palmer Invitational. So I have RBC Heritage, the Crowne Plaza Invitational, and I think that's all of it.   ALEX URBAN: Can you talk about your history playing this golf course, do you have some experience on it.   GUNN YANG: When I first moved to the states, I started to practice from Torrey Pines.  I came out here quite often.  Maybe couple years after I joined The Grand Delmar Golf Club, it's only like five minutes away from here, so I've been practicing over there but the first time I moved to the states I've been practicing here.   ALEX URBAN: We'll open it up for questions.   Q.  Can you tell us what this week has been like from Monday on, what's been the routine so far and who did you play practice rounds with, things like that.  GUNN YANG: So, on Sunday I just played by myself, because it was a Super Bowl Sunday, so no one was out here. Yesterday or, yeah, yesterday, I played with Derek Ernst on the North Course.  And then today I just couldn't really get to anybody, so I just played by myself.  Then on the way back, I played with Michael Putnam, so it was good.   Q.  What's it looking like out there and how do you think you'll do this week?  GUNN YANG: Just trying to play the best golf as I can, because this is the first PGA TOUR event for me.  So, a little bit nervous, and especially in this area, it's not a familiar area, so I'm not really familiar with this area, so just trying to get used to the atmosphere and just try and prepare for the Masters.   Q.  The course conditions, do they look as tough as you would expect them to?  GUNN YANG: Oh, it's really tough.  I've never played Torrey Pines in this kind of good shape and also never seen the rough this thick before.   Q.  How would you say your game's changed since the U.S. Amateur?  GUNN YANG: It's been improving.  I've been putting pretty well.  I played with Adam Scott in Japan Open, that's when I realized that I need to really work on my long game as in consistency wise.  So, it's been doing pretty well.   Q.  Have you had a chance to go to Augusta or have you made any plans to go there ahead of time?  GUNN YANG: So I'm trying to get there a week before Arnold Palmer invitational and trying to play about like two unofficial practice rounds and after the tournament finishes I think I'm flying out to Georgia again and play maybe three unofficial practice rounds and then there's a thing called Georgia Cup a week before the Masters, so I'm going to play that and I'll be in at Augusta the whole time.   Q.  Is there any thoughts of after this doing all your sponsors exemptions going back to school next fall and finishing at State?  GUNN YANG: So my plan is to get the degree and then turn pro after that.  That's my plan right now.  But everything can change, but definitely I want to get the degree first.   Q.  When we talked about the other day, the degree and school and all that, what would, how much of what your decision will be will be based on how you do in these next events and in the Majors?  Is that going to be the biggest factor in how you determine going back to school?  I know it's easy to say, get the degree now, but how much of a factor will it be?  GUNN YANG: The thing is, I don't know what level I'm on, first of all.  So I played four professional in Asia and Australia last year, but I was very unsure, so I decided to remain as an amateur.  I decided to play seven PGA TOUR events as an amateur. So, I just want to see how I'm going to perform and then I don't think -- I just got to just do my best and then we'll see how it goes.  If I'm improving and if I can keep up with these big boy, then maybe I can turn pro after that.  But I want to get the degree.   ALEX URBAN: Very good.  Thank you for your time.   GUNN YANG: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT