US OPEN
August 23, 2019
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Naomi Osaka last month talked about how she's had a tough time this year, hasn't been as much fun. Have you talked to her at all about that, given any advice? What advice would you give to somebody?
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know. We haven't talked too much. I'm sure it's going to be okay. I think time will help her to get back to normal.
I think it's normal to have that feeling. Of course, she suddenly get No. 1, winning two Grand Slams, be No. 1 like straightaway. She's still young. I'm sure she will think a lot of things, something she doesn't have to think.
But, you know, if she can try hard practicing and playing match, every match playing hard, I think she's going to be okay.
Q. You've had success at a young age, a lot of attention. For you, what did you do or what did the people around you do to make you feel protected as a young player? What were the key things that made you develop the right way and continue to have success?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think that's toughest things. When you are young, you get a lot of attention, sometimes you get too cocky, you stop working. That's something I think the team around them has to work really to protect him.
Me, I think I had good team around me, doesn't allow too much to do something outside of the court. But I was able to focus practicing on the court and playing match, not too much other stuff. I think that was good things for me to keep focus.
But I have to say, if I live in Japan, I think I was going to have different life. There is too much attention. I feel like I'm a star there. But I think it's good thing that I live in States.
Q. Because it's the last Grand Slam of the year, do you feel more pressure? Do you do anything different, learn from your mistakes of the past? What are your goals here?
KEI NISHIKORI: I never feel that kind of pressure because I only see as one tournament. Every tournament, you know, try to think same. Try not to think too much other stuff. I try to make it simple.
I don't feel too much pressure. I just try to focus every match. For me now how I can play first match. Couple more days I have. Try to have good preparation. Yeah, I try to be simple.
Of course, there is excitement also and nerves, of course. I try to be focused.
Q. People know this slam as being quite crazy, there's a lot going on. After living in the States for so long, are you more used to it? Is it normal for you?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it's been long time, so I got used to. After maybe five years, I got used to this.
But first couple years wasn't easy. I have to do many things off the court. Something new for me. It was tough, but now it's been more than 10 years, so I got used to.
Q. Obviously you had one of the best results of your career here. When you come back here, do you ever think back to that? What are your lasting memories of that tournament?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, good thing and bad thing, of course. I feel a lot of confidence from that memory, playing final first time in Grand Slam. But also I always think that I could play little more better in a final. I lost straight sets. I didn't do well.
I hope I can come back to that stage again, playing final in Grand Slam. I hope I can play differently. That's always something I think. Always excited to play this tournament.
I think I have best result of Grand Slam in US Open. I think I have a lot of confidence playing this tournament. Very excited.
Q. Have you thought at all about playing mixed doubles at the Tokyo Olympics? If so, have you spoken with any potential partners?
KEI NISHIKORI: Not yet. I think I will play men's doubles, for sure. With that condition, very hot, very humid, playing singles and two doubles, I don't know if I can.
I haven't think too much yet, honestly. I don't know. I will talk to Naomi later (laughter).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT