BNP PARIBAS MASTERS PARIS
November 2, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/V. Troicki
6-2, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: This was Kei's 300th ATP win today.  Questions, please.
Q. Your thoughts on your performance today?  Straight-sets win.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think it was a good match to start the tournament.  Second set there was many up and downs, you know.  We had both many breaks, and maybe I could finish little easier, but, you know, he start playing better certain moments, and, yeah, it wasn't easy match, but happy to win.
Q. The second set was closer than the first.  Did you mentally relax a bit after a comfortable first set?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, a little bit.  And also, I'm not used to this court and balls yet.  So that's something I have to make some adjustment for sure.
Yeah, yeah, like I said, I could finish much easier.  Maybe little more concentration and also get used to these conditions, too.
Q. How important was it to finish the match with a big service game?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  I think last few games I played better, so start feeling balls better.  Yeah, serving-wise I was hitting more first serves last few games and start working little better in the end.
Q. The way you play puts a lot of pressure on your body.  Do you feel over the last few months you have the balance right between the amount of work you have to put in and the amount of rest?  The amount of physical work?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  After I got injured in Japan, I took, you know, two weeks off.  I worked on fitness and also practice, too.  I think it was good time to have some time off before, you know, this last few tournaments.
Q. Do you feel that you have the physical endurance to get through a long run of several weeks of playing well?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  That's what I'm trying.  I think it's much better this year, you know, physically much stronger.
You know, just keep working every year.
Q. Just as a milestone, this 300th win you got today, can you just talk a little bit about what that means to you?  Is that of any significance to you as you're going about your career?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I think it's a great number.  I'm not sure if it's good or not.  I don't know how good that is, but, you know, just try to get one win, you know, every match, and just play one match at a time.
I'm not thinking, you know, about 500 or 1000 win here.  (Smiling.)).I think this year has been -- it's been pretty good.  I have been winning a lot of matches and playing a lot of tournaments.  Every year I feel like I'm getting strong, so I'm happy with performance right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT