BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 14, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/S. Wawrinka   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You seemed very, very sharp today.  Did you feel as good on court as it looked to us?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I felt very comfortable out there.  Started very good, you know, from the first game.  So I was very confident.   
I see that, you know, he wasn't playing his best, and he was missing.  A lot of unforced errors.  I see a lot of opportunity today, so I try to be aggressive.   
Yeah, even second set, I stay really tough and played good match today.   
 Q.  Obviously we're not sure whether you're going to play Andy on Wednesday or Friday.  How much confidence will you take from the win against him in New York?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, for sure that gives me little confidence.  This year we played three, four times.  I had a tough loss in Rio.  But US Open and Davis Cup, we played, you know, some good match.  I feel more chance, you know, to win the match against Andy.   
Obviously it's the toughest match maybe in this group.  Yeah, for sure I have to play well and play hundred percent to beat Andy.  This match will help, for sure, for next match.   
 Q.  You have a good chance to finish the year at No. 3 of the world.  How much would that mean for you?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I'm not thinking too much about rankings, but would be nice if I could finish 4 or 3.  I see good chance to be there if I can play good this week.  That's one of my goal this week.  Also next year I hope I can stay No. 4 or No. 3, try to catch up Andy and Djoko.   
 Q.  At this time of year you get players who are very tired, but you also get players who hit really good form; the end of the year comes almost too quickly for them.  Do you feel you're in that second category; you're really hitting some of the best form of the year?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I'm feeling pretty good.  I got injured in Japan.  Actually I had some time to prepare for this week.  Also I lost early in Paris, so I had one week and half until today's match.  I was working really hard, practicing, training.  Yeah, I thought I was preparing well for this week.   
Yeah, I'm really looking forward to play next few matches.   
 Q.  You've been asked this before, but could you emphasize a little bit about what it means to your country when you come home, when you go through the streets, what's happening?  How is the craziness there?  I heard it's a lot.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it's a bit crazy.  But I always love to go back Japan.  You know, that's my home.  Most of my friends are there.  The Japan Open is the only tournament they have in Japan, big tournament.  Well, especially the tennis tournaments, we get crazy.  A lot of people show up.   
But I'm very, very happy to see other people show up for tournaments.  It's great for Japanese tennis for next young generation, too.  Couple guys are inside top hundred right now, so it's great to see more player coming from Japan.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT