U.S. OPEN
September 9, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/K. Nishikori   
4-6, 7-5, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How much did the match the other day take out of you?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, definitely I was a little bit tired, especially in the end.  Last two set was really tough.   
But I think also he was stepping up a little more from the second set.  I think he was missing a lot the first set and also I was playing good tennis, but I think he made some changes and he was start playing better.   
I mean, yeah, it's not easy after playing Andy five sets, but I'm physically -- I was almost there.  Yeah, I'm disappointed, but I'm really proud of myself, you know, playing four sets again with this condition.   
 Q.  Novak described him as a big match player.  He's come up obviously winning a couple Grand Slams and playing big matches.  Talk about facing him today and assessing his performance.  
KEI NISHIKORI: You mean Stan?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, like I said, he was playing much better last couple sets.  Well, yeah, I stop moving a little bit.  Also, you know, he was playing much powerful tennis.   
You know, he start using his backhand a little bit more down the line and angles.  I think that was really working for him.  For me, I think I was hitting too short and wasn't making enough first serve.   
Yeah, he step up, you know, really in the end.  You know, there is reason, you know, he's been top 5 for a long time now.  Yeah, he played some good tennis today.   
 Q.  I have heard quite a few big-named players, including Novak, when we were talking to him earlier, talk about you as a player that really can be a Grand Slam winner.  You came close; went to the final.  How much does getting this close make you want to go that extra mile to do whatever it takes to win?  How hungry are you to get back in the finals?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, there was only two more matches to go, so I felt really close and playing good level I think these two weeks.  Especially beating Andy, you know, this big tournament I think gives me a lot of confidence.   
I mean, it's not easy when you have to play No. 2, No. 3, and, you know, Novak was waiting in the finals.  It wasn't easy job, but, you know, if I could win little easier last few matches I could have little more chance today and maybe in the final.   
I think, you know, playing really good, especially big tournaments, the final in Toronto and good in Olympics and semis here, it was good summer.   
 Q.  You mentioned Stan's backhand and how he used that tonight.  Can you describe what it's like to face Stan's backhand, which is known as being one of the best shots in tennis.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  I think I went too much, little too much to his backhand.  He was start using backhand down the line.  He can hit angle really well with topspin.   
Yeah, definitely I was a little bit struggling with his backhand.   
 Q.  How difficult were the conditions?  How grateful were you when they closed the roof?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, today was really humid.  That made me really tough first few sets.  Won in second set, but after I think temperature little down and it was little easier.   
But still, yeah, it was tough conditions today.   
 Q.  In the second set you have many chances to grab it but end up giving away.  How did that affect you emotionally, mentally?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, definitely I had to win the second set if I wanted to win today.  I had so many chance with my serve and with his serve games, too.   
Yeah, that's really disappointing, especially second set, I think that was the biggest mistake I did.  Yeah, after that he was playing better, so I think gave him little confidence.   
But even though, you know, if I win two sets, I had to still win one more set.  So with this condition and my condition, it was really tough.   
 Q.  How do you see the final?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  I think, yeah, Stan is playing good again, but still Novak is No. 1.  I mean, yeah, we'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT