U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How strange is it for you guys not to have Roger around?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  It's very sad, especially for me.  He's my favorite player, and it's always love to see him play.
Also, I would always love to play against him.  Yeah, it's just very sad not to see him here this year.
Q. What are your thoughts about the roof, your first impressions, and how it will affect the tournament?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I think it's great for tournament.  And also, I think playing sometimes here in New York, I mean, I haven't hit in stadium yet, but, yeah, I think every Grand Slam is trying to get a roof.
Yeah, I think it's great thing what they done here.  They made, you know, Grandstand, too.  I just hit there and felt really, really well.
Q. When Wimbledon began most people said this is Novak Djokovic's tournament to win; now Andy Murray has had that great summer.  Novak said he's trying to get as close to 100% as possible.  Which players do you think are the favorites now as this tournament begins?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I think, I mean, for me, I think those two guys are doing really well.  I think Andy was, you know, playing a lot of tournaments from Rio and Cincy.  I think he can be 100%.  I think he has a lot of chance to beat Novak.
But I think, you know, a couple young guys, Raonic and Cilic, is back on track again.  I think it's going to be a tough tournament.
Q. When you come in here -- first of all, have you looked at the draw?  Secondly, when you step foot on these grounds, do you suddenly get a different feeling based on your own remarkable run here three years ago?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, it's always love to coming back here.  I feel a lot of special feeling here in US Open, and especially I think if I get to court here on stadium I think I feel something, good memory from two years ago.
I know I'm playing Becker first match.  He has great serve, aggressive player.  Not going to be easy, but I hope I can have great preparation these few days and ready for Monday.
Q. What are your expectations in this tournament?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think I have been playing well this summer.  Toronto final and Rio I did well, too.  Cincy I was a little bit tired.  I took couple days off after Cincy, and physically I'm feeling good.
If I can, you know, carry those confidence from summer I think I will have good chance to go farther these two weeks.  Yeah, I have great memory two years ago, so I hope I can play good these two weeks.
Q. That gives you confidence knowing that you have had a great run here?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, for sure.  You know, I have great memory.  Things changed a lot also for me and also different, you know, different guys, too.
I think I'm little more patient and playing much better than last year, two years ago.  You know, I'm really excited for next week.
Q. You have played Del Potro a couple times on the big stages, US Open, Wimbledon, et cetera.  Considering how well he's playing right now, how dangerous is he as an unseeded player?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I think he's the most dangerous player, unseeded player.  He has great chance to win in Grand Slam.  You know, being top 10, for sure he's top-10 player right now.  Yeah, not gonna be easy if you play first couple rounds, but it's great to see him again on the tour.
Q. What do you take away from your experience in Rio, going as deep as you did?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  I had a great experience.  Something, you know, cannot feel like Grand Slam or other tournaments, you know.  Olympics games it's something special, and especially last match against Rafa I played good tennis.  I almost -- he almost came back, but played, you know, great match.  I had a lot of confidence from that match.
Yeah, winning the medal is something special.  I mean, for us, I think Grand Slam is still the biggest dream for us, but, you know, I think winning the medal is something special.
Yeah, like I said, I got a lot of confidence.  I got a lot of things from Olympics.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT