OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: TENNIS
August 14, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/R. Nadal
  6‑2, 6‑7, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. The end of the second set, what happened? How did you recover from that?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I didn't know what to do from 5‑2. I got little bit tight. He start playing better. For sure I was rushing to win, you know, to get the last couple points. But also he start playing better. So I give credit for him. 
But I tried to refresh my mind in the third set. I knew I wasn't stepping in. As soon as I got the break, I tried to play more aggressive. I played with good confidence. So very happy to win today. 

Q. You're only the third Japanese player to win an Olympic medal, which is an outstanding achievement. What are your thoughts on that? How amazing do you feel having won an Olympic medal?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I'm very happy to win, to get a medal today, even though third place. It means a lot for me to especially beat Rafa today. 
Yeah, I knew before playing Olympics that if I can play good tennis, good, solid tennis, I have a chance to get a medal. 
I was playing for my country. This is something different from other tour. But I was very enjoying. For sure this experience will help for my confidence and for my future. 

Q. What happened at the end of the second set when you left the court? It was a long time before you came back out. Was there a problem? 
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I came back all the way to here. Had to change my clothes, everything. I mean, yeah, it was really long way for me. 

Q. You struggled with your serve throughout the tournament. How was the serve today? The wide serve was quite effective today. 
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, serve was really good today. Made a lot of free points on my first serve. Especially those important points, I really served well, my first serve. 
I don't know. I play with little more confidence today. Yeah, everything start working better after hitting good serves. 

Q. What do you think was the key point for your success today? What do you want to say to your frustrated opponent, Rafa?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I mean, it was really tough match. I think it was great match. He start playing better in the second set from 5‑2. You know, not easy to back from 6‑2, 5‑2. I have to give him good credit. 
I think it was great battle. Even the third set, he was playing another good tennis. Yeah, it was really tough match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT