ROGERS CUP
July 29, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/G. Dimitrov
6-3, 3-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Congratulations on a gutsy win, I think I should call it.  Third set, second game, I think you were behind like 15-40.  Somehow you managed to win four straight points.  It seems like the entire match changes composure.  How did you turn it around like that?
KEI NISHIKORI: I'm not sure.  Yeah, after that game I tried to be a little more aggressive.  I didn't do it in the second set, and beginning of the third set I didn't do it.  So I tried took a little bit more risk and tried to be more aggressive and hit and come in sometimes.
I knew I was struggling with his slice a little bit, so I tried to move my feet and everything worked well after that game.
Q. Some of us in the press box, we were following the match on your mobile app, getting point-by-point updates.  My question to you is:  Everyone doesn't have a mobile app.  What was your inspiration behind designing and undertaking this mobile app?  Why was it so important for you to do this?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I think it's great for me also and also fans, you know, you can see me close little more.
It's also fun for me, you know.  It's great to have time with some fans.  I get little more motivation sometimes.  Yeah, I hope more people, you know, join in the app to see more tennis, you know.  Yeah, I think it's been really well.
Q. What do you have to do to win tomorrow and move on to the final?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, we played I think two years ago.  I think things little bit changed after that.  Stan, you know, has great serve, great backhand you can see.  Yeah, he's tough player, but I have been beating him before.
Try to play good tennis like I did in third set.  I know I have to be a little bit more aggressive, you know, to beat him.
Yeah, I think if I can play good tennis, I think I will have some chance to win.  So hopefully I can have a good day tomorrow.
Q. Maybe this is a bit of a silly question, but would you rather play a player with a weak forehand or a weak backhand?  Which side would you rather -- a guy who has a weaker backhand or a weaker forehand?
KEI NISHIKORI: Maybe weak backhand.  (Smiling.)  I don't know.  I usually like to hit backhand, you know, backhand cross.
I don't know.  I never think about it.  Not many people has a great backhand like Stan, Benoit.  You know, only few people have I think great backhand.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT