ROGERS CUP
July 30, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/S. Wawrinka   
7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You don't show your emotions a great deal on or off court, but you must be extremely happy with that match and how you won it.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  Especially first set.  It was a really tight game.  I think he started much better tennis first couple games, especially.  He was hitting very good serves and very aggressive.  Well, yeah, until 5-3 game.   
I start playing return better.  He was missing a little bit quick, but still, you know, he was up a break.  I think he had more chance to get the first set.   
Well, after that set he started, you know, playing a little bit slow and down.  So, you know, I knew I have to step it up; otherwise he's going to come back.  So I try to play more concentrate.   
But, yeah, first set it was really tight games.  Happy to win today.   
 Q.  Obviously you don't know who your opponent will be tomorrow, but how will you prepare?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  I think both guys are playing great tennis right now, especially Monfils.  He's been winning Washington and I saw some matches yesterday against Milos.  It was great match he played.   
So I think it's going to be interesting.  But, you know, haven't beat Novak for a long time on hard court, for everything, so I think it's going to be great challenge for me to play Novak again in the final, because we played in Miami and he kind of dominate the game.  So I hope I can revenge this time.   
 Q.  Stan just talked about his unfortunate misfire kind of in the second set there.  From your vantage point, sometimes I suppose it's just about being patient.  Do you feel like maybe patience was the key for you today, sort of wait things out as they weren't going your way early?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  I tried to concentrate first couple games in the second set, because I knew he was a little bit different than first set.  So I tried to play more, you know, patient.   
Yeah, like I said, if gave him chance, you know, he's a top player so he's gonna come back strong.  So I tried to play more intensity and, yeah, it's great to finish early like this today.   
 Q.  It could be Gaël, but if it were to be Novak tomorrow, it feels like you have driven him pretty close the last two times you've played, particularly Rome.  Do you feel ready to get a victory over him?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, that's what I'm hoping, to get match tomorrow.  But that was on clay court, you know, Madrid and Rome.  So it's going to be different on hard court.   
But, yeah, those two matches gave me a lot of confidence playing against Novak, for sure.  So I hope I can carry that momentum and hope I can play good tennis again like today.   
 Q.  Just a final word if it is Gaël tomorrow?  You have never lost to him, but you have only played a couple of times.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  Well, he's a little bit different player right now.  So he's been playing great tennis these couple weeks.  And we played in Miami this year.  He had many match points against me.  So I think it's gonna be tough match, either Monfils or Novak.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT