WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. CILIC/K. Nishikori
  6‑1, 6‑1 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Can you tell us what the nature of your injury is and just when you started feeling it. 
KEI NISHIKORI: It started in Halle. It's same injury that I had it in first match in Halle. It's been not recovering well these two weeks. 
Yeah, after the third round, it's got worst, so... Today I was hoping to get better, but it was too much pain on the court. So, yeah, couldn't really compete today. 

Q. Is the injury your rib area?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.

Q. It seemed like your team in your box were urging you to stop earlier. Why did you decide to carry on? How hard was it for you to decide to stop in the end?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I was thinking about it in the second set. Even before the match, I knew it's not going to be easy for me to play, you know, hundred percent. Also Marin was playing great on the court. 
Yeah, every point I played, get worst. I didn't want to, but I guess, yeah, I had to retire today. 

Q. Did the pain get worse throughout the match?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yes.

Q. What are your biggest concerns going forward for the summer with this injury?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I got to see how long it's going to take. But I have I think enough time to get recover. You know, next tournament is Toronto. I think I'm going to have three weeks. 
Yeah, hoping to get better soon. Well, it was actually great, great tournament for me. With the pain, I fought through these three rounds. You know, actually wasn't easy to mentally stay tough every match. 
I think it was, you know, good lesson for me. So, well, I got to recover well. All the big tournaments are coming up in summer. Hope I can recover well and train hard again and get ready for Toronto. 

Q. You have quite a bit of experience with injuries in your career. Is being able to be in peak condition for the big tournaments the toughest thing you're trying to learn about?
KEI NISHIKORI: Every time I get injured, you know, I learn a lot of things. It's very disappointed two years in a row here. But actually this year has been pretty good physically. Only injury I got is Halle and here. 
For sure that it's getting better, I mean, getting stronger, my physically. Yeah, recover well here and hope to get strong again. 

Q. When you spoke to the doctor and the trainer, were you hopeful you could carry on or did you know that was the end?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I mean, I knew it's not going to get better. I asked him, you know, to get tape or whatever to get better. But they say no, so... I knew it's going to be tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT