ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/D. Novikov   
6-4, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just wondering if developments this summer, Rafa being out, Roger being out for the rest of the season now, if you're starting to feel that there is some room at the top now, semifinals, Grand Slams, whatever, for guys who have been knocking at the door, you know, close to winning as we go forward.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  I mean, we have been seeing that actually from last year, too, I mean, from me and also you see Milos, a couple of guys coming to like semifinal/final in a Grand Slam or big tournaments.   
So either, you know, Roger or Rafa, you know, out of tournament sometimes, but I think we always looking for the chance.  Well, still, Novak and Andy is, you know, they kind of dominating still the whole tour right now.   
It's going to be big challenge for us to play against them and win some matches.  I think I have been trying to do that, and it's looking great.  You know, for me I have great season so far.   
Yeah, hopefully I can play well this summer.   
 Q.  Your opponent today got a lot of matches in this week because he qualified and even last week.  What was the challenge like playing against him, you coming in with not a lot of matches under your belt?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, sometimes not easy.  For me it was first match from getting injured in Wimbledon.  It wasn't easy, you know, to get the good rhythm.   
And also, for him, you know, he had a lot of confidence coming today's match and winning, you know, playing couple good players.  Delbonis not easy to win.  It wasn't easy, but I handled well some moments and there was some tight moments during the match.  But played a good, solid match today.   
 Q.  Given your success a couple of years ago at the US Open, do you kind of enjoy coming back to the summer hard court season every year and seek confidence from it?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, always.  This is a great chance for me to get a lot of points.  I live in States so it's easy for me, also.  The weather is a little bit tough, you know, some of tournaments.  But, yeah, always looking forward to come and play in US Open.   
Had a great memory two years ago, and it's a little bit busy this summer but hope I can stay healthy and play good.   
 Q.  You touched on this being your first match after getting injured at Wimbledon.  How are you feeling?  Also, can you talk about how tough the playing conditions were today?  I mean, it strikes everyone as quite hot at the moment.  
KEI NISHIKORI: I thought it was a good match.  I mean, good enough for first match from Wimbledon.  You know, I knew I was going to get up-and-downs because I haven't played matches long time.   
And also I didn't practice much, you know, first couple of weeks from getting injured.  So I knew it's gonna happen.  But I played good tennis.  First four games I was playing really well, and he started coming back.   
So, you know, there was, like I said, there was many up-and-downs but still was a good, solid match today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT