WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How are you feeling coming into this tournament, given the injury that you had?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Feeling good. Had almost one week after I got injured, so should be fine.   
I been practicing really well these couple days. Two days ago I just played Gasquet two sets. Should be okay for Monday.   
   
 Q. Do you get time to see parts of London and do other things apart from tennis? What do you like to do to relax?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Not yet. I'm staying by near from Wimbledon, so I haven't go out yet. Haven't relaxing. Also having fun in the house.   
No much.   
   
 Q. Are you following the football much, the European Championships?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I been watching little bit. But my country not playing, so no, not that interested (smiling).   
   
 Q. Wimbledon is the only slam where you haven't made the quarterfinals. Can you talk a bit about what your hopes are for this year, and also why you think that is.   
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, it's always my goal to get to quarterfinals, semis in here because I haven't done really well on the grass court season.   
Well, usually I got injured, same as last year, I got hurt in Halle and I couldn't play. I pull out second round here. Little bit unfortunate, too.   
But if I can win couple matches with good tennis, I think I will get more confidence on grass, and I will get good rhythm on a grass court.   
I think first couple matches are very important for me here this week.   
   
 Q. Can I ask you what Wimbledon means to you?   
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, obviously Wimbledon has a lot of history. I think the first slam I knew was Wimbledon. When I come here, I feel, you know, something special. The only thing is I haven't done really well here yet. If I can win more matches here, I think I will loving it more.   
   
 Q. With your injury, do you think you're back to 100% now? How much has it impacted your preparation?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, close to 100%. I mean, not 100% yet. But start Monday, so have one more day, tomorrow. Have tough first round, especially on grass. Have great serve, aggressive player.   
Try to stay focused first match and try to play good tennis.   
   
 Q. So you're focusing on the first match. Djokovic, can anyone beat him here?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I think so. Especially Andy, he's playing really well. Also you see Milos Raonic, couple young guys doing really well, too.   
Obviously he's great player, No.1 player right now, so not easy to beat Novak. But I think we getting closer to him.   
   
 Q. Do you like grass? Can you remember when you played your very first match on grass?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I like grass. It's not my best yet. But, like I said, I need more confidence to win couple more matches. Yeah, I think that's only I need right now.   
   
 Q. Can you remember your first grass court match anywhere?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Think it was juniors, either Halle or here, Wimbledon juniors.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT