ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/S. Bolelli   
6-1, 7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You had two tough matches against Bolelli at Wimbledon before and this one was a bit more straightforward.  What were your thoughts on your performance and the match?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it wasn't easy today.  Actually, I started really well.  I was up 6-1, 3-Love, I think.  Pretty aggressive and moving the ball pretty good.  He started playing little better in the second, but still, I thought it was a great match for me.   
 Q.  You have been asked this before, I apologize, but I wanted to ask, now that you've been with Michael for a good period of time, to reflect on what Chang brings to you and your game, your mind.  You know, he's won this tournament, a slam.  Just talk about that.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, he gave me many things.  I mean, obviously I started with him three, four years ago.  My ranking, you know, went up really, you know, in the top 10.   
Especially on clay I improve a lot my tennis.  You know, I start winning tournaments.  I'm playing much better tennis, I think, on clay.  That's something, for sure, that he gave me good tips, you know, on the clay.   
Well, yeah, it's been pretty good working with him, so very happy with him.   
 Q.  One other thing.  You have been on the tour for more than a few years now.  If you could go back now and just give yourself some advice when you were a very young person, a young player, what would you say to yourself?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, maybe the biggest -- I mean, it's not a mistake, but I had an injury, I mean, surgery 2009 and that was the toughest time I had on my tennis career.  I have to spend one year without playing tournament.  So that was the toughest time.   
I mean, I learned many things from that, so I'm not really concerned about it.  But, you know, if I could maintain little more all the little things if I could do in juniors or 17, 18, I think I could have less injuries.   
But I have been doing really well I think these couple years training, training hard off the court, and I'm much stronger physically.  It's much less and less injuries.   
So maybe that's the toughest time I had five, six years ago.   
 Q.  Obviously you have had a pretty good clay season, some good runs at the tournaments before.  Wonder how confident you feel on this surface, what you feel the next step is?  Is it maybe beating a Nadal or Djokovic somewhere like here?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  I really feel confidence this, especially these three years.  I have been winning Barcelona two times.  Couldn't defend this title this year, but I have been beating top 10 guys on clay.  I mean, still, it's not my best surface yet maybe, but I like better hard, hard court still.   
But on clay, you know, I think the biggest challenge is beating Rafa and Novak and, you know, Andy, too.  I think that's my next challenge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT