MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/K. Nishikori
6-3, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Kei, sorry for your loss there.  As a match, we really enjoyed it.  Do you feel happy with your performance?  Do you think you could you have taken it to a third set?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I thought I had the third set.  I started really well, I think.  I was dictating a lot with my forehand and playing aggressive, played what I wanted.
But just one game he played really well.  He hits very deep.  Maybe some of the shot I made some mistake, but only few shots.  Maybe few points first set and also second set.
Yeah, maybe I had to make some adjustment, but still, I played a good two sets.  It is disappointing, but, you know, it's not like losing 6-1, 6-1.  I look forward to play next week.
Q. At the end of the second set when maybe you were feeling a bit nervous missing the match points, did you feel you could turn it around or still a bit too tough?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I think he started playing better in the second set.  After winning first set he was I think more relax and he was hitting better shots.
Until 5-3 I think he gets a little bit tight.  Yeah, I mean, I saw a little bit chance to go in third set.  Yeah, maybe in the tiebreak I little bit get tight, too, also, with the wind and everything.
Yeah, it's shame, because I had some chance first and second set, too.  But, yeah, I learned many things today.
Q. With the French Open now just a fortnight away, where do you really rate your clay court chances of going a long way at Roland Garros?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I'm feeling really good on clay.  I think today's match was much closer than Miami's final against Novak, so I'm, yeah, looking forward to play French.
Yeah, I think I been having good week.  In Barcelona lost to Rafa close, and also today I saw some chance, too.  So try to look up and I hope I have another good week next week.  Hopefully I can do well in French.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT