MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 4, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/F. Fognini
6-2, 3-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You were very close to defeat.  Can you describe how it went for you out there?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, well, after first set I think he start playing better than me, for sure.  And also third set I think he deserve to win.  I think he played more aggressive and he was hitting better serves and returning well.
I don't know what's happened to him last couple games, but a little bit some luck and -- I mean, I thought played pretty good tennis first set, so I tried to keep it up, you know, my confidence, and try to play better next match.
Q. Do you think that having a tough first round here in Madrid can help you in your upcoming matches?  Obviously you have Gasquet.  You have a tough head-to-head.  That's tomorrow.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think it will help a little bit, you know, to play a lot of tennis today.  So against Gasquet it's tough; someone I never beat before.
So it's not going to be easy, but, yeah, try to focus again tomorrow and play good another good match.
Q. Gasquet, why is it you feel you've never beaten him before?  Is it a matchup issue?  What is it about his game that troubles you so much?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I think something is not much in line for me, so I have to change tactics a little bit and have to, you know, talk with my team and prepare, especially my mind, what I have to do tomorrow.
Well, yeah, it's not going to be easy when I not beat him before.  Try to be really, really mind set tomorrow.
Q. I would just like to ask you what would you feel is the most disappointing part of the match even though you won?  For you.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, third set I think he was like dominating me in groundstrokes.  It's completely different than first set what happened in second or third.
Yeah, I have to play better tennis for next match.  Yeah, I almost lost today, so hopefully I can play good tennis tomorrow.
Q. You've pulled this quite similar result against Monfils when he had match point.  How do you feel when you're down and facing the brink of defeat?  How did you motivate yourself to get back into the match and win it?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, it's never nice to feel this way, you know, when you're not playing well.
I was almost gone from the tournament, so I have to take something from this match and try to relax little more tomorrow.  Yeah, I have to.  Especially my mental have to be more strong and play, you know, what I have to do tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT