MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
April 3, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/K. Nishikori
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Congratulations on a great tournament.  How frustrating is it to play a player like Novak who doesn't seem to have any weakness?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, it was a really tough one.  He has great defense, so it's tough to break his game.  And, yeah, it was windy.  So, also couldn't really go too aggressive because the ball was moving and it was tough to do that.
He was very patient, and, yeah, he didn't miss.  It's always, yeah, tough to play Novak.
Q. You had to get your knee worked on.  Was that something that happened in the middle of the game, or was that something that bothered you throughout?
KEI NISHIKORI: Sorry?
Q. The injury with your knee, did that bother you throughout the match, or...
KEI NISHIKORI: No, it was okay.  It was good.
Q. My question is this was a really great opportunity to beat the No. 1 player in the world.  From 1 to 10, just your performance, what can you tell us from 1 to 10?
KEI NISHIKORI: Today's match?
Q. Yes.
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I don't know.  Maybe 5, 6.  I thought I wasn't playing too bad, but same time, you know, he played great tennis.  So that's why I couldn't play what I wanted to play.
And also, my serve wasn't going today.  So that was very shame to have that, because, you know, he had a great return.  I felt a little pressure on my service game.
I mean, he played good.  And also, I could be little better.
Q. Today was a significant opportunity and actually, you know, gave you an opportunity you lost a few years ago here.  One of the things that often is said is the player with more experience has the edge.  Today you were able to gain experience against the No. 1 player.  Considering that, what do you take moving into the clay season and as you move forward in your career?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I mean, I don't know.  Today it wasn't about experience much, because we didn't get too close in the match, I mean, the score.  So I don't think he gets really tight in the moment today.
If I could, you know, play better first couple games -- you know, I did for first game.  If I could maintain a little more, maybe the game changed a little bit.  But, you know, I know how tough he plays after he gets broked, so he's very focused.
Actually, it's always been happening when I play Novak.  So maybe, you know, the score was much closer.  Maybe, you know, you could see little more experience stuff, but it was, you know, almost like one side for him.  Yeah.
Q. Novak, as I'm sure you're aware, just broke the record for Masters 1000 titles surpassing Nadal.  Can you please comment on that and compare Novak and his level with, you know, Roger Federer and Rafa as best?  You've played them all.  How do they compare in your mind?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think for now he's playing best tennis.  Those guys, everybody different player, different style, all the top four players.  It's maybe tough to compare.
But definitely he's playing very consistent.  I don't think he dropped a set this week.  And also, winning last week Indian Wells.
Yeah, he's definitely No. 1 player right now.
Q. As the match is progressing and he's picking up more and more games, how do you stop yourself from getting frustrated?  What are you saying to yourself during the match and maybe trying to turn it around?  Are you also hoping that as hard as it is that Novak goes off the ball?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, second set I tried to change a little bit, you know, tried to be more aggressive, but actually that was, you know, like my fault.  I was missing a lot with my forehand and too many unforced errors to beat him.
So it was -- I mean, it was about him, but it also was about me too missing too much.  It was windy, so couldn't play like I wanted to.
And, yeah, he broke me like first game in the second set, so he has more relax and more time on his strokes.
Q. There is a lot of talk about the two events, Indian Wells and Miami and the possibility of Miami moving, which sounds like may not happen, which is great news.  As a player, how important is the month of March to build up your ranking as you go into the clay season and to get yourself into position in having a bye and having potentially your own quarter?
KEI NISHIKORI: Sorry, what's the question?
Q. The importance of the two events, Indian Wells and Miami, and as a player, trying to solidify a favorable ranking, especially as you go into clay and heading towards Roland Garros.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think this is important two tournaments, Indian Wells, Miami, especially me, I live in States so I feel more comfortable playing these two tournaments.  Especially here I always play good.  Actually, Indian Wells I never done well, but this year I did play well in quarterfinal.  I mean, could be better, but it was progressive for me.
Yeah, now is clay court season, so I'm excited to be back on clay.  I been playing well on clay, so starting Barcelona and hope I can get to, you know, get my ranking up, and I hope I can prepare well for French Open.
Q. Do you live in Florida?  Where do you live?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.
Q. What city?
KEI NISHIKORI: Bradenton.
Q. And my second question is:  Do the opponents feel like they know what it takes to beat Novak?  Like do people feel they have a good strategy in mind?  It's just a matter of executing it?
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know for other players, but, I mean, it's tough to find his weakness, honestly.  The biggest thing is he has great defense.  It's tough to open up the space.  And, yeah, I had a couple strategy before coming to this match, but I don't think I did that well to beat him today.
Yeah, I have to find little more, you know, good strategy and little more focus, for sure, that I need.  Yeah, I hope I can step up little more next time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT