MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
April 2, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/N. Kyrgios
6-3, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A lot of people were thinking you may have some trouble recovering after that long match the other day, but you looked sharp, returning serve very well.  How did you manage it?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  I mean, obviously I was a little bit tired I have to say from yesterday, but I actually concentrated well.  Because I was a little bit tired, I have to -- I sort of have to finish first, you know, this match, so that worked well.
Yeah, serve and return was really the key today.  Return well.  Tried to be a little bit patient with his serve, especially his second serve.  He has a great second serve, so I was not trying to put too much power.
Yeah, other than that, everything worked well.  So very happy with tennis today.
Q. In what way will the job be different on Sunday?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, obviously he's playing really good tennis from last week, Indian Wells, and also here.  I know it's going to be tough.  But, you know, I have to discuss with my team what I have to do against him and what I can do better.
But, yeah, if I can maintain this tennis yesterday and today and also final, I think I have some chance to win the title.
Q. You have beaten Novak before, semifinals, US Open.  What can you recall about the tactics from that that can help tomorrow?  And how has your game progressed since that time?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I have a good confidence, you know, to play him.  Obviously he's a little bit different level right now from last year, but if I can play, you know, another good tennis, aggressive and also patient, and, you know, something like today, you know, I think I have some chance.
Will have to play 100% or 120%, you know, to beat him, but try to enjoy first final here.
Q. Knowing how hot it's going to be likely on Sunday and the fact that both you guys usually play a lot of long points, what are you going to try to do?  Are you going to try to cut that down and look for spots more than you would normally?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I will discuss with my team, you know, what I have to do against Novak Sunday.  But, I mean, I'm not going to do something crazy.  And, you know, like I said, I'm playing good, and if I can maintain this, I have some chance.  Yeah, like I said, I will discuss with my team.
Q. Nick was saying earlier that he felt his serve let him down, that most of this tournament he hasn't served that well.  What do you think made the difference today and got you over the line?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  I made a lot of returns.  That's one of the things I did well today.  Like I said, you know, second serve, I tried to put it in other than, you know, put in too much pressure.  Either I miss or I hit the winner.  You know, I tried to be patient little more.
And, yeah, maybe he wasn't serving best today, so able to broke his game three times today.  I really concentrated very well.  Focus was there today.  So very happy with that.
Q. The most difficult challenge for you with Novak's game?  What is the thing you will have to overcome and deal with in order to have a chance against him?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think the biggest thing that he doesn't have much weakness.  He's very patient.  He doesn't give you any free points.
So also have to focus almost every point if I want to beat him.  So that's the toughest thing, you know, against him.
And also he's been serving well, I think.  So, yeah, I have to return well, serve well, and everything have to be there to beat him.
Q. What is the first thing that comes to mind when you have such an important victory?  Also, if you can talk a little bit about the preparation maybe physically and mentally in the next hours until the match.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I'm of course happy to be here, final, first time in Miami, but actually I have been playing well this tournament so I'm not surprised that, you know, I'm here in final.
But, yeah, tomorrow I have to really focus, you know, to think what I have to do against him and work on some stuff to play, you know, good tennis on Sunday.  Yeah, I know it's going to be tough match, but try to recover well tomorrow, and, yeah, have fun on final.
Q. When you look at the head-to-head record, and it's pretty commanding in Novak's favor, does that enter your mind?  Do past matches mean anything as you go into play against him on this occasion?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  Yeah, you can say he's beaten me many times, but every time is different situation.  And for me I think I have been playing well.  Physically I'm okay.  So I'm in good condition.  So I'm looking forward to play final.
Yeah, I mean, I have nothing to lose, you know, play against him.  He's beaten me already many times, so I try to play something different.  We'll see, you know, what's happen in the final.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT