MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 31, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/G. Monfils
4-6, 6-3, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Back in 2014 you were forced to withdraw in your match against Novak in the semis.  How satisfying is it for you now to have this opportunity again here in Miami and also have the opportunity to face Novak potentially in the final?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I remember.  That was really disappointed time for me.  You know, I think I remember could be first time semifinal in Masters.  You know, I mean, I was injury so I couldn't play.  I'm more physically strong now, and I hope I don't have to withdraw tomorrow.
It's been pretty good tennis and my body is holding very good.  Yeah, very looking forward to play semifinal tomorrow.
Q. Up a break in the final set, Gael comes back.  He's got five match points.  What were you figuring that stage?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I mean, the match could go both ways.  You know, like you said, I was up a break and I had many chance to break again, you know, second time.
You know, I just try to focus when I lost the game for 4-All.  Actually, I knew something like that was going to be happen, so I was kind of ready and like 50/50.
But when I was down 4-5, Love-40, I thought, All right, that's it.  Especially the last couple games I wasn't serving well, so that was -- I thought it's going to be tough to come back.  I tried to play one point at time.  Yeah, I thought I have to hit the ball to win the points, and I did.
The tiebreak I was try to be focus again.  I saw he was down a little bit, so try to be focus again.  Yeah, did pretty good in tiebreak.
Q. At the end of the match it seemed that you were really tired and you didn't celebrate as well as we would think.  It was a huge win.  How are you physically now for the next match?  What are your expectations for the next opponent?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, actually, not bad.  I mean, it's not going to be 100%.  It was tough condition and play long rallies, long match.  You know, I have to say a little bit tired now, but try to get good recovery today and tomorrow morning and try to be ready for tomorrow's match.
Q. So you faced a big sever with Gaël today and then your next two opponents are also big servers with Milos and Nick.  Looking at today's match, will you change up anything to deal with that?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I mean, tomorrow for sure they have bigger serve than today.  I have to return well or try to get whatever possible, you know, to return them serve, especially Raonic.  He's been playing well.
It's going to be the key for return for sure, and also my service game.
Q. Sorry asking about this, but we are from Brazil.  You guys in Japan had Zico as a star.  I don't know if you know him, and maybe if you have some remembers about him and how important he was for you in Japan.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I remember him.  Still he's on TV sometimes.  I'm not sure how he did for Japan much, but I know he was good player.  I mean, many Brazilian players are in Japan now.  It's good to see some good players in Japan.
Q. Granted, you won the match, but put that to one side.  While you're playing a match like that, are you able to enjoy what's happening on the court?  The crowd obviously got into it and had a great time watching it, and there were some extraordinary points played.  As one of the competitors, can you enjoy what's going on out there?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, it's half and half.  I was enjoying how he plays.  You don't see much other players how he plays.  Very athletic player.
Same time, I have to say very disappointed too.  I thought I hit the winner but he gets every ball, so not easy to play, of course.  You know, it's really enjoyable to play player like him; also really tough to play, too.
But, you know, I love to see him on TV, you know, if I am not playing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT