MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 28, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/A. Dolgopolov
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You must be very happy with your performance.  You didn't start the best.  You lost your serve at the beginning, but then (no microphone; indiscernible.)
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, everything worked well, but was tough condition.  Was windy, so I'm not expecting 100% today.  Pretty focused.  Not much easy mistakes and served well today, so that was the key of the game today.
Q. You had played him three times before.  You had won three times without losing a set.  Is there anything that you like playing him?
KEI NISHIKORI: No, actually.  He's a tricky player, so never easy always.  He had great serve, and when he's on, he can play aggressive and very tough.  So it's not like I like to play him.
Also he's a good friend of me, so not easy to play in the match.
Q. I wanted to ask you how comfortable are you playing the net?  It doesn't seems like you come to the net a lot.
KEI NISHIKORI: Uh-huh.
Q. What makes you play that way?  Don't you think you need to come to the net more, I mean, to be right up there?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I'm trying to come to the net little more.  I think that's going to give opponents a little bit more pressure, you know, in the groundstrokes.
Yeah, I try to mix some.  I'm very confidence now, especially this couple years.  I'm getting better at the net.  I mean, I'm not the net player, but try to come in sometimes.
Q. Nadal played doubles and Feliciano Lopez played doubles.  Would you play doubles any time soon?
KEI NISHIKORI: I love to, but not much for me.
Q. A little bit about the next round.  If you played Tsonga, how do you see the match?  You've played a lot and obviously a tough opponent.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, we been playing a lot.  I think he's back on track now; he's been playing well.  Always tough opponent; great serve and very aggressive with his forehand.
I had a good confidence from Australia.  We played in Australia and it was good match and I had a good memory, good tactics, you know, that time.
So, yeah, looking forward to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT