BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/S. Johnson   
7-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Second set, serving for it, dropped serve and got tight all over again.  What was happening there?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, there was some unforced errors that I shouldn't, you know, I shouldn't do that.  There was, you know, couple unforced errors.  You know, it was windy, too.  I kind of lost my rhythm.   
Also he was playing good, using good slice, and it was deep.  He played a couple good points, too.  I just, you know, let go that game and I tried to focus again.   
 Q.  Overall, how comfortable do you feel here and playing in these conditions?  Because obviously it's a little bit different to conditions at a lot of other tournaments with the balls flying and desert air and things.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, obviously it's not easy with these conditions windy and the ball and altitude, everything.   
It's, you know, tough to expect great tennis, you know, here, but I thought I was patient today and had a good first match.  Obviously, you know, it's not easy, but I have been playing good tennis these two matches and having confidence winning today, too.   
So I'm looking forward to play next match.   
 Q.  You might be playing Isner in the next round.  How do you see that matchup unfolding?  He's given you some trouble at times.  What do you think will be the keys to that?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  The key will be on the return.  My return, it's going to be the key, for sure.  I have to return well.   
I couldn't really step in today, so I tried to play more aggressive tomorrow, and, you know, try to be patient.  He's a big guy and I think I have more advantage on my groundstrokes, so try to use more forehands and play more aggressive.   
 Q.  Just talking about playing here and this environment over here, do you find it frustrating or a challenge and a good challenge for experience?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I mean, a little bit of both.  I mean, it's not my favorite situation here with the ball and everything.  But, you know, I have to focus little more and try to play little more, you know, better tennis.   
You know, slowly I start feeling a little bit every year, so it's been -- you know, it's been also big challenge for me to play, you know, good and having good result here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT