AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/G. Garcia-Lopez
7-5, 2-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Would you talk about the match today, how you felt it went for you?  The problem with the wrist, was that a big deal?
KEI NISHIKORI: No.  It was little bit sore in the beginning, but after the treatment it was fine.  I'm sure it's going to be okay.  Yeah, it was a really tough match.  There was many long rallies.
I have to give a lot of credit to him, because he was hitting really hard.  I thought he was going to hit more spin, but he was hitting a lot of flat balls and it was going in.
So it was, you know, tough to play.  But I start playing much better in the third and fourth.  I tried to dictate little more, tried to step in and use more forehands, and I think I able to come in many times today.
So that was working, too.
Q. Given the injury issues you have had in your career, do you do anything differently now to take care of your body?  Have you made changes to your training or preparations?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  I guess I'm doing little more training than before and doing a lot of rehab.  Even during the tournaments, too.  So try not to have, you know, less injuries.
Yeah, I think that's it.  Try to do little more training than before.
Q. So more training to take care of your body?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.
Q. Will the wrist be something that perhaps you'll have to cut back on your training in between matches or just simply taping it?  Are you confident to get through as many matches as the tournament holds for you?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  Actually, I had it two years ago, I think.  Yeah, I needed to tape my wrist because, you know, I have some issue there.
So maybe it's came back a little bit, but should be okay for next one.
Q. I just wondered how aware you were of Naomi Osaka before this tournament and what you think of what she's doing here.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it's pretty good for Japan tennis, I guess.
Actually, I seen only few times for her play, but what I seen is she's doing great.  She's still young.  She has a lot of power.  She has, you know, I think a lot of bright futures in her career.
Yeah, I like to see a little more, you know, seeing her play her match.
Q. Jo Tsonga is potentially your next opponent.  Can you recall your match from Roland Garros last year?  You had a tough one against him.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  Yeah, I think we play many times.
Yeah, he's gonna be tough, tough opponent.  You know, we play last year in French and I almost came back, but he raise his level in the fifth.  It was really tough loss for me, so I hope I can revenge here.  You know, I have been playing good and a lot of confidence coming up, so it's gonna be a good match.
Q. Last year you had some injury problems in the fall and had to pull out of a couple of tournaments.  Did you feel frustrated that your progress was slowed down a little bit because of that, because of the injuries?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  That was unfortunate, but actually it's less and less every year, actually.  I'm little more positive than a few years ago.  I think you cannot stop to not get any injuries.  I don't think it's gonna happen for me.
You know, try to have good treatment and good training during the tour.  You know, try to have less injuries.  Try to be healthy all the time.  You know, when it's happen, it's happen.  You know, so try not to get sad and try to be positive all the time.
Q. Do you think it means maybe playing fewer tournaments?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, if I got better then I could start playing less tournament.  But still not top 5 yet, so I think the schedule is going to be same.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT