AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/J. Tsonga   
6-4, 6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  You seem to be playing as well as two years ago at the US Open.  Are you expecting to face Djokovic and do it again?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I hope so.  It's gonna be big challenge to play Novak, for sure.  He's, you know, right now one of the best player.  He's been playing a lot of good tennis again this year, starting good.   
But, yeah, today was I think one of the best match I had this week.  Played good tennis, you know, through three sets, all three sets.   
Yeah, I hope I can, you know, beat him again.   
 Q.  You are always concerned about your physic situation.  Your body, wrist, legs.  Are you okay now?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it's all good.  Feeling very good.  My body and also tennis is very good.  Very looking forward to play next round.   
 Q.  What would you say is the most difficult thing when facing Djokovic for you?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I think the biggest thing is he doesn't miss, you know.  He doesn't give you easy points, any free points.  I have to, you know, be the one to dictate.  I think he's serving well, too.   
It always makes tough player.   
 Q.  You won in straight sets here.  How much does that mean in terms of in case the next match goes, I don't know, five sets, four hours?  Do you think you'll be able to keep the same level throughout the match?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, for sure.  It's great to finish straight sets always, especially Grand Slam is two weeks, so it's long time.  Takes some time than usual tournament.  It's great to finish quick.   
But actually, yeah, I'm feeling great.  You know, even I think play four or five sets, I should be okay, especially live close.  You know, it's easy for body.  Yeah, I have good feeling.  Yeah, like I said, looking forward to play next one.   
 Q.  How do you feel both you and Novak have developed since that match at the US Open?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, that gives me a lot of confidence to play against him again, but we played in London and he, you know, kind of destroy me.  It wasn't easy match for me.  It's different condition, but I hope I can make some changes and try to play better.   
Yeah.  I'm ready to beat him again.   
 Q.  Today's match was quite one sided compared to previous encounters with Jo.  What's different this time around?  What's going well?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I'm surprised that I broke him early every set.  I was returning well today, so that makes I think tough for him to have good serve all the time.   
Yeah, seems like he doesn't have many first serve in today.  That makes me easy to return my game.  Yeah, I think today was, you know, very good tactics for me.  Played very patient.   
When I have opportunity, you know, I tried to come in sometimes.  Using my forehands more and very aggressive certain moment.  Yeah, I felt like everything was working well today.   
 Q.  Few days ago, Verdasco, after he beat Nadal, said that he had watched his match versus Nadal seven years earlier ten times.  Have you watched your match versus Djokovic at the US Open many times or never?  Was there a reaction when you watched it?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I do watch it sometimes when I want some, you know, confidence or, you know...   
That match I played one of the best tennis in my life, so, you know, I watch couple times.  Yeah, I'm sure try to watch again before next match, I mean, if he wins today.   
Yeah, I tried to learn many things from the previous match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT