AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/A. Krajicek   
6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  After what happened in New York, is it a relief to get through the first two rounds in a fairly straightforward fashion?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it's great to have two matches with me now.  It's great start.  I think I played good tennis these two matches.  So, yeah, really looking forward this two weeks.   
 Q.  Was there any sort of break down in the off-season over what went wrong in that US Open first round last year?  Seemed afterwards a little bit confused about your own state of mind after that match.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it was tough loss in Grand Slam especially.   
Yeah, didn't play quite well after that, but I start playing better London and had a good off-season.   
Yeah, I thought I have good preparation Brisbane and here and last week, so I think I'm ready for playing this year again.   
 Q.  Austin felt like you played him play a lot of unforced errors.  Did you feel like you were in control for a lot of the match?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  I think mostly I was controlling the points.  Especially I was try to play quick, because he can be really dangerous, especially with the roof closed.   
He has great serve, and last time he played much more aggressive.  He came to the net little more.  But I think what I did well, I hit deep a lot of times.  I stop doing -- I stop let him come in, and, yeah, I serve really well today.   
That was really help my game today.   
 Q.  Was it tough playing a friend?  Did you forget it was our friend out there?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I tried to.  I tried to forget in the match.  But it's never easy play with good friends, and especially I know him when we were like 15, 16.   
So it's not easy, but on the court I try to concentrate whoever over the net.   
 Q.  Did it make a big difference playing under the roof?  
KEI NISHIKORI: It was not bad.  I rather player without roof, but, you know, because especially he can play really good on indoors.   
He has great serve, and like I said he's aggressive player.  But I thought I was playing good indoors.  I like indoor also.  It wasn't matter I think today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT