BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/M. Kukushkin
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How was that for a first match of the year for you?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I thought it was great match.  Didn't start quite well.  I think he really started well.  He was playing aggressive, great backhand, and I tried it mix up.  I think I went to his backhand too much.  He has very steady backhand.
I tried to move the ball around and start playing better.  I think serve really well today.  That's also improving, so very happy for that.
Going to be tough one.  Maybe Bernie will win tonight.  We play last year, too, so, yeah, let's see who's going to win today.
Q. Can you talk about your preparation for this season?  Was there anything you did different from the other years?  If so, can you tell us a little bit more?
KEI NISHIKORI: No.  I had same team and same training.
Q. In Florida?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  Didn't do nothing special.  I was working with Michael in California for ten days, and also in Florida.  I mean both work with Dante and Michael.  And I did a lot of work physical training, too.
So total I think it was three weeks.  Had good training session, so I'm really ready for this year.
Q. You mentioned you could face Bernard Tomic?  How much do you know about him?  How much of a dangerous is he?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, he's one of the very talented player, and he's still young so he has bright future.
You know, he has great serve and he reads very good.  Especially return.  He see where the opponent will hit, and he reads very good.
He's a very smart player, and I'm sure he's going to be playing better and better this few years.
Q. Going back to last year, how will you rank last season, and what you do to improve this year?
KEI NISHIKORI: I'm sure many things to improve.  I don't know.  Think a little bit everything.  Have to be a little more stronger physically and try not to have many injuries.  That's very important every time.
Mentally I have to be a little more stronger, you know.  But I been doing really good things from last year, and very happy to finish top eight again last year.
Try to have good confidence and try beat all the top 10 players.  That's going to be a big challenge for me.
Q. Was it disappointing not to play a Grand Slam final again last year?
KEI NISHIKORI: I mean, not really.  I know how tough is to go into Grand Slam final.  I know it's not easy things to do again.  Yeah, I think if I try to practice good and play good, I think I will have chance to play final again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT