BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 8, 2016
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. TOMIC/K. Nishikori   
6-3, 1-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was your feeling about Tomic, who you beat last year, same stage?  Obviously playing much better this year.  How do you compare your own game, also?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, obviously I didn't play my best tennis today,  but I think he play good tennis, too.  He serve really well.  He saved many important points with his serve.   
I mean, he was running side to side and he got me so many balls back, so it was really tough to play.  Yeah, just, you know, first match of the year, I mean first tournament of the year, so I'm not that worried.   
Yeah, there is many things to improve my tennis game today.  But, yeah, he played good tennis today.   
 Q.  Was there any element of surprise at how well he did play, especially in the third set?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, a little bit.  I mean, it's my fault, too, because I didn't serve well today.  I didn't make many first serve.  That's why I was struggling my service game, too.   
I wasn't going for the ball too much today, so that was something I didn't do well.  Yeah, like I said, I think he served really well today.   
 Q.  How much better do you think he was moving than the last time you played him?  Seemed to be scrambling pretty well out there.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, was moving well and he got so many balls back and came to the net a couple times that he moved well.  Yeah, I think h.   
E's improving his game.   
 Q.  After the second set you did you think you had gained momentum, and then wasn't able to...  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I was playing good tennis second set, but I knew he's going to start playing better, because he was missing many unforced errors in second set - even though I was playing well.   
Yeah, I thought I will have third set, but, yeah, he play good.  He played another good tennis again in the third.  Yeah, he fought back, he fought through in the end.  So I had couple chance to break his serve, but he played good today.   
 Q.  What's for you next week?  What's your preparation for the Open?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Just practice in Melbourne.   
 Q.  So you go from here to Melbourne?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yep.   
 Q.  Is it always better for you not play a tournament the week before slam?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, for me need to have good preparation before Grand Slam.  It's two weeks and five sets, so, yeah, I don't want to play too many matches before Grand Slams.   
 Q.  And is Michael coming to Australia?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.   
 Q.  Not here yet?  
KEI NISHIKORI: He's coming next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT