BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 19, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. FEDERER/K. Nishikori   
7-5, 4-6, 6-4   
An interview with:   
KEI NISHIKORI   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Are you regretting your first match, the one that you lost so easily?  What are your thoughts about the fact that you won five times the serve of Roger Federer, which is unusual indoors?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it is disappointed losing first match easy.  But I think he just played great tennis that one.  I was kind of let go that one.   
But today, yeah, I thought I was playing very good.  Especially return, I was making lot of returns.  Second serve, I think I was attacking really well.  I think that's why I able to broke that much.   
But each set I didn't start well.  I think every one he broke first and I was kind of defense all the time.  That was my big mistake that I did today.   
I mean, in end really close game.  I think just couple points that I didn't play quite well enough.  But, yeah, it is a shame to lose like this.  I thought I was playing well, so congrats to Roger.   
 Q.  You've had a very consistent season.  What will be success for you next year?  Will it be winning more titles, getting to more major finals, or more consistency?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think for me it's important to win a title, especially big ones, Masters, going further in a Grand Slam especially, because I didn't do quite well this year.  Plus I miss three Masters this year, but still I'm in the top 10.   
If I can do little better than this year, I think I can go little higher each year.   
 Q.  Michael said you used to have too much respect for Roger when you played him, that you could not play your best.  How did you change that to look at him like another opponent, not Roger?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I still have I think most respect on the tour with Roger because the way he plays, it's just beautiful tennis.  I love to watch him, too.   
But, you know, in a match it's different.  I've been playing really well.  I have a lot of confidence.  I beat him couple times already.   
Today, you know, I tried to play my tennis, and I think I did that quite well.  I think I have to adjust little things to win those top players.  But I think getting close.   
 Q.  With the recent attacks in Paris, does that have any effect on your attitude or confidence or intentions?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, little bit.  But I thought I was playing well in Paris.  I got injured unfortunately and I couldn't really practice first couple days.   
I mean, after Tomas match, I got lot of confidence.  I knew I have to play better to beat Roger today.  I was very excited for today's match.   
But I'm happy that I'm playing good tennis again and getting close to these guys.   
 Q.  You won 40 or 43 points with the second serve of Roger.  How were you able to do that?  What did you find in Roger's second serve?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, his second serve he mix a lot to body, wide.  He also hits to forehand.  I kind of ready to attack his second serve.  That's something I had to do to win in today's match.   
I don't know why, but I return really well.  Two days ago my return was okay, but it wasn't perfect.  Today I think made lot of returns, and that's why able to broke a lot of times.   
 Q.  What do you have to improve in 2016 the most?  Forehand, backhand, net, second serve?  What will make you happy there?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I'm trying to work on to come into net a little more.  I think I doing really well.  I am improving a lot this year.  I want to keep doing that.   
I think is going to be really important, making a lot of first serves.  I'm not the guy acing a lot, so I have to raise the percentage little more, you know.  Try to be healthy, I think that's most important.   
 Q.  Japan plays Great Britain next year in Davis Cup.  I'm looking for your thoughts on the Final this year.  Are the British the favorite or do you think the clay will help Belgium?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  It's going to be interesting, I think.  Andy, obviously he's great player.  He has a lot of chance to make Britain to get a title.   
I think on clay, Goffin plays really good, too.  Think it's going to be interesting.   
 Q.  You've played everyone now in your group.  Who do you feel has the best shot to go on and win this tournament?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I mean, for me, Novak played amazing tennis against me.  I mean, I don't know.  Roger beat him yesterday or two days ago.  I don't know what's going to happen.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your season plans.  Will you be doing anything different next year in the off-season compared to last year?  
KEI NISHIKORI: You know, trying to work hard again.  I think I have good I want to say three weeks to train.  Less little bit now.   
But, yeah, like I said before, I try to work on little things to improve little more.  I think physically I have to be little more strong.   
But I'm excited for next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT