BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 17, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/T. Berdych   
7-5, 3-6, 6-3   
An interview with:   
KEI NISHIKORI   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tomas said the key to the match was the breakpoint you saved at 3-3 in the third set.  Do you agree that was the turning point?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yes.  That was a really big point.  He had three, four shots that he went really aggressive.  I was defense all the time.  I mean, last shot, I kind of went for it, closed my eyes.  Was a little bit lucky I made that shot.   
But, yeah, after that I start playing better.  I tried to make a lot of returns.  Especially the game I broke his serve, last two games.  Yeah, I think that was really big points for today's game.   
 Q.  Talk about your feeling on the court this match versus the last match.  Did you feel better, more comfortable?  Was it just a better matchup?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it was much better than first match.  My serve went in much better than first match.  Had a more good percentage for my first serve.  Strokes, too.  I thought I was being very aggressive.  These courts are really slow, have more time to step in.   
I thought there were many good shots for me.  I mean, I had a bad game in second set at 2-1, and after that he started playing better.  That was kind of my fault that I give him little bit chance to come back for the match.   
Third set I tried to stay there all the time, more consistency, less unforced errors for me.  Very happy with my game today.   
 Q.  What do you expect for your next match against Roger?  How important was your serve today?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it's going to be really big challenge for me to play Roger.  It's always excited.  It's going to be really important match for both of us.   
I mean, it's going to depend tonight's match.  But I have to win the next match to qualify the group.  So I try to recover well today and tomorrow, and I will get good tactics ready and try to play another good match.   
 Q.  You're the youngest guy here, Roger is the oldest guy.  Nine years separate you.  Do you think about that when you go on the court, that maybe you can wear him down, I have younger legs?  Or is it just Roger?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Not really.  Actually he doesn't look really his age, 34 I think.  He's still improving his-self, playing great tennis even he's 34.  He doesn't look old for me.   
It's a great honor to play Roger.  Yeah, I actually never think about age on the court.   
 Q.  Roger and some of the older guys are asked a lot about the sport when they leave it.  As someone coming into his prime, do you feel any responsibility to take more of the tour on your shoulders?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, maybe feeling it little bit more these couple years.  I've been to this ranking for two years now, in top 10.  I have more confidence and more experience.  Right now I'm No. 1 Asian player.  I try to carry that on the court.   
It's great to play with a lot of support.  It's always have fun on the court.  So I'm really enjoying on this tour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT