SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/N. Kyrgios
  1‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Talk about how you turned that match around. He owned that first set. 
KEI NISHIKORI: I didn't have the best start this match today. But I knew if I can take the ball early little bit more in second set, try to be little more patient. My serve wasn't going in, especially in the beginning. I had three double‑faults in first game. I knew my serve was one of the reason I'm not doing well. 
My serve went well in the second and third. I tried to be little more aggressive. Yeah, he was hitting big serves. But I was returning well same time. So think it was good match for first match. 

Q. On a general theme, I wasn't in Tokyo last week, but I understand some of the crowd scenes wherever you went were pretty amazing. What is it like for you living with that kind of attention, thousands of people turning up?
KEI NISHIKORI: I feel it's getting more and more every year. I think it's great thing for me and also for Japanese tennis. 
I mean, it's never easy, you know, to have a lot of attention. But it's only few times a year. I stay most of the time in U.S. I try to enjoy that time. 
Unfortunately I lost in semifinal. But it was great tournament. I always enjoy playing in Japan. 

Q. Can you let us into some of the strange situations that have happened in Tokyo or in Japan in general with the crowds chasing you around like a boy band or something like that. 
KEI NISHIKORI: No, it's not that bad. You know, it's only in tennis tournament. 
But, yeah, it was a lot of people. Just practicing, everybody comes to watch. I mean, it's very honor to be like that. There is not many crazy situation yet. It's very enjoyable. 

Q. Nick was having a few conversations with the umpire during the game. Do you feel like he was losing concentration during that match?
KEI NISHIKORI: No, not much. I thought he was staying tough all the time. Even he lost the second set, especially he was doing really well in the first set, he didn't give me any easy shots. 
I mean, I heard little bit, arguing little bit. But I tried to stay calm and concentrate what I have to do. 

Q. For most of your matches in your career, you have to play players taller and stronger than you, like Nick today. Is there any time you feel like it's unfair, like even when you were a kid?
KEI NISHIKORI: Not really. I got used to playing with these big guys. It's never easy, especially when the opponent had big serve like today. It's not much as fun playing against, like, David or some guys have better strokes than serves. 
But, I mean, I think I can change, and I have to fight with this body. I try to enjoy every match, especially maybe I feel sometimes I play against Ivo Karlovic or Isner, maybe it's not fair sometimes. But, you know, the tennis, it's like this. That's something you can enjoy about this. Everybody's different. 

Q. We know that Japan has very advanced technologies. I'm wondering if you're using any high‑tech technology to help you in practicing?
KEI NISHIKORI: Not really. I don't know. I cannot think anything. 
I know WTA use little more than men's tennis. Yeah, for me, no, not much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT