BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 5, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/K. Nishikori
  7‑6, 4‑1 (ret.) 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
   
 Q. Must be very disappointing for you. What happened exactly? Can you explain?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, for sure. After the first set, I start feeling my abs, side abs. Couldn't really hit serves. I couldn't really hit 100%. So I started going to be worse to play a couple games. You know, if you're not 100%, easy to beat, you know, Richard, like, people like top 10.   
I decided to not play. I mean, it should be okay in few days. I will check later, but I will see how it goes, you know, these couple days.   
   
 Q. I may be wrong, but you were also supposed to play last week and you decided not to. What was the injury? Was it the same thing or...   
KEI NISHIKORI: No, it was my right shoulder. Started happen Japan and Shanghai, and didn't have much time to recover before coming here‑‑ I mean, playing Basel. I decided to not play Basel.   
Right before playing first match, I started playing much better. I started better, but another one came, so very unfortunate.  
   
 Q. Must be frustrating for you. Also, are you a bit worried for London? It's going to be too short of a time?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I think it's going to be okay. There is one more week. Well, one more and a couple days. So, I mean, really, I have to see how it goes, but should be okay.   
   
 Q. Do you think maybe this summer you struggled a lot? Do you see a reason for that? Is it only physical? Fatigue or something?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know. You know, I have been playing a lot of matches this year, maybe that's why. You know, I have been hurting these couple months, not feeling 100% yet.   
But, you know, on the court I was playing good tennis today and very happy with my tennis. You know, just recover for next London Tour Final. Just one more tournament to go. So I just get recover soon and fight for another one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT