COUPE ROGERS
August 14, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/R. Nadal
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Were you surprised you were so dominant on his serve tonight?
KEI NISHIKORI: Little bit, you know. I was expecting, you know, him to have good return. He wasn't make much, so I knew I had to be a little aggressive second serve. 
Everything was working well. So very happy today. 

Q. Your first win in eight tries against him. 
KEI NISHIKORI: Take long time. I wasn't really like to play against him. But these couple matches, I have chance, especially Australia and Madrid. I lost last year, but I was close. 
Today I was almost dominating everything, so very happy with the way I'm playing. 

Q. Some people say he's not the same player. Would you say he's not the same player?
KEI NISHIKORI: Maybe. I knew I have to be aggressive, so I have to change some tactics to play against Rafa. 
Yeah, everything was feeling well today. I felt like, you know, everything was going in. So I just tried to put everything in. 

Q. Did you feel he was a different player?
KEI NISHIKORI: Oh, you mean him? 

Q. Yes. 
KEI NISHIKORI: No. I mean, he's still not maybe 100%, but he's Rafa. I never beat him before, so I knew I have play 100% to beat Rafa. 

Q. Your game seems very sharp. You seem very on top of form. How do you explain your game is reaching such a high level?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think yesterday was one of the best match I have these last couple weeks. Yesterday too, but today was better. I try to be a little more aggressive. I was trying everything. 
Yeah, very confident from last week in Washington, and to beat couple good players here. Looking forward to play tomorrow. 

Q. (Question regarding how he is feeling at such a late hour). 
KEI NISHIKORI: Actually, feeling pretty good. Never easy to stay late. I try to get ready for tomorrow and look forward to tomorrow. 

Q. You might play against Murray tomorrow. What are your thoughts on that?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, Andy, too, I never beat him before. It's going to be another big challenge. But I beat Jo last year. Just see what's going to happen next. 

Q. You played a very aggressive game tonight. What part of your game were you most impressed with on the aggressive side, forehand, backhand?
KEI NISHIKORI: I would say both forehand and backhand. I knew I have to be tough at the baseline to beat Rafa. I was trying to step in little more. Cross‑court was one of the good shot I had today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT