WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Is this the same injury you had in Germany, in Halle, correct?   How did you make the decision that it was too bad to keep going today?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it is same injury.   Got better before the first match, you know, last week.   I thought it was really going to be okay.   But last match in fifth set I was hurting too much. 
I try this two days, and warmup today.   But it was hurting, you know, just walking and running, so I decide not to play today. 

Q.   Do you know more specifically what the injury is?   Is it a muscle tear or anything like that?   What can you say about it?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I will check, you know, after this.   It's not a big injury, but still, you know, I think little tear. 

Q.   At the end of your last match you kind of threw a fist pump in the air that looked a bit tired.   Did you know then, at the end of the match, things were going to be pretty tough for you the next couple of days?
KEI NISHIKORI:   A little bit, yeah.   Yeah, during the first match against Simone, especially in the fifth set, I hurted pretty bad.   I don't know how I fight through, but somehow I won. 
Yeah, I knew it's going to be little pain I have next day, so... 
I thought it would get better in two days but, yeah, it didn't get better.

Q.   What does this tournament mean to you and how disappointed do you feel?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Uhm, yeah, it's very disappointed.   Especially it's Grand Slam.   I thought I was playing well on grass.   So very unfortunate to lose this chance. 
But, you know, I try to keep it up.   Hopefully I can do well in the U.S. series. 

Q.   Do you know what your plan is now?   Are you going back to the States or back to Japan? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I mean, I have one month before Washington.   So I'm sure it's going to be okay.   I need to get, you know, another good preparation for U.S.
I always play, you know, good in U.S.   I like hard court.   So I hope I can have good preparation again. 
Yeah, I think the injury should be okay for next tournaments. 

Q.   Have you spoken to Michael yet? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   No.

Q.   Has your bad luck with injuries made you more cautious now when something comes up like this, to choose on the side of being more careful?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Well, you know, I try not to prepare for not happen every time.   But I think, you know, sometimes I cannot stop.   I usually play 100%, you know, every match.   So I cannot stop injury every time. 
But, you know, when it's happen, especially in Grand Slam, it's very, very sad and disappointed. 
But, you know, there is more years to come.   So should be okay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT