WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/S. Bolelli
  6‑3, 6‑7, 6‑2, 3‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Maybe you could talk a little bit about your calf because that was a problem for you in Halle.   How is it feeling and how much did it impact your performance today?
KEI NISHIKORI:   No, it's good.   I knew it was going to be tough, tough one because we played long five sets last year here.   I knew he's good on grass.   You know.   Mentally I was ready, but maybe there was many ups and downs.   My serve, and maybe my concentration wasn't there some moments. 
Yeah, that's why I could, you know, finish three or four set.   But finish very strong, you know, in the end.   So very happy to win today. 

Q.   Coming into a slam where you don't have as good of success on grass as you do on the other surfaces, does it make you more motivated to perform well here or does it make you more anxious or unsettled?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Actually, I got couple good matches before coming here, you know, in Halle.   Even last year I was playing well.   So I'm always excited to play on this tournaments, on the grass court. 
Maybe the result is not coming yet, but I start feeling more confidence playing on here.   So I hope it's better result will come sometimes. 

Q.   Do you think maybe you're continually improving on the surface?   Each year you come here, it's like first round, third round, fourth round.   Is that a good sign for this year, maybe you might go even further?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I'm sure I need more matches to get more experience.   And also to win the matches, it's important for my confidence.   I'm sure that I'm playing good on grass now. 
So it's just, you know, more experience, I guess. 

Q.   Is the injury a concern going forward to your next match at all?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I have to see.   But it should be okay. 

Q.   You said you were getting more confidence on the grass now.   I was wondering if there is anything you need to do in your game maybe, I don't know, adapting or strokes to match the success you've had, say, at the US Open or the Australian?   Anything specifically you're working on?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Maybe there is, but I not say too much. 
But my serve is getting better now.   I feel like I get more free points.   You know, try to come in a little more to the nets.   That's also working. 
I mean, there is many, but, yeah, I cannot say too much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT