COUPE ROGERS
August 12, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/P. Andujar
  6‑3, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. What's going on with your leg (referring to the taping)?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Oh, it's all good. Thanks.   
   
 Q. Since you didn't have much rest since Washington, how do you feel coming here? Is the surface faster than Washington or just the same or...   
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I've been feeling pretty good. After, of course, winning the title, you have to feel good. My tennis is getting better.   
I think didn't start quite well, but it was windy. We had a little wait, so it wasn't easy in the beginning.   
After couple games I was playing well. Concentrating well, too. I'm very happy with my tennis today.   
   
 Q. After making the US Open final last year, do you go into the hard court season this year thinking that you could have another run like that in New York this year?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I hope so. I'm going to try to go in final again. But I know it's a new US Open again this year. I'm not expecting to go in final for sure.   
Just playing one match at a time and try to focus from first match, see what I can do again.   
   
 Q. Today most of the top players are very big guys, tall people. You're not that tall. How do you manage that? How are you able to beat these guys? It just seems to be a big man's game now.   
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, it's never easy. If you face big servers, like last week, played John and Cilic, Groth last week. It's not much fun on the court.   
But I have a good return. I have good speed, too, that most of the big guys don't have.   
I think that's the fun things for tennis. You know, everybody's different. Even if you're small, me or, like, David, all those guys are doing well in top 10. You see Goffin is doing well, too.   
I think it's great to see all the matchups different.   
   
 Q. The Washington Post ran a big story on you last week. I'd like to know how comfortable you are with the kind of role of a pioneer that's been given to you for tennis in Japan and Asia in general.   
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I'm very comfortable. I don't feel much pressure from Japan or anything. So, you know, I just try to focus what I can do.   
It's very honor to be No.1 player right now in Asia. I hope tennis gets bigger in Asia. You see the Korean kids is doing well again. I hope more guys are coming.   
   
 Q. Do you have any source of pride to know it seems like every time you reach a certain level, you're always the first Asian to reach those levels? Any specific pride from that?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, happy to hear all the new record or whatever. But, you know, my goal is not to make new records in Asia, it's to be one of the best players in the world. There's more things to do, but I am having fun on this journey.   
   
 Q. It seems that your game adapts really well to hard surfaces. You had a great season last year. Now you won Washington already. What is the plan to succeed on hard court?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think hard court still feel comfortable, even though I play well on clay, winning Barcelona, did good on French Open.   
I don't know. I think for my game, you know, have a good speed. You can use more on hard court. Plus I have a lot of experience on this surface.   
Every surface is different, and this week it's been a little bit windy, a little bit slower than last week. But I think I've been playing well.   
   
 Q. Because you've spent a lot of time in the States, has the US Open become the closest to a home Grand Slam for you?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Uhm, maybe not. I think Australia is feel more home. But, you know, US Open I feel comfortable, too, because it's close from where I live.   
It's a lot of fun on the court. Crowds are very excited. I see a lot of Japanese comes up for my games. Yeah, maybe it's second home for my Grand Slam.   
   
 Q. What do you think was the change or development that has propelled you to this higher level?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I think I'm little more patient than last year or year before. I've been playing little more aggressive, but same time I have less unforced errors, I think, so I got better now. I feel like I get more free points from my serve.   
I think little bit everything. Mentally I got strong, too, so...   
   
 Q. You made steady progress over the last couple years. Can you go higher? What do you have to do to get better, to be No.1?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I mean, to be No.1 there's many things to do. But I think I've been doing what I have to do right now. Doing a lot of things to work hard off the court. I worked hard the two weeks before Washington.   
I think stay healthy is the most important thing for me 'cause if I can play well and if I can play every tournaments decent amounts, you know, I think next goal is to win a Masters or Grand Slam. For me, I'm No.5, but I haven't get any title from Masters or Grand Slam. So I think that's going to be my next goal.   
   
 Q. We feel that your generation, like Milos Raonic, Dimitrov and you, for instance, is close to taking over the older guys who have been there for a long time, many guys in their 30s. How do you explain that those guys are still very good? What's missing for your generation to take that final step?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I think we still young. I think mentally we have to be a little more strong, more patient on the court. You have to really focus on especially important points. That's what they are good playing.   
I think we can play, I mean, good tennis every week. They are physically much more stronger. I don't see many injuries from those top four guys. Yeah, I think little bit everything. You have to be little more stronger.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT