ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  K. NISHIKORI/T. Gabashvili6-3, 6-4, 6-2THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. I'm from The Netherlands.  How important has Olivier van Lindonk been for your career?KEI NISHIKORI: I didn't expect that question.  But, yeah, we have been working together for a long time.  I don't know, started when I was 17, 18.  So it's been a long time with him. And, I don't know, yeah, he's like almost family now.  He's here now, and very nice to working with him.Q. A big achievement for you to reach the quarterfinals.  Just talk about sort of that from your perspective and was that something you expected coming in this week?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  I think to come in quarterfinal that's the first goal for this week, I mean, these two weeks.  I knew I can do this because, you know, I was doing well these clay court season, started last year. I mean, I hope it's just, you know, the start of my journey, and I hope I can keep going.  Yeah, this is first time to be quarterfinal in French Open, so it means a lot for me.Q. Thoughts about a quarterfinal with Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, who just won.KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, we haven't played a long time, maybe couple of years.  But, you know, he was injured and he came back now and he's coming back very strong.  You know, he has a big serve, big forehand.  He's always a dangerous player.  He's the top-10 player, I think.  So it's going to be fun match.Q. You're also the first Japanese player to make it to quarterfinals in more than 80 years, I think.  Does that add to the joy?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  It's always a lot to make the new history.  Especially for Japanese, Asian, you know, the clay is not the best surface for us. Now, you know, I'm trying to make the new step.  I hope I can keep going like this on clay court. Yeah, I just try to play one match at a time and try to focus again for next one.Q. What can you say about the pressure you feel?  Because a lot of Japanese journalism and a lot of people watch your games in Japan.  What can you say about the pressure you feel?KEI NISHIKORI: Actually, not much.  Yeah, I think it is a little bit crazy how many medias here for me, and it's not unusual, I think, for other players. But I don't think I feel any pressure from them or any, you know, or the fans in Japan. I think it's almost, you know, exciting things for me to get a lot of support.  Yeah, I had a lot of people watching in Japan and a lot of my friends are watching, too. It's not like pressure.  I think it's more exciting stuff.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT