WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   How is the injury and how do you assess your chances for the tournament?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   No, it's good.   Yeah, had a good three matches in Halle.   I think it's great preparation for here.   
I'm sure that I'm, you know, have a lot of confidence and I'm feeling good on grass.   
Should be fine for Monday.   
   
 Q.   Have you looked at your draw?   Generally how do you approach this tournament and expectations overall this coming fortnight?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Actually I don't see the draw.   I know I'm playing Simone.   It's going to be tough for sure.   We played five sets last year.   He's good on grass.   
But, you know, I had a good preparation.   I feeling good.   Yeah, I just try to play good match.   You know, first round, it's never very easy.   I try to fight through the tough first round.   
   
 Q.   Can you win it all then?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I will try, yeah (smiling).   
   
 Q.   What do Roger and Rafa's careers mean to you?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I mean, they both, like, you know, big talent.   They're one of the best player.   Also Djoko, too.   
I think I'm getting close.   I mean, not like winning a lot of titles yet, but I beat them couple times.   You know, the next goal is to win the Masters or to win a Grand Slam.   
I hope I can have good season this year and, yeah, hope I can get closer to them.   
   
 Q.   You launched an app earlier this year.   Tell me about why that was and what do you hope your fans to get out of that.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it's very happy to get my app announced.   Yeah, I just actually had a chat with fans, you know, couple days ago.   It was really fun.   I felt really close to them.   I was really excited.   
Yeah, I hope a lot of people get know about me.   You know, I try to post a lot of things.   I hope they can feel like they are getting close to me.   
Yeah, I hope tennis or sports get big in Japan, too.   
   
 Q.   Every time you go up in the rankings, the sense of expectations in Japan grows.   How do you deal with the pressure?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Actually, I don't feel any pressure from Japan, you know, 'cause especially I live in States.   I see all the top players when I was young.   And, you know, even now I try to aim for top five, top three, top two.   
Especially in the match, you know, I just try to focus what I have to do.   I try not to think too much about outside things.   I mean, I feel pressure sometimes, but I think I'm handling really well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT