MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/R. Bautista Agut
  6‑3, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations on the victory. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Thank you.

Q.   How do you feel it went out there?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Felt pretty good.   Much better than first match because I was stepping a little more and using more forehands and he was dictating more with my forehand. 
I was feeling really comfortable out there.   Really happy the way I'm playing today. 

Q.   You served really well today.   Didn't face a break point until the very last game and didn't get broken.   Is that a shot that you are still working on, still improving?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, that makes so much easier for my game when my serve is going, especially my first serve is going well.   I feel more confidence on my serve.
After the serve you have more easy balls coming after second ball.   So, yeah, serve is one of the important things for my game. 

Q.   Obviously you went to a deciding set yesterday, and looking at statistics, your deciding‑set record is one of the best of all‑time.   What do you feel is the secret to your success in deciding sets? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, actually I'm not sure.   I try to keep, maintain the concentration especially.   That's the most important thing after playing two sets.   You get tired mentally and physically.   I try to keep the concentration all the time.
When you have time, try to raise my level.   Yeah, I think I did yesterday.   After 4‑All game I tried to be a little more aggressive and take my chance. 
So I'm not sure why, you know, I have best third‑set record, but I think that's something I born with it, so...

Q.   How well do you think this tournament reflects the shape in which players get to the French Open?   What are your expectations for the French Open? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I'm really looking forward to play French this year, because I got injured last year this time in the final and I couldn't really play good tennis in French Open.
So I really playing well on clay.   Even last year I won Barcelona and final here.   So, yeah, this year is same.   I'm feeling a lot of confidence playing on clay. 
Yeah, French Open I haven't done well so much, so that's one of the goal, to have good result on French Open. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT