ROLAND GARROS
May 22, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   Q.  How do you feel coming into the tournament this year?  Especially last year you weren't in the best of shape.  Are you feeling good?  KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, feeling pretty good.  I think I'm ready for Sunday starting.  I had a great clay court season from Barcelona winning again; you know, I had a decent Madrid and Rome. So I'm very excited to come in here.  I hope I can play good.  I think this is the first time that, you know, I have a lot of confidence and also feeling great physically, too.  Yeah, I hope I can have good week.   Q.  I'm talking about another player, Del Potro.  He's having so many injuries.  Do you think he will be able to come back?  How do you see the state after the recovery?  KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, actually, it's really unfortunate.  He has a lot of injuries.  I think he has the potential to be No. 1, but very sad to see.  I'm sure he's going to get back very strong, because you see last time when he coming back he was winning already. You know, unfortunately again, but I'm sure he's gonna be back soon.   Q.  Some of the players don't like to look at the draw at all.  Someone like Andy Murray said he looked at the whole draw.  What kind of player are you?  Do you look at who you have in your quarter and which half and stuff like that?  KEI NISHIKORI: I think I'm same.  I don't look the draw.  I only know who I play next.   Q.  Speaking of people you have played or looking ahead, last time you play Mathieu was in 2012.  Do you remember that match at all?  You won it.  Do you remember anything you did against him that you think was successful?  KEI NISHIKORI: 2002?   Q.  2012.  KEI NISHIKORI: Here?   Q.  Yes, against Mathieu.  It was against Mathieu, the opponent you're playing on Sunday.  KEI NISHIKORI: Ah.  Yeah, that was too long time ago, so I don't remember much.  Actually we just had a practice yesterday, and, you know, I know how he plays.  He can be dangerous player, so I have to be really ready for the match. But I think I been working really hard and feeling pretty good on the court, too.  So should be ready for the match.   Q.  You have spoken in the past about getting used to the fact that you're one of the high seeds now at tournaments, stuff like that.  Do you feel comfortable now being here as the No. 5 seed?  KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I am much more comfortable right now.  One year ago I was almost feeling nervous in the top 10, but right now I have been here for one year and now I'm really being comfortable. I try to look for, you know, one at a time, you know.  From now you cannot go up soon. So it's going to be maybe long way to go, but I try to keep this ranking.  I hope I can go step by step.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT