MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 9, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/K. Nishikori
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Sorry about the loss today.   How would you assess your performance?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Well, there was too many unforced errors from me.   I don't think played too bad, but to beat Andy I was missing too much.  
I thought I was doing well couple times, but I think overall he maintained his concentration pretty well.   
For me, I was missing a lot, so there was not many chance to win even a set.   
   
 Q.   Couple late night matches this week.   How has that affected you?   Do you think it affected your performance today?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, like I said, I wasn't concentrate as much as like yesterday or this week.   I mean, it's never easy like semis, final you should play 100%, and that's something I couldn't really do it today.   
Yeah, very unfortunate how I playing today.   
   
 Q.   Despite the loss today, you've got a very good record in Spain.   Do you like playing on the Spanish courts?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.   I mean, obviously here and Barcelona is much different surface.   It's same clay, but this one bounce high and is very fast.   A little bit altitude, too, so...  
But, yeah, I been playing well from last year.   It's great to have Masters semifinal, so hopefully I can do well next week, too.   
   
 Q.   Which are your feelings for the clay season, the rest of the clay season?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, try to do best as I can.   You know, Rome I didn't play last year, so I hope I can do well.   Two more big tournaments coming up, so try to recover well today and before Rome starts, and, yeah, hope I can have another big result again.   
   
 Q.   When you play Andy, do you identify any differences in how he may conduct himself compared to the last time you played him?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I think I been playing same as last year.   You know, a little more aggressive, even on clay.   My body is feeling good, so it's good to maintain this healthy body‑wise.   
Yeah, like I said, recover well these couple days and try to fight again next week.   
   
 Q.   Obviously this time last year you had the back injury.   Speaking of injuries, you've obviously had much less injuries this year.   What's been the difference for you?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Well, I try to do a lot of rehab and keep training off‑season, and even on the tournament I try to do a little bit rehab, too.  
Yeah, it's great to maintain this good body, good, strong body.   Yeah, physically I'm feeling really strong, so that's why I can play a lot of long matches and a lot of physical confidence, too.   
It's great.   I don't have to skip any tournaments this year.   
   
 Q.   Which is the difference between competing in Barcelona and here in Madrid?   What do you have to do to adapt your tennis to play here?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Here is a little bit altitude and the courts is really fast, so serve is really important.   
I don't know.   Also same time aggressive is really key for my tennis.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT