ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2019
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. NADAL/K. Nishikori   
6-1, 6-1, 6-3   
MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  You played a lot of tennis during this tournament, and your last match certainly was taxing.  Was fatigue a factor for you today?  And also, just separately, can you talk about given that this was the 13th time that you have played Rafa, can you talk about the state of his game right now?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Kei, I mean, that's for sure I played too much hours on the court this week, last week.  I mean, today, Rafa, he didn't let me play how I wanted to play, and especially if I'm not fresh, it's not easy to stay with him.   
But I thought he was playing, you know, good tennis.  On clay court it's very tough, you know, playing Rafa.  He hit very heavy, and he was serving well.   
He made me play every point.  Even to get one game, it feel like very long, you know, to get one game.   
Credit to him, playing great tennis this week.   
 Q.  You're great in deciding sets, but how do you get to the next point where you obviously don't have to expend so much energy in the five-setters leading up to the quarterfinals and so on?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, I wish I could finish in three sets.  Maybe, yeah, lost many tie-breaks this week.   
Yesterday I had match point fourth set, and I lost to play long match and -- made to play long match and also against Djere, too.  You know, had a chance in tiebreak and couldn't convert.  I mean, I think sometimes it happens.   
I think I gotta keep trying to work, to finish straight sets, but that means I'm not, you know, maybe good enough, you know, tennis-wise, and also mental.  So I just keep, you know, working.   
Yeah, I think that's gonna be next step, because, you know, I'm always stuck in the quarterfinals in Grand Slams, and I think next goal is to be in semifinal or final.   
I know it's not gonna be easy, because I've got to beat someone from top four, and I think they are dominating still.  So not gonna be easy, but I just try to keep working.   
 Q.  Can you describe your feelings on the court today?  Because I'm wondering how difficult it is to keep fighting when you're facing such a strong opponent when you only have a few solutions maybe but you see it's nearly impossible?  I'm wondering if sometimes you're tempted to just throw the match away.  How difficult is it to keep focused on what you're doing?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I try to put 100% on the court even though my tank was very low today.  But I just tried to play, put 100%.  And I think I was, you know, frustrating too much with my tennis today.  And also not easy, you know, when you're very tired but you have to stay with him.  Especially Rafa, you know, gives me very hard time every point and not easy.  But, you know, I just try to do my best.   
Actually, after coming back from rain delay, it was only a few games, but I was feeling good.  I think I tried to be a little more positive and enjoy last couple of games.   
Maybe if I could, you know, be a little more positive today, maybe I had little more chance, but I think I learn many things from this week.  Yeah, but very good tournament this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT