MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
April 2, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. ISNER/K. Nishikori
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You had never played him before.   Can you talk about how difficult it is to face him when he's playing that well and how you felt you played today.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I think he play really well today everything.   Serve, I didn't have any chance.   
Also, his forehand, also backhand, he hit some winners from back of the baseline.   I think he close his eyes and hitting so many winners.   Couldn't really stop him today.  
So I don't think I really play bad.   Maybe I could do little better everything, but I think he played well today.   
   
 Q.   Just a little sum up of Indian Wells/Miami.   How do you feel you did in these two events?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Of course it's really disappointing lose today, but I had a good three matches before here.   I think I'm playing good again.   
So I could a little better in Indian Wells.   I never play well there.   So maybe next year try to do well Indian Wells.   
This could be better, but it was good week, playing good tennis.   I had confidence again, so I think it's becoming good.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   When you're playing someone like Milos Raonic who is also a big sever you find your way into his serve.   What makes it different with John Isner?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I think the big reason is he doesn't give you good rhythm in your strokes.   He try to hits winners from everywhere, so there is no long rallies.   For me, it's tough to have good rhythm my strokes.   
And also, he was serving great today.  
So, yeah, I need a little more focus on my first service game, and that's something I to have work on next time.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel more frustration playing somebody like Isner because you can't maybe develop your game?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Usually, yes.   You know, when you play with big servers it's not fun actually.   It's never easy play against those big servers.  
But something I have to challenge next time.   
   
 Q.   How much do you have to guess at where he's going with his serve?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   It was tough, you know, especially we never play before, so I didn't really read his serve.   And also second serve he was hitting big, so it was tough to return.   
   
 Q.   Is that the best anyone has ever served against you?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Sorry?   
   
 Q.   Is that the most anyone has ever shut you down with a serve in a match?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I think so, yes.   I think, yeah, s tougher than ‑‑ I mean, Milos is tough, tough serve.   
But I think he has more height, so felt like it's coming from somewhere different.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   What are you thinking when you go down a break in the second and a guy is serving like that?   Are you fighting the feeling that's it's hopeless, or are you telling yourself you can always get back in?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Well, yeah, it was tough situation, especially with this guy shouldn't really break my serve.   But I was trying to find one chance again.   I was more focusing my service game.   
That's where I couldn't really have enough time to think about for my return game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT