BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/F. Verdasco
  6‑7, 6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Since 2014 you have played 30 deciding sets.   Three set or five sets, you have won 27 of them. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Wow.

Q.   What do you tell yourself when you're going into the third or fifth set that allows you to focus and come through those tight matches?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Well, yeah, I try to concentrate against, especially first couple of games.   I usually do well to break the games, you know, and I try to think a lot what did I do well, you know, these past couple sets and, you know, what did I do wrong and make sure that before I play first points on the third set that what I have to do is there.
I don't know.   Just fight again.   That's the only important thing.

Q.   Fernando can be tough to play at any time.   Can you talk about the match?   Is it more relief that you were able to get through such a tough opponent so early in the draw?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.   It was really close match.   I was struggling with his serve.   He mixed up really well:   flat serve, spin, kick serve.   Sometimes I didn't know where the ball is coming. 
Usually I return well, but today I wasn't do really well.   So that's why I was a little bit struggling.
Yeah, second set I was start playing well.   I try to step in little more and I was I think I was dominating all the stroke points and able to make some returns. 
I was making a lot of first serves, so that's why it was easy second set. 
Third set, yeah, it could go both ways, but I got first break.   I really served well.   Until last game I didn't face break points.   It was still close the last game.   I had two double faults. 
Yeah, I finish well.   So really happy to beat Fernando.

Q.   Why was his serve giving you more trouble than some other guys you played?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, especially here bounce sometimes bounce crazy, you know, these slow courts and really, how do you say, like crazy.   Yeah, it's not normal than other tournaments.
Yeah, his kick serve was bouncing, you know, really high, and I wasn't really step in for that serve.   So that's why I wasn't doing really well.

Q.   Earlier Andy Murray said the conditions are part of the reason why he has trouble at times, too.   Is it also the case for you, too?   The high temperature affects your game?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I mean, not too bad.   It was hot these couple days, but I was okay.   It's not like I love heat, but, you know, I handled it well. 
You know, it's dry here, so it's not too bad like Australia.

Q.   How far do you think you can reach in the tournament?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I hope I can go farther.   You know, I try to play one match at a time and see who's coming next.
But, you know, I am feeling confidence and play two good matches here.   Yeah, hopefully I can go, you know, further this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT