AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 28, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. WAWRINKA/K. Nishikori6-3, 6-4, 7-6An interview with:KEI NISHIKORITHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. In the tiebreak in the third set, did you feel more aggressive in your game?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I start feel more comfortable in the third set, especially after I found out couple points that, you know, I could go little more aggressive than first and second set.  I was mixing up serve and volleys.  My serve was much better than first couple sets because I was making more first serve.  I was struggling my serve.  That's why I couldn't get good rhythm first and second set.  Yeah, tiebreaker was really close.  If I could get that one, might change the whole thing.  But, you know, he was serving really well until end of the set.  So, you know, I think I have to give him credit.  Yeah, he obviously played really aggressive and played great tennis.  Think obviously play wasn't 100%.  But I didn't play really bad.  So, yeah, congrats to him.Q. Looking back, is there anything you would have done differently?KEI NISHIKORI: Well, for sure that my serve could be, you know, much better.  I don't know.  He was playing good, especially his serve.  I couldn't do anything.  I got one break.  That was kind of lucky.  He was missing a lot that game.  Well, you know, third set I was playing more comfortable.  Yeah, like I said, the tiebreak was the really key for the game.Q. Were there a bit of nerves going into that match?KEI NISHIKORI: For me no, not really.  I mean, I felt little bit tired, heavy.  But, I mean, mentally I was fine and I was ready to go.  But he was, you know, little better today.Q. What was the difference from your point of view from the match last time you played at the US Open to today?  What was different from your side and from his side?KEI NISHIKORI: For sure that I didn't start it well.  First couple games I was missing so much, so many unforced errors.  I was going for too much.  I don't know.  I may felt little bit pressure.  But he was serving really well today 'cause I usually return well and break couple games.  So it was tough to find my game today and he was playing really aggressive, great forehand, backhand.  So, yeah, I thought he was playing great.Q. Did you get the sense he was maybe after a bit of revenge or anything like that?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I'm sure.  Everybody is going to be tough from now because everybody is coming over 100%.  Even first couple matches I had was really tough.  Obviously they're going to put 100% from the beginning.  Yeah, it was tough game.Q. You've talked about gaining experience as you go along.  I think you said the other day you need to get more experience, feel more comfortable in this position.  What does the run for you here add to the run you had at the US Open?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it wasn't really bad week.  It's not easy come quarterfinal Grand Slams.  I have to keep doing this.  I mean, I could be better.  But, you know, I think I need kind of these experience, playing tough all the time, playing a lot of matches.  Especially Grand Slam, there is more pressure.  I don't know, you get more experience on Grand Slams I think.  Hopefully I can keep playing good.  Yeah, it's great start in Brisbane and here.  Hopefully I can keep going like this.Q. Have you spoken to Michael after this match?  He said the other day you had a great match against Ferrer.  How much of a help has he been to you?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, we talk about match today.  Well, yeah, the match was really great.  I was feeling really confident in playing almost 100%.  I mean, today, Stan was little better today because he was playing, yeah, really aggressive.  Couldn't really stop him.  Even for sure we have to discuss couple things with Michael and Dante and fix couple things.  I will prepare well for the Memphis and couple more tournaments.Q. Can you talk a little bit about the relationship with Michael, what he's brought to you as a player.KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it's been working really well I think.  Been working with him one year now.  I see a lot of improvement.  A lot of things, not just tennis, outside, too.  Mentally I get more stronger.  I think physically I'm little more fit than before.  So I'm really happy right now with Michael and Dante.Q. How much time do you spend with him?  Does he travel with you for most of the year?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, maybe half of year.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT