AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  K. NISHIKORI/D. Ferrer6-3, 6-3, 6-3An interview with:KEI NISHIKORITHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. This is the seventh time you beat David.  All the previous matches went to the final set.  How do you feel beating him in straights?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, actually felt little bit weird on the court because I usually play three or five sets all the time against him.  Yeah, play really comfortable on the court.  I was a lot of confidence going on to this match, and I was playing, you know, almost 100% tennis, really aggressive, good forehand, and serving also was really well.  So, yeah, it's not like always favorite to play against him.  But today was little bit different, different game.Q. You're playing Stan Wawrinka next.  You know him pretty well.  You've practiced with him before the tournament.  Can you explain to us what is your relationship with him and what do you think?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it's going to be really tough match because I seen his play on TV couple matches.  Even today he was playing really good.  You know, he can hit balls forehand, backhand - great backhand actually.  He can hit anywhere from even at the back.  Yeah, it's going to be tough match.  But obviously I'm on quarterfinals, so never easy matches coming up.  Hopefully I can play another good match.Q. Can you compare your form to the US Open?  Do you feel you're in a better place to go further this time?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, today was yes because I was feeling a lot of confidence.  Against him I had nothing to lose.  So played, you know, like I said, almost 100% tennis.  A lot of confidence coming up.  So, you know, obviously it's going to be tough opponents next match.  But I've been playing well.  So it's going to be exciting match.Q. You're known for being a very aggressive player.  How do you keep the balance between being aggressive and not making mistakes?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, that's what I'm really trying to do, you know, patient always, but same time I have to go aggressive.  I've been playing really comfortable playing like this.  I started kind of last year.  You know, I feel like I can hit more with my forehand and I could go really aggressive.  So, you know, it's been really comfortable playing like this.  You know, you have to make like decision.  Like if it's deep, you don't want to go for it.  You have to also use a lot of mental, too.Q. Do you think the game from the US Open against Wawrinka will give you help in the quarterfinal?KEI NISHIKORI: Could be little bit.  But was really tight game, so...  Yeah, only thing I know is it's going to be tough match.  Yeah, for sure that gives me confidence.  I beat him, you know, in the US Open.  It's not like I can't beat him.  It's going to be a fun match for sure.Q. When you say you're not comfortable being at No. 5, why?KEI NISHIKORI: It's just a number.  But still, you know, I'm really new to be No. 5.  It's been only couple months to stay this ranking.  You know, I just not comfortable.  I was top 10 last year, early last year.  This is pretty new for me.  So I need some time, you know, to get more experience.  Yeah, I start thinking, you know, little bit other things outside the court.  I might feel pressure, other things.  But, you know, I think I need some more time to get used to it.Q. What number would you be more comfortable with?KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  Maybe like 15, 20 (smiling).Q. Stan is the defending champion.  In a way, what he achieved here last year, did it give you more confidence in yourself?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, if you win Grand Slam, it's means you are one of the best player on this two weeks.  Yeah, for sure he got lot of confidence.  You see he jumped up really well last year.  So, you know, it's not easy when your opponent is really pumped up and confident.  But, you know, I was almost same at the US Open.  I beat him, too.  I beat couple top-10 players, including No. 1 player, so...  Yeah, I think it's great thing to get a lot of confidence.Q. You say you don't like the number, but how long did it take you to have this belief that you can beat these big players like you have been doing?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, for sure that I have to be really strong mentally 'cause I can beat, you know, any players that I believe.  So, yeah, like I do here.  I beat David three sets here.  Beating couple top-10 players before.  So have to stay really focused all the time and prepare well and just play good tennis on the court.Q. Can you describe what it's like for you in Japan now that you're so famous.  How is that different from when you're in Florida or somewhere else?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, Florida nobody talk to me.  In Japan, yes, it's little bit different.  You know, lot of people recognize me.  Not easy, you know, to walk on the street.  But I really enjoy live in Japan because that's my home.  I feel more comfortable live in Japan.  They have much better food, I have to say.  But Florida, they have great facility in IMG Academy, good players I can train with.  They have everything.  So I really like, you know, live in Florida.  But maybe after I retire, I might move to Japan.Q. Some people say that Stan Wawrinka is one of the nicest guys on the tour.  Do you agree with that?KEI NISHIKORI: Yes, for sure.  Yes.Q. Why?KEI NISHIKORI: Why (smiling)?  I don't know.  I mean, he's very nice.  I don't know, there's not too many reason.  We are not really close.  But you can see.  I think everybody's really nice these days.  Some people ask me who you don't like, but I cannot find anyone.  Yeah, I think Roger is really nice.  So maybe really nice people.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT