BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/R. Harrison
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your match today, how you thought you performed and how it went out there?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.   I mean, first match is always, you know, tough, tough preparation.   But, yeah, there were so many up and downs in the first set.   Almost every game was ‑‑we couldn't hold the service game, but we also return done well.   That's why it was a lot of breaks.   
But second set I was playing almost perfect game.   I was hitting good serves.   No break points.   I think I didn't face any break points.   Luckily I got first game break, so I had more ‑‑was, you know, easier mentally to hit a lot of good shots.   
But, yeah, I'm really happy to win today how I performed in second set, and looking forward to playing next round.  
   
 Q.   Did you think that your kind of form right now, do you feel good enough that you might be able to make a run here at Indian Wells?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I hope so, yes.   I haven't do well here yet, but I have been working really hard and I have one of the best rankings so far right now and playing well.  
So hopefully this year can be, you know, good week.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about that first set?   It was kind of weird because I think in the whole set there were only three holds of serve.   Was that just both returning well, or was there something with the conditions that made it hard to hold serve that first set?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Actually, yeah.   A little bit of everything.   We both didn't serve well in the first set.   Also, you know, a lot of returns.   I was hitting good return from his serve and I was making almost everything, so that's why I could get a lot of points from my return game.  
We both was a little bit tight in the beginning, so that's why there was so many breaks in the first set.  
   
 Q.   But is there something about the conditions here?   Because I was looking at some other matches.   It looks like a lot of people, even guys who are great servers, were struggling with their serves.   Whether it's double faults or holding serve, is there something with the conditions here this year that makes it tough on the serve?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Could be.   Could be the ball.   I think could be ‑‑the ball is a little bit heavy and hard, so it's not easy to hit a lot of winners.   The court is really slow here.   I mean, same with strokes.   It's not easy to hit a lot of ace winners, so you have to really patient here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT