AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  K. NISHIKORI/I. Dodig4-6, 7-5, 6-2, 7-6An interview with:KEI NISHIKORITHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. How was the match?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it was long four set.  I thought he was playing really well, especially first couple set.  He was really aggressive, returning well, and, yeah, was struggling my service game especially.  But end of the third and fourth set I was start playing more aggressive and better tennis.  Yeah, I thought it was a great match for both of us.Q. What about the conditions?  How did you handle the conditions today?KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it was different than first day.  Was much warmer.  Hot out there.  A lot of sun.  It wasn't easy.  Especially third and fourth set I was a little bit dizzy and tired.  But, you know, it's going to be like this in Australia, so I think I was ready for it.  Hopefully I won't play this condition again.  Try to get healthy tomorrow.Q. What about your next opponent?  What can you tell us about him?KEI NISHIKORI: Steve, right?Q. Steve Johnson.KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, we just play in Brisbane.  He's tough player.  Good serve.  Really good serve.  Coming to the net a lot and big forehand, so have to be careful couple things to play against him.  Try to be ready for next match.Q. Can you just talk a little bit about playing Steve in July last year and a few weeks ago.  It was very close.KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think it was both times really close.  He has great serve, so it's not easy to break his service game.  Obviously big forehand.  He can hit big forehands from anywhere.  It's going to be tough match.Q. How far away are you from playing your very best tennis?KEI NISHIKORI: I think getting close.  Maybe these couple matches didn't play 100%, but still winning good three set and four set.  I think it's getting there.  I'm playing good.  For sure this match will help for next match.  You know, try to be 100% little by little.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT