AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  K. NISHIKORI/S. Johnson  6-7, 6-1, 6-2, 6-3  An interview with:  KEI NISHIKORI   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Give us an idea of what you changed up in the first set.  KEI NISHIKORI: I think I started playing more, you know, side to side.  I was hitting to only his backhand, especially first set.  He was playing really solid actually.  Great forehand, hitting really aggressive.  You know, also good serve.  I think I was started little bit shaky, little bit tight.  But after second set I tried to change my mind, tried to hit through every ball.  Return was getting much better.  I hit couple winners from returns.  Yeah, after first set I was playing I think really solid.   Q.  Any reason why you were feeling shaky in the first set?  KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  I think it's little bit everything.  He was playing aggressive, hitting really deep, good serves.  I really couldn't do anything.  You know, the tiebreak is always, you know, tight points.  I just couldn't go hit through.  I didn't want to risk it too much.  So that's why I couldn't get the tiebreak.  But, I don't know, after playing first set, I started feeling little bit, not relaxed, but no pressure.  I start thinking to just go for everything.   Q.  Is it true if a player does well at a certain tournament, the next year when they come back they have maybe a little bit more confidence?  KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I'm sure that I need more experience, you know, play couple more tournaments, couple more big tournaments and big matches.  Especially like US Open final, I was really nervous, couldn't think anything and couldn't, you know, playing good tennis.  I need couple more those experience, for sure.  But I think it's going to be different than first week into second week.  I have couple matches here, three matches, before today's match.  I think I get more confidence and play more good tennis.   Q.  Did you watch the Asia Cup yesterday?  KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I did.   Q.  Disappointed with the result?  KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, disappointed because I think they really have chance to winning whole thing.  So really sad to see.   Q.  Do you think because of you tennis is the bigger sport in Japan than football?  KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know, I hope tennis gets bigger in Japan, Asia.  But I love soccer.  So I hope lot of kids start playing soccer, too.   Q.  Do you think Japan's soccer team should keep Coach Aguirre?  KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  I don't know.   Q.  Have you run across Madison Brengle at Bollettieri's Academy ever?  KEI NISHIKORI: Yes.   Q.  Do you know about her game at all?  KEI NISHIKORI: Not really.  But I know she's been playing really amazing these three weeks.  Actually, I think she's playing every day from Brisbane.  Impressive.  She won today, right?   Q.  Yes.  KEI NISHIKORI: That's really exciting to see more players coming from IMG.  Heather won a tournament last week, too.  So very good to see something like that.   Q.  Compared to January last year, give us an idea of what sort of confidence you have?  What's the difference in how you feel on court?  KEI NISHIKORI: Obviously No. 5 is different feeling than outside of top 10 because you still feel lot of confidence, but you feel other things off the court.  I think I feel more pressure than before.  I try not to think too much.  But you obviously feel little bit.  It's still not comfortable for me to be this ranking.  But I think I need more time to get used to.  If I can play good tennis, I think I have a lot of chance to stay here whole this year.  You know, practice hard and prepare good.  Yeah, hopefully I can do good this week and next week.   Q.  Why do you think Novak Djokovic has been so successful here?  KEI NISHIKORI: Well, he can play everywhere actually.  He's just very solid from baseline.  I think he got much better serve.  I don't think he really have weakness.  So that's why he's always top player, No. 1.  Yeah, it's always really tough to play against him, yeah.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT