BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 7, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/S. Johnson
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Give us your feelings on this match, the first one for the tournament. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   I thought it was pretty good.   I served really well, I think.   I saved couple break points with good serve, and had couple aces. 
I mean, he was hitting good serves, so it was really tough to return.   But maybe I could be little more better my return game.
But it's first tournament, first match of the year, so I tried to play a little better, you know, as match is going on. 

Q.   You weren't US Open finalist the previous times you played here.   Does it change your outlook at all? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Not too much.   It's going to be new year.   New year is starting, and obviously I'm playing much better these couple years.   I have more confidence and I beat a lot of top 10 guys this maybe two, three years.
You know, if I can play good tennis all the time, I think I have a lot of chance to go top level.
Hopefully this is going to be a good start.

Q.   You've had to answer a lot of questions about what's the difference between when you were here last time and when you're here now due to the US Open.   What's different on the court?   Anything? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   Not really.   I definitely feel a lot of confidence on the court because I feel more comfortable my strokes, and my serve is getting better.
I mean, outside of the court maybe, you know, it's different than before, but on the court it's always same what I have to do:   just try to concentrate what I have to do always, like good preparation and good practice and play just 100% on the court.

Q.   Because of the season you've had, almost every match you go into now you're the favorite player to win.   Is that a burden or something you enjoy? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   I try not to think too much, because if I start thinking that then I might feel a lot of pressure. 
You know, just try to enjoy all the matches.   If I lose, then that's fine, too.   You know, just try not to think too much about it. 

Q.   Can you give us an indication of what the expectation is back in Japan for you to be the first Japanese man to win a Grand Slam?   Do you feel that expectation? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, maybe they do, but for me, I really need couple more years to get more experience and get more stronger tennis, mentally, physically, everything.
I think I might need couple more years to get really good player.   But I think I'm getting really close, so hopefully I can bring more good news to Japan. 

Q.   You'll play an Australian no matter what.   Two Australians are playing tonight to face you.   Will you watch the match?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, if I can I will watch.   But I know both players.   I have hit with Thanasi last week and this week, too.   He has great serve and I think very talented player, so he's coming up for sure. 
And Tomic is obviously playing good.
So it's going to be tough opponent either one. 

Q.   I guess the big three of men's tennis dominated for so long.   The next generation made some inroads last year.   Do you think the gap can keep closing this year?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I'm pretty sure.   I think me, Raonic, Dimitrov is top three.   Cilic, too. 
But I think we are the ones coming next.   I think we are getting really close from last year.   For sure it's going to happen this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT