BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 13, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/D. Ferrer
  4‑6, 6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   You had beaten David in several matches this year.   This was a confirmation or how did you see the match?   Difficult or not? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, always difficult.   Never easy, you know, playing against David because he's very consistent from the baseline.   If I want to win, I have to do something to, you know, break his tennis. 
From the second set, I was more aggressive.   I break his serve, you know, early game.   I was able to hit little more and took some risk, was using little more forehands, and served well.   So that's also helped. 
The final set almost perfect.   You know, played everything well.   You know, I tried to step in little more.   Able to come into net, you know.   I think I won almost every point when I come to the net. 
Yeah, in the last set, it was almost perfect game. 

Q.   You have a pretty fantastic three‑set record this year.   I'm wondering if you think that is because of your improved fitness?   Is it because of confidence?   What are you thinking now when you go into a third set?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I don't know why I always win third set.   It's been long time, so it's not like my physical.   I think it's more mental thing.   I try to stay there all the time.   Try to stay focus first couple games. 
Obviously today I was up 3‑0 in the first couple games.   I was more relax, you know, till the end. 
I mean, also physical, you know.   You have to be really fit to play three sets.   But for me, I think it's more mental.   Stay there all the time and, you know, be very positive and strong. 

Q.   You were expecting to play a tall, big server.   Quite soon before the match you find out you're playing Ferrer.   How difficult was that? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   You know, I was surprised little bit because I didn't know he was injured, Milos.   I wasn't expecting, you know, David is coming.   But we played a lot of times.   We know each other, how we play. 
Even they change one hour before, I was ready to play anybody.   You know, both tough players.   I mean, I didn't want to play both players, but luckily I won today.   So very happy to win today. 

Q.   Last year you played Ferrer.   What would you say is the biggest difference in your game last year compared to this year?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I think I'm trying to play little more aggressive because to break his tennis, you have to be I think a little more aggressive.   Like I said, he's very consistent from the baseline, especially backhand.   You have to take some risk to hit forehand to backhand. 
I did serve well.   I mean, this year get much better serve.   That's also helping to beat him.   But it's always, you know, really close game.   Today I won third set little bit easy, but it's always tough to play. 
You know, I think physically everything is getting much stronger this year.   I have more confidence.   That's why I've been, you know, beating these top‑10 guys. 

Q.   How did you feel today when you heard about the swap?   Were you relieved at all to be playing David?
KEI NISHIKORI:   No, yeah, like I said, I didn't want to play both players.   They both, you know, tough players.   Milos has big serve.   But David is, you know, very, very tough player also. 
You know, I just need to be mentally ready against David.   We just play a week ago or two weeks ago in Paris.   I knew it's going to be tough match. 

Q.   It's still not final yet, but if you go through to the semis, you'll probably play Djokovic.   Can you talk about playing the top three as against playing the other guys?   How difficult it is or how different it is, what you will be required to do? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, don't want to say too much because I want to see how the match goes. 
But, you know, Novak has been playing amazing this year.   I just played him in Paris.   He's very, very solid.   Good serve, good forehand, backhands.   Doesn't have much weakness.   I think right now he's the most fit player. 
Two days ago lost to Roger.   He's still big player, you know.   Yeah, I think little bit different.   Rafa, Roger, Novak is little bit ahead of those top‑10 guys.   But I think we getting close. 
I've been beating them couple times, so I think little more experience.   If I learn little bit how to win to them, I think I can be really, really close to them.

Q.   You said Davis Cup is very important to you.   What is the Asian game situation for you?   From China you have to sacrifice ATP Tour or challenger event to play the Asian Games?   Did the Japanese Tennis Federation ask you to play or did you have the freedom to not play?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I love to play in Asia, so I always choose to play.   Japan and China is same week, so it's tough to choose China. 

Q.   No, the Asian Games. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   There's no points for me.   I think schedule‑wise it's really tough to play.   I'm top 10 right now.   I don't know.   I want to play sometimes, but for me right now it's most important is play ATP Tour right now and get some points. 
But for sure those around 100 or 200 players, they should play for your country.   It gives you a lot of confidence if you win the tournament.   So I think it's good tournament. 

Q.   How will you follow tonight's match?   Will you watch it or just get score updates?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't think so.   I just going to wait for result 'cause I want to eat good dinner today.   It's going to be same time.   I think I will just see the result. 

Q.   It's your first time at the year‑end championships.   How would you like to see this event back in Asia?
KEI NISHIKORI:   That would be really nice for me.   You know, play in Asia, I feel more support, very comfortable to play. 
But, you know, even here, it's amazing feeling I have.   It's very exciting to come first time playing here.   Hopefully it comes to Japan or Asia sometimes. 
You know, anywhere is fine for me. 

Q.   I really like sweets.   If I want to become a professional tennis player, would I have to give up sweets?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Well, that's tough question for me because I love sweets, too (smiling). 
I think little bit is fine.   If you don't eat in front of your coach, I think that's fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT