BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2015
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Welcome back to Brisbane.   I guess how do you approach this sort of time of year heading into the Australian Open given what happened at the US Open?   Much change for you in terms of your expectations?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know, not much.   I try to play, you know, good tennis all the time.   Actually, outside is really changing around me.   Is really different, you know.   A lot of media stuff, especially in Japan.   I feel more attention and, you know, sort of stuff.  
But for me, it's always same:   do whatever I can.   I try to enjoy this first tournament of the season.   Brisbane is really comfortable for me.   This is I think fourth or fifth time playing here.   I always play good here, so try to enjoy first tournament.   
Have Kooyong next week and big tournaments coming up, so hopefully I have good preparation here.  
   
 Q.   Do you personally draw any sort of extra confidence or belief from what happened in New York?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I have more confidence than before, especially I won two tournaments after US Open and played great in London, too.   So had a great season last year; I had a great preparation in Florida this off‑season.  
I think I am doing really well.   I think this first couple tournament of the year is very important for me to gain little more confidence and stay this ranking all the time.  
So this is really exciting moment for me.   
   
 Q.   What goals have you set yourself for this season?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   It's going to be same like last year, you know:   do well in Grand Slams; maybe to get semis or final if I can.   Maybe to win a Masters; that's next goal for me.  
I won 250 and 500; I won four tournaments last year; I reach final in Madrid and final in US Open.   It's been really good, so hopefully I can make those, you know, much as possible.   
   
 Q.   The experience out in the front with the koala, you mentioned you were getting asked to do a lot of new things as your profile soars.   I imagine you haven't held too many koalas before.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   No, I think it was second time.   I did couple years ago in Australian Open.   But they were so cute.   Just I get really relaxed and just nail was really sharp so it was hurting, otherwise it was really fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you find the extra demands on you from the media and from publicity‑type things, do you enjoy them?   Are you comfortable doing them?   Are they a chore?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, think I'm more comfortable.   If it's Japanese I get more comfortable.  
I been really used to this couple years, and I try to enjoy every moment.   If it's too much I get tired, but same time you have to really enjoy these things, too.   
So it's different than tennis, so I try to enjoy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT