BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 1, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/K. Nishikori
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   I'd like to ask you if you had any injury or problems, because I saw that your service wasn't as good as expected. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, maybe I was a little bit tired.   You know, my body wasn't 100% ready for today's match.   You know, I had three tough three matches before here, and, you know, my serve wasn't 100%.
But otherwise I was fine to, you know ‑‑ still really tough to play against Novak.   He doesn't miss, you know, and same time he's very consistency on the baseline.
So, you know, just tough to play against him.

Q.   I guess now you will be focusing for the finals in London.   With what thoughts will you go there?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, really excite to go London, you know, next week.   First time to reach final.   You know, first experience, you know.   It's going to be a lot of tension and I might get nervous first match, but I will try to enjoy the moment.
I been playing really well this year, so I think I have chance to do well.   Hopefully I can recover well this week ‑ I mean next week ‑ and try to be ready for London. 

Q.   I'm just curious, what time you go to bed last night?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I left at 4:00.   I think I got home like 2:30 and had a massage.   It's not easy, you know, after finish like 2:00 here and have to play, you know, today.
So it wasn't really easy to recover.   But, you know, nothing I could do.   You know, happy to come in here first time semifinal and play tough three matches.   I had a good battle here, so I think gain a lot of confidence again.
Today wasn't best match, but still it was‑‑ you know, I learn a lot of things.   It was great one week. 

Q.   Do you regret that Nadal won't be there, or you think you'll have a better chance with his absence?
KEI NISHIKORI:   What do you mean? 

Q.   I wanted to ask if you regret that Nadal won't be there or you're enjoying the fact that a star player is missing so you will have more chances of winning more games. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   I mean, it's very sad to see he's not playing Tour Finals because he's one of the best players on the tour.   He has a lot of talent.
You know, I think everybody is sad to see he's not playing the Tour Finals.   But, still, it's going to be really tough.   Eight players.   I hope I can enjoy and everybody can also enjoy to see the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT