ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2019
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/L. Djere   
6-4, 6-7, 6-3, 4-6, 8-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Four hours and 26 minutes.  How are you?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Very good.  I mean, of course, after winning, you know, great match.  I think he was playing great tennis.  I mean, he almost had it.  You know, nice to come back after 3-Love down, two breaks.  It wasn't easy, of course.  He was playing on fire, you know, first couple games.   
I had had to wait for a small chance, and sometimes I took some risk and able to break back.  Yeah, feeling great after winning good match.   
 Q.  It seems that at almost every Grand Slam you play a really long five-set match, but you have one of the best records ever in deciding sets.  Can you explain what happens to you in deciding sets and why you play them so well?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I think he started better.  He was playing aggressive, and balls were flying for him.   
You know, I thought I'm going to, you know, if I don't play great tennis, I thought about losing today.  So, you know, when it's 3-Love, I just try to hang in there and try to focus every point.   
Yeah, I wasn't thinking too much when I was down 3-Love.  I knew I'm going to have little chance, and I was just waiting for one chance, two chance, and able to play good in the moment and I think last couple games able to give him good pressure.   
I think every service game that he was playing for, I was able to, you know, going 30-All or deuce, you know, giving him good return.  Even though I think it was 30-Love, last game, I was trying to be there every point, and I think he felt some pressure.  Made couple double faults.  Yeah, last couple games I was very confident.   
 Q.  You play Benoit Paire next.  Can you talk about the challenge of playing him?  You have had some tough five-setters before with him at slams, including here last year.  What's so difficult about his game?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, he has great serve.  I think he's been playing very good these couple weeks, and, I mean, for me he has best backhand on the tour.  I got to really careful that.   
Yeah, seems like he's been playing good.  I have to play, you know, good tennis if I want to beat him.   
 Q.  Do you remember your match against Benoit last year?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Not really, but yes (smiling).  My memory is terrible.   
Well, it's always not easy to play Benoit.  He has great touch.  Sometimes, you know, don't know what he's gonna do, so not easy to lead.   
He's great player.  He comes in very well.  Big serve, good backhand, beautiful backhand.  And, yeah, I'm sure it's going to be tough one.   
 Q.  You said before the tournament in an interview that in honor of Michael Chang 30 years ago you might do an underarm serve at this year's French Open.  I haven't seen one so far...  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I guess it's not the time yet, so...   
 Q.  Are you planning on doing one in your next match?  
KEI NISHIKORI: If I have easy score, yes, I might try (smiling).  But not today's match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT