BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 11, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/K. Nishikori
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   The court is different than other covered courts or was it Roger that played well in the key moments?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I think so.   He took the important points, all the important points.   Maybe he didn't play maybe hundred percent, but all the tough points he played, you know, good serve, good points.   
He didn't give me a chance to come back.   Yeah, I think he did great that.   Important points, he put all the efforts.   
Yeah, for me, I didn't play really bad.   But still, you know, I wasn't really consistent everything, my serve, my strokes.   I had a little bit of unforced errors.   So that's why I couldn't, you know, stay there.   
   
 Q.   What's the situation with the wrist?   Where does it place you going ahead in the tournament?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   You know, just had a little bit of soreness today.   I mean, the tennis was okay.   I was playing really solid from the baseline.   Maybe serve wasn't there, you know, today.   
But I have, you know, one more day, tomorrow, off.   So try to come back, recovery well, and hopefully I can win next one.   
   
 Q.   You've made rapid progress since Michael Chang became your coach.   How much do you think the performance of an athlete can be put down to the coach?   Can you give some advice to the Chinese young male athletes?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I think the coach is very important.   They can push you a lot and also they can give you a lot of good advice.   
For me, was really work that we start end of last year.   It's been improving a lot.   I really appreciate his help.   Also Dante.   
Yeah, I learn a lot of things from him.   So hopefully we can keep going.   
   
 Q.   For a good part of your career, you've had troubles with injuries.   Was there a change at some point for you in the training you did off court, especially with your game being the way you grind out points?   Was there something you changed in how you train?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I just think the time‑wise.   I spent more time on the gym.   Also more practice.   It's not like I do different stuff this year, you know.   I been keep doing all the rehab, little stuff.   
I think just put all the efforts in the gym and outside of the courts.   That's helping my physically.   
   
 Q.   This has been the year of your breakthrough.   That obviously comes with a lot of media attention, especially in your home country.   How do you cope with that?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   Not bad (smiling).   I try to enjoy every moment I have.   
I don't know.   Japanese media always is very nice to me, so it's been very nice.   You know, after US Open, it's been little bit change, more attention for me everywhere.   But it's not like they give me a pressure.   
I try to enjoy every moment I have.   Even this week, try to enjoy every match.   Try to play good tennis all the time.   
   
 Q.   We've been talking a lot about your relationship with Chang.   What is it like with Dante?   How is the connection between an Argentinian and a Japanese person?   How difficult is it to have this barrier of culture?   How do you cope with that?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, we've been working four years now.   He's giving me a lot of big help because, you know, he's living IMG.   When I practice, he's always there.   
I don't know.   He's very easygoing.   Also off the court very easygoing and fun.   But on the court very tough.   
I think we had a little tough year couple years ago.   I want to thanks to him a lot, bearing all the time with me.   You know, this year was little bit different situation with Michael and Dante.   But I really want to thanks to these two coaches.   
   
 Q.   Last year in Madrid you beat Roger for the first time.   You said he's your idol.   It was a great year for you this year.   Do you think Roger is still getting better?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I think so.   Every time we play, I feel really tough to play because he takes the ball very early, come to the net a lot, very aggressive.   Sometimes, you know, you don't ready for it.   You don't expect he comes to the net.   
Today I think he served really well, first and second.   Especially, yeah, tough points, he hits a lot of aces.   You know, just tough to return his serve.   
Yeah, I think he's, you know, getting better every time.   
   
 Q.   You are obviously 10 years younger than him.   Are you surprised how fast he still is, how fit at the end of a long season?   How do you feel now at the end of the season physically?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, actually I never feel that he's 33 right now.   He looks still young and playing amazing tennis.   I think the age doesn't matter right now.   
You know, I never had this week playing in my career.   But this is very honor to be here.   All the motivation and excitement is, you know, huge here.   
Actually, I don't feel tired yet.   Maybe everything done, I might get little bit tired.   But, you know, I've been working very hard even this last week, these couple days.   Feeling really well to coming here.   
   
 Q.   I'd like to know if you see any young Japanese coming behind you?   Do you know anyone who could be tomorrow your partner in Davis Cup, maybe winning when you will be 33 like Federer?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, there's couple.   In US Open one guy qualified.   Nishioka and Daniel, couple young guys.   Good doubles.   Uchiyama.   Yeah, Davis Cup is very important for me also to create better Japan team.   We playing in Canada in the next tie.   
Yeah, hopefully more young junior coming up.   Hopefully we try to win the next Davis Cup.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT