BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 9, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/A. Murray
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Andy Murray just mentioned that you are playing with more confidence.   That was the difference.   Where do you think the confidence came from today?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   For sure I was different than these couple matches we played because this year I was, you know, much better player than before and more aggressive, you know, have bigger result this year.   
So that's why I try not to think, you know, I can't beat these guys, because I've been beating those top‑10 guys already.   You know, this is even first time for me to play to a Final.   
But we've been playing a lot these players, and I was a little bit tight in the beginning, but, you know, I start feeling little more confidence in especially second set.   I was very, very, you know, solid player.   
   
 Q.   He saved the three breakpoints at 3‑Love in the second set, then he got back to 4‑All.   Is that a situation that maybe a year ago you'd have lost the match or would have lost the second set, whereas now you have the confidence to put that behind you and still dominate?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, could be.   It's hard to say.   But, yeah, I should have finish maybe 6‑2 or 6‑3 before he's coming back.   
But I was, you know, try to stay calm, even he was playing little better, you know, start playing little more consistent.   I got little bit tight, honestly.   
But, yeah, I was, you know, try to stay focus even he came back strong.   But, yeah, mentally I think I'm getting little more, you know, calm and strong.   
   
 Q.   You've obviously been practicing on that court.   Did you find the conditions any different today when you played a match?   How would you describe the conditions today?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   The court is same as Paris, so I was little bit used to, you know, playing this surface.   But the stadium is huge.   You know, I try not to look up too much because there was too many people on the top.   Try to stay focus.   
Maybe when I walk into the stadium, I was nervous, but same time I was really excited to play with this crowd.   
You know, I was thinking, you know, very honored to be here.   You know, first time to be top‑eight player.   I was really happy that I played good tennis on this situation.   
   
 Q.   Andy Murray was the favorite for most of the people.   Do you think Kei Nishikori can win this tournament?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I hope so.   That's what I'm trying to aim for it.   There is, you know, still a long way to going to final and to win it.   Play one match at a time and hope I can win couple matches here and go to semifinal.   
   
 Q.   After such a great year, do you expect wins like this from yourself?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I mean, of course I was, you know, hoping to win first match.   But I knew I was going to get little bit tight because this is my first opportunity here.   And playing Andy, I never beat him before.   
But, yeah, I was little bit surprised at how I played on the court, very confident.   Very looking forward to play next match.   
   
 Q.   In your career you have had many injuries and problems.   Have you changed something in your preparation?   Do you do anything different or not?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Maybe I'm spending more time on the gym and also on the courts, too, you know, more practice during off‑season.   Even when I'm on the tour, I try to do little bit of rehab and little bit of training.   Maybe that's one of the reason.   
I had couple injuries this year, you know, I had to retire couple matches, important matches.   But I've been getting really strong, my body.   Yeah, in US Open I played five sets.   But I can able to finish seven matches first time, so I think I'm very strong physically.   
   
 Q.   You talked about Li Na giving you motivation.   When I ask some Chinese men player if you are their motivation, a few of them argue that you're not the typical Asian player because you have always trained in the U.S.   For Asian men's player, do you think training overseas is the only way they can be as good as you compared to staying in Asia?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't think it's the only way.   But for me was very good opportunity because there was a lot of top players in IMG Academy, and I was able to hit with them.   I was always look up for those top players, you know, like Tommy Haas, I was hitting with, and Max Mirnyi.   I felt really close to them.   That's why I can see the goals, you know.   
I don't know.   It's tough situation for Asian players because all the tournaments in Europe and U.S.   It's not easy to go and come back all the time.   But you see Australia is getting better.   There's Tomic and many players are coming up.   
I don't know what to do to get better.   But hopefully there is more Asian players on the tour.   
   
 Q.   You just came in here on your debut and you beat a Grand Slam champion on his home court kind of.   I'm wondering, in Japanese culture, it's often that you give respect to your elders, the way of thinking is to give respect.   Did you ever have to change that mentality inside yourself, or you always had the feeling you could go out there and beat anyone?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I was struggling with that actually, because when I was junior, I wasn't thinking too much, so I was able to play good tennis with anyone.   But after turning pro, I was feeling a lot of respect to everybody actually, especially top players.   Like first time I play Roger, couldn't play anything 'cause I respect too much.   I wasn't go for win actually.   I was just, you know, play tennis against my idol.   That was one of the problem I had.   
But after couple years, I got, I don't know, mentally strong.   I have to be strong to beat them.   Maybe that's one of the reason we Asia players has to be really strong.   You know, you have to believe yourself.   
Yeah, I think one of the reason I see Li Na and Srichaphan, I was looking up to them.   I felt a lot of motivation from them.   
Yeah, I think the key was I think you have to be really strong mentally to beat those top players.   
   
 Q.   You are the first Asian men's player to qualify for this tournament.   How much help have you got over the years from the Japanese country, the Japanese Tennis Federation, the fans, all the people in your country?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Sorry, what's the question?   
   
 Q.   I know that you trained in America from the early years.   I want to know how much help financially, help from the Japanese Tennis Federation, the fans, the country.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I mean, I always get a lot of help from Japanese Tennis.   I play a lot of Davis Cup when I have opportunity to play.   I don't know.   Especially I live in U.S. it's tough to come back to Japan all the time.   
But when I play Japan Open, I feel a lot of support because there is so many people coming up to cheer for me.   They have a good national training center, too, so I always use them for practice, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT