WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. RAONIC/K. Nishikori
  4/6, 6/1, 7/6, 6/3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Once he started serving so well, was there anything you could do?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Uhm, not really.   Yeah, that was the key of the game today.   Only I felt first game was‑‑ I felt I could hit returns.   But after that he was hitting good serves and too many aces.   Maybe last game I had some chance. 
But, yeah, he served really well whole entire the game. 

Q.   In the second set tiebreak I think you had a chance with a forehand that you missed.   Little things like that give you hope and then it's difficult or... 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, tiebreak is tiebreak.   It's only one chance and the game, you know, can go both side. 
Yeah, I know how important each one point, but he played little better than me. 

Q.   When you went in to do the match, can you tell us about what your game plan was, what you saw as the keys to defeating him. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   You know, make some returns, a lot of returns I could.   And, I don't know, I tried to concentrate my service game.   Because I know, especially on grass, I don't have any much chance on my return game. 
But, yeah, he played really aggressive tennis, especially when he was returning.   He hit some good returns after my second serve especially.   Yeah, that make me, you know, get little more pressure. 
So, yeah, he was playing good. 

Q.   On the return, did you try different things?   Did you have to guess?   The kicker serve was fantastic, too. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, mostly I have to guess 'cause he has great both serves, first and second.   He can hit spin sometimes the first and second serve. 
Yeah, I tried everything, but I couldn't read his serve.   I was, you know, trying to study before the match, but he did well. 

Q.   Were you experiencing a problem with your foot?   Were you getting some treatment on your foot?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, just a blister, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT