WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/K. De Schepper
  6/4, 7/6, 7/5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How difficult was it playing a much taller man and one with a very big serve?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, honestly wasn't fun match for me.   Is only actually two breaks for me.   But especially second set I couldn't get any points from his serve. 
Yeah, the important thing, you have to really stay calm and concentrate your service game.   I think I did really well that. 
Yeah, it was really close game.   Only few points that I was able to get.   But I happy to finish in three sets. 

Q.   You prefer other surfaces, you've never gone beyond the third round here.   Can you go better than that this time?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I hope so. 
Yeah, I've been playing really well this year.   You know, all the clay season helps even on grass.   I feel more confidence.   Everything is going well for me. 
Yeah, had a good couple matches in Halle, get more confidence on grass.   If I can keep playing well, I think I can go farther this week. 

Q.   Does the fact that you've not got past the third round here, does that give you extra desire to do better at Wimbledon?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, always.   Yeah, it's one of goal, to do well here at Wimbledon.   I always excited to come here and play.   Yeah, play one match at a time always. 

Q.   I'm not sure if you've seen the draw.   You have a really good draw.   Your efforts against Rafael Nadal on clay, they are going to inspire you to good things on grass?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know, I haven't seen the draw yet, so I cannot say too much. 
But, yeah, hopefully I can do well here.   Yeah, played good match today.   Yeah, hopefully I do well. 

Q.   You play Denis Kudla in the next round.   You haven't played him before.   What do you do in the case to play an opponent you have not played?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, even today I didn't have much info about Kenny today.   But you have to play couple games, first couple games.   You have to, you know, find couple things that he does. 
But my coach always, you know, find tactics.   Michael and Dante is always helping me before the match.   Yeah, Denis I think is tough on grass.   There's going to be a lot of rallies and groundstrokes.   Yeah, not going to be easy, I think. 

Q.   Can I ask you for your thoughts about Yuichi Sugita who got through the qualifiers after the 18th attempt. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, really happy to see he's in the main draw.   Yeah, we know each other for long time.   I know how much tough to play qualify 18 times, and finally he got to the main draw. 
He's still young.   I think he can do much better, you know, than before.   Yeah, there is three guys on main draw, so very happy to see more Japanese in main draw on Grand Slams. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT