ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. KLIZAN/K. Nishikori 
      7‑6, 6‑1, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Looking back, do you regret that maybe it was too risky to come or it was nothing really to do with the injury today?
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I'm actually happy to finish the match.   I was really disappointed that my performance was ‑‑I mean, not very bad, but it wasn't perfect match for me today.   And, I mean, I didn't have much practice.   So, you know, I knew this is going to be happen.   But, you know, able to finish the match.
    I was playing well on clay in Europe, so it's very sad for me to, you know, lose first round here.
    But, you know, it's good I didn't have another injury.

Q.   You fought so hard in the tiebreaker.   If you had won that tiebreaker, do you think the result would have been different?
    KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, could be.   Yeah, I was playing good on first set, because, you know, I was more offensive and I didn't have much unforced errors in first set.   So, yeah, could be different if I could get the first set.

Q.   Have you any ongoing problems with your recent injuries that you're aware of during the matches?
    KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, just like I said, I didn't have much practice.   First time playing points after Madrid, so I didn't have much rhythm.   And also serve, I didn't hit any serve 100%, you know, before today.
    So I thought it's going to get better, get more rhythm after couple sets, but I couldn't.   So I couldn't do anything today.

Q.   You look really down.   But to change a little bit the subject, when you see the match is postponed because of the weather, which kind of things do you do?   Do you rather like listen to music, do you visualize the match?   What kind of routines do you have when you have extra time before the match?
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I try to relax, not to think about the match and don't get too much stressed.
    I was lying down today, you know, after a one‑hour delay.   I was just trying to relax.   Actually, I watched some, my video to, you know, motivate a little bit. 

Q.   There was a lot of momentum this year for your progress, you were making great progress.   How does these injuries set you back?   And how do you see the rest of the season progress now?
    KEI NISHIKORI:   It really sucks, I have to say, a lot of injuries, and especially in Madrid I was winning first set, and I have to kind of let go the match.   So very, you know, it's tough for me, but I guess this is my tennis life, you know.   I have to take care of my body and injury will come again, for sure.   So I have to mentally, you know, be ready.
    I have to do whatever, you know, I can do to get healthy.

Q.   What is it like working with Michael, and what are the two or three things you like the most or have learned the most from him?
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   He's ‑‑ him and Dante is very working together, and my tennis is improving a lot. 
    Yeah, you see the result is really getting strong this year, and especially on clay I'm playing really well and got a lot of points.   For sure that Michael is helping my tennis to get better.

Q.   Can you say specifically what some, the two or three things he's worked on your game with?
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I can't say, not really.   You know, he's giving me a lot of good tips to get better.

Q.   A question about football.   What do you expect of Japan in the World Cup and who is your favorite for the World Cup?
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I hope they win.

Q.   And your favorite?
    KEI NISHIKORI:   For what?   The team? 

Q.   For winning the World Cup. 
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I hope Japan wins (laughter).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT