MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/K. Nishikori
  2‑6, 6‑4, 3‑0 (ret.)

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   What a shame, Kei.   Probably the best tennis we've seen for a long time the first set and up to 3‑1 in the second set.   I know you probably haven't had a diagnosis yet, but is it your sciatic nerve in you are back? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it was my hip, and actually everywhere after second set.   My legs was hurting too much. 
Yeah, it was very sad, especially I was winning, playing almost best tennis in my life.   Against Rafa winning 6‑2, 4‑2, it was very tough mental for me.
But there is some, you know, good side, too.   There is a lot of confidence I get from this tournament, and beating David yesterday three set and playing good today in the final, too. 
I mean, you never know what's happen today.   But if I'm not hurt ‑ I was playing good tennis ‑ I may have chance to win today.   There is a lot of good things, you know, even I injured today. 

Q.   Congratulations for the two weeks.   You won in Barcelona.   How do you see Roland Garros?   Is it Michael Chang?   Yourself?   You're doing great on clay. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it's going to be very exciting at the French because I never feel like this on clay.   I very confident of whatever I hit almost going for winner.   I can hit from either side forehand or backhand, so it's very good feeling I have on clay right now.
I been playing better tennis from last year, but this year much different.   I was more offensive, aggressive, playing from the both side, and, yeah, playing really confident right now. 

Q.   Today when did you feel the injury exactly?   At which moment did it hurt?
KEI NISHIKORI:   4‑2 game with his serve. 

Q.   And you knew that you will have to stop or what did you feel that moment? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, if I could get the 4‑3 game maybe I have some chance; maybe not.
Because I was already hurting and I couldn't move and I couldn't jump.   I mean, I had it from Feli's match two matches before.   Yesterday was fine, but after the match I was feeling a lot.   I mean, if you play three set with a guy like David, you run a lot.
It was very hard to wake up today.   But, yeah, that 4‑2 game, that made really bad.   After that, I couldn't really move. 

Q.   Were surprised by the level of Rafa or you were great?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I think both.   I was playing really aggressive and I try not play his game.   But also, he was making some unforced errors that he usually doesn't.
But I thought I was playing well. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT