MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 5, 2019
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. You have had many various results here in Madrid, from playing a final, to losing in the first round.  What are your expectations for this year?  How are you feeling when it comes to Madrid?
KEI NISHIKORI: Excited to be here.  Every year I'm happy to be here.  I love Spain.  So I was enjoying last week in Barcelona and this week, too.  I thought I was playing good tennis last week, two weeks' ago in Barcelona.  And, yeah, I'm confident again.  And I didn't have good result in Monte Carlo, but last week I had a good week.  So I'm happy too, confident to be in here and I don't know, I hope I can do well.  Yes.
Q. What do you like the most to play here in Madrid?
KEI NISHIKORI: Madrid - mmm - well, playing tennis of course! (Laughing)  I enjoy restaurants here, they have good Spanish food.  I had a good food yesterday too and there's many Japanese here so that's also, I enjoy.
THE MODERATOR: Next question?
Q. Despite Rafa losing in Barcelona and Monte Carlo, do you think that he is still favorite to win the tournament?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, of course.  Every tournament for sure.  Yes, especially on clay.  He's the toughest player on clay and maybe he had -- I haven't watched his match, the one he lost.  But I'm sure he can, he can get back, you know, as soon as he feels comfortable, but I think this tournament's going to be exciting.  Roger is back and Juan Martin is back to play tournaments.  Happy to see him back, personally.  And, yeah, Thiem is there.  And, yeah, I think this tournament can, you know, get very exciting.
Q. David Ferrer is retiring in this tournament.  I would like to know if you have any memories, any special memories with him?  And what is your opinion on his career?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, personally, maybe I shouldn't say this, but very sad to see him retiring because he was the one, he was, like, for me, good, like, a good person to look up to, for me.  He's similar height.
The way he plays, you know.  I was learning so many things from him and we played so many times and I learned so many stuff from him.  So, maybe not for him but for me he was like, he was like my rival.  So, it's up to - not able to play against him anymore and play, I can't see his tennis anymore, that's a little bit sad.
But it is incredible what he did, his career, you know, playing the top level for a long time.  I don't think anybody did that before.  So, yeah, very sad to see.  But it was great.  I think he had a great career.
Q. What do you think about the atmosphere here at La Caja Mágica?
KEI NISHIKORI: It's great.  I was watching yesterday some matches and it was packed, you know, all the stadium were packed and so many people show up.  I feel like people here love tennis and I can feel that on the court, you know, playing and yeah it is great atmosphere every year playing any courts.  I always enjoy playing this tournament.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Japanese.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT