AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/D. Young
  7‑5, 6‑1, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What was going through your mind when you were down in the first set and how did you turn things around?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Well, he was playing unbelievable, I thought.   He was, you know, coming in all the time and hitting deep.   Everything was working well for him. 
You know, I was just waiting for the chance.   Like, yeah, the 5‑3 game I was, you know, trying to be a little more aggressive.   I think that was the key game.   After that game I was more confidence and hitting inside the baseline more. 
Yeah, I think that game was the key game. 

Q.   You're probably going to be playing Rafael Nadal next.   What are your thoughts about that?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I mean, I want to see, you know, to finish the match. 
But, you know, he's obviously playing really well, especially here.   Yeah, we played maybe three or four times and I haven't beat him yet, so hopefully I can play good against him. 
But I'm playing well.   Really confidence and my body is good.   Everything is working well.   You know, if I can play best tennis, I think I have, you know, some chance to win. 

Q.   Can you talk about how it's been going with Michael Chang, what influence he's been having on you in this tournament. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   He's giving me a lot of good advice, you know.   He knows a lot of players.   He gives me, you know, good tips for the tactics stuff. 
Yeah, I think we've been working, doing well.   He's giving me also the confidence, too.   So I think it's going well. 

Q.   Do you think this is your strongest Australian Open campaign to date?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it can be.   It's going to be tough match next round.   But, yeah, it was good fight through first round with Matosevic.   After that I was playing much better and playing well, winning not easy, but, you know, good three set. 
My body is holding well, so it's going to be, you know, interesting for next match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT