BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 3, 2014
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. NISHIKORI/M. Cilic
  6‑4, 5‑7, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How brutal was the heat out there? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   It was hot.   Yeah, it was tough condition, especially playing one‑hour set and almost not three hours, but two and forty minutes.   It was not easy, but I'm happy to finish strong in third set. 
He was a little bit dropping his level I think.   Yeah, I'm very happy today. 

Q.   So the weather didn't affect your tennis at all, your mental concentration, because it was so hot?
KEI NISHIKORI:   A little bit.   That's not easy, but I was trying to put ice between the games and whatever I can, you know, to get not too hot.
Yeah, it was tough, but I was handling well. 

Q.   How are the courts playing?   There is a lot of talk that they are very fast this year.   Are you finding that the case?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, extremely fast than last year, because, yeah, felt last year was bouncing high like usual Australian Open courts.   This year slipping a lot and ball is coming fast.
But I like this condition.   It's not easy especially you play Cilic or big guys.   They hit big serves and tough to return.
But I was playing well today.

Q.   How important was it to break him so early in the match? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, that was important game.   The tactics was to hit good returns and make, you know, whatever I can for his serve, especially first serve.
I guess his percentage was low today first serve, so that helps, too. 

Q.   If you play Lleyton Hewitt.   You've only played once before despite obviously him being around the tour for such a long time.   Are your thoughts on that?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I think we played...

Q.   Wimbledon. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, that's right.   I don't even remember.   He's always tough to play.   He doesn't miss much.   Obviously he gives a lot of good things for the tennis tour. 
We played exhibition in Japan two weeks ago.   That was fun, too.   Especially his home country, that's not easy, but hopefully I can enjoy the match.

Q.   How do you matchup with him in terms of game styles, do you think? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   It's not easy because he has decent serves and good return and good backhand, I would say.   Yeah, very solid on groundstrokes.   So not easy to play. 
But I really have to be aggressive and keep moving the balls. 

Q.   You took a little tumble on one of the shots and rolled over and got straight back up.   You've had some injuries in the past. 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.

Q.   Do those tumbles bring back memories? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it's always tough when you get injured, especially I had one year with my elbow surgery, and last year I had to retire here with my knee injury.
Yeah, I had a lot of injuries comes, but this week it's been good.   Yeah, it's been semis again here, so hopefully I can do well, more than last year.

Q.   Playing Hewitt in these conditions here, is that a mental test for you, one you're comfortable with? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I guess.   I seen the match today and a lot of the crowd helps him, too.   Not easy if you playing against him. 
But that's happens if you play other country.   Yeah, you have to stay calm.   You know, I try to enjoy the match.

Q.   You had to retire last year in the semifinal.   What would it mean to you to make a final in the first tournament of the year?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it is big challenge for me to play final first week of the tour.   Yeah, I been playing well and I had a good preparation, so I feel like I can. 
Yeah, either Lleyton or Copil is playing also good here.   So it's going to be tough opponents, but hopefully I can go final. 

Q.   Your one Grand Slam quarterfinal you made here in Australia a couple years ago.   Do you think these conditions in Australia and the courts give you the best chance of any of the four Grand Slams? 
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, could be.   Yeah, good memory in Melbourne two years ago.   I also played good enough last year, too. 
It's not like I love this condition, but I have to handle well.   It's hot weather, but I always play good in Australia. 
Plus, I feel a little bit home.   It's kind of not Asia, but I feel more support than U.S. or Europe.
So I feel comfortable playing here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT