BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
December 30, 2013
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   We read in recent weeks about you working with Michael Chang as a coach.   Tell us a little bit about how that has been going, how it came about, and what your plans are.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, we played exhibition two years ago in Japan.   That's first meeting of us.   
I mean, that time I didn't think he is going to coach me, but end of this year I was start thinking to finding someone advise me more about something I need to get top 10.   That was my goal this year and I couldn't do it.  
Yeah, I finally find time.   And yeah, I was practicing with him in California two weeks in December.   Yeah, it's been great.   He's so detail and he tells me a lot of things that I feel improving a lot.   
Yeah, I think it's good matchup.   
   
 Q.   Is he someone you looked up to as a kid?   I know he's been very important for Asian tennis.   Was he an idol of yours growing up?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, of course, but I haven't seen his play live.   Like I seen his play, but not on live.   
So I would see more like Roger and Andre and Pete.   
But, yeah, he's not the tall guy; same as me.   I mean, he's American but he's half Asian.   I do think we can know more stuff.   
Yeah, I think we doing great.  
   
 Q.   You said just before that your goal last year was to get into top 10.   Have you got a goal for this year?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I think top 10 is always my goal.   I want to do well more in Grand Slams, because the best result last year or this year was round of 16.   
So hopefully I can go quarterfinal or semis.   I think that's going to be my next goal.   
   
 Q.   What has surprised you about working with Michael?   Learn anything new about him?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I cannot say too much, but I learn a lot of things.   He knows a lot of players.   Yeah, I was surprised that he didn't really coach somebody, but he knows a lot of players that I need to know.   Yeah, he change some stuff of my tennis, but it's going well.   
   
 Q.   Your season end last year in the end of October; is that right?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   It's about two months.   How is your lower back, your knee?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   It's been good.   I had a month, almost a month off, three weeks off in Japan, and I was in Hawaii for a little bit.   I practice with Michael two weeks, and I had almost a month good practice and good preparation for this week.  
So this is 250, but it's going to be really important for me to do well here.   Yeah, exciting that Australian Open is coming up, so hopefully I can do well.  
   
 Q.   So no back pain or knee problem?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I think it's okay.  
   
 Q.   Were you at all inspired about the success Andy Murray had with Lendl?   Seems like's a big trend, very popular, to get an older player.   Was that something you thoughtabout?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I was surprise that four or five guys, you know, same situation that Andy has.   Yeah, I think we can learn a lot of things from them because they know how they feel mentally like when you're top 10, top 5.  
They know what we need.   They can, yeah, give us a lot of good tips to get top players.   
   
 Q.   Did you get the idea from Andy, though?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Not really, but, yeah.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   For this tournament you're the second seed.   Are you thinking about fighting against Federer, Roger?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Not really.   
   
 Q.   Not really?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I mean, we have to think next round.   I have bye, but I have to think second round.   One match at a time.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT