WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2013
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/L. Mayer
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Every set today was a more dominant score than the one before.   What do you think the reason for that was?   So it got not as close anymore.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I mean, I think it's good.   You know, I win three set.   It's not easy to win like 6‑2, 6‑3, especially on grass.   He had a good serve today.   It's not easy to return and break him.   It's not easy.  
But I able to took some chances in tiebreak, and I broke him first and second and third set.   It was good match.  
   
 Q.   What do you think you did well today?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I think I was able to finish earlier.   I tried to stay there and tried to go to the net if I can.  
I was hitting hard, you know, especially my backhand.   Yeah, I think my groundstroke was pretty good today.   
   
 Q.   You had the trainer come out to look at your knee after the first set.   Was everything okay?   Was that just precautionary?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, the tape almost came up so just want to close it.  
   
 Q.   This is the second straight year you're into the third round.   I think it's your equal best result here at Wimbledon.   Seppi next.   Do you think you might go further this time?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I hope so.   He's tricky player, especially on grass.   He's doing well.   He's been playing well on grass.   You know, he's steady on the groundstrokes, so it's not easy to break his rhythm.   
 But I'm playing well, serving well, return well, everything was doing well, so hopefully I can go further.   
 Q.   How did you find the courts?   A lot of players have been complaining about the conditions.   How were they for you?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I mean, for me it's been same this couple years.   A lot of people slipping, get injured.   I don't know.   I don't know why, you know.   
I mean, I'm always slipping, too, but try not to get injured.   It's always tough on grass.  
But for me, it's been same.  
   
 Q.   The issue with your knee today, was that caused in any way by your movement on the court?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   No.   It was okay.   
   
 Q.   Will you have a scan or anything on that or any tests?   Is it okay?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Should be okay.   
   
 Q.   Can you make some comments today perhaps what it was like for Japanese tennis, because you followed Kimiko on Court 12.   You guys had good wins and there were lots of Japanese fans there.   A good day for your country?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, for sure she's playing well.   She can play really well on grass.   Yeah, win two in a row in same court, it was fun.  
A lot of fan came up.   A lot of Japanese came up.   It was good support, especially it's not my country.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you were playing at home at all?   Seemed to be mostly Japanese people in the crowd.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I heard a lot of support.   It's always good and fun to play with the home crowd.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT