AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2013
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 D. FERRER/K. Nishikori
      6‑2, 6‑1, 6‑4 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How disheartening or how hard is it when you were playing as well as you were particularly early in the match and he's still winning all the games?  
    KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.   I tried to go aggressive, but I think I did too much than what I usually do.  
    So I was missing too many, too many unforced errors.   And also he was playing good, you know.   He didn't miss much, and he gets every ball.  
    Yeah, it was tough for me to play.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like you had to work more than others do.   
    KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, for sure.   He gets every ball, so I have to work every point 100%.   And he also return well.  
    So it was hard to hold my serve.   Yeah, it's always tough to play against him.  
   
 Q.   How deep do you think he can go in this tournament?  
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   Were you bothered by the knee today?  
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I mean, a little bit, but it's more like he play well today.  
    You know, you have to be really 100% like play against these guys.   So, yeah, it's not easy when you have something.   You know, I was worrying a little bit, but, no, it was okay.  
   
 Q.   You started playing against these guys, so how do you view Ferrer?   As among the very best?   How do you see him?   As one of the very best?   
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I think so.   He could be.   You know, he's always that ranking and he won the Masters last year.   He's playing well, so he's one of the toughest guy, you know, to play.  
   
 Q.   You said that you're quite keen to emulate some of the aspects of his game.   What sort of lessons do you take away from what was on court today?  
    KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I think, like I said, I was doing too much a little bit.   I was going for too many shots and same time I was missing.  
    So I have to more steady on the baseline.   The serve is getting better, little more aggressive, but same time you have to be, I don't know, ready for every shot.  
   
 Q.   Do you find that coming up against a guy that that you want to emulate, that you want to look up to, is more rewarding than coming up against any normal player?  
    KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.   You know, you have to play best or more than best, you know, to beat these guys.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You had a tough time in matches against top 10 players.   Do you think there is a big difference in the level where you are and the level where they are?  
    KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, little bit, I think.   But I have been beating couple times, top‑10 player.   Not the top 4 but, you know, beating David last year.  
    So it's getting close, but, you know, it's little more work to go.   Hopefully, you know, I can beat in Grand Slam sometimes.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of your chances in the other Grand Slams this year?   Can you go to the quarterfinals and do better?  
    KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I hope so.   That's my next goal, to get quarterfinal, semifinal in a Grand Slam.   French Open is always tough for me to play on clay court.   
    But, yeah, for sure I have some chance if I play my best tennis.   Hopefully one day it's comes.  
   
 Q.   Did you follow Kimiko?   Did you watch any of her matches?   What do you think of her play here in Australia?  
    KEI NISHIKORI:   I couldn't watch yesterday, but I was watching the score.   
    Yeah, she's doing amazing.   Maybe it's not good enough for her, but still, it's good win, two good wins.   Still winning doubles.   That's amazing for her age.  
    It's good motivation for all the Japanese players.  
   
 Q.   Did you watch her when you were younger, when you were coming up?  
    KEI NISHIKORI:   Not really.   I knew her name, but I don't think I did see her play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT