INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 12, 2019
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You have played in eight tournaments this year, but the only player who beat you twice was Hubert Hurkacz.  What do you think about him?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Hubert?   
 Q.  Yes, about Hubert.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, he's been playing good.  I think he can play all surface.  He show that last week, too.  He was playing well.  He has great serve, a big serve, plays aggressive.  He comes in pretty good.  Played good play at the net, too.   
I think he can be, I don't know, top 20, top 10 I think in few years or maybe this year, too.   
 Q.  What is his biggest weapon?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, his serve, for sure.  Also plays aggressive.  I think all the big guys has to play aggressive, play big serve and come in.  He does well with that, too.   
 Q.  Considering last year you reached the quarterfinals here in Rome, what are your expectations for this week?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, hope I can do well.  I think every tournament is big.  Of course, this one and Madrid is important.  Yeah, I hope do well.  I think I'm playing well.  Even last week in Barcelona.  I'm looking forward to play this week.   
 Q.  After your retirement against Novak Djokovic in the Australian Open quarterfinals, Mats Wilander said that your chances to win a Grand Slam are getting smaller and smaller because you are not able to defeat for seven matches over two weeks.  What do you think about it?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  I think I'm physically getting better every year.  Yeah, I mean, Australia had too many five sets, I think.  I think I played four hours, almost every match was long match.   
I should have finished maybe quicker.  I think that's important to do if I want to win seven matches.   
 Q.  Will you play the Match for Africa in Japan with Roger Federer?  What was your reaction when you learned about Roger joining Uniqlo?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  We'll see.  Yeah, I mean, great to have Roger with my team.  Still looks weird, I have to say.  I used to seeing him long time.  He's my idol.  Used to see him with Nike all the years.  It feels little bit still weird.   
I mean, good to have him on the team with Japanese clothes.  I think they have great, great company.  They doing really well.  I hope they can get bigger and bigger in Europe or other countries.   
 Q.  How do you rate your season so far?  Have you had the chance to look at the draw?  What are your expectations really for this tournament?  
KEI NISHIKORI: It's been good.  It's been maybe not the best.  Yeah, having good start of the year.  Lost couple matches, some important matches.  Maybe last couple months still struggling.   
But I been enjoying last couple weeks, Barcelona last week.  Yeah, lost to Stan last week, but I thought was good match and I playing good tennis.  I need to just keep trying every tournaments.   
Yeah, I think this tournament is important for me to do well, for the confidence for the French.  I will do my best this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT