AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2013
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/V. Hanescu
  6‑7, 6‑3, 6‑1, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about your knee, how the knee feels now?   Are you completely...   
KEI NISHIKORI:   It feels good.  
   
 Q.   No problems?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.   I think no problem, you know.   I played four sets and it's fine, and it should be okay.  
   
 Q.   But you did have a problem earlier this year?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I hurt it in Brisbane.   It was a little bit tendinitis under the knee.   I don't know how they call, but it's getting better.   
I saw the picture, took echo couple days ago, and show nothing.  
It's good.  
   
 Q.   You had a great tournament last year here.   Do you feel any pressure coming in this year to repeat your results or do better?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, that is for sure.   I want to do well, of course.   
But, yeah, one match at a time.   It's gonna be tough next round too, so try to play just one match at a time.   And if I can do well, that's good, but if not, you know, try to do well another slam.   
   
 Q.   I'm not sure if you have noticed there will be a Chinese male player who is going to play in the main draw Grand Slam event tomorrow.   Do you also recall a little bit about your first time major men's draw experience?   Was it in Wimbledon in 2008?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Was it US Open?   I don't remember.   
   
 Q.   US Open?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't remember.   
   
 Q.   What was it like then?   How did you do at that time?   Did you feel the pressure, all the expectation from local media?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Maybe he will because it's, you know, Australia.   It's kind of Asia group.   
But, you know, he's playing well.   He's still young.   Nothing to lose for him, so he should play loose.   
And, you know, of course he want to win here, but if he does well, you know, then result will come.  
Yeah, for me, first time I think, I don't know, US Open long time ago, but I didn't feel any pressure or I think nothing, you know.   Only thing was I wanted to challenge them.  
My ranking was around top 100, so I had nothing to lose against these guys.   He should play, you know, what he feels.  
   
 Q.   You had a lot of Japanese support out there.   Does this feel like your home Grand Slam tournament?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, other than all the Grand Slam I feel more comfortable playing here.   It is, you know, almost Asia, Oceania, and you see the match today a lot of Japanese or Asia, you know, the people came up and I felt a lot of support.   
So I feel really comfortable playing here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT