AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2013
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to be back at the Grand Slam tournament where you had your best result last year?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I have good memory here.   Played really well last year.   Hopefully I can go, you know, same or farther.   That's my goal this year.   
Uhm, yeah, feeling well.   Played good in Brisbane.   I hurt my knee, but it's getting better.   So should be okay for next week.   
   
 Q.   Is the knee completely better, or...   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I will say 90% it's better.   I played Kooyong two days ago, yesterday.   It was fine.   So I played three set and nothing happened yesterday, so should be okay for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel much pressure coming back to Melbourne Park defending quite a few points?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yes, of course.   It's going to be pressure for sure from first round.   
But I'm getting a lot of confidence getting through last year and won Japan Open, beating a lot of top‑10 players.   Am getting a lot of confidence, so hopefully I can go play my best tennis and get a good result.   
   
 Q.   What are you looking for in 2013 to improve on compared to 2012?   Do you have any higher goals you would like to reach?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   The goal would be top 10.   It's getting closer, I think.   There's a lot of things I have to do, of course, to get top 10.   I have to keep my physically strong.   I have to do well in Grand Slams.   
But, yeah, if I can keep my tennis like this and playing well, I think I have some chance to get to top 10.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of the Pan Pacific Open Games going to China?   Is that bad news for Japanese tennis?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it is bad news.   But I don't know much about why they moved to China, so I can't say anything.   
Yeah, it's sad to see, you know.   I want more tournaments in Japan.   Even Asia.   You know, I want to see more tournaments in Asia.   A lot of guys are coming now.   Tomic just won a tournament.   I think we doing great.   So hopefully more players coming up and more tournaments play in Asia.   
   
 Q.   I think you were the first player to win the Japan Open from Japan in the tournament's history.   What did that mean to you?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it was amazing, amazing feeling.   It was my goal to win the tournament.   It's my home country.   Actually, never played well past three, four years.   Last year was different.   A lot of confidence coming to play the tournament.   
Yeah, it was one of my dream to win the tournament.   So I was really happy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT