BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 5, 2013
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/K. Nishikori
  6‑4, 2‑0 (ret.) 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Disappointing way to finish a match.   How is your knee going to feel tomorrow?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I felt yesterday night after the match against Dolgopolov.   This morning it was worse, but I decided to play.   
Yeah, it was better in the beginning.   It was okay, but start increasing the pain.   And especially against Andy, it's not easy to play with my knees hurting.  
Yeah, I didn't want to risk too much, so I decided to retire.   
   
 Q.   So you got out to a very fast start.   That was obviously part of your mentality, to get some quick points.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, I knew I have to go aggressive and using a lot of my backhand down the line and tried to open up more space.   He's one of the best steady players.   He doesn't miss.   
And plus, you know, my knee was hurting, so I knew I have to go aggressive.   It was working well, but I start missing, some unforced errors, and he came back better playing.   
Yeah, lost first set.  
   
 Q.   How do you think you'll recover ahead of the Australian Open?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   For sure I need to take some rest.   I don't know.   It depends my knee.   I'm trying to play Kooyong.   It starts Wednesday, I think, so hopefully I can play that and play Open.  
   
 Q.   Are you concerned that you might have to miss the first major of the season?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I don't think so.   I hope not.   I can't say now, you know.   
It's not like couple months rest, you know, just few weeks, I think.   
   
 Q.   Did you have any diagnosis from the physio as to what it may be?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, maybe I check in Melbourne.   I saw the doctor now and he said it's not big, big thing.   It's a little tendonitis and the patella is hurting.   
But, yeah, take these couple days off and a lot of treatment, and hopefully it's get better.   
   
 Q.   Do you take confidence knowing that you can push players like Murray?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, it's always tough to play against Andy.   I lost twice already, and now three times.   I tried to go aggressive, and, yeah, it was working well, but he start playing better.   
Yeah, I knew I had to take some risk.   Yeah, have to get better to beat him.   
   
 Q.   Did you see much of the earlier semifinal?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, Grigor?   Yeah, a little bit.   
   
 Q.   What did you think of what he might challenge Andy with tomorrow?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know.   I think he has some chance.   He's playing really well.   He has big serve.   I played doubles with him this week and he's good touch.   I like how he play and fun to watch.  
So I don't know.   Hopefully it's going to be good match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT