U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2012
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/T. Smyczek
  6‑2, 6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Were you happy with the way you played today?   There were a few times you looked like you wanted to throw your racquet.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.   I don't know.   I don't think so.   
I played well today beginning of the match and I, you know, I broke him first.   Wasn't many pressure for me to ‑‑I broke his serve first.   It was much easier for me to play the match.  
Yeah, I guess he was struggling his serve, and that makes me easy to play, attack his second serves.  
That was one of my tactics today, so everything worked well.  
   
 Q.   Two strong matches to open up your US Open campaign.   Are you feeling good about the way you're playing here?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.   Yeah, even today I played well.   I mean, the first match, too.   
Yeah, I'm very confident.   I had a good practice before here.   So, you know, I'm feeling good, and hopefully I can do well again next match.  
   
 Q.   Cilic is up right now on his match.   If he would prevail he's your next opponent.   He's obviously going to be a tough contest.   Talk about what you would expect from that match.   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, you know, he has big serve, big second serve, so I need to aware of that.   But, yeah, I'm playing well.   I'm hitting serves well, so I need to get in good serves again and try to be more aggressive.   
We played two years ago here and had a one of the longest match, five hours.   Hopefully I can finish easier than that.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy playing here?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, always.   Had a good memory here 2008 when I was 18 and went to 16.   And, yeah, I like the crowds and the feeling of here.   
Yeah, enjoy playing here.  
   
 Q.   Did that experience, getting to the round of 16, does that make you hungry to go there and beyond this year?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, for sure.   I want to get quarterfinal like Australian Open this year.   That's the goal for me to get, you know, in Grand Slams and to beat, you know, top 10, top 20 guys.   It's a big goal for me.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT