AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2012
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/J. Benneteau
  4‑6, 7‑6, 7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You'll be the first Japanese male player in the fourth round here.   You've done a lot of firsts.   Do those things mean a lot to you, or...   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yes.   But honestly not so much 'cause, I don't know, I never think about it.   I try to do my best and win each matches.   I don't know, the result is result, you know.   
When I do better, it comes automatically, so...   
   
 Q.   How do you feel you played today?   
KEI NISHIKORI:   Played well actually.   He played well, too.   I mean, first and second he was playing really aggressive.   I thought I played good enough.   But he break important game.   
But, yeah, I overall played I think best match this week.   
   
 Q.   You came back twice from a break down in the third set.   Do you think it was the key?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   I don't know why, but, yeah, that was the key for the match.   I mean, that was really tough moment for me 'cause I was up in break first and second set, and he came back.   Third set he was 5‑2 up.   You know, it was so many up and down.   Mentally it wasn't easy.   
But, yeah, got the two tiebreak.   I guess he played a lot of matches to come here.   I showed my fight and that gave me, you know, a lot of reason.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel physically at the end of the match?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Little bit tired, of course.   I played five set before, played a lot of long rally today.   Yeah, a little bit tired.   But hopefully I get better in two days.  
   
 Q.   Next another Frenchman.   Do you want to talk about playing him?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, played couple times.   One is exhibition.   We played last week and played Shanghai last year.   You know, he's really aggressive.   He has great serve.   He comes to the net a lot.   
But, yeah, I'm excited to get through here, Round of 16.   That's my best result right now in Grand Slam.   Yeah, I want to win next one.   
   
 Q.   Have you been urged on by the Japanese fans here?   I've seen a lot of support for you on the courts.   Has that meant a lot for you and helped your play?  
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah, for sure, that's helps me a lot.   I didn't think it's like this, so many support, a lot of Japanese cheering for me.   
Yeah, I like play here.   Yeah, for sure that's helps me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT