U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2011
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. CIPOLLA/K. Nishikori
  6-4, 6-2 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. So what was it? Injury?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: My back.  
  
  Q. Lower?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Lower back. Yeah, muscle.   
  
  Q. Were you feeling it from the start, or did it just sort of come on all of a sudden?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: It started Saturday, two days ago. I practiced in the morning and start hurting, and I stopped practice and got better yesterday a little bit.   
 Beginning was okay today, but the pain was increasing every point, and, yeah, I had to retire.  
  
  Q. Do you think it's travel-related or just do you know where it came from?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Played six match last week in Winston-Salem. Then I got a little bit tired. I think that's from last week.  
  
  Q. Second year in a row you've had an injury here. It must be kind of disappointing.   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah. Yeah, I can't excuse. Yeah, it's tough for me, but it's not that bad this injury, so I hope I can get back in one week or two weeks.  
  
  Q. That very long match, what did that mean to you last year, the experience you got here, making that run, having that one match? That was a tough match.   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, last year was great, great moment for me. Got a lot of confidence after getting injury after one year rest and beating Cilic. That was really big for me.   
 But it was just unfortunately I got injury. I didn't have much time from last week, so that was, I think, the problem. Yeah, I was very happy to play this year US Open. I always play good on here so it's disappointing, but hopefully come back next year good.  
  
  Q. Do you think maybe you should've maybe not played Winston-Salem because it was so close? Why did you initially think that was a good tournament?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: I mean, I wasn't gonna play, but I had injury my shoulder. Before Cincinnati one month I couldn't play the other US Open Series, so that's why I want play some matches before this tournament.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT