BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2011
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 I. ANDREEV/K. Nishikori
  6-4, 6-7, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did you hear about the earthquake and tsunami?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I heard yesterday night. Yeah, it happened suddenly, so I was little shocked. And, yeah, nothing I can do. But, you know, already couple hundred people dies. And, yeah, it's really shocked.  
  
  Q. How did you hear about it? Did you see it on the Internet? Did somebody text or phone you?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I talked to friends. At least they fine. My family is okay.   
 But, you know, other areas it's the tsunami came and, yeah, looks very bad. Yeah.  
  
  Q. You say your family is okay. Were you in touch with your parents at all? Did you phone them?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, a little bit. I talked to -- I saw the -- yeah, I talked to them this morning and they were fine. My town was okay. It wasn't too bad.   
 But, you know, around the Tokyo and others, it's more, you know, it's bad.   
  
  Q. Where is your town? How far is it from the epicenter of the quake?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: It's called Shimane, next to Hiroshima.   
  
  Q. How many kilometers away is that, about?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: I'm not sure, but one hour from Tokyo by flying.  
  
  Q. How do you spell it?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Shimane, S-h-i-m-a-n-e.   
  
  Q. Did it affect your game in a way today?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: No, I don't think so. I mean, I was shocked yesterday and today, but, you know, I have to concentrate my game. Yeah, I don't think it's affect me, but maybe inside my, you know, heart I was thinking a little bit. It was okay.  
  
  Q. Did you get some support from players?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, some people ask me, you know, if my family okay or how is, what's happen, yeah.   
 Yeah, people talked to me, and they were very nice, I think.  
  
  Q. Are you thinking of doing something for tennis?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: For right now, no. But yeah, maybe. It happened yesterday and I had a match today. Yeah, maybe I would do something. But, yeah, I will think about after this.  
  
  Q. What will you do right now? Are you going to go back right away, or what's your plans now?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Going back to academy, Florida. Yeah, getting ready for Miami.  
  
  Q. When will you go, have a chance to go back to Japan?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Right now, I don't have a plan right now. But I don't know. Maybe when I play Davis Cup or Japan Open.  
  
  Q. How prepared are Japanese people for these? I mean, nobody can prepare for a disaster of this proportion, but how prepared are you for things like earthquakes and like that? Do you learn about them in school when you're younger?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: I mean, I know it happens a lot, in Japan especially. And, yeah, I was -- I knew it's gonna happen sometime in -- sometime in hundred years, but I didn't know it's gonna happen like soon, like yesterday.   
 Yeah, we knew it's gonna happen, but, yeah, suddenly it came, so I don't think everybody was ready. Not ready. I mean, was thinking about earthquake.  
  
  Q. Were you wearing some sort of a black arm band? Any plan to do that? Sometimes that's happened before. Have you been thinking about wearing something on your tennis uniform, like a black arm band?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: I did. I put the ribbon here today.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT