U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2008
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. DEL POTRO/K. Nishikori  
6-3, 6-4, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Obviously you had a great year in 2008 and a good run in this tournament, too. So many people are talking about you. I'm wondering, do you think it is because you are a rising star or simply you're coming from Asia, because we don't have so many male players, good players that are Asian at this time?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: I'm sorry, what's the question again?   
  
  Q. We don't have so many good players in Asia especially male, so many people are talking about you because you had a great year. Do you think it is because that you are rising star or the reason is you come from Asia?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: My base is in U.S., in Florida, and I'm practicing with international players, from Europe and so I don't know. It doesn't mean because I'm Asian. I don't really think about it. Yeah.   
  
  Q. So do you consider yourself as rising star or someone who can enter into top 10 someday?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.   
  
  Q. You have the confidence, right?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah. Like now, no, but I'm playing well this year from Delray Beach. But I had so many injuries this year, like couple times my back, my stomach. So I got to work on more like take care of my body. Less injury then, yeah, I can get more ranking higher.  
  
  Q. What do you take away from this tournament, your experience here?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: I think I get more confidence from this week. I beat Monaco first round and I was almost cramping. I think get me mentally strong and beat Ferrer two days ago.   
 Yeah, get confidence I think.   
  
  Q. You are a young star, I would say, so do you have any particular players that you are looking up to or someone that you admire?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Roger and Nadal. I like how Nadal plays, and Roger, too. He can do everything and play so smart.   
 Yeah, that's what I'm trying to be.  
  
  Q. In your mind, you're going to stay and live in Florida, or it's possible one day you come back in Japan?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Right now, I just bought a house in Florida, so, yeah, my base I think in U.S. is couple years.   
  
  Q. What do you know of the history, tennis history in Japan? Do you have a model, a Japanese player that you followed?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Shuzo. I know he made Wimbledon quarters. He teach me so many things when I was young, I was like 12, 13. And, yeah, I'm trying to beat his career.   
  
  Q. How would you evaluate tonight's match? You were able to get your racquet on a lot of balls that he hit. Did he overwhelm you? He was so big and serving so hard. How did you feel?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: I was a little tired, obviously, and my mentally more tired. At the same time, he was playing really well. He didn't miss any balls. He was just playing well.   
 But I was just waiting his mistake. I couldn't use my forehand. Yeah, I just waiting his mistake.   
  
  Q. By the time of next year's US Open, where do you hope to be by then as far as your career, your accomplishments?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know. I'm pretty happy right now, because I tried to pass first round. That was my goal.   
 I don't know about next year. Hopefully I'm stay healthy and playing well.   
 Yeah, make quarters next year, I hope.   
  
  Q. You have a lot of Japanese fans, of course, but do you feel any pressure from the fans and expectation in Japan and here at all?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it was so fun, even two days ago. So many crowds said my name a lot.   
 Yeah, was really excited. It was so much fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT