U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2008
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  K. NISHIKORI/D. Ferrer  
6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 2-6, 7-5  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you give us your thoughts on this match?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Right now I'm very happy. Yeah, that's the only word I can say now. And, you know, I couldn't give up the fifth set.   
 He start playing great in the third and fourth set. I was tired and my legs was almost cramping, but I tried to think, I am playing David; he's No. 4 in the world, and playing five set with him. I felt like kind of happy and think more positive.   
 Yeah, that's why I think I could fight through everything.   
  
  Q. Is this the first time you've gone five sets?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: No, second time actually.  
  
  Q. The other time was Davis Cup?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. How did you get through? How did you get through this fifth set? What did you keep telling yourself?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: I kind of like just sort of throw away the fourth set. I was tired, too, so I just tried to fight in the fifth set.   
  
  Q. If someone told you before the tournament that you would go this far and beat the No. 4 in the world, would you have believed it before the tournament?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: No. I was ready to play quallies and I know it's tougher, but I was already happy to play US Open main draw.   
 The first match was a tough, tough one. He was seeded and I knew he was great player. Yeah, I was happy to beat him.  
  
  Q. Do you know how big it is in Japan? Do you have any feedback?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Is it huge?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: I think -- I don't know, yeah.   
  
  Q. You said on TV this was your biggest win ever. You won a tournament in Delray Beach earlier this year. Do you think that helped you tonight by winning a tournament this year, your confidence?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think so. I got more confidence. I played Nadal a couple months ago and I played well; got one set against him.   
 But today I was playing five set and, you know, I was tired.   
  
  Q. At one point you pulled out a book with a British flag on the cover and it had some English writing inside it. What were you reading?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: About like what should I do in the match, like keep -- I don't know. I don't want say this.   
  
  Q. Are those like little key words or reminders that you have to keep telling yourself during the match?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What was one of them?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Stay calm. Don't get pissed off too much. Kind of like that.   
  
  Q. When did your legs start cramping up? During the third set?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, during the third set, and fourth set get worse.  
  
  Q. Did you start feeling a little bit off your service then, with the leg cramps?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Looked like about ten miles came off in the third set and another ten after in the fourth set.   
 KEI NISHIKORI: After the trainer came it was much better, but I had still last couple games like tough to move and almost...   
  
  Q. Do you think it's just because you're not used to the fifth set? I know you said you did one before, but you're not used to the five-set match?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, and I cramped first match, too. So that's -- yeah.   
  
  Q. The crowd, at least in the beginning of the match and until the third set, was more partisan to you. Did that egg you on at least, push you along, hearing your name being chanted on Louis Armstrong?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think that was the most important thing today. That helped me so much, and my coaches and my family. Yeah, I get so excited today.   
  
  Q. Also on that first match point you had, back I believe it was the fifth set, not the last game, but the first match point, some guy yelled out. Did that unnerve you at all?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: No, I didn't hear anything.  
  
  Q. You threw the ball up and had to re-serve.   
 KEI NISHIKORI: No.   
  
  Q. Are you in pain now? You looked a little uncomfortable when you walked in.   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, hurting everything: My ankle and my legs are so sore, and my back.  
  
  Q. Have you ever been that physically spent after a match?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: I think this is first time, but the first day was more tougher for me. I cramped all my legs. I couldn't even move after the match, so...  
  
  Q. Is it just fatigue, or do you have any serious problems that could affect your next match? Do you think you will be okay?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah. It's not too bad. Just sore, sore my legs. Yeah, I got to keep walking, like doing stretch and bike. Yeah, will be fine I think.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about how you came to the United States from Japan five years ago? You were so young. What were some of the big adjustments you had to make to the North American culture?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Mr. Morita helps me to go there, and two friends with me, Japanese friends. Yeah, I couldn't speak English. I was so nervous. I was like scary everything, all the American people.   
 But now it's fine (laughter). But there is only like good players, like twenty, thirty players and they're stronger than me, and there's top pros.  
  
  Q. Did your family come with you, or did you come alone?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Just me. They come once or twice a year.  
  
  Q. I believe you have achieved something that no male player in your country has done since 1995, so almost as long as you've been alive. What does that mean to you?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Like what do you mean?   
  
  Q. You sort of made a little bit of history back home with what you've done.   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What does that mean to you to sort of do that, to be a pioneer of sorts?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: I never think about it, like, I'm making history or something. I don't think about it. But I know Shuzo made quarters of Wimbledon.   
 Yeah, I'm very proud of it. I don't know.   
  
  Q. From where I was sitting, Ai Sugiyama was watching and applauding and enjoying it very much. Did she reach out to you yet? Did you talk to her?  
 KEI NISHIKORI: No, not yet. I haven't.  
  
  Q. You were advised by Shuzo Matsuoka? You have contact with them?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, sometimes. Just e-mail. Not too much.  
  
  Q. Gives you a little bit of some help in adjusting to the tour or...  
 KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.   
  
  Q. What he said? You can share?   
 KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know. I can't think about it now. Sorry.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT