BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 5, 2019
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/J. Chardy
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: First question, please.
Q. Kei, that was a very convincing performance from you today.  Did you expect your level of tennis to be this high the first week of the season?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yes.  Maybe first match was a little bit tight, but after Dimi's match and today's match was almost perfect, I would say.  Serve and return was phenomenal today.  I think he was missing a little bit more than last couple matches.  That's for sure.  But, yeah, I played very solid today.  Everything was good.  Not to say much to it.
Q. There seems to be a lot of good Japanese support no matter you play in Australia, but here especially.  And I know you got to say a little something to them today.  What's that support like for you when you're out on court?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  I feel very playing like home.  I see many Japanese here, and even the fans here is very exciting.  And people are very nice here.  So I'm very feeling comfortable playing this tournament, Brisbane always.  And yeah, good to see many Japanese people here, and even my friends are coming to watch.  I feel like playing home here.
Q. Headed to the final in 2017.  Do you change your preparation heading into tomorrow or do you sort of keep it the same?
KEI NISHIKORI: I'll keep it the same.  Nothing special.  Yeah, excited to play a second time here in a final.  Last time was two years ago, and I lost to Dimi.  So hopefully I can do better than two years ago.
Q. What will you change differently to make sure it's, I guess, a successful outcome?
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  Well, I just try to prepare 100 percent, and I try to last good today and hope I can play 100 percent tomorrow again.
Q. Just your potential matchups, Tsonga and Medvedev.  What do you make of them both?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I see Tsonga is playing good again.  Happy to see him back, of course.  I'm pretty sure that he was struggling a long time, and I think we need him on tour.  He's one of the talented players on the tour and fun to watch, and nice guy.  Hope I can play him in the final.  And Daniil is playing very solid from last year.  I think he has potential to be in Top 10 soon.  And yeah, well, we will see who is going to win today.
Q. On court I think they asked you about not having won since Memphis.  I don't know if that plays for you mentally at all, or how do you sort of try to, as he was asking you, approach this match like any other even though you obviously want to win another trophy?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, it means a lot if you win a trophy, I think.  But the chance will come and now I am in the final again, and this is another chance.  And I'm not worried too much, because even though I didn't win a tournament, I was in Top 10 last year.  But I mean, always feels good to win a tournament.  I am trying to win every final, of course, and hope I can get it sometime.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT