AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 12, 2019
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Your first opponent, do you know anything about him?  Usually he played at the challenger tour level.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I seen his play.  But I got to check with my coaches and everything because, I mean, we never play before.  Yeah, I don't have many things that I know yet.   
So, yeah, I got to talk with my team.  Yeah, we'll see.   
 Q.  During the off-season, what was the most important things you wanted to improve in your tennis, and what were you able to improve?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think I fix couple things that I feel like I'm not the best yet.  Yeah, I check my serve again and my return.  Well, I try to do everything.   
Yeah, feeling great now.  So I'm happy to playing better again, happy to play with the high-level players.   
 Q.  Do you feel like Brisbane gave you the perfect preparation, makes you a contender here?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think so.  I mean, I usually do well there, but I never won the tournament yet, never won tournaments before.  So I'm happy to finally winning a tournament.  Yeah, this is best start of the year for me.   
So, yeah, I'm happy to be healthy again and playing good tennis.  Yeah, couldn't play last year this tournament, so happy to be back.   
 Q.  A comment on Andy Murray's news yesterday?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, don't know what to say.  I'm very sad.  I was seeing that he wasn't moving well yet last week, but I didn't think that was coming.   
So very sad honestly.  I played many times, and I learn many things from him.  Yeah, he has many good talent.  He was the top four playing long time.   
I mean, I hope he gets better and he keep playing.  Yeah, I mean, cannot do anything for him.  But I hope he get better.   
 Q.  Yesterday you were able to talk with the Japanese football legend.  How important for you is the great master of each sport?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it was fun to play tennis with him.  It was first time that I saw he's playing tennis.  It's always fun to talk with him.  He has many experience, many knowledge.   
Yeah, he has many experience, so it's always fun to talk with him.   
 Q.  You've played a few quarterfinals here.  What do you think would be key to go a bit further?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, hopefully I can go farther.  That's going to be my goal this year, to do better in the Grand Slams, all the Grand Slams.  Yeah, this one, hope I can go farther than quarterfinal.   
I had to do many things.  I got to keep doing the training, I have to be healthy through these two weeks.  Also conditions change here, so I have to be ready for that.  Also, you know, I have to be really focus every match.  Yeah, just need to play solid every single match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT