BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 30, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kei, how is the body feeling and how are you feeling in general before the start of the 2019 season?
KEI NISHIKORI: I'm feeling pretty good.  I thought I trained well the last three weeks, and I got here two days ago.  And I'm having good practice, and the weather is good, and everything is good here.  So I'm excited to play new season from next week.
Q. How much was last year a challenge for you, with the injury and the challenge you had of dropping almost to world number 40 to where you are now?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it was not easy year for me.  There was many up and downs, and I started with challenges, and yeah, my ranking dropped 40 to, I had to start with no seeded.  That's maybe makes me come back even tougher.  But I think I was able to achieve many, many good things, overcome the tough times, and last couple of tournaments, the last end of the season I think I was playing almost 100 percent.  So yeah, I'm very happy to be back physically, and tennis wise I was 100 percent.
Q. What was the biggest challenge of that whole process?  I mean you were dealing with injuries.  You've done that before, but dropping so low in the rankings.  What did you sort of surprise yourself about the way you came back?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I think confidence also.  I think that's the toughest part of coming back.  And also my wrist was still hurting when I come back.  A couple months I was playing with pain, and I have to go through those toughest moments, and yeah, it wasn't easy to trust my wrist after -- even after coming back after a couple months.  So I took a little while to trust my tennis and trust my wrist, and yeah, now I'm feeling very well.  So happy to be healthy again.
Q. Australia is obviously a place where you've had great success.  What sort of expectations do you have for this week in Brisbane as the No. 2 seed?
KEI NISHIKORI: I'm No. 2 seed?  Okay.  Yeah.  Happy to be back here because I couldn't play 2018 season.  And obviously I love this tournament and Melbourne.  I feel like I have many support here, and good weather.  And yeah, just good conditions, and first tournament of the year.  So many exciting things here going on.  So, yeah, I'm really looking forward to play this week and the Australian Open, too.
Q. This is your last year in your 20s, by the way.  Happy birthday.
KEI NISHIKORI: Thanks.
Q. Do you feel like you're getting older?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  I feel very old.  But I still feel like I'm 25.  Yeah, this is my last year of 20s, so I hope I can do well this season, and, yeah, I hope I can make something special this year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT