NITTO ATP FINALS
November 13, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. ANDERSON/K. Nishikori   
6-0, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You played so well on Sunday against Roger, what didn't go quite right for you today?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, for myself I don't even know why I didn't play well today, missing a lot.  I don't know.  I just didn't feel the ball today.  It wasn't my day today.   
 Q.  What do you need to improve on for the next match to make sure you qualify for the semis?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I hope I can have a good practice tomorrow, a good session of hitting and just try to forget about today and just looking forward to playing next one.   
 Q.  One more from me:  England rugby team play Japan at the weekend - how much are you looking forward to the Rugby World Cup next year?  Do you know much about rugby?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yes - yes, I'm happy to see the match.  Yeah, Japan is doing well.  So, hope they can do well.   
 Q.  Were you completely physically okay today out there?  And what did you make of Kevin's level?  He's called that one of the best matches of his career.  Would you agree that was a super high level for Kevin compared to times you've played him on the last months?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Maybe.  I think he started well.  That's why he was more confident after a couple of games.  For me, I think I was opposite.  I lost the second game and I was lost a little bit and just didn't feel the ball today.   
I mean, I played one of the worst matches this year and also he was playing well, too.   
 Q.  It had been a while since you've defeated Roger.  And the turnaround is quite quick.  There was a day off.  Can you talk about the aftermath of that win?  And were you able to get it out of your mind right away so you can focus on the next one?  Emotionally, how has it been the last 24 hours?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I was okay.  It wasn't like a beautiful match for both of us, against Roger.  I was happy.  I don't think I beat the best Roger two days ago.  I was okay.  And I guess I didn't feel the ball today.  It wasn't my day.   
 Q.  Can you compare a little bit, if it is not easy - you played Dominic in Vienna and you sort of crushed him, even if the result was maybe a little clearer.  But what do you expect of the match tomorrow?  Completely different?  
KEI NISHIKORI: It's different surface.  This one is much quicker.  He's obviously a good player.  He done really well this year.  So, I'm sure it's going to be a tough one.  I got to play, I have to raise my level for sure.   
Today was a terrible match.  I hope I can have good practice tomorrow.   
 Q.  How do you move on from a result like this in time for the next game?  You know you can still get to the semi-finals with a win.  
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  I try to forget about today.  Something was wrong.  I got to fix it tomorrow.  And I try to be positive for next one.   
 Q.  In the last weeks, you have played two or three times with Kevin Anderson and a strange result today.  But it happened years ago had easy matches.  It is something physical or it can happen to the best in the world.  What happened today to you?  
KEI NISHIKORI: It's a combination of both.  For me, was one of the worst days in the year.  He was playing well, serving well and returning well, too.  He played good and just wasn't my day today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT