U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/K. Nishikori
6-3, 6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Was he just too good tonight?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  He was, yeah, playing very solid everything:  serve, return, groundstrokes.  He was playing aggressive.  Yeah, I didn't have many energy to stay with him.  He was hitting, you know, side to side.  Yeah, wasn't easy to stay with him tonight.
Q. Looked like you suffered a fall in the first set.  Everything okay with your left leg?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  I think I was just tired from last couple matches.  I was try to give 100%, but he was playing very solid.  Maybe if he wasn't Novak, I might have chance to play little better.  But he was, you know, playing great tennis today.  Yeah, very credit to him.
Q. Can you assess how you performed at this major?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, it was very good.  Maybe not today, but last couple matches played great tennis, you know, beat couple good guys:  Cilic and Diego.  I'm really happy to be here, you know, semis again.  Could be better playing final again.
Maybe next chance.
Q. Is there anything specific you could point out that Novak is doing better now than earlier in the year?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, he's playing better everything.  He's staying more solid and not giving me many free points.  Just less unforced error.  When we played last time on the clay, he's definitely playing better.
Yeah, I'm sure he's in good shape now.
Q. You've been changing your return position quite a bit, sometimes standing forward, sometimes far back.  When you stand far back, what does that help you with?  Is that influenced at all by watching Rafa?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I did couple times here.  Last couple matches, too.  I have more time to see the serve, and I can start with good offense ball even I was in the back.  I think it work better with couple players.  Today I was trying to go heavy, but he was attacking from my heavy return.  Maybe today didn't work.
You know, this surface maybe I might start doing little more.
Q. Is that influenced by watching Nadal?
KEI NISHIKORI: No.
Q. With Naomi going into her first major final, you having been there, if you could give her advice, what would you say to her?
KEI NISHIKORI: I think she's going to be fine because I was watching yesterday, too.  She was really enjoying playing great tennis all the time.  I was really happy to see she was playing unbelievable tennis.  I'm sure she is going to have chance to beat Serena.  She's playing different level.  I think now she can stay with her.
Well, I'm sure it's different, final and semis.  But I hope she can enjoy and play a good level.
Q. Did you change tactics at all to try to get back in the match?
KEI NISHIKORI: What do you mean?  Today?
Q. Did you change tactics to try to get back in the match?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I tried, but he was playing, you know, good tennis.  I tried, but didn't work I guess today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT