ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 9, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Could you just talk about mentally and physically how do you feel at this time of the year generally?  And next round you're going to play against a Chinese player, Wu Yibing, very young talent.  Any thoughts on the match?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I'm feeling pretty good.  Not as maybe fresh, you know, before, but now I have been playing many matches from US Open.  It's not easy, but I have been handling well.  Physically and mentally I'm feeling pretty good.   
So I'm happy to be here again.  Couldn't play last year.  Yeah, it's gonna be a tough match from the first round, I think.  He's upcoming great young player.  I'm happy to see someone that has many talent from Asia, so I'm happy to play against him and hope we can have a good match tomorrow.   
 Q.  For the NextGen tournament, the ATP will have a towel rack instead of ball boys getting towels for players.  Would you like to see something like that on the tour?  Are you more in favor of that?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Maybe I don't prefer that one.  Maybe that may take some time, maybe.  Well, they put the clock thing, you know, this year.   
Oh, I think it was good, but at the same time it's not easy.  Sometimes, you know, you have to rush for the point.  You have to think about the point, next points.  So, I mean, it may be good for tennis, but, you know, I think some of the players struggling too.   
Yeah, I see many positive things.  They changing many things now, and, you know, not easy to change when you have, you know, many histories.  Tennis has long history and not easy to change, I know, but it's good to see something ATP is making some new things.   
 Q.  Were you a ball boy when you were growing up?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Actually, I never done before.  So I don't have any story about ball boy (smiling).   
 Q.  This tournament is celebrating its 10-year mark.  Obviously you have been playing here for a couple years.  For the long term, development of tournament in the next decade maybe it aspire to be one of the 96 draw event maybe with longer period of time.  From the players' perspective, how do you feel the possibility maybe playing a longer event here maybe in the future?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I can see this tournament can make, you know, bigger.  I think all the players loves this tournament and facility.  Player services one of the best here.  I'm sure everybody will like it.   
But, I mean, you can see couple good players withdraw this tournament, and this time of the year it's always tough.  You know, many people gets tired and injured and not easy for the schedule-wise, but I can see this tournament -- everybody loves this tournament, and it's important.  This is one Masters in -- well, for me, especially I'm from Asia, I'd love to see many more big tournaments from Asia.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT