THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 11, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/K. Nishikori
6-3, 3-6, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. In the third set you had a breakpoint opportunity, then you lost your next serve.  Was that the turning point for the match?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, maybe.  That was I think biggest chance I had.  But he played great three points.  Yeah, maybe things change if I got the game.  I mean, also he was playing great tennis.
I know it's not going to be easy holding my serve even after I break him.  But, yeah, after that he was playing better.  I think he was playing more aggressive and didn't give me any free points.
Yeah, maybe that was the chance I had for the game today.
Q. You said Novak was playing great tennis.  Andy Murray, working for the BBC, said he's capable of beating Nadal and Federer on the way to the title.  Do you agree with those comments?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, maybe.  Yeah, for me he was playing very deep.  He was going both side with his backhand, his forehand too.  It wasn't easy to play obviously.
Yeah, he was serving also very well in certain moments.  Yeah.  Maybe he has good chance to win the tournament.
Q. Novak got a violation for smashing his racquet on the ground.  He got annoyed when you didn't get one.  Did you think yours was less bad?
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  I didn't know why he got warning, too, so...
Q. Do you think you got away with one?  Did you think it was that bad?
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  I don't remember.  Sorry.
Q. One or two people have said that Novak seems to be back to his fired-up best.  He had one or two exchanges with the umpire today.  Did you sense he was quite fired-up and motivated today?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, you can see whole this week.  He was pumping his-self up.  He was playing, you know, good tennis again.  I'm sure he's in good shape again.  I think confidence is back for him.
Yeah, like I said, he was playing good tennis.  He didn't give me much free points.  Maybe in the second set he was little bit down, but he came back again with strong tennis.
Yeah, he was playing good.
Q. Do you think that's when he plays his best, when he's playing with a bit of fire?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I don't know.  I mean, he's usually calm guy.  After coming back injury, you got to pump yourself little more than before.
Q. Even though he was playing well, you seemed to stick with him in the match.  How far off your best do you feel your game is now?  Is your elbow okay going forward?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, maybe wasn't my really best, but I thought I was playing good enough.  But, yeah, I think what he did really well is going forehand, backhand, both side.  He was making me run all the time.  Especially his backhand, he can go both ways.
That gave me really trouble.  Yeah, honestly it's not easy playing Novak because I don't have good records.  He makes me run every time.  Yeah, I may had a couple chances, but he played a good whole game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT