ROLAND GARROS
September 27, 2020
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/D. Evans
1-6, 6-1, 7-6, 1-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. I wanted to ask you, how do you lose two sets 6-1 and manage to pull out this match in an incredible fashion, five sets?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Well, yes, I kind of knew what was the problem in the first set.  I think I was rushing too much.  With his slice, I think I was trying to hit the winner too early.
I was little more patient from second set.  Things start working well for me because first set I was rushing too much and I didn't feel well.  It was raining heavy.  It was not usual situation.
From second set, start playing better.  Yeah, there was many ups and downs.  But I think I managed well in the end.  A lot of focus.
Q. What was it like to be unseeded?  Last year you were No. 7.  How weird is that?
KEI NISHIKORI:   It is tough.  You have to play seeded player in the early round.  But I feel like I'm lucky because I'm supposed to get zero points.  I haven't played from US Open.  It's been one year.  I could have no ranking.
But I'm still 30 or 40.  I feel like myself a little bit lucky with this situation.  Yeah, I'm still pleased to play.  Enjoy here.
Q. I'd like to know what do you think about Travaglia?  He said a few minutes ago he doesn't know much about you even if he has seen you on TV.  He never played with you, so on.  What do you know of him?  What do you expect?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yes, honestly I got to check little bit more than other players because I don't know him much.  But I know he does well on clay.  He did well on Rome.  He was playing good.
But, yeah, I got to discuss with my team and we'll see.
Q. You have no idea?
KEI NISHIKORI:   I have some idea but...  Not 100% clear.
Q. I wanted to ask you health-wise, you know you had the elbow surgery, the COVID-19, are you fully healthy?  What are your thoughts on that?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yes, elbow, it's almost 100%, I would say.  But with this condition, cold weather, very, very cold condition, makes little bit sore, little bit.  I mean, it's not too bad.  It's been long time after surgery.  Rehab went well.
With COVID-19, I didn't have many symptoms luckily, so I think it's okay.
Q. When it is colder and the conditions are different, how does that change how the tennis itself is played?  Obviously when you're playing Dan Evans it's always going to be a rally-like match.  How do the conditions affect the nature of the tennis itself?
KEI NISHIKORI:   For me today I think it was tougher for me.  I think it's little bit better for him because, well, his slice is obviously amazing, stays low.  With this condition, when lower, didn't bounce, it's always tough to penetrate the pace with his slice.
It wasn't easy playing with slice, his slice.  But he does well, for sure.  I will give him credit.  Played really smart tennis.  Not easy to play.  When balls are not flying too much, it's not easy.  Tough to hit the winner, especially with his slice.
Q. John Isner mentioned how maybe because it's cold it might be harder to slide.  Does that affect it at all?  Is it harder to slide?
KEI NISHIKORI:   Well, because I think it was wet, rainy, I think that's why it wasn't easy.  But, yes, probably yes.  Little bit colder makes little bit hard on the surface, makes a lot of difference.  I feel completely different tournament than usual Roland Garros.
Q. You are considered a lightweight compared to some players who are very tall and big.  At the same time when the ball doesn't bounce too high, maybe sometimes it's easier than to have to play high, high balls that go above your shoulders.
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yeah.
Q. I mean, you think it's more an advantage or a bigger disadvantage this situation, also thinking about what Rafael Nadal said about the tennis balls?  He say the tennis balls are very heavy after few games.
KEI NISHIKORI:   Yes, I think it's yes and no.  For my tennis, I think it's better balls are flying because I like to play quicker, finish the point little bit quicker than other guys.
But, yes, for sure it's less bounce.  Especially today it didn't bounce.  Almost half bounce playing in the summer.  So yes and no.  But maybe you want little more power when you playing in heavy condition.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT