THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 9, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/E. Gulbis
4-6, 7-6, 7-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Looked like you were struggling physically.  Talk about what was bothering you, how you managed to turn things around.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, took little bit to get better.  My elbow was bothering me little bit.  From the second, got better.  I was keep trying.  It wasn't working well for me first set.  He was playing very good, very good serves.  I mean, first couple sets I couldn't really do anything with his serve.  So very struggling returning his serve.
But think getting the second set tiebreak gave me a lot of confidence.  Yeah, second and third I tried to stay positive, even though I was, you know, struggling my return game, and he was playing good today.  So I just tried to stay calm and fight every game.
Q. Is there anything that feels particularly different this year at Wimbledon compared to previous years?
KEI NISHIKORI: Maybe, yeah.  Maybe playing little better than past couple years.  Maybe start playing more comfortable.  I know what I have to do now.  Also my serve got better, maybe not today, but last couple matches serve is helping the game a lot this week.
Yeah, maybe feels little different than in the past.
Q. You'll either play Novak or Karen in the quarterfinals.  Give us your thoughts on both of those potential matchups.
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, Novak is always good player on grass.  He's playing better and strong again.  I'm sure it's going to be tough.  Karen, I just lost him two weeks ago.  Either guy, I think it's going to be tough.
But, yeah, we'll see who's going to win today.
Q. Is there any worry for you in the second set you might not be able to finish the match?
KEI NISHIKORI: Not really.  I was fine.
Q. You were just referring to Novak.  You've had some of your greatest success against him.  What is the key to your match if you are to play Novak?
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know if we never played on grass.  I think it's going to be new game for us.  But, yeah, he's always like big war for me.  I always enjoy playing against him.  It's always big challenge.
Maybe I don't have good result, good record with him, but I always enjoy playing him.  He's one of the best player on the tour.
Yeah, but I think it's going to be new match for both of us if he wins.  We will try to compete and enjoy.
Q. What's most important tactically for you against him?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, do you think I will say that now?
Q. You played him a couple of times on the clay.  A lot of people were questioning his mentality over the past year.  On Saturday against Kyle, he looked fired up, back to what people call angry Novak, pumped Novak.  Having played him on the clay, have you noticed a change, feel that spark is back in him right now?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I think many guys, I did too, after coming back injury, you always struggle little bit.  Even you see, like, Stan is little bit struggling.  Yeah, you got to motivate yourself I think little more than before.  I think when you come back you enjoy little more tennis and I think you got to fight little more.
Well, I did same.  I know Djoko wants to play the best again.  I think that's his motivation, for sure.  Yeah, I think you feel more, not angry, but eager to play your best.  Yeah, you want to come back 100% as soon as possible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT