THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How are you feeling physically and mentally heading into this tournament?
KEI NISHIKORI: Feeling pretty good.  I had a couple good practice session this week.  Yeah, feeling fit again, everything going well.
Q. You said the grass was quite hard on your body a couple of weeks ago.  You find it the toughest surface to play on.  Why do you think that is the case?  Why do you find it more difficult to play here than other surfaces?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I mean, for my past, I had couple injuries with this surface.  You know, I been trying many different things for training off the court.
Well, I think there is many stop and go here.  You got to really use your legs.  The point is quick, but it's different than clay, so...
Yeah, had a couple issues when I, you know, played this surface.  I think I'm getting stronger.  Hope this year is going to be okay.
Q. Have your injury problems over the past year or so made you set your goals a little bit lower for this week?  What would you view as a good tournament here at Wimbledon?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I think this surface is only surface I haven't play, you know, the best yet.  I keep working on every year.  I'm trying new things every year.  I got to change my tennis little bit.
But I also enjoy playing grass, too.  You got to use different shots, you got to come in little more than usual.  You can try different things.  So, you know, I always enjoy.  Hope I can have a good result this year.
Q. Just wondering for your first-round opponent, Christian Harrison.  How much do you know about him?
KEI NISHIKORI: I know him a lot actually.  We practice together all the time in academy.  We grow up together.  It's not easy when you have to play with good friends.
But, yeah, I hope I can enjoy the match.  Actually first time to play in official match, so...  It's going to be exciting.  Yeah, hopefully we both play good tennis.
Q. What, if anything, can you learn about a player by practicing with him?  Is there anything that can be helpful in a match?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, sometimes yes, sometimes no.  He also knows me a lot, how I play.  Yeah, we been practicing practice match a lot.  I know how he plays.
Yeah, I think it's more advantage than when you have no idea who your opponent is.  I think I can set up more tactics than normal.
Q. A lot of people are talking about Roger as the main favorite here.  I was wondering if you agree with that, and if you would name some of the other guys that you think can challenge him or if you rate them higher than him?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, think Roger and Rafa, those two is a little different level this year.  That's for sure.  But, you know, Cilic is playing good.  He can be really tough opponent on grass.  He did well last year, too.  I mean, Dimi is also good player.  I'm sure it's going to be tough tournament because, you know, Stan is not seeded, and Djokovic is not top 10 seeded, I guess, so...
Yeah, I'm sure it's going to be interesting tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT