ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/G. Simon
6-3, 6-1, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. On paper that looked like quite a relatively straightforward match.  Was that a day for you where everything just seemed to go to plan and everything worked well for you?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think everything was work well from the beginning.  It was long rallies, but I think he gave me a good rhythm.  I was hitting good forehand and backhand crosscourt down the line.
Yeah, I was happy.  Well, in the third set took a little bit time to win the match, but, yeah, very happy with my tennis today.
Q. When you win a game like that, straight after a match do you reflect back on it and look at aspects of your performance or do you just forget about it and move straight on to the next match?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I think this match is going to give me a lot of confidence, because I think I played what I wanted to play.  I served well last few matches, and everything worked well.
I've got to keep my focus on for next one, and, yeah, try to keep my momentum going and, yeah, try to focus again on next match.
Q. And obviously here at Roland Garros there is a lot of attention on the French players and the European players, as well.  You've gotten a lot of support in Japan and a lot of people covering you for the media in Japan.  But in Europe, do you think that some of your results are being unnoticed and you've eased through the draw relatively comfortably?  Could you be a threat in this tournament that people aren't looking at?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, well, I have been playing well last couple of months from Monte-Carlo and I have a good confidence to do well this week.  I really loved today, you know.  Felt many support today.  Even though play French player, three matches in a row.
Yeah, I think it was fun for me to play on the court.  It was a little bit smaller, but very packed.  Many people was watching, and it felt good atmosphere on the court, so I think I like the court.
Q. You told us your self-confidence is rising, so your next opponent could be Dominic Thiem.  What do you think of him?  You have faced him already twice.
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, he's been playing great last week, and also clay court, he beat Rafa, and he can be very dangerous player.
I think on clay I think it's more tough to play against him, so not going to be easy, for sure.
Yeah, I've got to play, you know, 100% to beat him.
Q. Last time you faced him, two years ago already, so do you think he changed, you changed?  What are you expecting of this encounter in case?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think we both changed from two years ago, but, well, he still have big forehand and also great backhand, too.  Personally, I like his backhand.  So, you know, it's not easy to play against someone I like, but hopefully, yeah, we can have a good match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT