ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/B. Paire   
6-3, 2-6, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  I wonder if you could talk through the fifth set, the difference between the two of you in that.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I think I had a good start of fifth set.  I try a little bit of different after second and third sets, I think I was feeling balls too short and he was attacking pretty good.  And also, he was attacking my serve.  Try to make first serves little more aggressive.   
Yeah, there was many up and downs in the fifth set but able to finish last game.   
It was difficult match, because he's very different from other players.  He hits many different shots, and he has great backhand.  Yeah, it wasn't easy match, but happy to win today.   
 Q.  How does your wrist feel?  
KEI NISHIKORI: It's all good.  Didn't have any pain today, so feeling pretty good.   
 Q.  The scoring in the first three out of the four sets was quite wide for the winner, 6-2, 6-3, why do you think the games swung dramatically between each set?  No one seemed to be able to get much momentum.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, first set I started pretty good, playing aggressive and everything was, I think, perfect what I did in the first set, and my tactics was working.   
I think I started a little bit back up, stop hitting, stop playing aggressive, and also he was serving well, too.  But if I could, you know, able to do what I have to do second and third, I think I had more chance.  But yeah, like I said, I think I back up a little bit and I got a little bit nervous, and I think I stop hitting.   
So that's why he was able to playing better.   
 Q.  Benoit had great home support from the crowd.  What's it like playing your opponent and also having to deal with the crowd, as well?  Is that additional challenge when you're out on the court?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, today wasn't too bad.  Could get more crazy here (smiling).  I had a couple tough one couple years ago.  So I think I got used to this crowd.  I think I'm playing enough French here, I think I played more than ten times and I have next one, too.   
So I think I'm focusing well.  Yeah, like I said, it wasn't too bad today.   
 Q.  And how important is it for you to keep battling when you're not playing your best tennis but you know you have to stay in the game?  You have spoken a lot this week about focus, but battling away must be an important quality for you, as well.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think it was a good win.  Yeah, I don't think I played 100% today, but, yeah, important points I think I'm able to do what I have to do.  And I think fourth and fifth set I played decent and played, you know, good tennis again.   
Well, I got to keep it up to play, you know, next round and if I want to go second week, I've got to play better.   
But, you know, it's only first and second rounds, so I try to be ready for next match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT