ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/M. Janvier   
7-6, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How did you feel on the court today?  How did the match go for you?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, it wasn't easy.  He was playing pretty good tennis.  I didn't know him, so I checked a little bit, but I kind of have to check in the match.  He was playing very aggressive.  I think I never seen how aggressive, how aggressive he plays.   
But I think I was able to get important points, like tiebreak in the first game of the second set.   
I think I was little lucky to finish in three sets, because he was playing pretty good.   
 Q.  A few days ago, the practice schedule had you scheduled to play with Kicker and then we found the news about his match-fixing charges.  I just want to know what is your reaction to that?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, honestly, very sad.  Because I think he's good player.  He can be top-50 player.  Yeah, a little bit sad to see that.   
Well, I don't want to say I understand him, but I don't want to understand, but, you know, I think some of the players have tough life from the beginning.  I think some people have no money, and you've got to be strong to say no to everything.   
But a little bit sad to lose him, I think, if it's true.  Well, yeah, we gotta see after what's the truth.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your form and fitness coming into Roland Garros this week?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I'm feeling almost perfect.  I think I had a good preparation, and I had a good couple matches before coming here.   
So I'm feeling, yeah, great body-wise, and also tennis-wise, too.   
 Q.  In the first set he seemed to give you a lot of trouble with his serve, and he gave you a lot of different serves and you missed some returns, some short that he finished afterwards.  Second set, first game, it seemed like you got a little more aggressive with your returns.  You hit two return winners.  There were more aggressive returns than in the first set.  Was that a conscious decision on your part?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, well, that was the most toughest part.  I was struggling.  First set I wasn't returning well, and I tried to be little more aggressive, stepping in, and change my position.  I think I did end of the first set.   
Yeah, start from second set I think I was returning well, and, I mean, also he wasn't making much first serve like first set.  So that gave me little easier situation.   
But, yeah, first set he was pounding pretty good serves and everything.  He can be dangerous if he's on.   
 Q.  What do you think is the key to success for you to do well at Roland Garros this year?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I've got to stay focused, try to stay focused every match.  Yeah, I gotta stay mentally strong also.  You know, two weeks is not short time.  You've got to be really stay focus and also you've got to relax same time, you know.  And I think I been playing pretty good last couple weeks.  I try to elevate myself and also enjoy the match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT