MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2018
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/K. Nishikori
7-5, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. This is obviously not a typical first round.  What was your reaction when you saw the draw?  How did you feel about the way you played today?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I'm expecting tough draw every round because I don't have seeded this year I think.  Well, yeah, I knew he wasn't playing really well last couple weeks.  But if something clicks for me him, he's going to come back again to top 10 level.
I think he was playing better after first set.  I think I lost couple important points.  I wasn't playing deep.  I could play little better.  But I think he was playing good tennis today.
Q. It's obviously been a tough year for Djokovic, as you mentioned.  He's a guy you played a lot, especially in the peak of his powers.  How did he compare to that?  Do you feel he was close to that level or a bit further out?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, he was playing good, I think.  Well, he wasn't playing the best today, but still it wasn't bad match for me.  I think he was playing good tennis.  He was serving well and returning well, like he was.
Yeah, I think he was playing pretty good level again.
Q. In Barcelona you won two times.  In Madrid you nearly beat Rafa.  You're a great player in our tournaments, in the Spanish tournaments.  Are you healthy to come back?  We also worry about you.  This first round was not very lucky really, but you are better healthy now, you are going to come back?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, yeah, I am fit again.  Well, my wrist is not 100% yet, but close to playing enough tennis.  I think I need couple more weeks to get used to playing on clay, as more damage to my wrist, play more spin.
But it's not too bad.  I recover from last week.  I love these two tournaments.  Unfortunate this year, but hopefully I do well next year.
Q. I'm not sure if I saw this correctly, but do you usually have something under your wristband when you're playing?
KEI NISHIKORI: Actually first time after coming back injury because it was little better with the tape.  It's not the best way to tape, better without.  I kind of have to this week.
Q. I wanted to ask you about Naomi Osaka.  She spoke a lot about you when you had the exhibition with her last year.  What do you make of her progress?  Do you have an idea, is she getting more famous in Japan?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, for sure.  It's very great for Japan tennis.  The way she plays, I think she has very bright future.  Big serve, big forehand.  She can really play with top-level players.  I'm sure she's going to be top 10 soon.
Yeah, hope to see winning Grand Slam in the future.
Q. From your perspective, what are your expectations going into the next few weeks?  Do you feel confident heading into the French or...
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I hope so.  I played good tennis in Monte-Carlo.  Well, didn't quite play well today.  But, you know, I like to play on clay.  It's very fun.  Yeah, I think important to do well, get more points and confidence these two more tournaments coming up.  Hopefully I do well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT