THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/M. Cecchinato
6-2, 6-2, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How was the match for you today?
KEI NISHIKORI: For me it was very good.  I think he wasn't ready for today's match.  I guess he was, you know, missing a lot.  I know he just came from Milan.  So, you know, I think he had little bit tough time.
But for me, I think I played very good tennis from the beginning, in the end.  I never had this kind of quick match.  So very, very happy to win today.
Q. How do you feel your preparation for Wimbledon went?
KEI NISHIKORI: Oh, was good.  After I got injured, I had a couple days off.  Now I'm feeling very good, feeling 100% again.
Yeah, looking really forward to this fight this two weeks.
Q. Did you feel the back injury at all today?
KEI NISHIKORI: No, I was fine.
Q. Last year you got to the last 16.  How do you feel this year?  Do you feel you can go further?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  Every year is, you know, trying to win the whole thing.  That's my goal.  Yeah, hope I can make, yeah, second week.
Q. Does the fact that you've not gone beyond the last 16 here give you extra motivation to want to do well at Wimbledon?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, for sure.  Yeah, this is only Grand Slam that I haven't done well in.  Yeah, never made quarterfinals.  That's always my motivation, to go second week.
I think this last couple years, I been playing good on grass.  Fit again.  So, yeah, I hope I can make it.
Q. Have you done any special preparation this year?  Is there something about the grass that is difficult on the body?  Is there anything you're doing to help that?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I don't know why this injury, it's coming every year.  But, yeah, I'm trying to get healthy as I can.  I think every year is improving.
But, yeah, it's always unfortunate to get injured here, in Halle.  I hope I can stay healthy these two weeks.  Yeah, I think every year is challenging for me to play a lot of matches.  You know, I think there is a couple reasons, playing a lot of matches on clay, and coming here, it's not easy to get prepared for this grass court season.
But I think it's getting better.
Q. Are you more accustomed to the grass surface after last year?  How accustomed to the grass court are you?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think I'm getting better every year, playing little more aggressive than usual.  I think that's something I'm trying to do, little more flat balls, and coming in a little more, serve and volley.  Little minor changes.  Yeah, I think it's going good way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT