ROLAND GARROS
June 7, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/K. Nishikori
2-6, 6-1, 7-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. It was a real battle out there against Andy today.  If we look at the scoreline today and some of the scorelines throughout the weeks here at Roland Garros, you won sets big and you also lost them big, as well.  I know it's quite fresh, but can you think why it might be you can either win a set very big or lose a set very big?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I think I started pretty well today.  I was, I think, making him run side to side pretty good and attacking the ball right moment.
In the second set I start maybe, you know, rushing a little bit, and he was doing difference really well.  He was playing little more aggressive than first set.
Yeah, I think I had a little more chance than the score in the second set, so I should have do little better in the second.  But, yeah, I think he raised his level.  Yeah, unfortunately lost the third set.  And after that, I think he was playing much better.
Q. You took his serve right at the start of the fourth, and then he got away from you again.  Can you explain why that was?  Why suddenly he managed to pull away from you?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, I had the wind with me in the first game, and I had a couple loose points in the second game.
Yeah, I couldn't maintain my level, obviously.  I was missing little more in the end than earlier in the match.
Yeah, like I said, I think a little bit of rushing too much, too aggressive sometimes.  And, yeah, at same time he was raising his level, you know.  So it was tough to play in the end.
Q. Do you feel like you're looking for consistency in your game where you can put a number of sets together on a more consistent basis than you are right now?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  I mean, for sure I need little more consistency.  I should keep, you know, maintain the level like I did in the first set.  I think my serve got a little bit bad today, missing too many first serves.  He was attacking second serve and lost a little bit of my rhythm on my first service games.
Yeah, next thing is to maintain little more.  But, yeah, I think there is couple, you know, positive things this week, these two weeks.  Yeah, tough to lose always, but I think I'm, you know, going right way.
Q. He's going to play Wawrinka in the semifinal.  I think you have beaten Wawrinka three in the last four matches.  He has a better record recently.  How do you see that match going?
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  I think Stan is playing pretty good on clay.  I think it's, you know, interesting to see.
Q. Turning your attention to the grass court season and Wimbledon, can you tell us a bit about how much you're looking forward to playing there this year, your strengths on that surface, and what you think of playing on the grass, and also what you will do in the preparations to Wimbledon?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I try to take couple days off, because I have some, you know, issues with my body right now.  You know, take a rest and try to play Halle, try to get a couple matches there.  And good preparation, also.
Yeah, always love to play Wimbledon, so -- well, yeah, recover first and try to be ready for Wimbledon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT