ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/F. Verdasco   
0-6, 6-4, 6-4, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  That was a bit of a crazy scoreline.  How did you turn the match around?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, a little bit unusual.  I think he started really well, especially this court's bounce really high today and he was using very heavy forehand and I was running side to side.  I couldn't do anything first set but I try tried to play a little more heavy and a little more aggressive sometimes, and start working a little bit better.   
But still it was really, really tough battle.  There was so many long rallies, second and third sets.   
I don't know.  I don't know how I get the second and third.  But, yeah, a little bit gained some confidence during second and third.  The fourth, I think it was perfect tennis I played.   
So, yeah, very tough battle but very happy to win today.   
 Q.  You have had some long matches this week.  Sometimes you have been behind on the scoreboard.  What is it about your game that makes you sure that you can always turn it around?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, today was -- I mean, after first set I tried to make some adjustment and he was hitting, using so many forehands and very easy.  Obviously I was running side to side, so I tried to play them more deep and little more aggressive and step in little more.  Especially my backhand, I was trying to go more to his forehand and not trying to go, you know, too much to his backhand or middle.   
Yeah, I think that made some change.  Yeah, third set was I think the toughest set.  There were so many great points.  I think after that set he was a little bit down mentally, and I think that helps me a lot to win the set easy in the last set.   
 Q.  How hard was it for you to play three days in a row?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, wasn't easy, but actually helped me a lot against Hyeon in the third round.  You know, after that 3-Love down in fourth set delay gave me a little bit of luck.  I was able to talk with my coach and regroup again with what I have to do on the court.  Yeah, I have to thank to rain a little bit in that match.   
But I think physically I'm okay.  It was tough one today, but fought through and it's good to have one day off tomorrow and ready for next match.   
 Q.  I'm sure you know that next match is against Andy.  What do you remember of the match at the US Open last year and how much confidence can that give you?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, we have been playing so many times.  Yeah, he's great player.  Very smart tennis player.   
It's never easy, and I think this week he's been playing well and very -- watching some matches.  He's hitting great balls.  So I'm sure it's gonna be tough one, but try to enjoy and try to win the match.   
 Q.  Asking you about the match in the US Open, what do you remember about it?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Actually I'm very bad with the memories (smiling).  I don't even know if I win or lost.  I won?   
 Q.  (off microphone.)  
KEI NISHIKORI: I mean, always, you know, when we play, it's always a battle.  Sorry that I don't remember much (smiling).   
Yeah, for sure, it's gonna be a tough one.   
 Q.  How are you feeling physically?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Not too bad.  I mean, a little bit sore.  Like you said, you know, three days in a row.  Not easy.  Long matches.  I mean, a little bit sore, but I'm sure it's going to be okay.  I have one day rest tomorrow.   
Yeah, try to be physically ready for long, tough match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT