MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 12, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Kei has unfortunately had to pull out of the tournament.  Questions for Kei, please.
Q. I guess it's still the wrist injury that is the issue.  Can you just explain how it's been because you tried to play, so you hoped it would get better.  Why do you think you cannot play at all?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think it's still not hundred percent.  I don't want to risk it too much today.  You know, have next week and the French, too.
You know, I want to get back hundred percent.  You know, I want to fight again every match.  I think today I won't be able to play hundred percent.  So unfortunate to pull out.
You know, it's been taking a long time, from Miami.  So, you know, I don't want to go too hard on my wrist.  Yeah, we'll see what's happen next week.
Q. What are your plans now for Rome and Roland Garros?  How bad is it?  How long do you think you'll be taking off?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, will take couple days off, for sure.  I will plan to play Rome, but we'll see.  I cannot promise to play or pull out right now.  I feel a chance, you know.  I just need couple days, I guess, to recover well.
But, you know, French is more important.  We'll see next couple days.
Q. Can you describe how frustrating is it not to play against Novak Djokovic?  It was a match everybody was waiting for here in Madrid.  Could you explain about your feelings.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it's always tough to pull out, you know, in a tournament, especially in a big stage like this.
But I'm actually little bit happy, too.  My wrist is little bit better than last few weeks ago.  I don't want to play too much with, you know, not easy opponent.
Yeah, it's not easy to pull out.  But I think it's getting better and better.  You know, I try to be positive, have next few days, you know, try to put all effort to play next week.
Q. Can you just give the nature of the injury.  Is it an inflammation?  Is it torn or something?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yes, it was inflammation.  Now I think it's getting better.  It was my first tournament.  So, you know, I was feeling a lot of little bit issue everywhere.  I think that's little bit causing to get little bit of pain.
But, you know, I was expecting to have some pain.  I tried to get used to little bit of pain.  Yeah, hope I can get better.
Q. Juan Martin del Potro has had a lot of problems with the wrist.  It's held his career back quite a lot.  When you get an injury to your wrist, does it worry you that it might end up going the same way as it did for Juan Martin?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, I don't think I'm that bad, like Juan.  But, you know, wrist, there is many risk to play, to push.  If you push too much, you have a lot of chance to get injured.  Can be a big problem.
So, you know, that's why I chose to not play today.  If it's a muscle pain, you know, you can push yourself.  But there's many bones in wrist.  I think there is still maybe little bit of inflammation, too.
Yeah, you know, it's sad to see Juan is still hurting.  But hope me and him can get better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT