MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/D. Ferrer
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How pleased are you with that performance?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I'm very happy to win, especially in two sets.  I was expecting to play a long match again, like we always play.
But, yeah, I think I played a very good tennis whole till the end.  I think I was using my forehand a lot and playing aggressive tennis.  I think it was working well.
So very happy to win two sets today.
Q. You have a very good record on Spanish clay.  You won Barcelona, here you had Nadal nearly down.  You play well in both, in altitude.  Do you notice the altitude in Madrid?  How do you manage it?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, here I feel little bit altitude.  Ball flies little more.  Sometimes it's tough to play when you play with big guys.
But I think I'm using really well this altitude.  Yeah, I don't know why, but I've been really playing really well in Spain.  So I really love this tournament and Barcelona.
Q. You could possibly play Novak Djokovic in the next round.  Describe how tough it is to play Novak.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, you know, Novak is someone that I don't have good record.  Well, yeah, he's a great player, very solid, everything.  Doesn't have much weakness.
I got to stay really positive and I got to play great tennis to beat him.  It's great opportunity for me to see how much I can play.
Yeah, I try to enjoy my big challenge tomorrow.
Q. How are you feeling physically?  Your wrist was a problem before.  Are you in pain or are you 100% now?
KEI NISHIKORI: No, it's been feeling good, better than I expected.  I'm happy with my physically condition.
I don't know how much, you know, I can play, how much this wrist going to hold for couple more matches.  I don't know.  But I try to see every day.
But, yeah, today it's okay.  Hopefully getting better and better.
Q. This year you started the European clay season a bit later.  You played two tournaments in February.  Do you think those two tournaments in Buenos Aires and Rio helped you to adapt better this year?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, maybe.  But I feel it's almost different court.  South America and here in Europe, it's different clay.
I don't know.  I think I have more experience, you know, last couple years, especially playing these couple weeks, playing really good results.  That gives me more confidence, I guess.
Yeah, even though I skip Barcelona, I been feeling really well.  Yesterday took little bit time to get used to.  But today felt really good on clay, I mean, on the court.
Yeah, I try to play good tennis tomorrow.
Q. In Tokyo they have a stadium with a roof that can be closed.  Here are you prepared for open air?  Is it very different because the court is very big, to play under the roof or without it?
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't really care much.  I see yesterday was really windy.  Today, too.  When it's open, it was windy.  Maybe you have to fight with wind sometimes.
Yeah, I like indoor, too.  I don't really care.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT