US OPEN
August 28, 2019
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/B. Klahn
6-2, 4-6, 6-3, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. He took a set from you. Last set was a bit challenging. Talk about how things went out there today.
KEI NISHIKORI: The set I lost -- well, second and fourth sets, I think I started playing a little bit not defensive but I didn't play aggressive as like first or third set. That cost me a set. And also fourth set he almost came back. He was serving great in some of the moments. Some of the moment he wasn't making first serve and I able to break his game.
But when he's on a roll he was serving, you know, pretty good, first and second serve. So that was not easy to return.
But, I mean, overall I think played good tennis. Some of the moments I think I didn't play well. Yeah, good match.
Q. Obviously it's nice to get through, straight sets, but to be able to know that you can prevail, it is only the second round, and maybe not play your best, and find your game, do you come away feeling pretty good about that?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think always there is positives side, you know, if you play long match. Of course it's better to win straight sets in, you know, one or two hours. Yeah, today I learned couple things.
Yeah, sometimes it's good to have, you know, many tennis on the court and especially first couple rounds.
Q. You mentioned his first serve when he was making it in more consistently. Was that what you were most impressed by? What did you think of his game today?
KEI NISHIKORI: Couple things. Of course serve was the most, I have to say. He served pretty fast and accurate, too. And also second serve he hits big. I think he has great serve for his height. You know, he's not the biggest guy on the tour. But I think he has great serve.
He mix slice very well. He has a very good slice, very low, skipping on the court. Yeah, that's something I struggle a little bit to hit.
Yeah, I mean, he didn't, you know, give up last couple games. Impressive couple things.
Q. How are you feeling going into this US Open compared to previous Opens? Confidence in terms of your conditioning, et cetera?
KEI NISHIKORI: Now it's good. I think today's match will help.
There were some up-and-downs and I think I needed to play a lot of tennis, especially because I lost two first rounds, Cincy and Canada. I needed to have little more confidence. So I think it was good match today.
But before coming into here, I was a little bit worried, of course. I didn't have many confidence, but I think now it's getting bigger and more confidence coming into my head.
Q. Because of the rain, we don't know who you play next yet, but if they do play outside later, are you going to watch any of that? What do you expect?
KEI NISHIKORI: I'd like to, because I never play both of them. I had practice with both guys but only once or twice.
So I don't know much. Yeah, I need to scout a little bit. Again, even today, too, I never play him before but I have to get info from other guys. That's something I have to do for next round, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT