MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 26, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/F. Verdasco
7-6, 6-7, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about the game, what you saw.  It was a three setter.  I don't know if you saw it that way before it started.  Also, I'm going to do a quick two in one here.  If you can talk about your next opponent, Delbonis.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I knew it's going to be a tough one.  Fernando is very solid player.  He has great serve and great groundstrokes.  I knew it's going to be a long rallies.
But it was a little bit shame when I was up a break both sets, first and second sets, and went to 7-6 both sets.  That was something I made some mistakes when I was up a break.
But in the third set I was very focused.  Even though after first and second was tough, tough sets, I was try to play more energy, and I think everything was working well in the third set.
So, yeah, it was tough one, but I'm very happy to win today.
Q. Tough battle; two hours 44 minutes.  How do you feel physically and mentally for the rest of the tournament?
KEI NISHIKORI: I mean, not too bad.  It wasn't too hot.  It was definitely long match.  Wasn't easy in the third set.  But I have day off tomorrow, so should be okay.
Q. I watch a lot of your matches.  I notice in North America you play a lot of 11:00 a.m. matches.  Is that something you request for the audience in Japan?  Because a lot of top players never play the 11:00 am.
KEI NISHIKORI: I never request.  I think TV makes the schedule a little bit.  It's not my favorite to play first match because I'm terrible waking up in the morning.
But also at the night it's also tough to get recovery if you play too late.
So, yeah, it's tough, but it's finish early when you play 11:00, so that's something nice, too, when you finish early.
Q. How many people are following you overseas?  Are you realizing that?
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  Try to focus what I have to do.  I don't know too much about outside.  It's great to have many followers and many crowd behind me, but, yeah, I don't know.
I'm not sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT