MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 24, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/K. Anderson   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Good win against a former top-10 player, 6-4, 6-3.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I thought it was a great match to start the tournament.  Played really solid.  Everything was almost perfect.   
So very happy with the tennis today.   
 Q.  Also solid performance and first serve percentage.  And defending, I think 86 points won on the first serve.  Is it a new focus, winning more points on serve?  Is that a strategy with Dante and Michael?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, hopefully every match is going to be like that.  Hope serving stay strong this week.  I think that's one of the key for sure with my tennis.  If I can get more free points with my first serve and maybe more speed on my second serve, yeah, that's something trying to work on.   
 Q.  Could you talk about what it's like, describe the experience of what it's like to play Andy Murray?  And compare how it differs to playing Nadal, Federer, and Djokovic, please.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think Andy is I think one of the toughest groundstrokes players I think.  He doesn't give you many errors.  He doesn't give you easy points.  He has great serve and one of the best return.  He gets many balls.  So one of the toughest player for sure.   
Yeah, it's something different than Rafa or maybe Roger.  Roger is extremely aggressive and maybe a little bit opposite than Andy and Roger.   
 Q.  Which one is hardest for you to play?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I don't know.  Maybe the record show maybe Djokovic.  I haven't beat him long time.  But everyone is tough, you know, with these days.   
There is many young players coming up and there is no easy match.  I think especially with this Masters level.   
 Q.  Next up could be Escobedo, the young American, or Fernando Verdasco.  You had a great match with Verdasco last year at Roland Garros.  Can you talk about both potential opponents?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I been practicing with Escobedo a couple times.  Yeah, great player.  Very powerful player.  He can hit very hard from forehand and backhand, so can be really dangerous player.   
And also, yeah, Verdasco is playing I think very good last couple weeks, last couple months.  He's always tough player and has a lot of experience.  Lefty, too.  Going to be tough one.   
 Q.  You, along with Raonic and Dimitrov, are seen as guys who can potentially break the shackles of the Top 4.  And Wawrinka.  How much is it mental?  You've reached Grand Slam finals, played finals here, Madrid.  How much is mental and what is it, something maybe in the game that needs to get you over the hump?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, that's I think my next goal, to get to Top 5, Top 4, especially beating those Top 4 player.   
I think if I can win big tournaments like this or some Masters, that's going to give me a lot of confidence for sure.  That's my next goal, to win the big tournaments.   
But I think I'm on the right track.  I think last year was very solid year.  I fight through the whole year without too much injury, so that was something I learned many things from last year.   
I think if I can stay healthy, I will have some chance sometimes in a year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT