US OPEN
August 26, 2019
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/M. Trungelliti
6-1, 6-4 [Ret.]
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously not a long day of work out there today with the retirement. How important is it to, when you're entering a fortnight of tennis, to really get off to a start where you really don't have to expend a lot of energy and beat up your body in the first-round match?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, of course that's going to help me for physically side. But honestly I wanted to play a little more because I was feeling good on the court and I wanted to get little more confidence, playing more points, more confidence playing matches. I think my rhythm was going.
First set I was playing really well, and he started playing -- he started feeling pain after first set. Yeah, physically side, you know, it's going to help for sure. I'm really fresh now. One more practice tomorrow, and ready for second round.
Q. You have had good results here before, some semifinals. Talk about how you feel coming into this year's tournament and also the fact that we all know the accomplishments of the big three, they've owned the Grand Slams I think since Stan won four or five years ago. Do you feel the way your game is right now that you could give one of those three, if you were to see them in the finals, a run for their money and possibly take the trophy out of here?
KEI NISHIKORI: I hope so (smiling). I hope I can be the one to beat top three, but I feel like those three guys are still different level.
But, you know, maybe including me, but, you know, you see Thiem playing final, even though last year Thiem played a great match against Rafa here, and I think a couple of guys are getting closer. Of course Sascha is great player and couple young guys, you know, Felix, Shapovalov, Kyrgios, those couple guys who are coming up, too.
I think, in, I don't know, maybe few years I'm sure it's going to change a little bit. Oh, yeah, last week, Medvedev beat Djoko and winning first title. I think things are starting changing a little bit now.
I hope I can sneak in there and win the title sometimes. For me, yeah, that's going to be my big goal to win a Masters or Grand Slams.
Q. You made Grand Slam final. You have an Olympic medal. Could you compare at all the prestige to you personally of perhaps winning a Grand Slam to winning an Olympic medal, gold medal at home in Tokyo and the differences between those two things for you?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I feel like it's completely different, but I cannot choose one, of course. But, you know, we have been playing for these Grand Slams, and I think that's why we train for. That's going to be the biggest goal to winning Grand Slams, that's for sure.
But this is going to be something different because it's going to be my home country, and whole crowd, you know, will support for me. If I can get, you know, the medal, would be, you know, very emotional.
I cannot compare those two, but both very important, but for me now it's really my goal to win the Grand Slams and Masters and of course, you know, do well in Olympics.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT