AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. NISHIKORI/A. Kuznetsov
5-7, 6-1, 6-4, 6-7, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a pretty tough first round.
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah.  Yeah, I think I let him come back fourth set.  I should have finished that set.  Especially I was up tiebreak, but I think he played well from the beginning.  Fifth set I start playing much better.  Yeah, it was tough, really tough match.
Q. Davis Cup, can you just comment on your decision not to play in front of your home crowd against France?
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah.  I'm not playing because the schedule, it's gonna be too tight.  Going South America, Rio and Buenos Aires, and if I play Davis Cup, that's way too much, you know, for my body and Indian Wells and Miami is coming up after.  So I just decided not to play.
Q. Top players are calling for change in the Davis Cup format because it's not possible anymore to play that much.  Do you agree, that needs to change, or is it going to happen every other time?
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I hope they can make some changes.  Yeah, right now I think it's way too much to play three times or even if you play final, maybe four, I think.
Yeah, I think that has to change, for sure, to make it shorter.  I think all the players -- I don't know if all, but I think most of them are hoping to change.
Q. Today's match, are you worried that you spent too much time already on the court for next round, or were you feeling physically well enough coming into this tournament?
KEI NISHIKORI: No, I was feeling okay.  Feeling really good after I got hurt in Brisbane and I think I was ready for play today.  Unfortunate to play five sets in long match, but, yeah, should be okay for next one.
Q. The trainer came for your foot, it was blisters?
KEI NISHIKORI: No.  I didn't call any.
Q. How did you feel your form was during the match?
KEI NISHIKORI: A little bit slow start today.  I didn't quite play great tennis in the beginning, but especially in the fifth set I think I was really focused and played good tennis.
So, yeah, try not to happen again, you know, to play long match like this.  But, yeah, like I said, fifth set was pretty good, so I think I'm in good shape for next round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT