AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/L. Lacko   
6-4, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Your sixth straight year in the fourth round here.  What is it about this tournament that brings out your best and allows you to have this record of consistency?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think I'm really like this court and condition.  Today was much different condition, actually.  Was very slow.  There was more rallies.  I think it was better for me.   
I don't know.  I feel good support here.  Very comfortable playing Australian Open.   
 Q.  When you were leading 6-4, 5-1, then he got a run of games, how were you able to stay calm and focused while he was coming back?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, after 5-2 I think he stepped up a little more.  He was more attacking my ball, playing, you know, very solid.  But, you know, I tried to stay focus.  Still had two breaks up.  I was serving really well today.  I just play with my confidence, and it was fine.   
 Q.  Getting to this stage all the time of the tournament, fourth round and quarters, you've never gone further than that, does that make it more motivating for you this year to take another step and make semis or final?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, that's my next goal, to do well not just here, in all the Grand Slams.  Yeah, I mean, I like these condition here.  I try to do my best these two weeks.   
 Q.  Next round you will face Roger.  How do you see the next round?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, for sure it's not going to be easy.  He was playing great tennis today.  I watch only few points.  But, you know, it's always great to play Roger.  It's big challenge for me.   
Yeah, I'm just happy to play him because I think we needed him on the tour.  Happy to see him back a hundred percent.  Yeah, excited to play next round.   
 Q.  Do you think you've had a good draw for the first three rounds in a Grand Slam?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, maybe.  I don't know.  It was tough first match, definitely.  I almost lose.  It wasn't easy draw.   
But I've been playing really well every match.  I think I step up little more.  Today was much more than last two matches.   
Yeah, I'm happy with my tennis today and this week.   
 Q.  How is your physical condition?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, not too bad.  First match was tough.  After the day, I was sore little bit.  But now I'm feeling really well.  These two matches help for me to being healthy.  Yeah, try to prepare well tomorrow again and ready for next match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT