AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/J. Chardy   
6-3, 6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  First of all, congratulations.  How do you feel to win in three sets?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it was good match.  Definitely much better than first match.  There was many up and downs in second set and also third set, too.  I think I was focused when I need the game.   
Yeah, it was a good match for me.   
 Q.  Some statistical analysis says you are third favorite to win this tournament.  How do you comment about that?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I mean, I'm not really care about people saying, but, you know, I try to win Grand Slam, and Masters, that's my next goal.   
Yeah, in the future, sometimes in the future, I can hope I can get the title sometimes in the future.   
 Q.  Do you think that this year is year that you can break the dominance of Andy and Novak?  
KEI NISHIKORI: I hope so.  Yeah, I think those two guys are still dominating the tour, like you see last year.  But I hope I can sneak in there, you know, to beat Andy and Novak.  I mean, if I wanted to win a Grand Slam or Masters, I have to beat those two guys, anyway.   
Yeah, it's gonna be big challenge for me, but I'm enjoying this challenge.   
 Q.  You have been training in the U.S., based in the U.S. for a while now.  Does it indicate how much Asia is lacking in terms of facilities?  If somebody from Asia wants to win a Grand Slam, particularly in the men, what do they have to do?  How much the facilities in Asia have to improve?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, for me, was really lucky that I moved to the U.S., able to hit with all the top players in IMG Academy.   
I think that helps a lot to see how they playing.  I realized that when I was young.  It was really big step for me.   
Well, I don't want to say that it's impossible if you're staying in Asia to make top 10, but I think it's still tough, based on Asia.  It's so many traveling, and I'm not sure if there is good practice partner, or you're not able to get a chance to hit with the top players.  Definitely it's not easy.   
Yeah, for me, if I will be coaching, I would suggest to go in Europe or U.S., you know, for practice sometimes when you are junior or when you are really young.   
 Q.  If you could get a photo with anyone famous outside of the tennis world and outside of your family, who would you like to get a selfie with?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Mickey.   
 Q.  Who is that?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Mickey.   
 Q.  What's Mickey famous for?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Disney World.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  The probable match against Roger, how important is it for you, that particular match?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Here?   
 Q.  Yeah, how much can you elaborate?  The outcome of the match probably would point to any way a end of an era or start of an era?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, I think he's playing well.  I see some of the matches.  Yeah, I'm just really happy that he's back on the tour.   
Yeah, for sure, I want to play match against him.  It's always enjoyable, and it's always a big challenge for me.  I hope we can play sometime.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT