AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2017
Kei Nishikori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You're in the same quarter as Murray and Federer.  After your Brisbane performance, how confident are you that you can go deep in the Australian Open?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, it was great run last week in Brisbane.  First time to get a final.  So I'm really happy with my start of the year.  Yeah, we'll see.  Have a tough first round.  Try to play one match at a time.  Yeah, hope I can make to second week.   
 Q.  How are you feeling physically at the moment?  Obviously you have an off-season.  It's an unusual schedule in a way that you finish your long year, have a break, then suddenly you have one of the biggest events of the year straightaway.  
KEI NISHIKORI: Yeah, feeling pretty good.  I had a good off-season.  I rest a lot before I do the training session.  Had a good off-season, you know.  Good training, good practicing.  I thought I, you know, started well this year.   
So, yeah, it's going to be really important how I do here to get a lot of confidence for start of the season.  Yeah, feeling pretty good after I hurt in Brisbane in the final, but I feeling pretty good.   
 Q.  You've obviously been a top-10 player now for quite a long time.  What do you think you're still capable of doing in this sport?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, it's been three years now maybe to be in top 10.  Well, I got really mentally strong.  I think I'm more consistent and much more mature for everything, you know, even off the court, on the court too.   
Yeah, everything is getting better now.   
 Q.  Do you think you can win one of these tournaments?  You reached a Grand Slam final.  From what you've seen of your level, and everybody else's level, do you think you can win a Grand Slam?  
KEI NISHIKORI: Well, yeah, that's what I believe in myself.  I hope I can get a Grand Slam title sometimes.  But I haven't get big title yet, even the Masters tournaments.  That's something what I need for my confidence and experience.   
Yeah, my goal this year is to win a big tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT