UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 3, 2012
David Ash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for David Ash.   
   
 Q.   How are you feeling after week one?   
DAVID ASH: I feel good. We won. That's the main thing. That's what we're trying to do. And it feels good to win. We're going to put that one behind us and ready to‑‑ ready right now to try and improve on the things we need to improve on and fixing the things that we messed up and just improve this week, prepare better than we did last week. Practice harder than we did last week, and just everything, just trying to get better.   
   
 Q.   What are some of the things y'all need to improve on?   
DAVID ASH: I think the thing we did a good job of is‑‑ and that we're doing a good job is ‑‑ understanding each person's job on the field. And each person trying to do their job. And I think we have a pretty good idea of what our job is now that we've been in the system for as long as we have. The thing is just getting better at doing it each and every week. So that's my goal.   
There was a few times, I understood my job but I didn't do it. And I'm going to this week see why. I'm going to fix that.   
   
 Q.   What can you do to get the ball down the field more in the passing game?   
DAVID ASH: Well, obviously we've run the ball really well, and the deep passing game is opening up. I think for me what I'm working on is not hesitating, watching on film. There's a couple of times took a hitch step which threw off the timing which means the ball is going to be late. So for me that's the main thing is trusting my reads, trusting my feet, and getting rid of the ball.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you have a feel for the game when you're actually playing it. But when you go back and look at the film, did your assessment of your performance change? Do you feel better about it? Worse?   
DAVID ASH: Usually they say whenever you look at film it's never as good as you thought it was and it's never as bad as you thought it was. Usually after a game I'm thinking, man, I really messed up a lot. And when you watch it it's not quite as bad as I thought.   
There was a few plays where I was like, man, I really held on to that ball a long time, I've got to get rid of that. There's definitely some reads. The fumble snap, that can't happen. But that's just catch the ball. That's not really a coaching point there, just catch the ball.   
But I thought as far as that goes, you know, we'll be all right.   
   
 Q.   Are you feeling more confident after one week being the full‑time starter, knowing you're the guy?   
DAVID ASH: I like to think I'm humble. I'm confident and I always have been. And I don't think it's going to change.   
   
 Q.   A fine line between making plays but making good decisions and not making mistakes.   
DAVID ASH: Well, you know, a lot of that comes with understanding the situation you're in. It's situational football. You don't want to force it on third down. You don't want to force it on first down.   
You want to be able to understand first down, if it's not there, get four yards, play second and six, that's easy. On third down and five, you don't want to try to force the deep ball. You just want to look how can I get five yards. You don't want to get emotional like man I haven't‑‑ I've only thrown one touchdown this game, I've only done this this game. I want to go for the big ball. All you can think about is how am I going to get this team five yards. And that's the only question.   
   
 Q.   When you look at the tape do you think these are things we can fix and they're not huge, huge mistakes that belie maybe something more serious that this is correctful and we should see improvements?   
DAVID ASH: Absolutely. It's the little details and it's the little things that make the big difference in football. Offensive football is a game of inches. It's a step six inches to the right. It's a ball placement six inches to the left. It's one less step on your drop.   
It's one more step on your route. It's little things like that. And those are the things that make the difference in offensive football.   
   
 Q.   When you hear Mack say he wants to see more explosive plays in the passing game, do you put more pressure on yourself?   
DAVID ASH: No, it just gets me excited.   
   
 Q.   Do you expect different plays called because of that?   
DAVID ASH: Well, in order to have explosive pass plays I'm sure you have to call explosive pass plays.   
   
 Q.   What about this defense, New Mexico's defense, what do you see in these guys?   
DAVID ASH: Well, you know, I had a little time to watch some film on them this morning and from what I can tell they do a lot of different looks. And football doesn't change a lot. Defenses do things slightly different. Schoolbook at it. We'll study the personnel. We're early in preparation right now.   
Today's the first day. And looking at it, I think we can do whatever we want, really. Just have to each person has to do their job on every play, and we design plays that should score touchdowns. If everybody does their job, it works. So that's the main thing is we just have to get ready to do our job.   
   
 Q.   You got a little excited when you talked about explosive plays. How do you contain that this week and making the right decision when you get out there, maybe I want to take this shot but instead make explosive plays?   
DAVID ASH: Well, you know, that's the hard thing to do. Sometimes you want it really bad. But they covered it. Take it down. You have to be able to do that. And as quarterbacks to be sure, you have to understand that second and six is fine. That's a good position to be in.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the trust you have in your receivers how that relationship with you and them has developed over the last year?   
DAVID ASH: Well, you know, I just think that they've improved, just all of them have improved a lot this offseason. We've had a good camp together, completed a lot of balls, made a lot of plays together. And I think as the season goes on, more and more of that will show.   
   
 Q.   Likely to see Earl Campbell out there?   
DAVID ASH: It's really cool. He has a huge hand if you've ever shaken his hand before. I just stuck my hand in there and he just enveloped it. And I just kind of did that. I couldn't really squeeze because it's too big. But, yeah, it's really cool seeing a legend of Texas football walking around.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, David.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT