UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 29, 2012
David Ash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for David Ash.   

Q.   I'm not trying to be silly, but last week was climate a factor on Saturday?   
DAVID ASH:   Well, you know, I never had played in cold weather.   I learned a few things I didn't know before.   They'll are useful in the future for sure.   

Q.   Any frustration being taken out of the game on Saturday?   
DAVID ASH:   Well, I was disappointed that I got a little frustrated in the game.   I'm not going to remain frustrated.   That's something I might have done last year.   
I'm just going to continue to work hard, prepare as best I can for a great Tech defense.   It's exciting.   They're a good team.   We need to bring our best game to Lubbock next Saturday.   

Q.   Did you say anything to Case during or after the game? 
DAVID ASH:   Yeah.   You know, I talked to him.   I tried to build his confidence, kind of told him a few things I'd been seeing out there.   He did a great job.   I couldn't have been more proud of the way he stepped up.   
That's a tough situation for anyone to be in.   He did a heck of a job.   Really glad we won the game.   Got bowl eligible.   I think that's huge for us as far as what we're going to be able to accomplish at the end of the year. 

Q.   What's going through your mind as you're watching the last two drives knowing you're not out there leading? 
DAVID ASH:   Well, you know, part of you is kind of sick because you feel like you kind of let your team down, for sure.   But the other part of me was just, you know, pulling for them, hoping they'll find a way to get it done.   
I was praying for Case on that fourth-and-six.   He did a great job.   I'm just really glad we won.   

Q.   Tech's defense is much different, able to shut down West Virginia.   What do you know about them? 
DAVID ASH:   It's really interesting.   You look at their roster.   About seven out of the 11 starters this year are the same as they had last year.   So they have obviously put in a lot of work in the weight room, got tougher, more physical.   They execute their assignments.   They play hard.   There's no quit in them.   They play a full game.   You watch them for four quarters, it's a hundred percent every play.   
We're going to have to be ready for a dogfight.   It's going to be a fight on Saturday.   We're going to have to prepare well.   

Q.   It's hard not to lose a little bit of confidence?   
DAVID ASH:   Good question.   No (laughter).   

Q.   Why is that?   Why do you feel you don't lose confidence in that situation? 
DAVID ASH:   'Cause my confidence just comes from something that's more powerful than what we see and what we're around every day.   My confidence comes from faith, something that is supremely powerful.   We can't see as humans.   I know God loves me and He's put me here for a reason.   He's given me the abilities I need to be successful where I'm at.   
I know He's going to see me through whatever hardships come my way and at the end of the day I'm going to be a better way because of it and I'm going to be able to serve Him and His kingdom better because of it.   
That's all that really matters.   No doubt last Saturday was hard for me.   But they say whenever you go into something hard, a lot of times your true priorities are revealed.   I felt so blessed that my number one priority truly is my savior.   I'm still full, joyful, still so much satisfaction in my life even though things didn't go my way on Saturday.   

Q.   (No microphone.) 
DAVID ASH:   You know, we're not going to complain about a win ever.   Winning isn't easy to do.   At the same time, for sure, that's not acceptable the way we played.   That's not our standard.   We're a much better team than we've played, than we've been playing.   

Q.   As many good games as you had in the past, do you forget about having a bad game like that on Saturday?   
DAVID ASH:   Yeah, you know, I've watched the film, like I said.   I've taken notes on how I acted when certain things happened in the game, how the flow of the game went, how I responded during the game.   
There were disappointing things in there, things I need to learn from.   I'm going to take those things, move forward, try to learn from them.   
It is what it is, but I've got to move on. 

Q.   Were those things you hadn't reacted to before? 
DAVID ASH:   There were a few new things.   Not probably going to go into detail.   I know what those things are.   I've kind of checked them off mentally, what I need to do.   I'm going to move forward, try to use what I've learned really for the rest of my career.   

Q.   Are you going to look back at that or forget about it as you move forward?   
DAVID ASH:   Well, it's kind of both.   You look backward for a day.   You kind of think about it.   You say, Forget it.   At the end of the season, I'll go back through every game and look at it, then I'll move forward.   

Q.   Four great runningbacks.   Does it mean something to a player to be a starter like Johnathan.   
DAVID ASH:   He deserves it.   He's come in as a freshman.   I admire the way he's conducted himself.   Lot of prestigious awards coming out of high school.   He came, didn't talk, didn't have a sense of entitlement about him.   He came in and worked hard.   He's worked for everything he's gotten.   
The improvement he's made as far as the way he takes the practice, the way he takes the game mentally, understanding this offense, has improved drastically throughout the year.   It's been showing game by game.   He's got a great future.   Great to have him in the backfield.   

Q.   What does it mean to you that coach says you're still his guy? 
DAVID ASH:   I'm very thankful.   They're putting their trust in me.   What they do isn't easy.   They have to feed their families.   They have to keep a job.   It's their livelihood.   
It's huge.   To me it just goes back, there's a lot of things, so many parts of our lives that are in our control and some parts aren't.   We have to be able to trust.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT