UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 15, 2012
David Ash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   What are you wrapped up in right now?  
DAVID ASH:   It's some sort of woolen cloth. I'm not sure.  
   
 Q. Is there a soft cast or anything on it?  
DAVID ASH:   It's fine.  
   
 Q. Did it worry you that it was busted up and what were your feelings and emotions when you saw it get pretty fat quick?   
DAVID ASH:   Well, you know, I got hit and came off the field, and I was like, oh, my wrist kind of hurts, and I sat down and I looked at it, and I just kind of said, oh, shoot. And then the thought crossed my mind, that's really big. But I feel like if it was broken it would hurt a lot more. Anyways, it looked gross, so everyone freaked out, and I had to go get it checked out.  
   
 Q. How do you feel now?  
DAVID ASH:   I feel fine. It's really not any big deal.  
   
 Q. When you've taken a snap like last night, is there any kind of pain or a shock or a jolt?  
DAVID ASH:   Oh, yeah, it's still going to be‑‑ it's fine. I mean, I can handle the ball fine, I can‑‑ I've regained almost full flexibility. I have all the range of motion I need as far as handling the football. It's fine.  
   
 Q. How surprised were you by what happened on Saturday?   
DAVID ASH:   I was pretty shocked.  
   
 Q. What made it so tough to take?   
DAVID ASH:   I think what made it hard is we were better than that and we prepared better than what happened.  
   
 Q. What was your personal disappointment?   What was going through your mind?  
DAVID ASH:   You know, I was just disappointed in myself. I didn't think I led well.  
   
 Q. What would you change or how do you go about learning from that?  
DAVID ASH:   I just wouldn't take some things for granted that I took for granted going into the game.  
   
 Q. Do you feel like this team has more to prove against Baylor?   
DAVID ASH:   You know, we definitely need to start winning again. That's the bottom line.  
   
 Q. Mac talked about rebuilding. Is this starting to feel like a rebuilding year now?   
DAVID ASH:   No, I mean‑‑ I mean, yes, we're always building. I think we kind of‑‑ we definitely took a punch, but we're going to get back up, and we're going to keep working.  
   
 Q. Mac was talking a lot about moving forward. How do you move forward from a game like that?   
DAVID ASH:   Go back to work.  
   
 Q. He said he spoke to the team for about an hour yesterday. What did you get from his words, his message, and what stood out about what he was telling you all?   
DAVID ASH:   You know, we've just got to remain positive. We can't let the negative things that have happened, that surround us‑‑ whatever is negative, we can't let that creep into our team. We've got to remain positive and believe in each other and believe and trust each other that we can win.  
   
 Q. What do you know about Baylor and their defense and what you can possibly take advantage of?  
DAVID ASH:   Well, you know, they're a good football team. They started winning their last few years. We're going to prepare for them like we would any other team.  
As a defense they're good. They've got a lot of really good athletes. They're getting better recruits, and we're going to have to execute. At the end of the day, every play is designed to score, it's just a matter of whether you execute it or not.  
   
 Q. You said their defense is good, but they're last in total defense in the nation. Do you have to ignore those stats, just look at the film and see what they have?  
DAVID ASH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q. And what do you see?   What do you see that other offenses are doing against them?   
DAVID ASH:   You know, their offense is pretty simple. I mean, you take what they give you, and we are going to look at Baylor's defense and try to see what they're giving, and we are going to try to take advantage of that.  
   
 Q. You guys have been playing at such a high level for the first five games. Do you scratch your head and little bit and say what happened, and that's not us?   Is that the most frustrating part?  
DAVID ASH:   Yeah, I think that is what's frustrating is we didn't play like we're capable of and like we've shown that we are capable of playing.  
   
 Q. Does it bother you when Coach Brown gets blamed and criticized?  
DAVID ASH:   Yes. Yeah, it does, because he doesn't deserve it. He's giving everything he's got, and he's a great football coach. He wasn't the one who was playing out there. I think he's a great football coach. I have all the respect in the world for him. I have no doubt he's going to help turn this team around, help us get over last weekend and help us get ready to win some ballgames.  
   
 Q. Does Saturday's game feel like a must‑win to get this going back in the right direction?  
DAVID ASH:   They're all must‑wins, all of them.  
   
 Q. What were some of the positives you can take out of Saturday's game?   
DAVID ASH:   There's not a lot of positives.  
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT