UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2012
David Ash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for David Ash.     
   
 Q.   Pretty excited to find out you're second in the country in passing efficiency?   
DAVID ASH:   I mean, yeah, that's important.   Completions, good decisions, high-percentage throws, things like that are very important in creating successful drives that score points.     
   
 Q.   In your mind are you going to be thinking you have to out-do Geno Smith with the way their offense performs?   
DAVID ASH:   No, I'm not playing against Geno Smith.   He's a great player.   West Virginia is a great team.   Their defense is talented.   My job is to do my job, to try to get the guys on my team ready to do theirs.   Hold them accountable, they're going to hold me accountable.   This week we're going to prepare and game plan.     
   
 Q.   First time a lot of us saw you play in Austin, how have you changed since then?   
DAVID ASH:   I don't know.   Well, I'm a lot older.     
   
 Q.   How have you changed on the field since then?   
DAVID ASH:   I have more whiskers on the field now (smiling).     
I've had to learn the difference between a high school game and a college game.   In high school, I kind of had a little gun-slinger mentality, ran all over the field, throw as hard, as far as I could.   It was fun.     
But the college game is different.   You have to understand the risk involved in everything you do, understand how good the other team you're playing is, make your decisions and understand that you've got a lot of good athletes around you.     
There's so much more you have to take into account when making decisions back there.     
   
 Q.   Does that take time to learn that; it's not an overnight thing?   
DAVID ASH:   Yes, for sure.   Different quarterbacks, it takes different amounts of time.   But there's been some quarterbacks who can come in as a true freshman and get a pretty good handle on things.   As a quarterback, as players, as people in general, we're creatures of habit.   We create habits daily.   You probably don't even know the habits you have.     
So whenever you're coming into a new place, a new situation, learning a new offense, playing a different kind of game, you have to create some new habits.   Sometimes you have some really bad ones you got to get out of and form new ones.   Sometimes it takes a while.     
   
 Q.   Do you think there's any advantage of facing West Virginia early?   
DAVID ASH:   Well, I don't know, you know.   I guess it's fair, I can say that.   They've had as much time to get better this year.   If we face them at the end of the year, they would have gotten that much better as a team, we would have improved that much as a team.   So it's fair.     
   
 Q.   What do you think of West Virginia?   
DAVID ASH:   Mountaineers.     
   
 Q.   Do you want to get in a shootout with these guys to keep their offense off the field?   
DAVID ASH:   That's not my decision.   Coaches will make that decision.   We're game planning as we speak.   They'll let me know.   I'll go do it.     
   
 Q.   Fourth-down pass to D.J., what was going through your mind on that play?   
DAVID ASH:   I don't think a lot's going through your mind.   It's kind of just like, Well, I hope he catches it, I'm fixin' to throw it.   I'm about to pull the trigger.   Hope he catches it.     
   
 Q.   What do you mean when the team is down, you believe he can get it done?     
DAVID ASH:   Well, I think the cool thing about it was we were there on the sideline, we're going into a clutch situation.   I'm there telling them the situation.   They probably all know anyways.   But I'm saying, There's so much time left.   This is a time not to shy away.   This is a time to go play.   Do your job.   Get out of bounds, if you can't get out of bounds get a first down so we can try to save as much time as possible.   As I'm saying that, coach comes over and said, We're all going to win this game, we just have to believe.     
I believe the whole team bought in.   Showed some great resiliency.   Came out.   There's a lot of emotions going.   We were able to get the W like that.     
The thing about an emotional win like that, all the hard work you put with your team throughout the summer, seven-on-sevens, off-season workouts, it pays off in the final seconds of the game in a highly emotional, hostile environment, really unites you as a group.     
I thought that was pretty cool.     
   
 Q.   (Question regarding D.J. Monroe.)     
DAVID ASH:   So blessed.   I can't explain.   He's good.   He gets the ball in his hands and he makes stuff happen, makes things happen.     
But, yeah, I don't know, he provides a spark.   He's been playing football for a long time here.   He's calm.   He's able to bring a swagger to the team and play-making abilities.   So blessed to have D.J. on the team.     
   
 Q.   How exciting is it to get to play in a game like this, first big matchup you've had here?   
DAVID ASH:   Well, it's exciting.   There's going to be 100,000 plus out here supporting us against a great team.   It's pretty exciting because it's been a while since we've gotten the opportunity to be in this situation.     
It's taken a lot of hard work.   We don't need to forget that.   We just need to make the best of this opportunity.     
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, David.       
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT