UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2012
David Ash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for David Ash.   

Q.   (Question regarding game against Ole Miss.)   
DAVID ASH:   Well, we're just improving everywhere on the team.   I think the results of my elevated play is the results of wide receivers and the offense line elevated play, runningbacks running the ball so well.   I think it's a team effort.   

Q.   You always say you're confident no matter what.   There has to be some benefit from a game like that for you to have done it on a big stage, know you're capable of it? 
DAVID ASH:   Well, I've always been capable of it.   I'd say I don't think as a player your confidence level can ever change because if it does in a tough situation you don't be as confident as you are in a good situation.   You have to be the same player all the time.   
I think it helps for me to be able to do that just having faith, believing that God has put me in any situation I'm in, and that He'll see me through it.   Through any situation I'm in, whether it's a good game, bad game, good season, bad season, He'll always be faithful to me.   
I can rely on that and have a strong foundation and I can be confident in any situation whether I played good in the past or poorly in the past, knowing I'm here for a reason, I'm here because He's put me here.   

Q.   How prepared were you for all the attention of every little thing you do on the field and you would have to answer to after every ballgame? 
DAVID ASH:   Well, do you mean like last season or like this year?   

Q.   In general, being the quarterback of a university.   The quarterback always gets attention.   Do you have to prepare for this as part of being the quarterback? 
DAVID ASH:   For sure.   You have to be able to be resilient through people's opinion of you changing constantly.   I played good last week.   Before last week, I don't think there was anybody who liked me.   Now everybody likes me.   
In the future, I know there will be times when people don't like me and there will be times when they like me.   They'll be analyzing every move I make.   
But to me none of that really matters because I already have the approval of a God who loves me and that's all I need, so...   

Q.   Did the bye week stop the scoring spree momentum or do you expect it to continue? 
DAVID ASH:   You know, it comes down to execution.   If we come into this game, 11 guys do their job, we're capable of doing anything.   

Q.   What changes for you when conference play starts versus the non-conference season? 
DAVID ASH:   It's still just football.   There's still 11 guys on the field, 11 guys that have to do their job.   
Do the games mean more?   Does winning your conference mean more?   Yeah, I'd say so.   This is college football.   You have to win the first three to be in the BCS contention.   
Yeah, conference play is important because we haven't been on top of our conference in a while.   That's been a goal of ours.   

Q.   Is there a recognition that the caliber of athletes you're going up against this week are perhaps in some ways markedly better than you faced in the first three weeks?   Does that register? 
DAVID ASH:   Yes.   Oklahoma State has a lot of good athletes, good football players.   We have to prepare.   Maybe doing our job this week will be a little harder against those guys.   
At the end of the day we have to do our job to get prepared. 

Q.   How much more video study do you do last week as opposed to a regular game week? 
DAVID ASH:   You know, you get a lot more for sure.   It's an extra week to prepare.   Not only that, you have the weekend to watch film.   You have all of Monday to watch film.   You're not having to learn your game plan just yet.   You can just concentrate on watching film, trying to learn what you're going to go up against.   
A bye week is always helpful.   

Q.   (Question regarding their secondary.)   
DAVID ASH:   Yes, they're very talented in the secondary.   They had a lot of speed, a lot of experience.   They got some very good football players in the secondary.   

Q.   Can you talk about Marquise, the positive energy he brings to the offense and the team as a whole.   
DAVID ASH:   Yeah, he's just great for our football team because he's experienced, been doing this for a long time, steady player, doesn't get high, doesn't get low.   He caught a lot of balls last game, but before that he was playing great, just doing his job.   
Leadership like that is so valuable because it's not necessarily vocal or anything like that.   It's just showing if you just do your job, whether it's just blocking, catching, whatever it is, if you do your job, it helps the team win.   He's done a great job of that this year, showing other guys that's all they have to do.   

Q.   How do you feel about the progress this offense has made over the first month? 
DAVID ASH:   Well, we've gotten better.   We've improved.   That's what the season is about.   Each week you have to get better.   From game to game you need to improve.   
That's what we're looking to continue, is to continue improving each and every week going into practice with the mindset of closing each play and getting better at it, taking it one play at a time, one day at a time.   Hopefully at the end of each day we can turn around and say, We got better today.

Q.   Has Coach Harsin ever yelled at you?   Coach Brown says he's one of the most positive people he ever met.   
DAVID ASH:   Coach Harsin's one of the most positive and happy people.   He's a very positive guy.   He's constantly telling us what it takes to win, what we need to do each and every day.   He tells us, then he says it's on us to do it.   
Does he ever yell at me?   Yeah, he yells at me.   Again, it's just to make me better.   I always know that.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, David.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT