AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v RAYS
October 6, 2010
James Shields
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Joe talked about some of your second level statistics that maybe fans don't see on a day-to-day basis and how those necessarily have or have not been in your favor this year. As a pitcher how tough has it been to mentally stay with it and know those things are going to come back your way at some point?  
 JAMES SHIELDS: It's been a long season, that's for sure. But there was a lot of ups and downs this year. I've dealt with it pretty good. But I've got a good mindset.   
 The best attribute for a baseball player is amnesia. I've told everyone this before, amnesia. But I feel really good right now. I feel confident in my stuff. I feel confident in what I'm doing out there. My bullpen sessions have been going great. I'm excited to get this thing going and getting the opportunity to pitch.   
  
  Q. How much did your experience in LA pitching in the World Series, pitching in the playoff series going to help you do you think just being able to channel everything tomorrow?  
 JAMES SHIELDS: I think it's a big factor. I think the experience that I had in '08 went pretty well. You know, I think the experience factor, it's a whole different ballgame when you get out there.   
 In 2008, I pitched the first game, and I didn't really realize how big the moment is, how big the stage is. I think this year having the experience of going through that in 2008 is definitely going to help me out and help my confidence out.   
 I mean, I feel really good, like I said. It's kind of weird; it's like my last three games, I got crushed by one hit, you know. It could have been a great outing each time. But no, I feel really good, though.   
  
  Q. You've mentioned confidence a few times. I mean, how much did it add to your confidence, when despite the finish you had, that Joe still is giving you the ball in such a big game, Game 2?  
 JAMES SHIELDS: It definitely means a lot. These guys have a lot of faith in what I'm doing out there. You know, it definitely means a lot to the organization. Over the last four years I've thrown 200 innings every single year. That's one much my main goals that I've been wanting to do every single year. To be able to throw 200 innings or more each year means I'm staying healthy and I'm here. To be able to have the confidence and Joe has the confidence in me to start this Game 2 is special.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your approach for tomorrow and facing the Rangers in their lineup?  
 JAMES SHIELDS: Yeah, I think this team is definitely a little bit different team than the other two. You know, they're free-swingers. They definitely take their walks. You know, these guys will hit the homer, no problem. They definitely swing pretty hard. They've got a lot of righties in their lineup.   
 My focus is to keep the fastball down, down in the zone, mix up my off-speed pitches a little bit. If I can throw my change-up and curveball for strikes, I think it'll be real big early in the count. But then again, I've just got to go out there and pitch my game and execute my pitch.   
 This team definitely is a high-powered offense, and you know, with Price going in tonight throwing a lot of fastballs, it might work out. I throw a lot more off-speed than he does, and we'll see how it goes. Hopefully I can keep them off balance.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT