THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 19, 1995
Nicole Arendt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Put your alma mater aside, she is also a close friend
of yours, is it difficult to play another Gator and a close friend?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  Yeah, it makes it a little bit more difficult
to play somebody, you know, but you have to put that aside when
you are out on the court. I had a good time out there.  Someone
has to win; someone has to lose.  This is the third time I have
lost to her, so it is tough, but it was a great match. It was
fun.

 Q.  You, at one point, you looked like you were limping a
little back to your set.

 NICOLE ARENDT:  I'm a little bruised on my toe; nothing bad.
 No, nothing was hurting me.

 Q.  How disappointing is it to have this sort of result when
you had the lead in the third set and I think you had the lead
in the first also?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  Up a break in the first and there the third and
in the second, actually.  Yeah, it is defeating and it is tough
and I am frustrated because I am very close at beating people
in the top, top 50, top 30, but that is the way it goes.  It just
makes me have to go out tomorrow; work a little harder.  It comes
down to, as usual, important points I have got to concentrate
more and I think I have got a bit nervous, and I don't hit out.
 Lisa -- gee, she came up with some incredible shots at some really
important times and she hung in there and I mean, she didn't win
-- she won it.  I played a little hesitant, but she went after
it.  So...

 Q.  Want to talk about the wind conditions on one side of
the court how it affected the match?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  Yeah, it was definitely -- for me what happened
was the wind was to my back and with the sun up, so it was almost
defeating, because I couldn't see after I had served sometimes
I wouldn't know where the ball was.  And then after a while it
started getting gusty, so you didn't know which way the wind was
going.  It is always more difficult to play in the wind.  That
is just a part of it.  We all know what is coming when we come
here to Lipton, but I still love it.

 Q.  Nicole, a couple of weeks ago you made mention to something
that you just mentioned that is Lisa's increasing ability to play
well on the big points, she is doing much better now than she
did a year or so ago.  How do you learn to play better like that?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  That is a question I have got to figure out.
 Because I am struggling with that. Maybe I should talk to Lisa
about it.  She is.  She is really playing solid.  I think she
is keeping her head a lot steadier, at least from the outside
for people to see that.  I don't know what is going on inside,
but she is a much more professional player.  And it was a great
match.  She came up on top, and with great shots.  I think it
is probably just sticking with your game; what got you to that
point, you know, what got you to 30-Love or to 40-15 or whatever,
you got to keep playing that way.  You don't want to do more and
you don't want to do less, but that is sometimes very difficult
because you have got -- most people have a brain and you analyze
things and it gets in the way.

 Q.  How far do you see her going?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  Here?

 Q.  In her career?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  She has got the great game. I can see her going
far.  I mean, I don't know exactly where she is ranked right now,
so numberwise I don't know, but I feel she has got a very good
future.  I think she is only going to get better, and I don't
think she has even peaked, and I hope she goes for it. I really
wish her the best because she is a friend of mine and I know how
hard she works.

 Q.  Is Andy still coaching both of you?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  Not me.

 TONI WOODS:  He is no longer coaching Lisa as well.

 Q.  Who is your coach?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  I am working at Nick Bollettieri, Mike DePalma
(sic) senior, but nobody is traveling with me.

 Q.  You left the--

 NICOLE ARENDT:  University of Florida.

 Q.  In '91?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  May of '91.

 Q.  She came in '91?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  We were not on the team together.

 Q.  Some of your friends were yelling in the stands "be
aggressive?"

 NICOLE ARENDT:  I know.  I was, like, are you going to coach
me.  It is more fun, I think, when the crowd gets into it.  I
thought Lisa also got quite a bit of encouragement.  It makes
it for fun that way, I think, for the players and it is also --
it shows -- I enjoy it because it also shows they are enjoying
it and they were getting into it.  What a honor to have people
rooting for me, but it is also -- it is neat to know that they
are enjoying it.  It doesn't bother me at all.

 Q.  As far as the aggressiveness of the game, do you think
that you need to get more aggressive?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  I think what they were saying is to continue
to be aggressive.  Again, there were points where I think I let
up; when I shouldn't have. That is all they were saying.  Aggressive
is my game and I have got to put it together.  It always seems
like I am serve and volleying well, but the groundstrokes are
a little inconsistent.  Now I think I am getting much more consistent
off the ground and today my volleys were a little loose.  If the
puzzle finally gets put together and they both are great; then
I think things will happen successfully for me.

 Q.  Do you think that she was able to exploit a little bit
on the backhand side; especially on that one side of the court?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  With the wind, yeah, she did, of course, that
is the whole point; you want to hide your weakness and make your
strengths come out and you want to find their weakness and pound
on it.  Yeah, at times that definitely helped her.  She played
me smart.  I think I played her smart and at the end it came down
to playing a few points a little bit better; a bit more aggressive,
you know, I wish her the best, I really do.  She is a great player.


 Q.  Do you still have plans after your career to do charity
work in third world countries?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  I don't know now about third world countries,
but I am really interested in helping out, yes, not only in tennis,
but, yeah, definitely in getting more involved in helping those
that are not as fortunate because it really is, we are so lucky
to be doing what we are doing and actually a friend of mine came
and just was in awe of what we have being able to  -- staying
at the places like Biltmore and having it paid for and doing what
we love to do;  it was fantastic for me because I really realize
how fortunate we are to be able to do what we are doing and to
make a living at it.

 Q.  Are you doing any kind of charity work now?

 NICOLE ARENDT:  Special Olympics, things that are involved with
the tennis.  Also the Kids Foundation and Andrea Jaeger, helping
out there when I can financially.  I'd like to get more involved
later though.  I think right now I have got to concentrate now
on my tennis.  I am on the board trying to do what I can to help
tennis go in a good direction professionally in the future.

 End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT