TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Ty Summers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TCU-27, TTU-3
Q. What was your thought coming in missing so many guys, knowing that the defense was playing short handed?
TY SUMMERS: Just the next man up philosophy.  We train for the one's, the two's, and the three's equally.  We try to get everyone as prepared as possible.  That way when this opportunity presents itself, we need to bring in the second or the third guy, we're ready to go.
Q. (No microphone.)
TY SUMMERS: Honestly, we held them to three points, so I can't just put it to the one person, I feel like everyone was going out there and doing their job and making plays to limit an offense like Texas Tech to just three points.
Q. You guys had a big stop when Shawn fumbled and you guys were put on the six yard line, forced three and out and then they miss the field goal.  How big was that for you guys at that point?
TY SUMMERS: That was huge.  We were basically just trying to show Shawn that it's okay, we are here for you, and whenever you fall, we're going to pick you back up, and that's kind of what we did as a defense I feel like the whole entire day, so that was good.
Q. What did you think of Shawn's performance today?
TY SUMMERS: Oh, I mean he's athletic, he's going to go out there -- I'm looking forward to see what his future has in store for him, he's going to do a lot of good things for us.  This is just the beginning.
Q. Is there anything as a leader of this team that you told him during the week that you got his back or anything that the other guys told him?
TY SUMMERS: Pretty much, yeah, we got his back.  To go out there and have fun, play the game -- because it is a game -- don't over think it, just go and be an athlete and go out there and make plays.  And that if you do mess up, hey, we got your back.
Q. How much confidence did you get from the practice week, what you saw?
TY SUMMERS: Of course Coach P, he knows what, he know what is we're about to face going into each and every week.  So we were practicing and preparing for anything that they could possibly give us.  So I feel like when it came down to it we were, we knew what to expect.
Q. What does it say about y'all's defense to not have several players out there and you held them to three points, what does that say about the defense overall?
TY SUMMERS: It shows that we got a lot of good players, we got a lot of guys that want to just go out there and give it all they got and do their job.  Because we could have a lot of guys that are super athletic, but aren't willing to do their 1/11th and try to do too much and then a team like this puts up 50 points on us.  So it just shows how humble and we're all going out there and just trying to do our job to help us be successful.
Q. The two plays that kind of changed the game for y'all when you recovered the fumble and then when Jeff got the interception.  Talk about those two plays for you guys?
TY SUMMERS: Oh, turnovers are huge.  That's just a complete swing of momentum.  So whenever we had that it just gives, especially gives our offense confidence to know that they can go out there and they can try to get big plays and force certain plays to get big yardage because they know that if they fail like we're going to have their back, we're going to go out there and get the ball back to them and give them another chance.
Q. What did Jeff say about dropping the ball?
TY SUMMERS: Oh, we just laughed about it.  As long as he realize that had he dropped it and then went and got it, that scared us there for a second but at least he had the mindset at least that he picked that up, literally.
Q. If the results fall the right way today, you guys could play for a chance to go to Arlington.  How meaningful would that be for you?
TY SUMMERS: Oh, huge.  We want another chance at OU.  OU's a great team but we feel like we didn't give it all we got.  We didn't give them our best.  So to get another opportunity at them would be huge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT