OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Semaj Christon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were grabbed by a defender a couple of years ago, kind of worked with the organization, played overseas last year, and we've seen some players in the second round take the qualifying or the required tender just to get a chance to try to come to camp.  What's been your thought process on working with the team throughout the past couple of years?  
SEMAJ CHRISTON: For me it's been a good process.  Just being more come for, my first year, just learning the game, being a professional.  Second year, going overseas and playing another learning experience, and now I'm back.   
Just feel more comfortable, more comfortable being here.   
 Q.  For those of us who haven't really been following the Italian basketball league, we haven't seen you since you were with the Oklahoma City Blue.  How has your game changed?  
SEMAJ CHRISTON: I feel like I'm more of a leader on the court, more of a point guard and have more confidence shooting the ball; when I'm open, shooting the ball and leading the guys in the right way to get wins.   
Overseas basketball is a lot different.  Just going over there and learning and getting better, really, was the big thing.   
 Q.  What have you been able to pick up from Russell Westbrook so far, being with the Thunder for such a short time, just so far this year?  
SEMAJ CHRISTON: Just the way he comes in every day and work.  How he competes on the court and how he takes the game serious, so when he get on the court, it's time to work.  And me, just learning things like that, coming in every day, I know I've got to compete against him, I've got to be ready to work.   
 Q.  There's a numbers game here, 15 guys on the roster, how do you feel your chances are on cracking the roster and has there been discussion on what the future would include if you don't make the team after training camp?  
SEMAJ CHRISTON: I feel good where I'm at.  Don't really try to think about it.  Just go in every day and do what I can do.  Whatever happens, happens at the end of the day.`   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT