THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 9, 2018
Ernests Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. NISHIKORI/E. Gulbis   
4-6, 7-6, 7-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you tell us how you feel?  What happened when you fell?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: Yeah, I think I have a small, this ligament here, so I will check with the doctors.  I don't think it's very good.  I think I need some recovery for it, maybe two, three weeks.   
 Q.  Did you contemplate retiring, pulling out of the match?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: Yeah, the physio told me that I cannot really make it worse, and he taped it.  So he taped it so it's a little bit safe.  I just didn't want to pull out so I could even make the third set.   
 Q.  First set and a half, 6-4, 4-All, you had dropped only three points on your serve.  Was it harsh perhaps that you didn't win that second set?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: I think I should win the second set, yes.  I think I should have played more aggressive on my return games, which I didn't, and Kei was going for his shots much more better than I did.  I was serving better, but he was going for his shots better than I did.   
 Q.  Maybe in the first set Kei looked struggling with elbow injuries, with some pain.  But middle of second set he started playing really good.  Is this tough to adjust to the progress of his play?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: I don't know what was going in his elbow.  I mean, suddenly the pain was gone after -- I don't know if the pain was gone, yes, but he was able to go through this.  So maybe if I would break him in the second set early, maybe the match would go different way.  Maybe even he would consider retiring, you know.  But I don't know what's going on with his shoulder.   
 Q.  Obviously a tough way to go out with an injury, but how do you reflect on this Wimbledon from quallies here?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: It's great.  It's just really disappointing that I have this injury now, because I wouldn't even take time off.  I would just continue practicing and continue playing some clay events now in Gstaad or Kitzbuhel.  But right now this is at risk.   
I just need to see the doctors and see the fastest possible way for me to recover.   
 Q.  What were you most pleased with with your performances?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: I made some points.  I played well.  I'm able to -- I mean, it's a great event, you know, to qualify and to be in the fourth round.  I beat No. 3 in the world, so I proved to myself that I can beat these players already now.  That's the good thing.   
 Q.  I assume you're not really surprised about the level of your game because you can perform well?  Just confirmation of your skill?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: Yes, yes.  This is what I can take out of this tournament.   
 Q.  How was your mental reaction when your opponent is taking medical timeout?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: It's difficult, because I saw that he's struggling a little bit, but also I saw that he's not serving that well, you know, in the second set.  So it puts some extra pressure that you want to break him, get his serve broken quickly.   
You know, so it's a bit of pressure.  He's a fighter.  He proved it today, that he found his way.  I mean, I was unfortunate in the third set, yes, but in the second set he found a way to win it, so this was the key today.   
 Q.  You didn't allow any break points until the second set.  You lost on the tiebreak.  Was it quite shocking?  How was your attitude during the tiebreak?  Were you still aggressive, or...  
ERNESTS GULBIS: I don't understand the question.  Was it quite shocking or...   
 Q.  You didn't allow Kei any break points until the second set.  
ERNESTS GULBIS: Yes.   
 Q.  And then you went to a tiebreak.  Were you disappointed that you lost that tiebreak?  You should have won?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: Of course I was disappointed, of course.  Yes, yes, but I think that as I said when you weren't here, I answered the question first -- no, it's no problem -- that I think that I had to break him earlier.  You know, this was the key in the second set.  This would turn the match around.   
You know, tiebreak is a tiebreak.  It's one, two points here and there.  It's grass court, you know.  One, two points here and there, and it cost me the tiebreaker.  But I had to break him in the second set earlier because I had chances.  I had break points.  I had couple times Love-30.  And this is when I just wasn't aggressive enough.   
 Q.  How are you feeling physically after the long journey and with...  
ERNESTS GULBIS: Physically I'm very good, but just injury.  I need to deal with the injury now.  I need to...   
 Q.  The knee?  
ERNESTS GULBIS: Yes, yes.   
 Q.  You need some time to...  
ERNESTS GULBIS: Hopefully it can be two weeks.  I don't think it can be earlier than two weeks.  But, yeah, hopefully that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT