WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2014
Ernests Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. GULBIS/J. Zopp
  7‑6, 7‑5, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I notice on the court you talk to your coach quite a lot.   I wonder how important he's been over the last years improving your form. 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Very important.   Not really I talk to him to have a dialogue.   I need somebody to just maybe even sometimes I get my frustration out, you know, when something doesn't work.   I want to tell it to at least somebody.   My coach is there, so I tell it to him. 
But on court it's not much of help what he can do me, but he played a big role for last two years practicing together.   You see the results. 

Q.   Off the court, what sort of things does he help you with?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Off the court? 

Q.   When you're training. 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I don't want to get into specifics.   One thing what he change and he help me to change is the forehand.   That's the obvious one. 
Second thing is probably a little bit discipline of practice and amount of practice, which increased a lot. 
But let's say also in a way it's my accomplishment because I understood at one moment that I need to do it.   So it wasn't hard for him to push me. 
The previous coaches always found me in a much worse state of mind.   Gunter helped me a lot, but I was ready to be helped. 

Q.   Is he doing anything that a woman couldn't do?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I don't understand this question at all. 

Q.   Could a woman be your coach?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   You're trying now to ask me this (laughter)? 
Listen, my coach is Gunter.   Unfortunately he's a man.   I would wish it's a beautiful lady (smiling). 

Q.   All I'm trying to say is basically are there any things in men's tennis that women couldn't do as coaches?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Listen, I consider men's and women's game different.   In which way I cannot really tell because I don't watch a lot of women's tennis. 
If it's on TV, you know, I usually switch it over.   I don't watch men's tennis, as well.   To analyze what men and women cannot do, ask it to somebody else. 
Ask Andy.   I have man coach.   I don't have experience with women coaches, so it's useless question for me.

Q.   I don't know if you heard John McEnroe's comments.   He would like to get rid of umpires and have players call their own shots.   Have you any thoughts of that?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Get rid of vampires? 

Q.   Have players call their own shots. 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I completely agree. 

Q.   You would agree?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   (Nodding head.)

Q.   How would it work?   Why? 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Why?   That's his idea.   He should explain how it should work. 

Q.   Why do you agree? 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I am for freedom of choice and I am for, let's say, what's on my mind.   I want to be able to say it.   I don't like when people go for popular decisions and popular answers and everybody is trying to be the nice guy.   Not everybody is, you know. 
So why I need to, sorry to say, get shit for saying my own opinion.   I want to be entitled to it.   It's as simple as that. 
Let's say umpires, not umpires, that's a funny comparison, but there is a lot of people surrounding tennis players who are helping with advice, how to, say, even speak with the press, to behave or that, you know. 
It breaks down a little bit the personality.   So I'm totally for personality.   That's it. 

Q.   You think the majority of players would be able to work in that kind of system, in all honesty say, Okay, it was in or out? 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   You mean umpires? 

Q.   Yes. 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   My God.   Umpires? I thought something else.   I thought vampires in the way the people who are surrounding and sucking the energy out of players.   That's what I meant. 
Umpires, no.   Without umpires, it wouldn't work.   So please delete it. 
No, umpires.   Cannot work without umpires. 
I thought it was vampires.   You know what I mean? 

Q.   Yes, I understand.   So you are disagreeing with McEnroe?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Without umpires, it wouldn't work, no. 

Q.   What did you say about vampires?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I thought he made an expression.   Okay, I thought, let's say, in a way that people are surrounded a lot with the people who are their help.   Let's say you have now a team of six people.   Some of the players, they have press guy, they have physio, they have coach, they have massage therapist, fitness.   All these guys, especially let's say, I don't know what the press guy's job is, but they give advices to players. 

Q.   The media, are they the vampires?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Always trying to get a quote.   I'm not going to give you a quote. 
Next question. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT