COUPE ROGERS
August 9, 2013
Ernests Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. RAONIC/E. Gulbis
  7‑6, 4‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Very interesting match, exciting.   At the end it's a loss for you.   What is your feeling right now?  
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Feeling is bad.   I don't know if the match was very interesting to watch.   Maybe it was interesting because of the emotions because there was a lot of tight points.   
Game‑wise I don't think it was the best match because both of us, we didn't give each other any rhythm.   He's serving big.   I'm serving big.   
4‑All, breakpoint, if I start to make those passing shots, which is a tough shot, but I know I can make it, I'll start to win these guys (smiling).   
   
 Q.   What was it like with the atmosphere?   Fans were booing you.   
ERNESTS GULBIS:   They're used to hockey here.   It's okay.   
   
 Q.   When the crowd turned on you, did it affect you at all?  
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I got the love from the crowd.   I like it.   I turn it around and make it into positive energy (smiling).   
But, honestly, I don't understand why you need to clap for a double‑fault.   Simply I don't understand it.   You know, there can be emotions, but I think it's stupid.   
I can't call a thousand people stupid.   Don't put it as a quote.   But it's something what I don't understand.   That's why all the Canadian players, they play always very well in Canada.   Honestly some of them ‑ I guess you know who ‑ they don't play really nowhere else.   
Milos is a great player.   But the rest of the guys, they play great in Canada because it's like Davis Cup every match.   People are clapping after a double‑fault, before a second serve to provoke a double‑fault.   I don't think it's nice.   
   
 Q.   Is it pretty much the only place where you see that?  
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Honestly here I felt it a little bit more than anywhere else.   In general, you can't say nothing bad about it because there was no bad behaving.   
But you know exactly the crowd is very well‑educated.   They know exactly what to do in the right moment to screw up the other player's game.   
I don't know, in France the crowd is tough.   But they're tough all the time.   Doesn't matter what it is, Love‑15, 15‑All, 30‑40, they're the same.   Here you serve second serve, breakpoint down, you get one guy screaming from Row 11, Play tennis.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Have other players talked about this or is this something unique you're finding?   
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I don't talk to other players (smiling).   
   
 Q.   It was a good week for you.   Can you build on that for the next tournament?  
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Yes, yes, definitely a good week.   My father send me a text.   He wasn't here.   He send me a text he was watching every match on TV.   He said it was the best tournament he saw in a while, maybe not game‑wise, but maybe mental‑wise, the way I fight.   
I feel the same.   I feel slowly, slowly I start to build up my character on court.   It may not be all about positive, smiles, love all the time.   But I want to show this fighting spirit which I have, even if sometimes it brings some kind of negative emotions from somebody else.   
It's the way I fight, the way I am.   I think I need to be even stronger in that aspect.   So I'll try to build up.   Yeah, I feel good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT