MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 16, 2013
Ernests Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. GULBIS/J. Isner
  4‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Three weeks in a row in Monte‑Carlo.   How do you feel?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I left for a couple days.   I left to Vienna. 

Q.   But anyway... 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Good.   It feels good.   I saw most of Monaco already many times around and around.   But it's good. 
It was a little bit different.   The balls and the conditions when we played the Davis Cup here, it was flying much more and it was much faster.   I don't know why. 
But with these balls it was much slower.   It was easier to return Isner's serve than it was to play in the Davis Cup and return those guys' serves.

Q.   Did you like what you make of the court today?   Tough start maybe, shaky start. 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I had a rough night last night.   I didn't sleep good.   I woke up completely dead.   The warmup was terrible.   Everything was going very bad.   The beginning of the match also went bad. 
At the end of the match I felt 10 times better than I did in the first set.   I could run, the breathing opened up, the rallies were longer.   I felt much better. 
The beginning was really bad.   Not much to say about beginning.   I got two breaks down and how can I win a set with two breaks down? 

Q.   You're mentally very tough. 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Oh. 

Q.   You are.   You had some tough three‑set wins.   How does it help you in a match like that?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   That I'm mentally very tough (smiling)? 

Q.   Yes. 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Give me some more compliments.   I like it (smiling). 
I don't know, really.   It's nothing to do with mental toughness.   It was just game by game.   Second set I got one break and that's it.   I broke him. 
He's tired.   He's coming from America.   I knew if it would go for a longer match, he would be really tired.   That's what happened. 
In the third set he had problems with his back.   He had problems with his back.   It's tough to come from USA, to win a tournament, the plane, next day you play.   It's really tough. 
He would have a chance to win maybe in two sets, but he didn't close it down.   In three sets he physically didn't have a chance. 

Q.   You played Janowicz.   How have you seen him?
ERNESTS GULBIS:   Great guy.   All the best. 

Q.   His game style? 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   His game style, I'm not an analytic.   You are better at this.   Trust me. 
Great guy.   I met him first time in Davis Cup in Latvia.   I can just tell about his personality.   Really positive.   One of the most positive guys in the locker room.   Always says, Hi, always smiling. 
About his game, I don't want to talk about it.   That's your expertise.

Q.   How would you talk about his personality on court?   He could be quite fiery. 
ERNESTS GULBIS:   I had some problems with him on court, but off court we're good friends.   We leave it on the court.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT