WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2008
Ernests Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  E. GULBIS/J. Isner  
7-5, 7-5, 6-7, 7-6  
   
  Q. I understand that you are going to meet Nadal next, right?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Yes.  
  
  Q. Can you beat him?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Of course I can. I don't want to go with an attitude of a loser on the court. I want to go with attitude of a winner.  
  
  Q. I mean, do you have the instrument? Do you know how to beat him? Let me put it this way.   
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Not yet, but I'm going to talk with my coach now, so maybe he has the answer.  
  
  Q. He will tell you?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: He will tell me. I mean, he's pretty tough opponent, but we'll see after tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Yesterday I spoke to the coach of the Russian Davis Cup team, and he said that Gulbis will be the biggest problem for Nadal.   
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Well, I'm happy that he says that. We'll see in two days. I don't know.   
  
  Q. Is it frustrating to play a guy with that kind of serve?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: It's not frustrating, it's just really tough because you have to concentrate double on your own serve. I knew if I'm going to be just concentrated -- I didn't need to play my best service games to win the serve. I just needed to be focused. That's what I need to do.   
 He's serving, it's a little bit like a lottery. He's serving, he can serve three, four aces a game, there's not much you can do about it. But when it was the smallest chance for me, I tried to take those chances. I did it first two sets when it was 5-All both times. He got a little bit nervous, I took advantage of it. It was good.   
 Third set tiebreak is always a tiebreak. I mean, it was third set, I won all of my service games real easy, and he was struggling a little bit. He had some juice. I don't know if I had breakpoints or not, but I think I wanted that much more points than him, but I lost the set. That's how it is sometimes against big servers like him.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about your game on grass?   
 ERNESTS GULBIS: I feel pretty good because last year I didn't win a match on grass. That was my first year on grass. But I still liked it.   
 And this year, today was a different match because it was not so many rallies and it was just basically serve, return was the most important things.   
 But in practices, my game overall, I feel the ball pretty well, I like grass courts, and I think I can play good on it.   
  
  Q. Sorry if this was asked before, but how do you feel going into the match against Nadal?   
 ERNESTS GULBIS: I feel -- you know, I don't want to go into a match like a loser, you know? I want to go to be the same because many players, when they see that they play Federer or Nadal or even Djokovic now, they go on the court, they fight a little bit, but then in the end, if it's getting close, I don't know, sometimes they just don't believe in themselves that they can win. So I'm going to try to be there and to play as best I can, and we'll see how it goes.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT