THE ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2008
Ernests Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  E. GULBIS/A. Seppi  
6-3, 6-7, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. What do you find is the most tricky element between moving from clay to grass?   
 ERNESTS GULBIS: I think it's definitely the moving. It's the most different thing because playing, by the feeling, if you don't move, then, you know, it's not so much different, okay? The bounce is much lower. But, anyway, if you have your timing right, it's easy to play. But when you start to move, that's the point when it gets tough because you can't slide, you fall. I fell down today in the match about five, six times.   
  
  Q. Five or six times?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Yes. That's the most tough thing for me at least.   
  
  Q. Does the fact that Rafa has done so well on grass, does that make it easier to say, If you like clay, you can play on grass, it's not such a problem any more?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Well, before Paris tournament, I couldn't say that clay is my favorite surface, you know. I like much more faster surfaces. I like hard court more. Last year also I liked a lot to play on grass, but I didn't win a match. But it's okay because it was my first year on grass.   
 But, I mean, if you're an all-around player, then it's easy. I think I can play well on every surface. I'm trying to adapt my game a little bit more to grass courts. I think I'm doing okay now.   
  
  Q. Clearly off the back of Paris, your confidence levels must be pretty high. You had a fantastic tournament there. Would you say you are at the moment probably as confident a player as you've been in your career?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Yeah, of course. It's been a lot of periods of my career. Not so long career, but anyway... I played in challenger level, as well. I won two tournaments in a row, you know. Also you feel confident. Even when you play bad, you think you can't lose a match.   
 Now it's not like that. Now it's not that way. But, of course, I played really a good tournament last week. But I understand that now it's a new week, a new tournament, new surface. You have to adjust. I hope I adjust just as quickly as possible so I'm ready for Wimbledon.   
  
  Q. We first saw you in the first round of the French Open last year. You treated our No. 1 badly. You're playing our No. 1 tomorrow. What do you think of him? How do you see that particular matchup?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Yeah, well, I mean, when I played against Henman, it was more or less he's going down, you know. He was not a young player. I was a young player. I didn't feel like I was playing against Henman who was in semis, you know. It was more or less like that.   
 But Murray, I never played with him. I never practiced with him. I saw his matches on TV. But my coach knows him. We'll see.   
 I mean, he's also not an old player. You know, he can play really good tennis, especially I think on grass. I don't know if he grew up on grass, but for sure he played a lot more than me.   
 I think that also my game is pretty suitable for grass. My biggest weapon is serve, you know. When you serve well on grass, it's tough to break. I hope is gonna be a close match.   
  
  Q. I take it there are not many grass courts back at home?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Not one (smiling). Yeah, it's very tough to keep it well, in a good shape in Latvia. No chance.   
  
  Q. What was your first experience playing a grass court match?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: It was last year in Queen's. First time I went on court, grass court, was here in Queen's.   
 I really like it. I like the feeling. I could say by the feeling, it's my favorite surface to play it. But it didn't go so well because I lost here in first round, close match. I lost in Wimbledon against Baghdatis. But, you know, last year I was different player. I couldn't win Baghdatis at that moment, you know.   
 But this year I have a little bit maybe higher goals than to lose first round (smiling). I think I'll play good on grass someday.   
  
  Q. What did your experience at Wimbledon last year tell you about yourself, how you dealt with the tournament?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: I dealt pretty good because it was my first Wimbledon appearance, but it wasn't my first Grand Slam appearance. It's always tough to be first time in a Grand Slam. It was good that my first Grand Slam was US Open, then I had Paris, then I came Wimbledon, so I was more or less a little bit -- of course, Wimbledon is really a special tournament. The people, the crowd, the atmosphere there is different than anywhere else. I think I dealt with it pretty good. I wasn't nervous, you know. Just I was beaten by a better player at that moment. That's it.  
  
  Q. Which court was that on?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: It was on a big court. It was Court 1, I think. I don't know which number, but you could see from the restaurant that court, from the players' restaurant. A lot of people, you know.   
 But I think really I dealt with it pretty well. Just he was playing also really good.   
  
  Q. Because of what you did in Paris and the higher-ranked players you played against, does it mean you are not bothered that Andy is world No. 11 and expected to win?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Now no. Before Paris, if you asked me, I would be. You know, I haven't beaten so many players who are top 10, but I beat Robredo when he was top 10, now Blake. That, of course, gives me a lot more confidence, that I know that I can play with the top players in the same level if I play well.   
 I think I play well right now. We'll see. Like I said, I hope it's going to be a close match. We'll see.   
  
  Q. One guy who knows Andy really well is Novak. Will you maybe ask him for a few tips about playing Andy?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: No, I won't ask him because I'll ask my coach. He knows him good, as well. It's okay.   
  
  Q. You had a tough match today. Important to come through a match like that, having lost that tiebreaker, in terms of approaching tomorrow?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: Today was one of the toughest matches for a long time mentally. Not physically. It was a short match. Not so many rallies. But mentally it was really tough because, I don't know, today was a day when I wasn't so pumped, like you say, for tennis like I usually am. Today everything a little bit annoyed me. I don't know why. But it's good that I dealt with it in the end. It was really tough to lose in tiebreak.   
 But, you know, I didn't play bad today. I'm still a little bit adjusting my game for grass court because, yeah, like I said, I'm moving not the way I would like to. But I think every match which I will play, I'll play better and better.   
  
  Q. I take it getting pumped to play Andy Murray at Queen's on grass is not going to be a problem?  
 ERNESTS GULBIS: It's not going to be a problem, no. I think we're going to play Centre Court. No, I'll be pumped (smiling).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT