U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2014
Ernests Gulbis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  D. THIEM/E. Gulbis4-6, 3-6, 6-4, 6-3, 6-3THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. You seemed to have the match under total control for more than two sets.  What happened then?  You obviously injured yourself?ERNESTS GULBIS: No, no, it wasn't an injury.  I started to have cramps.  I thought that I pulled a muscle in the end of the third set, but I didn't pull it.  It was just really tight, all the hip area. So after that it was just a struggle.  It was simply a struggle.  I couldn't play anymore.  That's it.Q. If it was against anyone else, do you think you would have retired?ERNESTS GULBIS: I think it would be more clear that I retire against him, save his energy, because he's my friend.  But I don't like to retire if I can finish the match, you know.  Doesn't matter. The score is that I lost the match, not that I retired, because I lost the match.Q. Was it difficult to play against him?ERNESTS GULBIS: Yeah.  I thought that it's not going to be so difficult, but mentally it was difficult.  We were both really nervous throughout the match, I think.  We both couldn't play far from our best tennis.  I mean, the level we play in practice is much higher than we did today. I mean, you saw also first two sets, 4-All or 5-4.  He serve double-fault; he missed easy balls. Yeah, this was not a nice game.  But he showed character, so it's really good.  So it's good for him.Q. When did you cramp up?  Late in the third set?ERNESTS GULBIS: Late in the third I thought that I pulled something.  That's why I took the medical timeout.  Then I started to cramp afterwards.Q. Pulled in your back or upper leg?ERNESTS GULBIS: Pulled hamstring.  Because I had this injury once.  It was in Paris couple years ago when I retired against Benneteau.  I felt something slightly similar.Q. Why was it different for you this time playing him as opposed to last time?  Because the stakes were higher?ERNESTS GULBIS: It was a similar match.  Also for me, a lot of my energy went on the mental part, the nerves that start before the match.  It took a lot of energy from me. Probably if I would play somebody else I would be more relaxed.  Then probably I wouldn't be so tired throughout the end of the third and fourth set.  Fifth set everybody's tired.Q. How did you experience the crowd?ERNESTS GULBIS: I had my own problems to deal with (smiling).Q. Do you have something positive after this match?ERNESTS GULBIS: Positive is that Dominic is in the third round.  He has an okay draw, so I wish him the best.  For me?  What is positive for me?  I lost.  I'm going home.  Nothing positive for me.Q. How do you rate his chances to get far in this tournament maybe?ERNESTS GULBIS: I don't know.Q. He's playing López.ERNESTS GULBIS: Yeah, López has a tough game for him.  I think he likes more players who are playing in the baseline, who's giving him time, you know.  I think López is a tough opponent. I also don't know how he's feeling physically.  Five sets, I don't think that he's used to playing five sets.  Hopefully his match is not tomorrow.  You know, also that is the advantage.  If it is not tomorrow, I would rate his chances higher.Q. It's on Sunday, but he's got doubles also.ERNESTS GULBIS: Then his chances are much higher.  If it will be tomorrow, maybe he will be tired.Q. Did it change your buildup to the match because you were playing Dominic?ERNESTS GULBIS: No.  We warm up together.  We try to do to the same buildup.Q. Did you talk about it beforehand?ERNESTS GULBIS: What there is to talk?  No.Q. All normal?ERNESTS GULBIS: All normal, yeah.  All normal.  The quality of the match, I wish it would be higher.Q. How often do you play practice sets when you're practicing?ERNESTS GULBIS: Not very often.  Not very often.  We usually hit balls.  Not often.  Last time we played -- it was probably in off-season when we played a practice set.  We work on different things when we practice.Q. Seemed like you were playing really well the first two sets and you were serving under pressure pretty well.ERNESTS GULBIS: Yeah, serve was good the first two sets.  I call it low quality because, you know, when I broke him I didn't play good.  You know, he gave it to me.  The first two sets, you know, he gave it to me.  That's what I mean by low-quality match, when things like this happen. Overall there were some good shots, some good rallies.  When it counted the most, I think it was more nerve kind of game than who is the better player on the court at that moment.  That's what I mean by lower quality.Q. Can you put into context everything that's happened since the French Open?  Not the greatest results.  Everybody was looking for you to break out.  You've had early losses.  Is there a common thread or theme at all over the last couple months as to why that is?ERNESTS GULBIS: Why after Paris I had bad results?Q. Yes.ERNESTS GULBIS: Wimbledon definitely I was a little bit overwhelmed from Paris results.  It was tough for me. Afterwards?  No, I took some time off.  I said it already two days ago in the press conference.  I took some time off.  Then I had a good two weeks of practice.  In those two weeks, you know, I did my work.  I did my homework.  I was working hard.  I was working good.  Everything was good. You never know when the results are going to come.  You know, unfortunately now is a Grand Slam.  Everybody wishes that his top form is coming for the Grand Slam.  Mine didn't come, you know.  I was struggling the week before already here in New York in practice.  I was struggling in Toronto and Cincinnati. Now I have to look forward to Asia.  If I play really, really well, I still have a chance for Masters.  I just need to win something big. But it's good.  It's good.  It's okay.  You know, a loss is a loss, but it's fine.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT