OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 5, 2016
Haydn Porteous
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you make of a 66 today?  What was the difference between today and yesterday?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: I had a pretty good start and I had a few good putts early doors.  That gave me confidence throughout the rest of the round.  I made a good birdie on 18, my ninth hole of the day.  I just took that confidence and another good start to the back nine.   
Unfortunately didn't make birdie on the par 5, No. 3.  I made a silly error on 7.  I should never have been going around that flag.  But when you're 6-under, it's hard not to go for the flag.  The game plan was to just go middle of the green all four days.  Made a silly bogey there.  But probably wouldn't have made birdie on the ninth.  So the whole day, it was pretty good.   
 Q.  Is there a particular difference playing in the morning compared to the afternoon?  Pretty breezy for you yesterday.  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, obviously the greens are quite slick.  They have just been cut.  In the afternoon, the greens get bumpy, so it's definitely a lot easier in the morning.  Obviously I'll probably say that and shoot over par in the morning.  But the wind is not blowing, so it's out there for a good score.  You just have to hit lots of fairways and lots of greens.   
 Q.  You could have been forgiven for looking over your shoulder and thinking, come on?  
 Q.  Given the confidence after the win, were you always looking to push up and think that you have a chance?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: To be honest, the first goal is to make the cut this week.  4-under after nine, that sort of disappeared and I started to look towards the top of the leaderboard.  All I can do is just take it one shot at a time, and tomorrow hopefully the same.   
 Q.  What do you make of Ernie Els become up there?  Nice resurgence, isn't it?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, it's always nice to see a South African at the top of the leaderboard.  He looks like he's playing pretty good.  Before the week he was complaining about a sore back, but I'd take 9-under with a sore back after two rounds.  Maybe I can catch him in the last two rounds.   
 Q.  I know the wind is still fresh but how has life changed as a result?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: The calendar has changed and financially it's obviously changed a little bit.  I'm playing tournaments that I've dreamt of playing as a kid.  It's always nice to play with the likes of Rory McIlroy and Ernie Els.  It's just an unbelievable experience and I'm taking it in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT