OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2018
Haydn Porteous
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Promising start to the 2018 OMEGA Dubai Desert Classic.  Your thoughts on the opening round 66?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, I've had some fond memories here, obviously Top-10 in my first year here, and then obviously the next year, not having the best draw in the world.   
I've had some decent results, and you know, I enjoy the course.  It's a long, testing golf course, and if you hit fairways and greens, you're going to shoot something under par.  Today I made a few really good putts, something that I've been not battling with over the course of probably two years or so, but you know, just not to the standard that I would like it to be.   
Today things started to really look up and started to feel a lot more comfortable over the blade.  That's all you need to shoot -- well, that's all you need for a decent round.   
 Q.  Did you feed off that performance two years ago this morning?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, it was obviously an early morning for us, and I knew that I would get the best of the greens.  I took advantage of that early doors.   
Obviously the front nine, shooting 5-under, was exactly what I needed, and had to keep it going on the back nine, and unfortunately making a 7 on the par 5 left a bit of a sour taste in my mouth.  But to come back strong and shoot 1-under on the back nine, or the front nine, should I say, was all I needed for a nice, solid round.   
 Q.  You must have been pleased with the bounceback after the double.  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, it was a bit unfortunate on the par 5.  I didn't hit that bad a tee shot, to then find myself stone dead.  You know, that's golf and probably the reason why we love it.  But again, go on to the next day, one shot a time and take it as it comes.   
 Q.  Gives us a sense how good conditions are out there this morning.  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: It was pristine.  The fairways are awesome.  You know that you're going to hit the fairway and have a decent lie.  When you hit the green and give yourself a decent birdie opportunity, you know that all you need to do is put a solid roll on it.  Today I did that, and hopefully over the next three days, I can do the same.   
 Q.  What can you take from that positive start?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: You know, obviously I've been working really hard on my mental side of the game, and today I was really anal about the way that I approached every golf shot.  I think I need to do the same over the next three days and again, as I say, just one shot at a time and take it from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT