NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 11, 2017
Haydn Porteous
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some really good play over the first two rounds, was ruined by a seven on each day.  Today, unscathed round of 67; how pleased?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, I've been playing some decent golf for the last couple of weeks.  Just not managing to get it around 18 holes without a number, and today, I really managed my way around that golf course and tried to keep the big numbers off the card.  I managed to do that, and along with some birdies along the way, always helps the scorecard.   
I feel like my game is coming along nicely.  I feel I have one round to go around unscathed, and let's just hope for the best.   
 Q.  Your father was involved in this tournament as one of the sponsors years ago and you used to come here as a child.  What memories do you have of those occasions, because the world's best players used to come and play the Million Dollar Challenge.  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, that was when the tournament was still a really limited field with your No. 1's in the world and Top-10s in the world.  It was experiences that I'll never forget as a kid.  It was only a dream for me to play in the Nedbank, and here I am and posting some decent scores.   
 Q.  With 12 birdies and two eagles over the first two rounds.  If you can eliminate the mistakes tomorrow, there's a really low one out there.  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, I'm hitting the ball good enough to make birdies out there.  Missed a couple out there today but also holed a few.   
You know, if I just carry on with the same process as I have been doing over the last few days, obviously going to take it one shot at a time, but one round to go and expect nothing, take everything.   
 Q.  A six-shot difference in today's score to Thursday and Friday.  What was the difference today?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: The wind was a little bit lighter.  It was still swirling a little bit, but nowhere near as bad as the first couple of days.   
When the wind blows around here, and especially with the gusts and swirling around in the trees, it's tough to pick a line and trust it.  Today, for about 12 to 13 holes, I managed my way around the course knowing where the wind was.   
Towards the back nine, the wind started picking up.  Just needed to just stay positive and trust every club that I hit.   
 Q.  The second has been a productive hole:  Two eagles on the last two days.  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, I've hit two Sunday-bests into that hole for my second.  Today I holed a little bit of a lengthier putt than yesterday.   
I think the tee shot is really important to put you in a good place.  I think the name of the game for that hole is just hit the middle of the green, and fortunately I pulled and pushed mine on each day and worked out in my favour.   
 Q.  A 67 today has put you nicely at the right end of the leaderboard.  What will be the strategy going into tomorrow?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, just the same strategy as the last few months.  Just expect nothing and take everything, one shot at a time.   
Yeah, I think the last couple of weeks, I've started off quite strong and I think maybe started forecasting a little bit too much.   
This week, it was the plan of mine to not forecast and just really stay in the moment.  That's the plan for tomorrow.   
 Q.  How important would it be for you to get into next week?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: That was my No. 1 goal for the season was to get into that Top 60, and if I can post another decent one tomorrow, that will get me into it.  But again, just better stop forecasting and live every minute that goes by.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT