TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 2, 2017
Haydn Porteous
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Out first this morning and 7-under par 64 to begin?
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, I needed a really big start and put myself in the right foot heading into these next couple of weeks to get me into DP World.  To shoot a bogey-free 64 is exactly what I was looking for.
Q. I suppose you almost know what conditions you're going to get here but it's very benign here and slightly later start for going out first, so conditions were pretty much perfect.
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, not as much wind today as there was over the last couple days.  I think some of the boys are really taking advantage of the course.  Home that the weather stays the same for the next three days or so, and it should be some good scoring.
Q. You mentioned the start to the round.  Three birdies in a row.  Always pleasing to get off to that positive flyer, isn't it.
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, when you do start so quick, obviously the mind starts getting pretty quick and obviously need to just take it one shot at a time.  I managed to do that and kept my head screwed on.
Q. I think you shot your best round of the week, 66, on the final day here last year.  What did you learn from that that you've perhaps taken into today?
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, I think from last year to this year, I think my game is in a very different place right now.
Last year I came into the week really battling with the game and this week, you know, coming into this week with some sort of form, it's starting to feel a little bit more confident out here.  As you can see, I am starting to roll in the putts now and I think it's just more of a mental click.
Q. First out today, 5-under par through seven.  What was the key to that fast start?
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, obviously to start with three birdies in a row was the start that I was looking for.  I took advantage of the two par 5s on the back nine, and obviously to make a couple more coming in was all I needed.  To then go into the front nine with a bit of confidence and a bit of momentum was all I needed.
To be bogey-free after 18 is quite tough out here and hopefully I can do the same over the next three days.
Q. Some people say it's all about making birdies but sometimes par putts are just as hard.
HAYDN PORTEOUS: As you say, it's vital to keep the momentum going and I managed to do that with a really good par saves.  Then made obviously some really good birdie putts, which obviously helps the scorecard.
I have been working quite hard on my putting over the last couple of days, and I really found something that maybe I'd been battling with for the last couple of years.  Really starting to feel a little bit of confidence over the flat stick.
Q. My peers wouldn't allow me to now ask you, what have you found, because it might help them, too.
HAYDN PORTEOUS: It's highly, highly confidential (laughing).
Q. You won earlier in the year at the Czech Masters.  Did that give you an opportunity to reset your goals and you're aiming now for obviously the DP World because you're outside the Top 60 at the moment; was that the main goal having won?
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, I was under a lot of pressure to keep my card.  This year it is really tough to keep your card, probably just over 400,000 grand.  To then have a win under the belt in a really, really difficult part of the season; to then look back and say, I need to change my goals and look at the bigger picture moving forward.
Unfortunately haven't had the results that I would have liked, but I'm starting to find my game again; and especially with the flat stick, the flat stick can mean a lot in this game.  It just breeds a lot of confidence throughout the whole game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT