ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 5, 2016
Haydn Porteous
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you sum up that match, because there were plenty of twists and turns before you prevailed?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: To be 3-down after four, it's tough to stay positive and keep fighting out there.  You know, Tom, my caddie, just said, just keep playing golf, just keep hitting fairways and keep hitting greens and just way for him to make a couple mistakes.  Luckily towards the end of the first nine, he made a few mental errors and a couple mistakes.  To bring it back to all-square after nine was pretty motivating, to then get to the next nine to try to pull through and win the match.   
 Q.  Sounds like you almost pounced and drew some confidence from it.  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, to come back from 3-down, it gave me a lot of momentum and gave me the positive vibes that I needed for the back nine.  I hit a few really good drives out there to put the pressure on Marc.   
I was complaining about the par 5s this morning, and then I go out and birdie every single par 5 on the 18 that I played.  It was a good round.  It was a tough match, and you always know it's going to be a tough match when you're playing against a Scotsman in Scotland.  But fair play to the spectators, they were awesome and they gave me the odd clap or two for when I deserved it.  Yeah, it was an awesome day.   
 Q.  I take it, the heart is beating pretty fast when it's going right down to the wire?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, there were a couple of times where I had to tell myself to breathe, and even when I do tell myself to breathe, it's still quite tough.  To then make the 6- or 5-footer on the last to win the match was a pretty good feeling.   
 Q.  I know this is a different style of competition, but the fact that you've got a victory under the belt already this season, does that give you the confidence, the belief, going into the weekend?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: It is The European Tour, and every single player that is playing on the Tour can win a golf tournament.  Again, you've just got to stay one shot at a time and hope for the best and hopefully I can keep the same form.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT