THE 145TH OPEN
July 16, 2016
Haydn Porteous
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Haydn, how'd it go this morning?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: You know, obviously there was no cut to be made.  I had made it through to the weekend, so I just thought hit driver everywhere, be a little bit more aggressive than I was during the first two rounds, and it paid off in the first few holes.  I was 3-under after four holes, so it was a pretty good start.  And I tried to just keep it going.  Unfortunately, bogeyed the Postage, but sometimes bogey is not a bad score on that hole.  I really played nicely during the back nine.  The wind was really hard off the left, and I hit some really great golf shots, especially 17 springs up in my mind.   
Again, I couldn't -- you know, it was just an awesome experience to be here during the weekend and an experience I'll never forget.  So, let's just hope for a decent round tomorrow and hopefully I can move my way even more up that scoreboard.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, it had left a bit of a sour taste in my mouth.  But you can't base the whole round over one golf shot.  It might have caught a hard bounce to go out of bounds.  But it was an awesome round of golf.  I hit some really good golf shots and some shots I haven't been able to hit over the last couple of months.  And all I can do is grow in confidence and just carry on playing golf and enjoying it out there.   
 Q.  Is it a strange feeling being on your own?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: I was playing with Kieron, and he's a really nice guy and really easy to talk to.  We had a good laugh.  He stayed out of my way.  He kept the round nice and lighthearted.   
 Q.  You seem to have taken a liking to this course and this championship golf, whatever it might be.  One or two mistakes here and there, and things could have been completely different.  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Obviously I got an afternoon tee-off time or really afternoon tee-off time yesterday, and I think that was probably some of the worst weather I've played in my life.  Yeah, it's a different game.  You've got to really use your imagination around the greens and hit some really funky golf shots, gripping it down on the shaft to try and keep it out of the wind.  It's good fun.  We don't play a lot of links golf, and that's maybe why the Open is such a special, special tournament.  Just a special tournament to be in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT