OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 6, 2016
Haydn Porteous
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lovely round of golf, wasn't it, four birdies early on, another four on the way home.  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, it's just the start I couldn't have asked for to be honest, four birdies on the trot and third round, to get me into serious contention was exactly what I was looking for.  Unfortunately made a silly bogey on 5.  I missed a short putt.   
But I think towards the end of the front nine for me, wasn't the best performance, but I got into the back nine, regathered my thoughts and it turned out to be okay.   
 Q.  There are so many positives to celebrate but on that negative, does that mess with your head when you miss a short one?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, I think I rushed a little.  I knew that we were -- it always seems to go a little bit quicker in the third and fourth round and I felt like we needed to speed up just a little bit.  Just rushed it a little bit, and you know, I don't think it was anything to worry about.  I ended up hitting it about double the distance past.  So that was a little bit nervy.  But it was a good round, good performance.   
 Q.  And those wonderful red figures on the card, that was a wonderful putt at the last for par?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: I got a little bit left of the par 5 there, and left, you don't really have much chance from there.  To make that putt was quite big obviously for tomorrow to put me into real contention for a win.  Let's just see how things go.  Obviously just take it one shot at a time, and take it from there.   
 Q.  How was it playing alongside somebody of the calibre of Henrik Stenson?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Henrik has been one of my favourites.  I remember following him at Sun City when he made it look like a mashie course with a 3-wood, 2-wood.  It was just a dream come true to play with someone like that, and actually experience what sort of guy he was.  No complaints, really good guy.  He played well and unfortunately missed a few putts, but I'm sure he'll be back tomorrow.   
 Q.  Something about the style in which he plays that made him one of your favourites?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: Yeah, just that little bit of swagger to him.  He hits it a long way and he's just a cool cat, isn't he.  He's good fun and a really nice guy.   
 Q.  What about your swagger; you've got a bit?  
HAYDN PORTEOUS: I'm trying.  I'm trying.  I don't know if I'm keeping up with Henrik but I'm trying and I think that's all that counts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT