DAVIS CUP - NETHERLANDS vs USA
April 5, 1997
Jacco Eltingh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q  Did the match go about like you thought it would? 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  It went better than I thought it would because Stark and Leach are No. 4 doubles team in the word and with a 2 nil lead, I mean, it is a tough have team to beat. 
   

Q  What kind of a shot do you give the Netherlands now to win this Tie?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Well, the shot is on now.  It is wide open. 
   

Q  Do you think coming back against Romania will help in some way?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Well, you know, we had experience already, so what they say in French "deja vu," so, we are not inexperienced at comebacks, let us put it that way.  It is going to be tough.  You are talking about Agassi and Courier. It is a tall order, but that is what the top sport is all about. 
   

Q  You said, coach, that it is wide open.  What do you think makes it wide open?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Because, you know, we start -- the No. 1's will play each other tomorrow and the form that Siemerink demonstrated yesterday, I mean, he had a matchpoint. He should have won that match.  And, Andre played a professional match against Schalken.  So, I hope that tomorrow he is in the same playing condition and Siemerink is even better than he was on Friday. 
   

Q  You said today's match was easier than you expected. What was the key to the team's win?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Well, personally, I thought that Stark was a better volleyer.  But, today he made a lot of volley errors on high balls, especially.  And, our guys had -- as the match progressed, their returns became better.  And, the down-the-line is a weakness in American team, the down-the-line returns.  It was difficult to find it all the time.  But, Haarhuis - a very crucial one on matchpoint, the return down-the-line won the match for us. 
   

Q  Did it look to you like the American team was having some trouble communicating at times?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  No, not really.  I wasn't paying that much attention-- I was watching my players.  But, I don't think that they had any communication problems.  As a matter of fact, they were firing each other up when they won the third set.  That is why they won the third set.  They were playing a lot better. 
   

Q  Stan, how important is it tomorrow to not play a dead rubber as opposed to playing-- (inaudible)
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  You said it.  Anything that is meaningful, it is more important than it being dead.  I hate dead rubbers.  You have to play them, but I mean, it is ridiculous. 
   

Q  You were saying you were hoping Siemerink would have better form tomorrow than he had Friday.  Are you at all concerned about the psychological effect of losing a two set to love lead?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  No, Siemerink played a similar match in Romania against a guy he lost to twice on different surfaces and he came back being down three matches points. 
   

Q  Who are you talking about?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Voinea. 
   

Q  Doubles is such a team game.  Some people say that your guys have the best chemistry, maybe after the Woodies, on the circuit these days.  Could you talk about that and talk about their teamwork and experience.
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  That is definitely so.  To form a team you have to know each other well and these guys know each other extremely well.  Their wives are friends or one is married; one is going to be married in July.  Their wives are friends also and they have been coasting the world for years.  Another thing is that Jacco is the more serious guy, Paul is the guy with a bit -- who uses humor also when he plays.  He is very relaxed. 
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Thanks.  That means I have no sense of humor.  (laughter) 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  So, it works all on the right levels.  For me, it is an easy job because these guys play together so often, I don't have to do anything.  I sit there and listen to their conversation and I may interject a few words here or there, but that is it. 
   

Q  Captain, you once tried to get a job as a tennis instructor in the United States, right, you were unsuccessful; is that right?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Well, let us put it this way.  I had a job. 
   

Q  Where?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  I was a backyard pro in Beverly Hills, but I was looking for a head pro job in a country club. That is what I didn't get.  I even forgot the name of the country club. 
   

Q  Where did you work in Beverly Hills?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  As a private instructor, but at  private homes.  They call it the backyard pro because tennis court is in the backyard. 
   

Q  Did you coach any movie stars or anything like that?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  I coached a few small ones like Heston and Portier. 
   

Q  Who?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Charlton Heston, Sidney Poitier. 
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Schwarznegger, Sharon Stone, just a couple of small ones. 
   

Q  Paul, Stan said you were the funny one on the team. What was the funniest --
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  You haven't noticed? 
   

Q  I have.
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Listen to him, when he loses, let us see how funny he is then. 
   

Q  What was the key too the win out there today, Paul?
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  I think we played better than them on the big games, big points.  We won Love games; they won Love games on their service games, but when it came down to games where it was 15-30, 30-All, 30-40, we played better.  I just felt like we created more chances on those games.  It wasn't like we created a chance every game, but when it was a little bit closer in the service game we -- I felt like we were playing better tennis. 
   

Q  Jacco, you guys have won Davis Cup matches before when the team has been down 0-2.  What is the approach going into a situation like that as opposed to --
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Tell you the truth, we try to put everything aside.  We forget it is Davis Cup.  We forget everything else, and at that time we just have to think about our own level.  If our own level is good enough, we can beat every team in the world.  We have proven that.  So, for us, at that time, we just focus on each other on the court.  We focus on each other during the warmup.  That is why Stan also said we are very good to coach when we are out there because we are playing together all the time and we know what it takes to get our level there.  And, if it is there, we are going to beat everybody.  If it is not, then we are going to lose to everybody. 
   

Q  Your comeback against Romania started, you won the doubles.  Do you think that this will now inspire your singles players to win?
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  For sure. 
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Of course. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  It better. 
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  I mean, you start laughing a little bit. 
   

Q  Seriously.
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Yeah, that is why -- we are serious. I guess if you start laughing -- we are serious -- than it  wasn't a serious question. 
   

Q  It was a very serious question.  The confidence factor.
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Yes.  No, hey, you know, last time they were there in Bucharest and then we did it.  We have a little bit stiffer competition now, but we showed yesterday that we were very close to beating these guys.  And, you know, if we were a little bit more lucky tomorrow, you know, we are going to be celebrating a big party tomorrow night.  We have to be playing well. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  We have to be fortunate. 
   

Q  Captain Franker just remarked that -- I don't know which have you is married and which of you is engaged, but he said that the two women involved are close friends.  How is that an asset to you guys?
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Oh! 
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  I didn't know.  Have to be very careful here before we answer the question. 
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  It is very nice, definitely. 
   

Q  Backhand, your forehand, or what?
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Mentally.  Just to be -- 
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Physically wears you down. 
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Mentally stable.  It is nice. 
   

Q  The United States Tennis Association is considering paying American players to play doubles together so that when it comes time for Davis Cup they have some experienced teams. What is your reaction to that type of system?
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  I think, in a way, it should not be necessary.  That is the most important reason.  But, if they think it is necessary, then I think it might be a good idea because a lot of teams, a lot of Americans teams, they play together for maybe two, three months and if the results are not straight-a-way winning tournaments or making good result, they quit playing together.  We didn't start playing off and winning every tournament when we started.  It was the same for the Woodies. But, we stick together now for five years and they already stuck together for eight years, something like that.  That is when you start winning the big events.  So this can really help them maybe get them some security, financially, so that they can maintain, you know, travel expenses and playing together all the time.  So, maybe gets some over the first few months. 
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  It is a tough issue because I mean, you have to -- one guy maybe might be in singles still and only guy is only doubles.  You have to be able to, you know, to hang out and be on the road with each other for 48 weeks or whatever, you know.  That is what we have been basically doing for the last five years, and, hey, you know, you don't really know the guy how he is and whether you really can get along with him very well unless you do that long period.  There is a lot of factors, you know, tough to say, yeah, they should do it because if you give him 50,000, if he doesn't like to play with the guy all year, then he is not going to play with him.  It is just --  Maybe they were thinking about 500,000, then the guy is not such a bad guy to hang around with (laughter). 
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Then he is not going to try because he already makes enough money. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  The United States did have some great doubles teams in Davis Cup. 
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  They still have great players. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Yeah, Smith Lutz, Fred McNair, Sherwood Stewart. 
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Leach and Pugh. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  McEnroe, Fleming. 
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Flach/Seguso.  They have so many.  It is about time somebody else wins the doubles tournaments. 
   

Q  Speaking of Federations and payments, the Dutch Federation pays some of your fans to come on over at least part of the payment.
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  You think that is a good idea? 
   

Q  It is not for me to say.  What do you think?
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  I think they are fantastic out there. It is really for us good that we hear them cheer us on especially when you play outside your country.  And, you know, they are having a good time and they are all tennis players. It is not like they -- they pretend to be students still, so I don't know. 
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Americans start clapping between second and third serves at the end of the match, they start clapping in between points.  I don't really see the Dutch guys that they have done that throughout the week. 
   

Q  In America, some of our best fans, the cheese heads from Wisconsin --
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  I thought he was out there cheering for us because they called the Dutch cheese heads; that is why I figured he was cheering for us. 
   

Q  We call them pumpkin heads.  But, anyway the question is, do you think --
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  That is why they are wearing orange -- they are called Dutch because they are cheese heads. 
   

Q  The question is do you think our Federation should pay some of our cheese heads to go to travel with the Davis Cup team; wouldn't that be good idea?
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  No.  For you guys, not such a good idea. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Don't copy everything. 
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  It is like when we have breakpoints you hit hear the Dutch fans going "breaky, breaky" and then today we are down breakpoint an all the American fans of the  Americans going "breaky breaky."  I was like, come on, can't you think of something? 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  Be original. 
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Be original. 
   

Q  Give me a break.
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Yeah, or something like that. You know, I it hit is good -- because you see it in team events that people like that are more into it.  And, you know, it is fun to have a little bit of a crowd getting into the matches and as long as it is not annoying, but, you know, we are not in a country like Brazil or Romania where they really whistle and do everything to disturb you.  Then it is an annoying if you have fans there. 
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Those people still pay about two-thirds of the price themselves so it is subsidized.  They are tennis lovers.  They still pay a large amount of money to come here for the week. 
   

Q  Since Leach and Stark as a team had not faced you as a team before, what was it about their play that made this match difficult for you or was there anything about their play that made this match difficult for you, tactically speaking?
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Well, we have never played them as team, but we have played them as individuals.  So from those experience we tried to learn and tried to put things together. Obviously we watched them over the last few weeks because we knew we had to play them in Davis Cup and, you know, two things, Stark very strong service games with Leach at the net. Leach service games, they can be a little bit shaky sometimes if we really can put the pressure on, but today we felt we had chances on both serves.  But, I don't think Rick really returned a lot on deuce in the first couple of sets.  When the match went on, he did it a little bit better.  I think Jonathan, he had a few opportunities to convert for breakpoints and he didn't make those points at that time.  So, it is about the same. 
   

Q  As far as scouting this team before this match, what did you see that you could take advantage of tactically?
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Well, as I said, we tried to put pressure on Leach's serve.  On Stark's serve, we tried to play from the baseline; sometimes his serve.  We played up front; tried to create some controversy between the two of them at the net.  We tried to play more at Stark than we play at Leach because, you know, I am not going to tell you all the tactics because next time they will play us they will kick our ass. But those are the most important things we were trying to achieve. 
   

Q  Stanley, did you make a prediction on this doubles match?  If you did, how close was it, the score you called?
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  I thought that the match would definitely go five sets.  I didn't tell the guys, but that is  what I thought being 2-Love down there is a lot of pressure, but these guys surprised me.  They played a tremendous match. 
   

Q  Obviously it was disappointing for Siemerink to lose yesterday.  Did you guys say anything to him after the match to kind of pump him up or did you just say leave him alone?
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  No, I mean, he played really good and to come to two matchpoints against Jim Courier, eventually losing it, but, you know, what can you say?   He played real good match and a little bit unlucky to lose that.  He played a good match and we were going to try to make sure he is going to have a chance at it again on Sunday.  We let him win in cards. He won 40 bucks off me last night playing cards. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  To build up his confidence. 
   

Q  Which game, hearts or?
 
JACCO ELTINGH:  Klaverjassen. 
 
CAPTAIN FRANKER:  That is a Dutch name of it. 
 
PAUL HAARHUIS:  Did you write that down? 
   

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT