U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1994
Jacco Eltingh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How are the conditions on the court? 

JACCO ELTINGH: Today was a little bit windy. The wind was coming from different
directions, actually, throughout the match. It changed around a few times. I noticed it a
little bit with my ball toss on my serve. I lost a little bit rhythm on my serve and I
think that was because of the wind. But it was okay. It was not too warm and the wind also
made it a little bit more comfortable to play. 

Q. And the court surface itself? 

JACCO ELTINGH: Perfect. Yeah. No complaints about that. 

Q. What are your impressions of Kafelnikov? 

JACCO ELTINGH: Well, obviously, he has great groundstrokes at the net. I don't think he
is that great, but he doesn't come to the net often so he doesn't use it. But he can hit
the first serve, but he hardly uses that either. He puts in a high percentage of first
serves. But I had so many chances and it was incredible. I feel like I should have taken
the first two sets. I think the chanceswise I wasn't going with most and I had three four
set points in the first set and many more breakpoints also in the beginning, breakpoints
again in the second set, you know, twice a break up losing my serve three times; that is
pretty embarrassing. 

Q. I think you had four set points in the first set? 

JACCO ELTINGH: Yeah, two times break up in the second set. 

Q. How difficult after the first set is it to sort of gear yourself back up after you
lose those opportunities? 

JACCO ELTINGH: It is okay. It is only one set. It is best of five, so he still has to
make two more. But obviously first set is very important help when you can win in a
tiebreak; maybe you can change the momentum towards you, so, yeah, I mean I would have
loved to win the first set tiebreak. 

Q. Have you played him before? 

JACCO ELTINGH: That was first time. 

Q. I don't know what I missed, but how would you assess Kafelnikov's potential? 

JACCO ELTINGH: Obviously, he has big potential when he is playing just for such a short
time and with a high ranking - I think he is 11 this week - but I didn't feel like that
today. I am confident. I have been playing well myself. I didn't feel there was any
difference today just that he probably converted his chances a bit better than did I. But
I had so many that I didn't feel that I was anything less than him today, but definitely
he is a great player; hit some unbelievable passing shots, especially at moments where I
would thought I would come in really well with a really good approach, he would still hit
it by me with such speed. It is very easy, very good acceleration of the ball. 

Q. A lot of the guys are talking about how Sampras is kind of unreachable, that he can
beat the other top players, but he is in a class by himself; does he have that kind of
aura for you? 

JACCO ELTINGH: ATP, I beat him twice, so I didn't -- I didn't agree with the other
players at that time, but at Davis Cup he beat me so badly that I played against somebody
from a different planet. It is true last time I played him it was from a different league,
but before that I mean, he is still loses matches now and then and especially you should
try to take him in the first two rounds that is when you have the chances. The more he
goes into the tournament the better he gets because he has been there so often, so much
more than the other guys, so he knows what to do and keep his shape for two weeks longer. 

Q. You seemed to have a little bit of a temper out there early on in the first set. 

JACCO ELTINGH: Who. 

Q. Kafelnikov. Anyway he had a little bit of a temper, do you think that helps him or
does that take away from his game? 

JACCO ELTINGH: It helps him when he just wins that set probably in the tiebreak he
probably goes against him, I might come up with an early break, actually what I did in the
second set if I would have won the first set and make a break early second, you know, I'd
like to see how he is playing then. But you know, the winner has always-- how you say, is
always the one who is right, you know. In this case if he was getting angry with himself
and he won, so he is doing a really good job. 

Q. You seemed early very much to come into the net. Was it something that you had heard
about the way he plays that made you do that or is that the way you wanted to play against
him? 

JACCO ELTINGH: No, that is the way I play regardless of who I play. That is my own game
my own strategy. It has been doing really well the last few months and I had no intentions
to change my way of playing against Kafelnikov. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT