THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 19, 1994
Jacco Eltingh
Paul Haarhuis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Do you feel like the No. 1 team in the world now, you
keep on winning these big titles?

 P. HAARHUIS:  Well, we feel more like that we are definitely
one of the top teams, but I don't know, we just -- we just told
each other, hey, we just won another big one again and just seems
to be like today one of the players said, yeah, you know, you
guys are -- we are taking you guys serious these days.  I was
a joke, but he was like-- in the back of his mind he was serious.
 It is definitely true that we feel like that.

 Q.  When did you first play together, your first match?

 P. HAARHUIS:  That was five years ago.

 J. ELTINGH:  When we started our first challenger.

 P. HAARHUIS:  Five years.  '89.

 Q.  Nigeria?

 P. HAARHUIS:  Yeah.

 J. ELTINGH:  Then we played two more times, one in Brazil, we
won the tournament, one in Schenectady on the tour, an event we
won as well.  We didn't play for a while.  We started about a
year and a half ago.

 P. HAARHUIS:  August,  92.

 Q.  When you got back together, did you make a real commitment
to try and become one of the best doubles teams; was it a sort
of serious commitment?

 J. ELTINGH:  Not really to become like the top team, we were
committed to play together as good as we could play because we
got also - had the same coach at that time, we decided to just
travel full-time together.  That was the most important decision.


 Q.  Now do you work out your schedules to fit -- I mean, do
you talk to each other about where you are going to play?

 P. HAARHUIS:  Basically, we play all of the same tournaments.
 There are some tournaments that we still might not play together,
but there is only like three, four tournaments in the year, and
for the rest, it is almost like 20 tournaments where we do play
together.

 Q.  How realistic is a Grand Slam as a doubles team?

 J. ELTINGH:  Not realistic.  We just won the Australian and we
won the Lipton, but the chances that we win three more is pretty
small.  The way we are playing, we can beat everybody, but I mean,
there are also some days where you don't play well.

 P. HAARHUIS:  We have never played on grass together.  We have
played on all surfaces together.

 J. ELTINGH:  Once on grass.

 P. HAARHUIS:  Yes.  So, you know, from now on, we still have
other things to look forward to, Davis Cup, then just the claycourt
season and running up to the French.  We are not worried about
winning all the Grand Slams for now.

 Q.  Which Grand Slam is your favorite?

 P. HAARHUIS:  Right now the first one coming up is going to be
the French, and that is -- French, that is our favorite.  For
me, I just think we have to -- right now it is the most important
tournament for him.  He likes Wimbledon, I think.  I like French
and U.S. Open.  I don't like Wimbledon as much.  I don't like
--

 J. ELTINGH:  For doubles I would like to win the French, too.


 Q.  Why is that?  Why is it the most important?

 J. ELTINGH:  We have never played really well there.  Maybe the
round of 16.

 P. HAARHUIS:  We have only played there once.

 J. ELTINGH:  Yes, and Australia Open, obviously, we won, and
we played well in the U.S. Open already.  We like to also -- we
played well on claycourts once.  We won Rome two weeks before
and we were in very good shape and we thought we could do a little
bit better in Paris, and if you look towards the tournament after
we lost to Edberg and Korda, there-- it was a very strange draw.
 I mean, the quarterfinals at the French Open, if you would have
-- if we would have been there, I think we would have had a good
chance to win it as well.

 Q.  It is a lot different to play doubles on clay courts.
 Do you have to change your strategy quite a bit because out here
both you guys are playing a lot of a power game and on clay, it
is a little different?

 P.  HAARHUIS:  Yeah, we are relying still a lot heavier on our
returns; we both have good returns, and our basics is that we
are very good from the baseline.  I think that is what you need
on the claycourts, so that comes in really handy, that you know,
on the second shot or the third shot, we can hit some heavy groundstrokes,
so that --

 J. ELTINGH:  On hardcourts it is nice because then also when
you have good serves, make the service games a little easier,
takes the pressure off a little bit.  So you can go more a little
bit on the returns.

 Q.  What type of team is more difficult to play, one that
plays together all the time like you guys, or a pairing like Jared
and Mark who don't play together all the time so you really don't
know how?

 P. HAARHUIS:  We haven't seen them play.  We are wondering how
are they going to play. We haven't seen Mark play that much, but
we know how Jared plays, so we can talk about that before like
strategy.  But, yeah, it is always tougher to see if you are like
the new guy or a new team comes home.  So it is tougher, I guess,
than to play the regular teams.

 J. ELTINGH:  Sometimes it is difficult to play two good singles
players, because they play as individuals, they don't really play
doubles; just play individuals. Sometimes you get a very strange
situation tactic- wise on the court you have to get used to, and
that is also sometimes difficult to play.

 Q.  What do you think of the Jensen factor, do you think it
is good for doubles?

 P. HAARHUIS:  Yeah, I think it is good for doubles.

 J. ELTINGH:  Publicity-wise it is very good.

 P. HAARHUIS:  It is a lot their way, not necessarily doubles
way.  I mean, it is towards their doubles.  I see a lot of people
attending their doubles matches, but --

 Q.  Do you think that will eventually spread, I mean, can
that --

 P. HAARHUIS:  I don't know, I mean  --

 J. ELTINGH:  I am not going to be like that.

 P. HAARHUIS:  Like today, it is a good match, a great match for
a final and, you know, I think you just need to have for the crowds,
they still want names to be in the doubles final.  They want to
have names.  They want to have Sampras, Agassi, or Edberg, Korda
in that finals for them to really stay and half the guys are going
to leave still then, because they have seen the women's final.

 J. ELTINGH:  People like to see it maybe once.  If you don't
really show good tennis, they probably --

 P. HAARHUIS:  It was bad for us.

 J. ELTINGH:  -- go through it very quickly.

 P. HAARHUIS:  It was bad for us that Graf lost a set today, because
if she wins one and one, a lot of people say, hey, well, we have
seen only 40 minutes of tennis, why don't we stick around, but,
you know, they played a really good match and lasted almost, maybe
hour and a half, I don't know how long, so maybe say, you know,
we can do something else the rest of the Saturday.

 Q.  Would you like to see another doubles tournament on the
circuit apart from the finals?

 J. ELTINGH:  No.

 P. HAARHUIS:  No, because for us, we are also singles players,
that is where our priority is.

 J. ELTINGH:  It is perfect as it is right now.  We don't like
to change anything.

 Q.  One more thing on rock and roll tennis.  Suppose you two
step out on the court which would be like a rock and roll stage
with blaring music.  Would you like that?

 P. HAARHUIS:  If we were the ones that were --

 Q.  Suppose you were in the shoes of the Jensen brothers?

 P. HAARHUIS:  Then I'd start working harder on our game because
we haven't won many matches if we were the Jensens.  No, I mean
it is good for them.  They are getting a lot of attention.  It
all boils down to if they don't make any rut in the next couple
of months, they are not-- they lose the points from the French,
and they are going down and if it has to go together, success
has to come with the credibility of what they are trying to get,
it has to come with their success.  If they are not having success;
then it is tough to implement a new thing in the game.

 Q.  That is true.  What I meant, though, suppose you would
be on a rock and roll stage just the two of you in that scenery
with music--

 J. ELTINGH:  I would start to sing; not play tennis.

 P. HAARHUIS:  It could happen if things were fine, I mean, you
have to get used to it.  It would suddenly be different.  We would
come out with lights and like indoors you have like a spotlight
coming on you --

 J. ELTINGH:  I would like that actually.

 P. HAARHUIS:  It would be nice for a change.  It is just different.
 Maybe the first couple of games we were like, gee, that was great;
then we are down 3-Love, you know, you never know.

 Q.  But if what the Jensens do isn't the answer to bring more
attention on doubles, what do you guys think would be the right
thing to do?

 P. HAARHUIS:  I am saying it is good, but also I mean what they
are doing is great that they bring --

 J. ELTINGH:  It is not tough.

 Q.  What would you add to it?

 J. ELTINGH:  I mean, it is tough to ask, because --

 P. HAARHUIS:  I with - -.

 J. ELTINGH:  You need some more names; more good players.  If
you are a player-- if you get a long way in the draw every time
in singles, it is so tough to play singles and doubles with the
same intensity all the time. Especially doubles, needs a lot of
intensity.  If you are not sharp or eager to go, you are not going
to win the doubles match.  You see here in the draw also, a lot
of still some singles players like Ivanisevic Rosset, they are
playing doubles, but they don't make it far in the draw because
they lose their intensity towards the end of the draw.

 P. HAARHUIS:  If they are on singles --

 J. ELTINGH:  Yeah, that is what is the most important.  They
have to stick around and if they want to, either they play or
they don't play and they go for it.  I think that is more important.


 Q.  If there is no conflict in scheduling, not playing singles
and doubles the same day, do you think --

 P. HAARHUIS:  So many tournaments, except for this week and the
French Open, I mean, the Grand Slam tournaments, you have a day
off between matches, but normally you have almost everyday match,
so you have play singles and doubles.  Physically, you have to
be in pretty good shape to do that and mentally to get yourself
geared up after you lose now to say, well, I lost the singles.
 You got to be very psyched up for that.  But you know, I don't
know what the answer, is, but definitely what we did twice is
that we played the final doubles match before the singles final
and, you know, in the beginning, of course, it is not such a big
crowd, but then towards like the end of the first set and the
rest of the match, I mean, it was a huge crowd and they loved
it.  It was a great match and they all loved it. I mean, but sometimes
it is very tough for TV time.  If you have a set time for TV coverage
at 1:00, you know, they say okay, we can play before, but we don't
want to interfere; that is why we put you 48 hours before the
singles finals and you don't want to start at nine o'clock.

 J. ELTINGH:  It is still the publicity in the time of TV which
decides people wanting to come and watch doubles; they say it
is not interesting enough to show it, but the way they do it right
now, nobody is ever going to show it.  It is not going to change.
 They would also need to help out and maybe change, you know,
the broadcasting a little bit.  Always you see the singles in
first; then the doubles.  But some tournaments, some people stay.
 For instance, we played in Rotterdam after the singles finals.
 It was a full house, people-- not in the first three, four games,
but after that, it was like 8, 9,000 people, they stayed.

 P. HAARHUIS:  Maybe it had to do with the fact that we are Dutch
too, but -- no, but I don't know -- I don't necessarily know the
answers.  Sometimes the scheduling would help if you have like
a day match, you know, have it like a good singles match and then
a good doubles match on center court; then another good singles
match just to give the doubles match some publicity also and maybe
towards scheduling, that would be very good, just let the people
see that the doubles, because half the people who play tennis
always play at the club level, that is basically on doubles.

 J. ELTINGH:  The people who would have seen a good doubles once
then they get interested and follow it all the time, I think people
have to be in touch with it.  They have to see one or two good
doubles matches and they will come back.  They would like to see
it again.

 Q.  Comments on the match?

 P HAARHUIS:  I felt the whole first set we were much better and
we were in control and like in the 5-6, we have two set points
and, you know, in the second set the same thing, we were, I felt,
like we were better.  We got-- we were holding our serves much
easier.  We had chances on their serve but we just couldn't break
them.  It is very frustrating and then if you don't play well
in the tiebreaker, there goes the set.  We were down 5-1.  I was--
this is not the way it is supposed to end, the set.

 Q.  What do you guys think of the move of the end of the years
doubles finals to Indonesia as a venue for doubles?  Is that the
type of place where you want to be showcasing doubles?

 P. HAARHUIS:  I think it is a good reason, first of all, to--
for I don't know how many million, 700 million people in southeast
Asia if they are going to have good coverage in that region, I
mean, they are going to be, you know, we are going to be seen
by so many people in so many countries there, so I think it is
great for promotion for the doubles and not necessarily only doubles
but also just tennis.  So I think it is a good place to have it.
 But you know, doubles, I think if doubles world championship
is anywhere-- it would also be good to have it in the states if
the coverage is well.  I mean, people are going to watch it and
you are going to have a good promotion, so it is not necessary
that-- I think it is going to be great if the coverage is well.

 J. ELTINGH:  We have played their twice.  The crowds are always
very into it; especially in the doubles and only thing that was
difficult, you have to make sure you don't get sick.  Sometimes
not doing anything and still taking care, you might get sick.
 That is the only thing I am worrying about. 

  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT