INFINITI PRO SERIES: TENNESSEE 100
July 20, 2002
Aaron Fike
Ron Hemelgarn
Arie Luyendyk, Jr.
Cory Witherill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CORY WITHERILL:  Thank you.  It was an awesome job that the team did.  They gave me a car that was perfect.  It was perfect from the moment on.  We had no problems with the car stop whatsoever.  I have to hand it to the crews, they really worked really hard the last few days and the last few weeks getting the car ready. This one definitely goes to them. Everyone that helped out, WSA, Firestone Tires, they had me hooked up out there awesome.

CORY WITHERILL: I myself really only had about 12 laps into the car itself before we got to Kansas, didn't really get out there until the Saturday morning session.  I'm limited on laps on the car.  They did a really good job on working hard with what little information we had on the car and getting together and getting the right set up for today's race.

CORY WITHERILL:  I started off when I was in high school racing motorcross, off-road cars. I started pavement racing in 1994, all different series, 2000 Series, Indy Lights -- (inaudible) -- last year, up until. I was hoping this year to go IRL, but the normal story, ^ fell apart over the winter.  We were looking at Indy or do the whole Infiniti Pro Series and hopefully move up next year.  And I chose to do -- (inaudible) -- race this year, instead of one and that one doesn't guarantee me in there, especially seeing how competitive it was this year.

ARIE LUYENDYK, JR.:  Well, definitely, the start went great, got by Johncox.  Then developed a little bit of a push, but nothing we couldn't change with the late jacker.  Cory's car was just obviously a lot stronger than mine was I think.  The Hemelgarn Team did a great job.  Congratulations, guys.  My team did an awesome job this weekend, we had a pretty bad car, coming into here and then we changed a lot of things, put it on the front row and finished second.  So I would really like to thank my sponsors and my crew, they did an awesome job this weekend.

ARIE LUYENDYK, JR.: Yeah, well he's definitely hired the right guys; Tim Shank, Steve Erickson, my engineer. And he has definitely put a great team together for me.  The Infiniti Pro Series is definitely the series to be in right now. I am really proud to be here.

ARIE LUYENDYK, JR.: I would say bring it on right now.  I think I'll wait. I think I want to stick it out this year with Infiniti Pro Series, possibly next year, then weigh my options. I definitely want to be winning races in this series.  So that is my goal for now.

AARON FIKE: We had a gear box problem, our issue yesterday. We had to start last today. Ron Hemelgarn and Roger Johnson gave me a great crew.  And everything went really smooth. I am sure me and Cory had the fastest cars out there.  I already have a guitar, so Cory can keep the guitar.

AARON FIKE: I am not saying I could play it, but I got one.

AARON FIKE: Yeah, my spotter is the same spotter I have used anywhere else. My dad spots for me. He does a great job.  We had a long way to go, we didn't have any yellows. We needed a longer race, or a couple of yellows to attack the field up there. I was coming, we just didn't have enough laps.

AARON FIKE: I was telling my dad, wave some money and tell someone to spin out or something.

RON HEMELGARN:  Absolutely. I hope Buddy does good tonight, because we'll have three guitars that way and we'll start a band.

AARON FIKE: I have been favored from day one.  One of the problems that was happening with USAC drivers is they would have a front engine car with alot of power, but when the car started willing in the back, they would just drive through it.  Well, you can't do that with a rear engine car, you'll end up in the well, so.  I've watched alot of USAC drivers early on IRL sort of struggle. And I think it was just not the experience behind them.  I think this is going to give them that experience that they really need.  And I think that is going to develop some of those USAC drivers into real champions. So I am pretty excited about the whole program.  We have had a little ^ teasing problems and so on. I've got on Roger quite a bit about a few little problems.  But other than that, it is great.  And Firestone did an unbelievable job giving us a great tire.  They were just consistent the whole time.  By the way, I want to introduce Roger Johnson.  He is a Silver Crown owner. Him and I have teamed up together to form this team.  This is Roger Johnson for those who didn't know who the Johnson was.

AARON FIKE: We didn't get any testing yesterday.  We only ran about 15 laps. I really didn't get up to speed.  I got more comfortable the longer I ran out there.  I got more confident in the car.  I kept going faster and faster as the race went on. I didn't get any laps yesterday, so the longer I went, the faster I got -- not braver, just more comfortable out there.

CORY WITHERILL: It is a pretty big track.  I'm hoping to come out with another win or the podium.  We haven't tested there, but I ran there many times before in the Indy Lights Series and I am definitely familiar with the place.

CORY WITHERILL:  I do have the advantage, but it'll be a race just like Kansas, flat all the way around.  (Inaudible) -- three laps, everyone will be  flat around the track. Who can get the car set up for the draft, little hammering, things like that.

AARON FIKE: Yeah, we're going to try to win the Dodger Series up in Wisconsin. So I think we are about 19, 20 points out of the lead, so we have already missed a couple of races, so we'll try to make all the races up there so we can win that division.


Q.  End goal, Arie Luyendyk, Jr., To have an opportunity to beat your dad in the Indianapolis 500?

ARIE LUYENDYK, JR.: Yeah, if he sticks around that long.

ARIE LUYENDYK, JR.: He will be running in Michigan next week.

ARIE LUYENDYK, JR.: Yes, they just decided about two days ago, so he will be there.

ARIE LUYENDYK: Yes, with Treadway Racing.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT