AL DIVISION SERIES: ROYALS VS ASTROS
October 7, 2015
Yordano Ventura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We have Royals pitcher Yordano Ventura along with translator Pedro Grifol.
Q. Yordano, your season kind of changed with the Houston game in late July.  What do you remember from that game and what kind of experience will that help going into tomorrow?
YORDANO VENTURA: Well, his hand started to feel good right around that time, and right after that, he was able to command the baseball, feel the baseball first, command the baseball, pitch on the inside part of the plate and he tinned to get comfortable, more comfortable every outing.
Q. Will it help facing Houston that time?
YORDANO VENTURA: It will help a little bit in the familiarity part of it.  But tomorrow's a different game altogether.  It's a different -- just different environment and just different feeling.
Q. Yordano, last year everything was new to you, with the postseason.  This year, it's not.  You've been given the ball in the most important game.  Any comparison between last year and this year and how do you feel going into tomorrow's game?
YORDANO VENTURA: Nothing really changes as far as the preparation.  He's got to continue to do what he does on a daily basis and prepare for the start.
Last year, the difference was that we went in as a Wild Card.  And this year, since we knew we were in, he had more time to prepare for today and more time to be able to get in his routine, which he has been.
Q. Mentally and physically?
YORDANO VENTURA: Both.
Q. Last year, you obviously had a lot of success pitches in the postseason, but you weren't tabbed as the first-time starter, per se.  Now you're the number one guy going in.  Is that different?
YORDANO VENTURA: He's got a responsibility as the number one.  He feels like a responsibility to the club, to the staff and especially the staff that gave him the opportunity to be the game one starter.
But, again, nothing's going to change as far as his preparation physically and mentally.  I mean, just got to go out there and execute.
Q. Yordano, the first few weeks of the season, it seemed that you at times struggled with your emotions.  Why was that?  And how come it seems to be something much easier for you now?
YORDANO VENTURA: He's not an exception to adversity.  He's human.  He's a baseball player.  He went through a difficult time.  The times that he wasn't able to handle the way he wanted, but he kept confident in his ability and kept working.  And he mentioned his routine a lot, which he stayed in his routine, and that's what's got him here today.
Q. Is there any one thing he would point to as what has helped him most?
YORDANO VENTURA: Not one specific thing.  It's just he said he was reflecting one night, and he just said why am I not confident?  I have the ability to pitch at this level.  I've done it before.  And he decided just to flip the switch as far as confidence is concerned just because he has confidence in his ability.
Again, routine is a big part of his preparation, and if he stays in his routine, he feels like he's going to have success.
Q. What night?
YORDANO VENTURA: Many nights.  But the one thing is that he realized that he was the only person that can help himself with the confidence.  Nobody can create confidence for him.
So they were many nights where they just sat down and reflected on the success that he's had at this level, and that's what got him through.
Q. Never before has a team started three starting pitchers from the Dominican Republic in a playoff series.  What is the dynamic like of you and Edinson and Johnny and how have they helped you to prepare for this moment?
YORDANO VENTURA: First and foremost, he wants to thank God for the opportunity, thank the coaching staff for the trust they've not only put on him, but on Cueto and Volquez to be Game 1, 2 and 3 starters.  They've helped each other quite a bit.
Every day that each one of them is on the mound, they're always rooting for each other.  If they see something that they feel they need to address, they address it within each other and it's been a great relationship and they've learned from one another.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  Good luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT