MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ROYALS
October 28, 2014
Yordano Ventura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Francisco Giants - 0
  Kansas City Royals - 10 
   
 Q.   Yordano, after Bumgarner threw a shutout, how big was it for you?   Was there a little more motivation for you to come out tonight and you guys complete a shutout as well?   
YORDANO VENTURA:   First of all, I want to thank the Lord for giving me this opportunity, and this game was dedicated to Oscar Taveras, my good friend.   It's a little emotional for us.   
I worked hard.   I worked hard from the start, and Bumgarner did a great job, but I felt like this was for my teammates and for the boys.   I feel like I worked as hard as I could for this start and for my team to put us in a good spot.  
   
 Q.   Why did you bring the flag of the Dominican Republic?   And how special was this game for you because of Oscar?   
YORDANO VENTURA:   I'm very proud to be Dominican, and that's why I brought my flag out here.   If you know out there, I carry my emotions on my sleeve, and I did it for the whole country of the Dominican Republic.   
From the minute that I found out about Oscar, I said this game was going to be dedicated to him.   I prepared myself mentally and physically for this game, and I'm very proud to be a Dominican, and that's why I brought the flag.  
   
 Q.   Did your approach change at all after the big second inning?   I'm sure a little more confidence, but did you change anything after that big offensive inning?   
YORDANO VENTURA:   I felt comfortable with that lead.   Obviously, it was a big lead, but at the same time I didn't want to change anything.   I stayed aggressive, and I wanted to stay aggressive.   But clearly that gave me some room to work.   I wanted to do a good job today and give the bullpen the rest that they needed.   
With that being said, I was just staying with my own approach, staying aggressive no matter what, and kind of treated it like it was a 0‑0 game.  
   
 Q.   Before the first pitch, in the warmups there were a couple in the dirt, maybe one or two that went back to the screen.   Were you feeling overwhelmed or anything like that emotionally before the first pitch?   
YORDANO VENTURA:   I came from the bullpen with that plan.   I throw a lot of fastballs and they're looking for fastballs.   So I just came in and started throwing a bunch of balls everywhere.   I was trying to kind of trick them a little bit and make them think that I was kind of rattled or throwing an off‑speed everywhere.   But after the first hitter, I settled in.  
   
 Q.   What do you think Oscar would have said about your performance tonight?   
YORDANO VENTURA:   If he was still here, I would for sure be talking to him, and Oscar would be very happy for me and very proud.   Oscar was a very humble guy and very likeable, and I'm going to miss him a lot.   I'm grieving, and I want to send my best thoughts to his family.   I know that I'm going to miss him a lot, and this is hard for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT