NL DIVISION SERIES: REDS v PHILLIES
October 5, 2010
Aroldis Chapman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Aroldis Chapman.

 Q. We hear so much about how fast you can throw. When was the first time, not at the Major Leagues, but in your life, that you knew you were a very hard thrower, that you could throw faster than everybody else? 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: Well, I think it was like around 2007, 2008 when I knew that.

 Q. Do you remember the first time that you threw 100 miles per hour? And what did you think of it at the time? 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: Yeah, yeah, I remember that. I think it was around 2007. At that time I didn't believe it myself.

 Q. I'd like to know if you know Danys Baez, Jose Contreras personally? If he does, does he follow them closely? And what impact they may have had on him, if any? 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: Danys Baez, I don't know him. I just know him by name. I know who it is. Jose Contreras, same thing. I remember watching Jose Contreras before, but I don't have the pleasure to meet them and to know them in person. 
 TRANSLATOR: I want to let you guys know something about Jose Contreras, he's Aroldis' hero. That is the guy he follows.

 Q. Could you elaborate on that a little bit? 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: When I was a kid and I was watching baseball and I started to follow Jose, I like the way he threw. I like the way he pitched. And back then he was our best pitcher in Cuba, so I really liked him.

 Q. Along those same lines, can you talk about the decision to come here and really --
 TRANSLATOR: Sorry, but Aroldis is not going to answer any questions about him jumping or what happened when he decided to come to the States.

 Q. How beneficial do you think it is that the Phillies haven't seen you yet? This will be the first look with all the left-handed hitters. 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: I don't think it's too much of a benefit, because in baseball, you have a lot of tools that you can use. You can use video. There are cameras everywhere. The players have a chance to look at you and they can make adjustments. So they can know what I have and they can see me through video. 
 So there's not too much benefit to that. 

 Q. We see a lot of times pitchers who throw very, very hard can sometimes get injured. What do you need to do in your delivery and your mechanics to stay healthy and still be able to throw as hard as you do? 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: I think if you prepare yourself well and you work hard, you can avoid injuries. If you stop working, that is when you can have injuries; so that's what I think.

 Q. When you're in Louisville, obviously, you had to fit in with teammates to get there, now you're with the Reds. How has that transition been again fitting in? And I also want to ask about the celebration after the clinch in the locker room with everyone. What was that experience like for you? 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: When I was in Louisville, I think it was easy. All the players helped me. Adapting to the team was easy. Also when I came here, the same thing. They have been able to help me. I've received a lot of help from my teammates, and I think they've been okay. It's been easy for me to adapt here. 
 I felt really happy for being part of the celebration. I felt lucky because being my first year in the majors and going to the playoffs, to me was something good. Besides, Cincinnati hasn't been in the playoffs for a long time. I mean, it's been so many years since they played a game in the playoffs. So to be a part of that it made me feel proud and happy about it.

 Q. You were obviously pitching very well in relief. What do you like about the bullpen role, and how do you see yourself in the future? 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: Well, when I was in the minors I got to be a reliever, and that's really easy to be a reliever. Being in the bullpen now, I feel good and I'm adapting to it. I think I'm doing okay. So I feel good about it.

 Q. Ever since you got here you've faced expectations and pressure to perform. Having not experienced the postseason and probably not knowing much about the entire atmosphere, do you anticipate feeling pressure potentially coming into a playoff game, a tight game late in the ballgame? 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: There's no reason for me to be pressure, I don't have pressure. I don't feel that. And it's true, I haven't been in a playoff year. But if I begin to pitch in the playoffs and that time and that particular time of the game, it means that the team trusts in what I can do. I will be really proud and happy to do my job in that particular time.

 Q. What appealed to you about watching Jose Contreras when you were younger? And are your memories of him mostly from when he pitched in Cuba or when he was with the Yankees and White Sox? 
 AROLDIS CHAPMAN: When I was younger, I watched Jose playing in Cuba. I was impressed with the way and the amount of the quality of pitches that he had. And I always used to follow him also when he was part of the National Team and goes to the internationals competition like the Olympic games, the Central American games, all those kind of games. I feel really good to watch him. He was the best in Cuba. 
 TRANSLATOR: According to the first part of the game, where he followed him, it was Cuba. He never had a chance to follow him here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT