MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v GIANTS
October 31, 2010
Tim Lincecum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Facing the same team in consecutive starts is somewhat rare. I know you did it against Philadelphia. Do you have a philosophy how you'll approach the rematch?  
 TIM LINCECUM: No, I mean, I just want to be more aggressive, of course. I just gave up a lot of hits that game or at least more than I wanted to. But just quality of strikes as opposed to just throwing strikes.   
  
  Q. This is obviously deeper into a season than you've ever pitched. How difficult is it to, or is it difficult to, maintain your standards when you're pitching I guess in November at this stage?  
 TIM LINCECUM: What standards are you talking about?   
  
  Q. The standards of pitching at the top of your game.   
 TIM LINCECUM: You know, like I said before, you just know your in-between-starts routine and I've changed mine up since August, and it's been one that's stuck and worked for me. Just being that it's new, it's not as tedious and it's exciting. Obviously the nature of the games that we're playing help that.  
  
  Q. What's different about it?  
 TIM LINCECUM: You know, like I said, I emphasize more on the legs, more on the core. Outside of that, that stuff kind of helped me just ease my mechanics, and it becomes more second nature for me.   
  
  Q. Obviously depending on what happens tonight you have the possibility tomorrow you might be pitching for the championship. I mean, does that even enter your mind at this point?  
 TIM LINCECUM: Not right now.   
  
  Q. You're just looking at it as just another game?  
 TIM LINCECUM: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Were there any nerves in Game 1 or do you think there's anything from Game 1 that you can take to help you in Game 5?  
 TIM LINCECUM: I think just the experience of being there is the big help. You know, just going through the lineup again knowing that you're pitching in another World Series game, just eases the tension there. But yeah, like I said, just try to approach it, just try to keep my nerves together and keep poised.   
  
  Q. In the few times you have faced an American League lineup with a DH, have you noticed a significant difference having a pitcher in there versus another bat?  
 TIM LINCECUM: I can't remember all my starts against American League teams in which I didn't face a pitcher as a hitter. I can't remember any of that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT