NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v GIANTS
October 6, 2010
Tim Lincecum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Tim Lincecum?   
  
  Q. Tim, what changed or what can you pinpoint that changed from August to September for you?   
 TIM LINCECUM: You know, things got a little bit more crucial. I went through more of a hectic period in my career. Obviously, that rough month made me want to turn things around, just do something different, and between, then changing my in-between starts routine, go harder, and a little more conditioning. But, yeah, I guess if that's one thing you want to look to, that's it.   
  
  Q. Were you watching Roy Halladay today?   
 TIM LINCECUM: Yeah, I mean, all the TVs were on showin' it, so, yeah.   
  
  Q. Obviously, you're revved up for your first post-season start, but does that motivate you at all? Does it blend into anything you were thinking about going into tomorrow?   
 TIM LINCECUM: I wasn't thinking about it. Great for him, but obviously we're concerned with ourselves and how we're going to do tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Tim, you had the all-star game experience where you went out in the first inning and gave up a couple of runs and you were a little over-amped. Do you think having gone through that experience will make it easier for you to go out there tomorrow having had that experience before?   
 TIM LINCECUM: Definitely. I don't think it can hurt me, obviously, but going through that kind of amped atmosphere, a lot of fans, a lot of people there to see you do your thing, same kind of scenario here. So it will help me a little bit. Just try to keep myself in check and just try to keep my heart rate down.   
  
  Q. Tim, you've gotten a lot of questions about how you're going to stay even-keel, but your team has done a good job of doing that all season long. How difficult is it to do that in this environment?   
 TIM LINCECUM: Anything that you do, it's hard to stay consistent throughout the year. Any player will tell you that. It's when you stay as even-keel as possible, that's when you're consistent and you're doing all right.   
 But I said this year, the year has been a roller coaster ride for me, and the team playing consistently behind me has allowed me to escape some rough innings, some bad patches, so, yeah.   
  
  Q. Tim, can you talk about what it means to you to be pitch inning a playoff situation and what kind of experience you've had in your life doing something like that?   
 TIM LINCECUM: I mean, obviously, it's a great opportunity for us, and it's been a while for the Giants organization, and first for myself, first, for a lot of these guys. So we're going to try to take it all in.   
 Obviously, not try to be too wide-eyed about it, and try to stick our game and try and treat it just like any other game. There is no need to put added pressure on yourself.   
  
  Q. Tim, you had a pretty rapid rise to success in the major leagues. What's your impression of what Buster has done this year and how he's handled it?   
 TIM LINCECUM: Yeah, I mean, I don't know if you could say enough about the guy, just considering what we've been going through this year and this is his rookie season and he's been able to come out and flourish and put up the numbers he has.   
 At the same time, handle the 5-man rotation, puttin' his work in day in, day out, and just consistently becoming a student of the game, he's gotten better. And you just -- I've said this before. You look at him in the outfield, he's working on his dropping-down-in-front-of-the-ball drills. He's working on Hazy on something or readin' up on a scouting report just to help us out.   
  
  Q. Your bullpen has been lights out for more than a month now. Does that affect your mentality at all on the mound, knowing that you could leave a game with a one-run lead and have a good chance?   
 TIM LINCECUM: Yeah, that's been pretty much throughout the whole year. They've been throwing out goose eggs whenever we go out there for the most part. Everyone is going to run into their bumps, but they've been pretty consistent throughout the year holding down runners, keeping inherited runners on.  
 So if you leave the game and you know you've got that bullpen behind you, you can have good confidence and the score will stay the same, if not, hopefully favor our way. So, yeah.   
  
  Q. Tim, Henry asked you about the All-Star Game, helping out your -- getting acclimated to the national stage. How about the last three, four weeks pitching in pressure situations, will that help prepare you for tomorrow, also?   
 TIM LINCECUM: I hope so. Just that heightened atmosphere. Everybody knows what's at stake, important games, and we've never had to deal with that into September before. So dealing with that should help.   
  
  Q. Wondering if your father had any advice for you going into tomorrow?   
 TIM LINCECUM: You know, he always said to go have fun. And more so than that, it was always a little bit more sarcasm or criticism in there. But, yeah, he's kind of done trying to be such a father figure to me. He's like, you're figuring it out on your own and it's fun to watch. So outside of just to have fun and go get 'em kind of thing, that's it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT