CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 21, 2016
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Looked like certainly a great back nine.  What was going right for you out there?
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, absolutely.  Got off to an okay start, was 2-under, and hit one in the water on 8.  Just kind of playing very average.  Then got up-and-down on 11.  Hit it close on 13.  Kind of get me going.  That was really the first quality shot that I hit close.  I birdied the two par-5s before.  Then just got it rolling after -- got to 13 and made a good 12, 14-footer on 14.  15, 16, 17.  So, yeah, you talk about being in the zone every where you're looking is where the ball's going.  When I got on the green I was reading the putts and hitting them where I was looking and they were doing what I thought they were going to do.  So, it was nice to kind of get in a groove like that.
Q. I think that ties for your best round of the season so far.  Feel like that's a good way to get started at this tournament and just pick up a little momentum on day one here?
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, absolutely.  I never had a whole lot of success here, the two or three times that I played it before, so it was nice to get some different courses and a little different feel.  I played over here at Q-School in 2012, so I knew the courses a little bit.  And obviously the guys take it deep in this event, so you almost feel like you got to shoot 3-, 4-under a day to keep pace.  So it's nice to get off to a good start.
Q. Lastly, looking at having to go to two different courses tomorrow and the next day, how does your approach change a little bit just having to think about a couple different courses and knowing a little bit more about them?
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, it's a lot different.  You play a par-5, you might get five or something, like in a normal event we're like, oh, I'll get that one tomorrow.  It's a little different here.  So you really feel like you need to take advantage of all your opportunities, because you don't get to see this place again the rest of the week.  But, it's the same for everybody, we all have to play the three courses.  So it's a little different, but I think they're all quality golf courses and pretty much right in front of you and scorable.  So it should be fun the rest of the week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT