THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2015
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. 68, fairly easy round or how would you describe it?BEN MARTIN: Yeah, I think I kept it kind of simple, kept it boring, I guess.  A lot of fairways and a lot of greens. But I felt like that was going to have to be the way that I played, just because the rough was up.  So I knew that, if you're not driving it in the fairway, it's going to be tough to hit some of the greens. But drove it well, hit my irons well, and kind of took advantage of when I hit it close.Q. Have you played here before THE PLAYERS?BEN MARTIN: I've played -- we played a college event here at Clemson my senior year.  And then I played the course just a couple other times, coming down for a vacation or something. Then when I played the WEB.COM event on the Valley Course, I played a pro-am over here.  So I got a number of rounds here, but first time at THE PLAYERS.Q. Is that one of the keys here, knowing when to put your foot on the gas and knowing when to knock it in and make par?BEN MARTIN: Yeah, I think it's a classic kind of Pete Dye design.  I like most of his courses.  I think it's -- I like Harbour Town a lot.  This is probably the closest course we have to Harbour Town. So I like to think my way around the course, I think he makes you think your way around the course.  So it's a good track.Q. How many times did you hit driver today?BEN MARTIN: Off the top of my head, I probably hit 3-wood off the tee two or three times.  Hybrid a couple times.  So I probably hit nine, 10 drivers.Q. You got on a little birdie stretch on the back side.BEN MARTIN: Yeah, I started on 10, missed the green, made bogey. Made a long one at 11 probably from 35, 40 feet. Hit it close on 12 and 13. So I made three in a row there.  So once I got off to a little -- I just didn't hit a good iron shot on 10 and left myself short sided, but it was nice to answer right back with three in a row.Q. Talk about the conditions today.BEN MARTIN: The wind was probably blowing, affecting it 10 yards or.  So maybe when you get on 18 and it's wide open, 15 there.  But I guess that's the norm down here.  I would think.Q. How did you go in the college event here?BEN MARTIN: Oh, I didn't win.  No.Q. Who was in it?  Was it hosted by somebody here locally?BEN MARTIN: It was Jacksonville University here.  I want to say they hosted it.  Because they had the bigger tournament across the street, which more of the better teams were there.  But we just played it one year.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT