WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 29, 2015
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BEN MARTIN:   I'd say under the circumstances that's probably the best shot I've ever hit.   It was a hybrid into the wind, 235.   I didn't even see it go in.   I know it was on a good line, but I looked down and then it was almost too far to see it go in.  
    But I tried to just stay even keel because I knew I was going to be 1‑up with one to play, and I didn't want to get too excited, too ahead of myself.   I'd like to win the last hole.   And we both missed our putts there, which was a little disappointing.   But to‑‑ first match play event and to go up against one of the best players in the world and we had a great match all day, it was a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   How do you calm yourself down to play that final hole after the high of getting the hole‑in‑one on the second to the last hole here?  
    BEN MARTIN:   I almost just tried to forget about it.   And playing 18, I did a good job, because I kind of forgot I made it.   Under the circumstances and all square with two to go, and the hybrid in my hand, definitely the best shot I ever hit.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations on the match.   Tell me about the 17th hole.   
    BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, that was‑‑ had to be the best shot I've ever hit in my life.  
   
 Q.   You had it right at 235?  
    BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I think it was 235, a little into the wind.   I actually hit a hybrid into that green yesterday, right to where the pin was today.   So I had a good visual in my mind of the shot.   I hit it just like I drew it up and I picked the tee up and I saw it was on a good line, but it was almost so far there, I need better eyesight.  
   
 Q.   I know Matt is such a gentleman, I know he congratulated you on your success, too?  
    BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, and we had such a good match all day.   I would have liked to have made my putt to feel like I really won the match, rather than him missing the 5‑ or 6‑footer on the last hole.   I was fully prepared to go to No.1 for extra holes.  
   
 Q.   I was watching you after you missed your putt, you slapped your thigh pretty hard, is it okay?  
    BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, my hand is still a little red.  
   
 Q.   Did you keep the golf ball?  
    BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I've got it right here.   Longest one I've made before is probably 185, and that was 235.  
   
 Q.   Into the wind, too?  
    BEN MARTIN:   Into the wind a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Probably not thinking?  
    BEN MARTIN:   No, I wasn't.   I hit‑‑ in the practice round yesterday or one of the practice rounds, I hit a hybrid into 17 to that back left pin and it happened to be there today.   I knew it was a good number, and definitely wasn't thinking one there.   It landed, I think, 226 or landed short.   I saw it trickling, and I kind of picked my tee up and there was probably 10, 12 people around the green.   It wasn't like a big roar, but big enough that I knew it went in.  
   
 Q.   Did you hit first?  
    BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I hit first.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT