ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 21, 2015
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Ben, congratulations on a nice day.   Slow start but nice finish for you.
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah.   Thank you, yeah.   The one bogey all day was on the 1st hole so got that one out of way.   Made a birdie on -- tap-in birdie on 4 to kind of get things started and cruised along.   I was consistent which I've been all week.   So, nice to have that going in the weekend or on Sunday.

Q.   This is your 3rd time playing in this tournament.   Missed the cut the first two times.   What did you learn from those first two times that enabled you to get in a position like this?
BEN MARTIN:   I think that just by process of being more comfortable on the Tour in general.   You know, I think this course is probably about as easy as you can with no wind and the greens are kind of soft.   So, certainly scoring opportunities out there.   So I just get a little bit better every year.   Finally learned how to hit it around here.

Q.   Thoughts on the final round.   You're going to be in contention.   What's your approach to the last 18?
BEN MARTIN:   I've been enjoying all week.   I'm going to enjoy tomorrow.   That's when I play my best, laid back.   That's my game plan.

Q.   Arnie will be waiting for you at 18.
BEN MARTIN:   Thanks.

Q.   How about five birdies just one bogey?
BEN MARTIN:   I think just consistency.   I got off to a shaky start, didn't make a bogey yesterday so I got my one out of the way early.   I tried to tell myself all right, put that behind me and let's keep doing what we've been doing all week.

Q.   We talked yesterday about how your victory in Las Vegas, you tried to kind of keep your expectation level pretty steady, remain calm so you don't get in your own way. 
Now that you're in contention do you think that's going to be easy to manage tomorrow?
BEN MARTIN:   Once you have the first win you feel a need to validate it.   So, I kind of think I'm over that hump now and just back to playing my game and enjoying it.   I think I put a lot of pressure on myself early in this season and was grinding too hard. 
Back to my playing I guess to my personality, laid back, having fun.   It's tough to do sometimes in the final round but I'm looking forward to the opportunity.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT