ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 20, 2015
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A bogey-free round for Ben Martin out there fun to watch.   What was it like for you?  
BEN MARTIN:   I think this was a big key to my round was having fun.   I had a couple weeks off and a good last round at the Honda.   Took some of that momentum into here and two nice days heading into the weekend.   Having some fun out there making birdies.  
   
 Q.   Let me preface this question by saying we all know golf is hard.   You've not cracked the Top-10 after that win in Las Vegas.   Maybe less than expected or maybe were you okay with it?  
BEN MARTIN:   I think it's been very average.   Maybe some expectations crept in there once you win to try to get the second one and maybe a little added pressure.   That's something that I've thought about the last couple weeks and try to take that pressure off and get back to what I do, get back to my process and how I like to play and I think that's shown that the last couple rounds I played out here taking that pressure off and just having fun.  
   
 Q.   Ben, great string of birdies on your first 9 which is actually on the back-9 to get you started there with those three in a row.  
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah.   Got off to a good start.   Nice up and down on 10 and then birdied 11 and just kind of kept it rolling from there.   So, I would have liked to have made a few more on the front-9 or my back-9 but the only one I made on that side was a holed bunker shot.   But, overall, can't complain.  
   
 Q.   I know you wanted to make that putt on but five birdies, no bogies.   Made it look easy, right?  
BEN MARTIN:   Absolutely.   I'll take two more of those and be happy.   That's one thing I've been lacking this year is consistency.   Had some good rounds and not so good rounds.   I'm starting to see it will come around and any day you're bogey-free that's consistent.  
   
 Q.   Can you take that consistency for the final 36?  
BEN MARTIN:   I hope so.   I've enjoyed the last two days and it's nice to get back closer to home, some bermuda grass that I grew up on.   I look forward to the opportunity this weekend.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT