SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 19, 2014
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you've had a lot of big putts in your life, but just how big was that eagle putt on 16?  
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I didn't really look at the scoreboard so I didn't know where I stood, but I got a read off of Russell's putt, and I hadn't got a whole lot to go in all day, but that was huge on 16.   And then to cap it off on 18, making a 20‑footer for birdie to kind of seal it up was special.  
   
 Q.   You said you didn't look at the leaderboard.   You weren't quite playing as well as you were the first three days.   Did you have a sense there was pressure being put on you?  
BEN MARTIN:   It was tough because I was playing with the lead and kind of wanted to be conservative, but out here you know guys are going to be making birdies.   I felt like I was hitting it away from the pin a little bit more and definitely didn't have as many good looks at birdies as I have the last three days, but to finish strong, that's something that I always tell myself, that I'm a finisher, and to win tournaments you have to finish, so it was cool to do it.  
   
 Q.   We talked yesterday and you said your dream this season was to win on the PGA TOUR.   I'm sure you thought about that as a kid growing up.   Now it's a reality.   What does it mean to you?  
BEN MARTIN:   Absolutely.   I hit a lot of golf shots going up at Greenwood Country Club and at Clemson.   I've always just tried to get a little bit better every year, and I think this is the next step for me, and looking forward to the future.  
   
 Q.   What's the next step after this?  
BEN MARTIN:   Oh, just keep plugging along and try to get number two.   
   
 Q.   It's been a dream of yours to win on the PGA TOUR.   Last year you get your card back.   Your goal at the beginning of the year was to win twice, had to readjust.   Now this year you break through early.   How does it feel?  
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, last year I kind of readjusted my goals and I wanted to make the TOUR Championship, finish top 30 in the FedExCup, fell short in that, but I'll tell you, I'll well on my way this year.   It's just all sinking in right now, but this is just a great feeling.  
   
 Q.   I know you're not much of a leaderboard watcher.   What was the sense you got and when did you understand the position and what needed to be done on the back nine?  
BEN MARTIN:   I just kept my head down, kept plugging along.   Obviously the putt on 16 was huge, and I didn't know where I stood after that, but when I hit my approach into 18, ask Alex, my caddie, I said, do I need to do anything special with this putt, and he said, just do what you do and two‑putt it up there and you're good.   I said, all right, we'll see, one or two.   But it was a nice way to make a 20‑footer on the last hole for birdie and just move right up the FedExCup rankings early in the year.   You look at what Jimmy Walker did last year winning early, and it just makes it easier the rest of the season.  
   
 Q.   So you had no idea the whole day where things stood.   The only real hiccup was the tee shot at 11.   Everything else seemed pretty smooth and steady for you today until the putts started falling for you late.   
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I looked at the board on 8 and glanced up there after I made birdie and saw I was still in the lead.   But I knew that a lot of birdies are made on the back nine, so I just kind of kept my head down, and I didn't really make a lot until 15.   You know, I was nervous enough without looking at the scoreboard, so I didn't have to think about anything else.   
   
 Q.   Walk me through the putt at 16.   
BEN MARTIN:   Russell was just behind me, and I got a good read off of his, right to left, down the hill, and he definitely got Anna cyst there for that one, so it gave me a little bit of confidence with the read, and seeing that thing go in was awesome.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT