THE BARCLAYS
August 21, 2014
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Happy with that start, what you expected? 
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I think I birdied 11 and 12 coming out of the gates.   Shot, want to say I was 4‑under‑‑ I have it written down.   I don't really remember everything.   Turned 4‑under, and bogeyed 2, but then got it back on‑‑ I don't even remember. 
Overall, I've taken three out of the last four weeks off, so I came out today maybe a little bit rusty but felt rested up and that was kind of my idea for the Playoffs, a four‑week stretch. 
So I didn't really know what to expect but got off to a good start and just kind of kept it going throughout the day.

Q.   What was the key on the front nine, your front nine, the back nine?   Was there one key to that hot start? 
BEN MARTIN:   I had some quality shots.   12 was playing long.   I hit driver, 3‑iron and hit it to like four or five feet.   And then the putt I made on 11, from ten or 12 feet, my first birdie of the day, kind of get things rolling, it seems like a lot of times if I can make one early from that range, just gives me confidence the rest of the day. 

Q.   Correct me if I'm wrong, you're sort of a streaky player, seems like when you get hot, you get pretty hot?
BEN MARTIN:   I guess that's pretty accurate.   I had a good run last year on the Web.com Tour.   I think I made 13 or 14 cuts in a row.   Won twice and finished a shot or two out of a playoff a couple times. 
I had a good, consistent streak last summer, and then I had one earlier this season starting from probably Hilton Head through Congressional.   And so once that happened, I kind of solidified making the Playoffs and really just wanted to be rested up for the start of these. 

Q.   Based on that, based on when you get hot, you tend to play pretty well and stay hot, how much does getting off to a really good start here help you going forward?
BEN MARTIN:   I think it gives me a lot of confidence just because I've only played one tournament the last month.   And that was the missed the cut at the PGA.   So I didn't really know what to expect coming in here.
I have been playing well at home but it's a little different when you tee it up inside the ropes.   It's nice to feel rested and it's nice to post a good score to start the Playoffs.

Q.   Does it help playing late/early and getting off to such a good start? 
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I think so.   I don't really look at the late/early or the early/late start that different just because we get them all.   I don't really look at one as an advantage over the other.   I roll with either one. 
Yeah, get something quick to eat, go back to sleep and be right back out here and have some good memories from this afternoon.

Q.   You've said a couple times, you don't really know what to expect with these Playoff events; has it felt different this week or do you approach it differently or treat it the same as a regular event? 
BEN MARTIN:   The last two tournaments I've played has been Majors.   I try to treat those as another tournament and I try to treat these as another tournament, as well.   But I mean, this course I think is a major setup with the rough and just the quality of the course.   I enjoy this kind of old school architecture and seem to play well on these courses. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT