ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2014
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BEN MARTIN:   I really only focus on what I can control, and I can't control how many birdies the guys in my group are making.   I just need to make a few more out there.  
   
 Q.   Did today feel any different than last week when you had a share of the lead, a three‑shot lead?   
BEN MARTIN:   I felt a lot more relaxed today.   I know last week playing with Jim Furyk and K.J. Choi and not taking anything away from our group today, but those guys are pretty accomplished players.   So I was definitely a little nervous going off in the final group with them last week.   But I felt relaxed and confident and comfortable today, and that's when I play my best golf.   So I think I keep the mindset like that all week.   I feel like I've played Sundays well this year, so I have that to look forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What is it about the course and the conditions that lends itself to such low scores?   
BEN MARTIN:   I think the par‑5s are all birdie holes, which helps out a lot on TOUR, because sometimes we get two par‑5s out here on some courses.   So if you take advantage of the par‑5s and then sprinkle a few more birdies in there, you end up with a 66.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about your position now?   I think you're four back.   
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I guess, like I said, I don't really look a whole lot at where I stand.   But obviously if I want to have a chance to win, I'm going to have to go out tomorrow and play a good round of golf.   But I'm still pretty confident in how things are overall with my game.  
   
 Q.   Obviously, two really good days.   Today not so much, but still right there.   
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I only made one birdie today which is not going to get it done out here.   Too many putts and I felt like I've been playing Sundays well this year when I've played the weekend, which hasn't been often, unfortunately.   But I feel like I usually finish strong and that's something that I try to pride myself in.   Still an opportunity tomorrow, which will be fun.  
   
 Q.   You said that your wife makes fun of you because you don't get too high and excited but you also don't get too low.   But do you think that's going to benefit you now?   
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, Thursday's round and today are kind of 180‑degree difference.   So after Thursday I wasn't on cloud 9, and after today, I'm not in the dumps, so I still have a good mindset going into tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT