RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2014
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   2‑under, 69, in Round 1.   Did you get all you could out of that?
BEN MARTIN:   I did.   I played solid the whole day except for one swing.   I was very pleased.   It was playing tough.   The wind was blowing.   It was a little chilly this morning.   But I was real happy, especially to bounce back and make a birdie.

Q.   That was a pretty hiccup.   A triple bogey on 13?
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, the par‑3, 13 and 14, just hit one long and left and the wind died down.   And that's the way it goes out here.   If you hit one marginal shot, you can take a big number.

Q.   The 18th hole is playing very difficult today.   You handled it pretty well. 
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I hit a terrible drive.   I told Alex, my caddie, that has to be the easiest fairway of the year on Tour and I missed the fairway.   But I hit a great hybrid in there to the back of the green and two‑putted.

Q.   Talk today about your round. 
BEN MARTIN:   It was a solid round overall.   I think I made five birdies.   And just one hiccup, one triple, unfortunately.   But a lot of positives out there.   I'm looking forward to taking that to tomorrow.

Q.   You said you were sitting pretty well for tomorrow's round.   But with rain coming, how do you feel about that?
BEN MARTIN:   Well, it's a little different week.   I was thinking coming down here thinking 70, 75.   But it's a little chilly and a little rain.   We all have to deal with it.   That's how it goes. 

Q.   Tell us what happened on the triple.   You didn't go in the water, you hit out of bounds. 
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, I hit it long and left and apparently hit the cart path and then bounced into a house.   That's just a tough hole.   And you've got to hit a good shot in there, and unfortunately I didn't. 

Q.   It's kind of one of those things that you look at it and think one good swing or one bad swing and I could be one off the lead.   Or do you look at it like I played a great round, there was really only one bad swing that derailed it? 
BEN MARTIN:   I definitely take the positives over the negatives any day that I play well.   I think this is a course you've got to think your way around and really take what the course gives you sometimes if you hit it in the wrong spots. 
I thought I played solid overall and managed my game well.   And that's what you have to do around here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT