PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 9, 2014
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just one loan bogey.   Nice round today.   It was important to get someone in the clubhouse and post a number to put a little pressure on Chesson out there.   How pleased are you with your round?  
BEN MARTIN:   Thanks, Kate.   Yeah, I'm very happy with the way I played today.   Just kind of get back out there, get the juices flowing a little bit, really the first time that I've had that this year.   So it was a lot of fun, and it's always nice to close out Sunday with a good day.  
   
 Q.   This is your second year on the PGA TOUR, and I believe you had a tie for sixth a couple of years ago when you were last out here.   If you don't get in a playoff, this is going to be your personal best PGA TOUR finish.   How important at this phase of the year to kind of start flipping things around and start getting in contention?  
BEN MARTIN:   I think it's really important.   Yeah, I didn't really start the West Coast like I wanted to.   And I've been off for three weeks, not because I wanted to be off, but just because I wasn't getting in any events.   Yeah, this was an important week.   
I think being a little closer to home, being in the southeast, Florida swing, Puerto Rico, I played down here in college four years, so a little more comfortable down here, and now I'm just excited to kind of hopefully use this as a spring up or down for the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Taking advantage of that island mojo.   Great round today.   Just give me kind of a recap of the week.   
BEN MARTIN:   Yeah, flew down here on Monday, and I played this course in 2011.   So I kind of knew it.   
You know, got off to‑‑ I like to play consistent, and I think I did that all week.   Shot‑‑ I'm trying to remember, 4‑under, 5‑under, 2‑under, 6‑under.   So every day I had something going which was nice because I've been a little bit hit or miss this year, but it was nice to get down here where the weather is great.   You know what you're going to get, 85 and a little wind, so you know what to expect, and just had a lot of fun this week.  
   
 Q.   And I asked you this earlier in the week, but you've been here a couple of more days since we last talked.   How are you liking Puerto Rico?  
BEN MARTIN:   I mean it's hard to beat this time of year, you know.   Like I said, we're right here on the water.   When I'm not on the golf course, I'm at the pool or at the beach, so it was a good week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT