THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ben, you gave yourself a lot of opportunities for birdies out there.  Only missed two greens all day.  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, it was solid all the way around.  Got off to a solid start birdieing the 1st hole.  Then only (indiscernible) was there on No. 9.  Didn't get up and down.  I would like to have the one on the last to cap it off, but solid day overall for sure.   
 Q.  You have 54 holes to make up for the miss on the final hole.  Birdie both the par-5s.  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, would've been no fives on the card if it wasn't for that bogey on 9.  Only two par-5s here.  Really need to take advantage of those.   
Then, yeah, I think if you're hitting it in the fairway, a lot of wedges, short irons in, you know, with the rain we got yesterday, the course (indiscernible) this morning.   
 Q.  Were the fairways playing wider or were the greens more receptive?  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, I hadn't been here in three years, but it seems like the fairways are wider since the redo.  And then with the wet the ball just kind of stopping where it lands.   
So, yeah, it was (indiscernible) out there this morning for sure.   
 Q.  Tied for fifth at Quicken Loans International.  Did you find something you were able to bring down the highway with you?  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, I think the last couple months played a lot of the weekends.  Just making steady progress.  Haven't really finished one off until last week.  Shooting 5-under last week on Sunday and finishing on 18 with a birdie I think gave me a lot of confidence kind of rolling into this week.   
 Q.  127 in the FedExCup standings.  Did you know where you stand and is that on your mind at all?  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, I mean, that week last week was huge.  I think I went from 145 or so to right around 125.  I got off to a bad start this year, but I'm going in the right direction.  Looking to keep moving up that board.   
 Q.  It's not how you start but how you finish; play well.  
BEN MARTIN: Thank you.   
 Q.  Excellent start.  Some comments on your opening round.  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, sure.  6-under, 7 birdies, 1 bogey.  Just really played solid all the way around.  Drove it in the fairway.  I think I hit 15 or 16 greens in regulation, so gave myself a lot of chances.   
Seems like if I wasn't making the putt it was close or it was running for a tap-in.  It was really the kind of round of golf that you draw up when you want to start in the morning.   
 Q.  What about the conditions, the course itself?  It's basically brand now.  What were your thoughts?  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, I mean, course is in amazing shape.  I guess we're the first to really get out there and play it.  Got here Monday or Tuesday, no divots.  I mean, pristine and probably a little firm since the greens are new.  I think the rain the last couple days softened everything up.   
It was starting to bounce out a little more towards the end of the round, but really just scoring conditions this morning, still wet, no wind, it was about playing as easy as it's going to get.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, sure.  Lift, clean, and place, yeah, generally you can find a pretty flat lie.  Ball is always going to be teed up, so it certainly doesn't help.   
 Q.  (Regarding Clemson.)  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, it's been nice to see.  Lucas is having a good year, too.  Sam I think is having one of the better seasons has had since he's been out here.   
Always nice to see Clemson guys up there on the leaderboard.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT