JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 12, 2016
Ben Martin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BEN MARTIN: I woke up at 4:30, but looked at the radar and turned over and didn't come out to the course until closer to when we were going to tee off.  But yeah, it was a long day out there.  I think I ended up playing -- I played six holes to finish this morning, so 24 holes.  But getting up early and finishing at dusk, it's a long day.   
 Q.  All things considered, pretty satisfied with the round?  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, I wasn't too pumped the way I finished down the stretch.  I hit a couple squirrelly shots, but overall, yeah, great shape going into the weekend.  Feeling good with my golf swing and around the greens.  Looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  You started your second round with three straight birdies.  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  You made two really long putts on 1 and 2.  Does that kind of get your confidence going?  
BEN MARTIN: Yeah, sure.  It's always nice to get off to a good start like that, and then the rains kind of came, and that -- to have to pull out the umbrella and put the rain gear on, it changes the feel a little bit.  I think I made a bogey in there somewhere.  But yeah, then made a good birdie at 9 and a couple good birdies on the back nine.  Any time you get off to a hot start it certainly helps get the round going.   
 Q.  Did you feel like the greens, with the softer greens you were able to go at pins a little bit more?  
BEN MARTIN: For sure, yeah.  They're almost so soft they're not even spinning, so they're just kind of plugging right where they hit.  You just get that number and take dead aim, really.   
 Q.  What's your mindset going into tomorrow?  
BEN MARTIN: You know, I think the course -- we've had so much rain, I think it will continue to play soft this weekend.  I think this is usually an event where you feel like you want to shoot 4-, 5-under every day just to kind of keep pace.  I'm right there so far at 8-under, but probably have to make a few more on the weekend, so just keep doing what I've been doing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT