SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 26, 2010
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. What's behind this decision and timing? I know you talked to some people about it. 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: My decision start -- there was like a -- I start thinking, like everyone know from my country, a long time ago, because my record here was so good for now the last two years. 
 I promise to myself I didn't get a (indiscernible) because I have to have one more surgery before I retire. 

 Q. You've had too many operations?
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: Four in the wrist.
 And just -- I try the last 16 months just to, you know, get better, just get a cast for two months stopping before last Australia, you know, the 2009. I didn't went there because I got a cast. 
 I tried. It was few weeks that was good, but then the problem start again. They told me I need to have a surgery. Just I try to play in 2009 until July, and I play Bastad my last tournament, and I start to feel again.
 Then just I take few weeks off. I try to play the US Open. I went there, but I pull out before I get into the court because it was painful.
 Then after that just I'm thinking mostly to retire. But before I give the like notice officially, just I want to be sure. Because I don't want to say I'm retire; I'm not. I want to be sure 100%.
 I try in November just how I feel, and in December I play two exhibitions and Argentina. They didn't was really good. Then I come back here, because I open one academy, tennis academic here in Miami just to working. For that I don't have a time. 
 You know, I think like six weeks ago I think or eight weeks ago I take there like 100% the decision I gonna retire officially. 
 But I don't have -- you know, I don't have a time to go -- normally I want to go or want to do it in my country, but I don't have a time to go there just to do it. 
 For that, I have a chance here. Like most of the people from my country are here. Just it was a timing for that, and take that decision to do it here. Because if no, maybe they pass few more months, but I'm already know what it was my decision. 
 And for that, I take it.

 Q. Seems to me you'll always be remembered for beating Roger Federer back to back at Indian Wells and here. Suddenly you were the Federer killer before Rafa came along. Talk those two victories. 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: No, I think in my career I have a lot of memories. I think the famous was that, too, and for me that was great. Just was my comeback. Was like the first big tournament I play was Indian Wells. 
 You know, I beat the more talent player in the world, in the history. For me, it was unbelievable. And then to do it again 10 days later was like a dream for me. 
 But, you know, this happen for me now long time ago. You know, like this imagines like it was like yesterday when I was here talking about that victory. 
 But really, you know, I'm so happy the way I have my career. I so happy, you know, to take that decision. I think for me this was the right moment just to say good-bye to like a professional sport and to be focusing in another things.

 Q. Obviously, I mean, I think you had 7 titles, like three quarterfinals in Roland Garros. Do you feel though that when you got suspended for those two years and then you were exonerated, cleared of it, do you feel that you were kind of robbed of something in your career, cheated a little bit?
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: Yeah, that was -- you know, I think everybody that happen something like that in any moment of your life you feel that way.
 But I know I am fighting like all my career for the way just I feel like clean to everything. Just I fight in a lot to prove that. I really happy to prove what happened that week, that day. I know what happened after that. 
 You know, to be able to be again in the top 10, to be able to play again to the big players, and to be able to be in, you know, in the high level again. 
 I gonna have, like everyone in his life, good memories and bad memories. But I think I'm so happy the good memories I have with the tennis.

 Q. How difficult is it to take that step into retirement?
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: Ah, there was -- I don't know if it was difficult. It took a lot of time. Because after -- for me, it was -- after I take this decision I want to be, like I say, 100% sure. 
 I don't want to be out and then in and then out. Just if I say something, it was 100%. It took a lot of time. You know, it's one new life for me to start living in, just I'm start like a few months ago.
 But it's a new life. I'm spend the last 16 years or 15 years in the tour, and I'm 32 years old. I am just -- you know, many things are gonna happen after this in my life. But there was a really big moment spent in the professional tennis.
 You know, I think I gonna miss some things, but I'm ready to make this step.

 Q. When you were making your comeback in 2006 and you won all those challenger-level titles, how important was that for your confidence?
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: No, I think it was really confident. You know, when you are out of the tour for 15 months like I was, you never know what's gonna happen. 
 You are a little afraid if you really have the level again. Just I feel practicing I feel perfectly; I feel I play on really good level. But, you know, to show again in the challenger when the tour there was tougher. 
 But it was really -- in the moment it was really easy for me. Just in the first tournament I play really good level and I win first times I play. 
 And then just, made another final and I win four or five challengers in a row. And after I come back, four or five months after that I was beating the No. 1 in the world. 
 Just it was happen really fast. For me, it was great, that. 

 Q. Can you tell us the most important two moments in your career and the two worst moments in your career? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: I think the two worst I know, you know. You have a lot of good moments. I don't know if I have two. The worst was like, you know, the doping problem, when I have that, to prove everything. 
 And the other one was my first time I play Davis Cup. It was, you know, really important for me to show what level I have. I was two set up, 5-0 up, and I lost that match. And that was the two really worst moment. One in the court, one without.
 And the two good moments, just I had a lot of just -- you know, when I won the first challenger -- the first ATP was 2001, Casablanca. Really I dreamed to win one title. 
 But, you know, you never know when they gonna happen. When they happen for me, it was incredible.
 But then just another incredible moment was in Davis Cup when we were playing the doubles just to get up Argentina to the World Group after ten years in the second group. 
 I have the moments when I beat Roger twice and I get the final here. But then just one simple moment to play, you know, to win that first challenger when I -- after I come back was maybe the same feeling or more when I win the first ATP title.
 And then I have a lot of really good moments in my career. It's tough to say two, but if I start, you know, to remember I have a lot of unbelievable moments.

 Q. I apologize for bringing it up in this setting, but I'm wondering if you've heard the news about Wayne Odesnik and the guilty plea in court?
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: Yeah, I hear this morning. But really, I don't know nothing. I'm surprise like you guys. Just I know Wayne for the tour. I know we had him in the academy in Miami for few weeks because he's from here. 
 But I don't know nothing about that thing.

 Q. Are you still coaching him?
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: I'm still helping him when he's here in Miami. I don't travel nothing. I helping him, yes. 
 But, you know, it's tough for me to speak because I don't know nothing. Just I know a like hour ago what is in the news, and that's it.

 Q. So this was news to you? You didn't know he had an issue in Australia?
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: Yeah, yeah, nothing.

 Q. Do you think tennis has a doping problem? Do you think there is a problem in the sport?
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: It's in any sport they have that problem, I know. It's tough to say. Like they have a lot of problems in the sports, doping, many things. 
 But they happen. The ATP -- now the ATP is fighting for that, and that's it.

 Q. You and Wayne have obviously become friends in the last five months. What would you tell him? Would you give him some advice? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS: The thing is, I don't know what happened. Just I read something or they told me something happened before I came here. I don't know nothing about that. 
 Just I think it's -- I want to try, if I can, to help him. But, you know, the thing is like I don't know what happened. Just we didn't know after that.
 But the thing is I come here just to talk about me. I think the important moment I have, just to tell, you know, why I pass one step off of the professional tennis in my life.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT