PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 17, 2005
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You've beaten him now five times in a row. 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  I think maybe I have a little luck because always is tough match against Tim.  Maybe I'm play better the important point against him.  Maybe I have a little bit luck, too.  But, I don't know, maybe the game he plays is good for me.  But always we play like a tough matches.  I'm very happy to beat him today because was tough match for me.  I really enjoy to play like this today. 

Q.  Would you like to play him every day? 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Oh, no, not really.  Always is tough matches.  Always we play a long matches.  I need to be hundred percent in the court to beat him.  But really I'm very happy to beat him today.  I don't know.  I'm think I'm always - what I say - I'm always have a little luck in the important moments against him. 

Q.  You also seem to find something special in the important moments against him. 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  I don't know.  Maybe I'm play better in this important moments.  I think maybe the game he play in the important moments is good for me.  Really I don't know what is the key for these moments.  But what I say before, I'm very happy to beat him because always is long matches.  Always is I need to play very good tennis.  And today I think I'm play very good tennis. 

Q.  Do you feel when you go to play him, he hasn't beaten you in seven years, that you have a mental or psychological edge over him?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah, I think I have a little bit because the last times I play against him always was tough matches, but always I beat him.  Maybe when you have opponent like this, for me is like maybe one more motivation, maybe when I play or when I have Tim in the draw because the last time always was tough matches, but always I'm play very well the important moments and beat him.  But, yeah, maybe I have a little of - I don't know - what I say, luck or no luck.  But always when I play against him, I'm really -- in my mind I think before I get into I want to beat him. 

Q.  How well do you think Tim played against you today?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Oh, really I don't know.  You need to ask him this question.  But I think I'm play well.  I do many things very well today.  I think I was hundred percent in the court.  I come back when I have break down in the second set.  This one was very important for me.  Maybe he didn't play, I don't know, very good tennis today.  Maybe he didn't play the best tennis he can play.  But sometimes is like this.  Sometimes you no have a very good days.  I think today, what I say, in the tiebreak I'm play very well, he didn't play very well, and for this maybe is the real small difference in this tough matches. 

Q.  When you were growing up, who was the most influential person in your life in tennis? 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  I don't know, is tough to say.  I think more influence in my tennis career was my father.  I think it was my father, is very important for me.  He always support me a lot.  If you say about a player, I think for everybody my country, I don't know, I couldn't see him play in life like Vilas, but he is very important for the tennis in my country, I think.  He is the more famous tennis player in my country.  And always we try to be a little bit like him. 

Q.  When I was in Argentina in '67, we worked with coaches and they didn't believe in starting children until they were 10 or 11.  That changed now. 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah.  I think we change a lot now.  I'm start to play tennis at -- I don't remember very well, but I think at four or five years old.  I think this change a lot.  I think now the children start to play early.  I think in the moment we have very good children's coming up, and this is very good for my country and for my sport. 

Q.  Most of the players from South America love to play on red clay.  When you look at your results, the good results you've had on hard court, Heineken Open, Shanghai, doing well here, Masters Series in Canada, what do you suggest?  Do you think it's hard court or clay for you? 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Oh, I don't know.  I like to play in hard court.  Always I think I like to play more in hard court than in the clay.  I think I enjoy I to play in these kind of courts.  But I think the tennis in my country, it change a lot.  Many players start to improve a lot in these kind of courts.  I think every year we have very good result - better result than the years before.  For us is very important this year the first Grand Slam in the year, we have three players in the second week.  This is very good.  We have a lot of good results in these kind of courts.  I think this one is the mentality for my country start change, start to, I don't know, to try to improve more and more in these kind of courts.  Is not the Argentinian player only play in the red court or in the clay court, just the Argentinian player start to play better and better in all kind of court. 

Q.  You know are ranked in the Top 20.  In 2003, you had a ranking of 274.  What happened?  Were you injured?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yes, I was injured.  I had three surgery in my wrist. 

Q.  Three surgery?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Three surgery in my wrist, in my right wrist.  Yeah, I was like nine months out of the tour, then I start playing, then I got a surgery again for three months.  2003 for me was tough. 

Q.  Having had all those wrist surgeries, one could think you could sympathize with Kim Clijsters.  You should know how difficult it is. 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  I don't know.  I think all the surgeries is tough to come back.  I think it's just not for the wrist.  I think if you have a surgery, is always tough to come back to like a tough level or top level.  I think is tough for anybody have surgery or to stop in the tour is tough to come back.  I think I have luck.  I think I have two times stop in 2000 and 2003.  Both was a surgery in both wrist.  And now I'm very like I no have like, I don't know, big injure, just the normal pain every day.  But is good.  Just I try to enjoy this life, the tennis. 

Q.  Can you talk about the success that you've had here going through the brackets and now what lies ahead?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  I'm very happy to be in semifinals.  I'm very happy to be in the semifinals.  I think for me is great.  Is the first time I'm play well here in Indian Wells.  The years before I not have very good results.  I think for me was very important the match I beat Chela because it was a tough match for me, three set, long three set.  I was a breakdown in the third set.  I think I'm play very good tennis against him.  Then when I beat him, I get a lot of confidence.  I think I have a luck yesterday when I play just one set against Taylor because I was a little bit tire from the match against Juan the day before.  I have a little luck.  But always you need to have a luck to, I don't know, get a successful in anything.  Then I think I try to enjoy and to try to, I don't know, do my best today.  I'm very happy to be in the semifinals. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT