NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 30, 2004
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Where was the serve?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  I think it was no good.  He played well.  He's serving very well.  Maybe I feel a little slowly.  I was just a little tired from last night.  But anyway I think that he's serving very well.  I think on my serve, it was the worst match in the tournament today.   But something happen.  I think he do what he need to do for beat me tonight.  For this I think there's nothing to say.

Q.  Two Argentine bulls were following each other on the court today.  The first one had a spectacular match.  Thought you would come out inspired? 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Well, I think I try.  I try my best.  I think today I can't.  But I'm very happy for Agustin.  I saw him, he play a very good match.  Hitting the ball unbelievable.  I think if he's still playing like this, he have a very good chance to be in the final or to win this tournament.

Q.  After the match last night, how long were you on the massage table? 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Oh, I leave from the club at 1:30 a.m.  I went to bed at three.  Today I wake up at ten.  I think I didn't sleep many hours.  But, you know, sometimes is like this.  Sometimes if you play very late and then the next day you need to play, sometimes you have a very - I don't know - very not normal day.  Yesterday for eat, for everything was a little bad.  But I don't know.  I don't have an excuse.  I think he played well.  I didn't play my best tennis.  Sometimes happen.

Q.  No one is happy to lose.  But considering where you are after three months and where you've come from with so much time off, are you satisfied?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah, I'm very satisfied for my result in this week.  I think I beat many good players.  I think I need to improve a lot to win my best tennis.  But I had a chance to play with this kind of guys, with the best tennis players in the world like three months after I start playing again.  I think it's good to me.  I think I need to improve, I know this.  But I promise in few months I gonna be a little more tough to - I don't know - to beat me.

Q.  By the French Open?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah, for sure.  I try.  I know I try. 

Q.  And the knee?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Oh, my knee was good.  I take antiinflammatories all this week.  I think next week I gonna take care in my hometown.  But it was good.  I didn't feel, just a little bit in the court.

Q.  It's not perfect?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  No, it's not 100 percent, but they're gonna be, I think, with 10 days relaxing, working with my physio in home, they're gonna be good.

Q.  Estoril?

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yes, Estoril.  I'm starting in Estoril. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT