NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2004
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  6-5, tiebreak.  Looks like you're dead.  Overhead.  Right back at you.  You get the  first one.  Second one comes back at you.  Take us through the point.  How difficult was it?  How well did you read his overhead? 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  I think maybe I had a little bit lucky in this point.  But I don't know.  I think it really was tough because was windy, too.  Yes, it was like a lot of windy.  Was tough to play well.  But he have a luck in the point before, in the 5-all.  He played very good lob.  Then I think I tried to catch this, it was very important I have the luck to make this unbelievable passing shot.

Q.  You were back almost to the screen in the back when you hit that. 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah.  I tried to catch this ball, I tried to run, I tried to  -- really, I tried to hit the ball to this place.  Not really to this place, just to this side.  I think then maybe I have a little luck to go in this small and difficult place.

Q.  When the match resumed at 5-4  -- 4-3, you had an easy game to hold serve, 5-3.  At that point did you think, "I'm going to be okay here," but then he breaks you? 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah, I think maybe I didn't play well this  -- well, this important game.  He start to play better.  I think today he play better than yesterday.  But the match continue.  Always it's like this.  Sometimes happen when you need to close the match, it's tough.  He play well this game, I didn't play very well.  He break me.  And then I have a small chance in the tiebreak and I take it.  For this, I think I finish in two set.  I think I am very happy to win this match. 

Q.  Factoring in the conditions, the weather, the wind is very bad, how good a victory, how important a victory is this for you? 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  Oh, now I think with this kind of weather you need to win.  I think it's the only important point.  I think it's tough to play well.  Just you try to play the best you can, and then win and try the next day to play better.  But I think the important thing in this kind of weather is win.  Today I have a great win.  I am very happy because Tommy is top player, he play well last week.  I'm very happy.  I think I have a very tough match in the next round, but I try to enjoy today. 

Q.  When you walked off the court last night because of the rain, what was your mentality coming in to the second day? 

GUILLERMO CANAS:  I think I was  -- yesterday I was a little bit angry because I think the decision for  -- was a little bit soon.  We need to wait a little more because the decision was five minutes after we go out of the court, the rain is stopped.  Maybe we can play the last three, four games yesterday night.  But I think just when they cancel the match, I think I just need to be focus, I need to play well my service game.  That didn't happen because my last game I play bad.  But after this, I try to come back, try to break him in the tiebreak.  I have a chance in the -- when I serving 7-6 and I think I play well this matchpoint. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT