TMS - MADRID
October 16, 2002
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How do you feel? 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I'm quite happy coming back to the circuit after 10 weeks of absence.  It's been nice.  It was a lot of work during these weeks.  Beyond the results, I would say I'm happy to be back playing tennis again after surgery.  
 
Q.  How do you see Nalbandian?  He had lost several times in the first round. 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  He's playing well.  I haven't really analyzed how I see him.  I prefer to analyze myself.  I think that I still have time to recover and to get to the level I really want.  I think he has  -- it was a good starting point.  The first set I played well, but then I made some errors.  I'm generally glad with the game.  
 
Q.  What do you think you have to improve? 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I was a bit tired in the third set, and also I was a bit nervous of playing again, the expectations you have after such a long recovery.  I think I have a lack of timing, and that's due to lack of matches.  I haven't been playing that much.  I think for the little time I've played, I played quite a good match.  
 
Q.  Are you disappointed with not being able to play the Davis Cup in Moscow? 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah, I was disappointed not to be able to play in Moscow, but also disappointed with the way that Argentina played.  We didn't have a good performance.  They certainly tried, but they didn't do it.  But I'm disappointed mainly because I was injured. 
 
Q.  You seemed quite upset.  Was it because you felt you weren't up to your expectations? 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  There were lots of things.  Maybe feeling that my tennis level is not as it's been in the past, I mean, before my injury.  That made me feel a bit bad-tempered.  I made some mistakes that I usually don't make.  I blame it not having played a lot.  I'm glad that my wrists didn't give me any real problem.  I could play a proper match.  Of course, when you go onto the court, you want to win.  When you see you are losing, I blame it on several things, but mainly because of what I told you.  
 
Q.  What are you doing the next season?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I have Stockholm and Paris.  I will start the pre-season in the last week of November.  I will be mainly in Buenos Aires, not the city, but in the region of Buenos Aires. 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT