WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2001
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  It's true you prepare for the grass playing in Italy on a claycourt?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  No.  I prepare the tournament last week in 's-Hertogenbosch.  I didn't play three weeks in grass because I get too tired normally.  Two weeks for me is I think okay.  Then normally I'm start Nottingham or in 's-Hertogenbosch.  
 
Q.  You went to the final?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  You think this is really grass or is just a clay court painted green?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I don't know.  
 
Q.  It doesn't bounce as it used to bounce ten years ago. 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I don't know.  Depends.  Okay, here is a little faster.  In 's-Hertogenbosch is a little slower, but the bounce is slow.  Here is a little faster, and the bounce is high.  I like the years before.  This year I still play well.  I don't know.  I beat some matches, some confidence.  I really enjoy being Wimbledon.  
 
Q.  Did you know the reputation of Court 2 as "The Funeral Court", "The Graveyard"?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah.  This morning tell me, one friend of mine, the reputation for the Court 2.  I want to continue this reputation, no?  It's good to continue.  
 
Q.  But if you became a champion, don't play over there. 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Okay.  I have to talk with the supervisor the next year. 
 
Q.  Were you afraid they were going to stop it for rain?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah.  I'm a little afraid for stopping the tiebreak because start to rain a little bit.  I'm feel I want to finish in the tiebreak.  But, you know, Wimbledon is like this.  You never know when it stop.  If you come here, you know maybe in one match point.  You never know when the guy's go to stop the match.  But, yes, I'm a little afraid to stop in this moment.  
 
Q.  What happened this year about yourself?  Is magic here?  You improve so much in ranking? 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  No.  I think because last year I have a little problem of my body, I have the operation, my first operation.  
 
Q.  Where?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  In my wrist. 
 
Q.  Left wrist?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Left wrist, yeah.  I been long time out of the court.  I think too much in this moment to my tennis, to everything.  I try to be different this year.  I try to be more focused in the tennis.  I do it.  Then I start to play better and better.  Now I'm very confidence.  I think I'm feeling like is possible beat anybody here, then is good for myself. 
 
Q.  Can you say something about your coach?  I have the feeling that I have seen him around for   -- I don't know how many years. 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  My coach?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I'm start to him in '99.  We travel together since '99.  Then we split a little bit in the 2000 for a few months.  This year or the end of the 2000 when I start to play again, we start to work again.  Before he was with important too.  He still many years in the tour.  I feel very good him.  I think I going to continue with him.  
 
Q.  The name?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Pablo Martin. 
 
Q.  Would you compare the relationship with the coach to a marriage or a friendship?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I think I compare  -- is a man.  A friend, for sure.  I compare with the friend because we pass many hours together.  Sometimes, you know, you have problems or something like this because you live many years with him, you pay to him to say the wrongs you make.  But we doing well.  I know the guy for three years now.  I'm feel very, very good with him. 
 
Q.  So you pay someone who reprimands you.  Is a masochist situation. 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Sorry?  
 
Q.  You pay someone who reprimands you. 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Is like this.  But is tough to be like this.  But the coach is like this.  I know.  When you know, is good.  
 
Q.  Could I ask when you were growing up who your sporting heroes were?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah, I think so.  In the sport now playing?  
 
Q.  No, when you were growing up. 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I have two.  I have two.  I have one, okay, for everybody from Argentina, Guillermo Vilas.  I didn't watch playing him because I'm so young, but I think he did many things for the tennis in Argentina.  I think is one.  The second one is Ivan Lendl.  When I start to play, I watch much him.  I like the mentality, many things about him.  I think is the second one. 
 
Q.  And away from tennis?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I think, because I'm from Argentina, I love soccer.  For sure Maradona is the best for me.  
 
Q.  Last 20 years guy doesn't week last 16. 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I think one guy in the locker room tell me that.  I'm feel great to be here, one South American in the second week of Wimbledon.  It's not normal, you know.  I try to enjoy.  I try to do the best.  I hope Monday I'm play like today, try to be in the quarterfinals. 
 
Q.  You play for sure a great match.  What do you think about the Kafelnikov attitude?  Starting the match, you have any idea about that?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I have idea because I know Kafelnikov.  I saw him many times in the TV, you know, playing.  I know he's very good talents, but sometimes the mentality is not so strong, you know.  I try to be every point to fire, try to do the best.  I think I do it.  I think he give me the chance to beat him.  
 
Q.  How bad was your injury?  It was the toe, wasn't it?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah.  I have this problem for like one month  -- one week and a half.  It start in's-Hertogenbosch.  I don't know, every day pain.  I make a physio every day.  I'm try to be good in Monday. 
 
Q.  Was it handicapping you during the game?  Did you feel uncomfortable?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  No, no.  I'm start to feel the pain in the third set a little bit.  But in the fourth set when I call the trainer, is painful.  I try to get the solution.  You know, be better, but no very good.  
 
Q.  Could you please tell me something about your background.  Why did you approach tennis?  When did you start?  In the family there are some other people who play tennis? 
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  I'm start when I have seven years.  I'm start because my father love tennis.  I'm start to play like a normal guy, you know.  I go two times, three times in the weeks to play tennis.  I'm play tennis and soccer in this moment.  When I have 13 years, I couldn't play more soccer and tennis together because normally in this moment the Sunday is the tournament of tennis and soccer.  Then I need to choose.  I choose for the tennis because I love the sport, I love the tennis.  I think I make good decision. 
 
Q.  What position you are playing in soccer?
 
GUILLERMO CANAS:  Goalkeeper.   
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT