SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2007
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Willie, the big shot, the break in the first set, describe it.  Maybe it's indescribable. 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah.  Really in the beginning of the match, I couldn't see any serve.  I think that he served very well.  But that game, the 5-5, I had just one chance, and I take it.  Don't know what I do different.  Just in that game I return very well.  I think I returned three, four serves before I couldn't.  And just I try to put the pressure for his side. 
 When I have a chance, I go to the net a lot today, and that game I did.  I finish with an unbelievable passing shot. 

 Q.  When you raced back for the lob, did you know in your mind what you wanted to do with the ball when you got it? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Hit it (laughing) just to hit it.  When I have a close, when around I have it close, I try to hit it to the forehand, but really I have a little luck in that passing shot. 

 Q.  You call that the Buenos Aires backfire? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  What? 

 Q.  The Buenos Aires backfire? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Oh, that shot.  Oh, really, backfire, I don't know, Buenos Aires, you came up with a name for me (laughter). 

 Q.  Could it be a new grand Willie? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah, but if I need to do again, it's going to be tough. 

 Q.  Did you request a wildcard for this tournament? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I request, yes. 

 Q.  And it was refused? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yes. 

 Q.  Ljubicic said a few minutes ago that he didn't think a wildcard should be given to anybody who is coming back from being suspended.  How do you feel about that? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I disagree with Ivan.  He think very different than what I think.  The real thing is I don't want to talk about that.  For me I think I say yesterday or two days ago, it's a stupid. 

 Q.  Sorry? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  No, it's all right.  I say it's stupid, you know, to do something else.  If you do something, you pay, if you're on suspension, but you don't need to pay anymore.  You paid before, and I think that this one is another suspension if you don't receive the wildcards or anybody that has a suspension for doping. 
 I think it's stupid from my point of view. 

 Q.  Is there a bad feeling between you and him because of this issue? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  No.  I don't have feelings, not bad, not good.  He is a player, I am a player.  I respect him because he's a great player.  But we don't have a relationship, that sometimes happens. 
 I think if he do very good job when he go to the court, I respect that.  We can think different.  I think different with Ivan, but we don't have any feelings. 

 Q.  So there was not an extra feeling for you on the court? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  No, really, I don't have bad feelings against him.  I respect him because he's a great player.  I think when I get into the court, we try to do -- I try to do my best shot, he tries to do his best shot.  But really I don't have any feeling or any relationship.  Just that's it. 

 Q.  Willie, eight matches, 12 days, win over Federer, the final of the tournament, as you look back over these last 12 days, does it seem a little bit like a dream? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah.  It is.  I enjoy it.  Yeah, really.  Four days ago I start to play first round qualifier, and really I have a lot of confidence in my game.  But I saw it was too far to get into the final.  But really I am playing day by day, better and better.  I have a very good results.  I get confidence, and now I'm in the finals.  Just yeah, it's like a dream. 

 Q.  Guillermo, you've beaten five consecutive seeded players in this tournament.  And now there is just one more significant player for you to beat, Novak Djokovic.  How do you feel about this finale, and it's going to be five sets? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I'm feeling great to be in the final.  I try to beat the six seed in a row.  But the real thing is I know I saw the match this afternoon, and I think that he play very well.  He has a lot of confident.  He makes final in Indian Wells and now he is in final here. 
 I think it's going to be a tough match for me.  But really I feel very confident in my game.  I know if I play well, I have a chance to beat him.  It's just I try to do my best and tomorrow I'm going to start to thinking in the final.  But just today I try to enjoy what I did. 

 Q.  If you have to go five sets, when is the last time you played a five-set match? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Oh, long time ago, yeah.  I think it was -- French Open.  It was in the French Open, I had one match in five sets, and it was two years ago or a year and a half ago. 
 I feel very great physically.  I know I'm prepared to play five sets.  I didn't feel tired -- I did feel tired today because I played a lot of matches these two weeks.  But I have the day off, and I'm going to be ready for the Sunday match. 

 Q.  When you were refused the wildcard, was that after you had beaten Federer? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yes, I beat Federer, and the next day I received that I didn't have. 

 Q.  No explanation? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  No, just say no. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT