SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2007
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Guillermo, really tough first set.  You had all those breakpoint chances.  You had four set points before the tiebreaker.  As you went into the tiebreaker, did you really feel that you had already won the set? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I feel really when you have a lot of chances, it's tough to be focused, or continue focus.  But really, I think I had luck in the tournament, because I have two nets, or he had two nets and the point goes to me. 
 Really it was great to win the first set, because after that I feel more confidence, and he go down.  But really I have a lot of chances and I didn't take it.  Sometimes it's tough to recover after that. 

 Q.  What does it mean to you to follow up a big win of Federer with another win of this kind? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Really, I try to learn from the last time.  Because it was tough to me to get into the court after beat Roger in Indian Wells.  But here I tried to be focused.  I tried to be concentrate because I think Tommy is tough for me.  He's a tough match for any player. 
 I tried to be focused and just to learn what happened the last time.  But really I think I'm very happy to win today and to be in the semifinals. 

 Q.  It looks like you've really improved your first serve.  I mean, even Roger said since you came back, your serve is so much stronger now. 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah, I try to improve every day.  I try to improve my game every day.  I think I improve a lot my backhand, too.  I improved my serve.  I know I need to improve a lot of things. 
 I tried to improve my game to go to the net, more accuracy, and -- more aggressive.  And I know I need to improve every day, and I try to do my best. 

 Q.  Now that you're back and in the mix among the top players and stuff on a regular basis, are there any lingering effects from the suspension?  Do you think people view you differently?  Do you think there's any resentment at you for the way you're back? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I don't know.  The real thing is I don't know.  Just I try to be focused on my tennis.  I'm trying to spend time with the people I love.  I try to spend time with the players I have a very good relationship. 
 But the real thing is I don't know.  Just I come here to do my best again.  I try here to prove my innocence.  I feel very innocent.  I've proven in the test, and now in Swiss, and another part of this history.  But really I try to be focused on the tennis, and when I get into the court I try to do my best. 

 Q.  Were you concerned at all that people would look at you a different way when you came back? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Not really.  Just the looking at Cañas fighting every point.  Looking at the player before, the tough player on the court.  And I think they look the same guy that was before, just everybody know I didn't do nothing to take advantage in any way. 
 I am the same player I was before, just more happy when I get into the court, because I enjoy every day more and more. 

 Q.  And the Player Council just voted now to remove this wildcard benefit for people coming back from suspension.  What do you think about that? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Stupid.  I think it's stupid.  That's it. 

 Q.  And now you're going to play Ivan Ljubicic, what do you feel about that match? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I feel great because I'm in the semifinals.  I know they're going to be tough, because Ivan is tough player, and he had very good serve.  He's very accuracy.  But I'm very confident in my game.  I know to beat these players, you need to be 100% in the court.  I try to be 100% tomorrow. 
 Just I tried to enjoy to be again in one semifinals in a Master Series.  For me, it's great, and I try to enjoy a lot. 

 Q.  How's it been out there?  A lot of crowd support, lot of Argentinians out there for you? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  They feel great.  They feel really great, because it's like playing in home.  It's my small Argentina on the court.  It's great to have a lot of people from my country.  A lot of Latin people support me every match, and I hope tomorrow they coming to support me because it's great to go outside on the court and enjoy this crowd to support each player. 

 Q.  Do you feel energy, maybe if you're down a little bit, and they start chanting and wave the flag? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah, for me it's great to have this support.  If you have maybe a tough moment, they give you a lot of support, lot of energy to don't go down.  It's great.  Really, it's better to play with the crowd on your side. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT