SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2007
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  It could be said that beating Roger Federer once, you need a bit of luck, but to do it twice you need a tremendous amount of ability, as well.  How would you sum up your two performances against him?   
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Really, I don't know.  Just I'm happy.  I think I played great tennis today, too, and for me it's like a dream.  Beat two weeks in a row the No. 1 of the world is amazing.   
 Just I tried to enjoy it.  I don't know what I do, just I know I played very good tennis.  But really, in this moment, I don't know, just I'm trying to enjoy the moment.   
  
  Q.  Roger said that this is almost the South American Open, the South American Grand Slam, that so many people come here.  Is that the feeling you have?   
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yes (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Is this one of the important tournaments for you to win?   
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I don't know if it's an important tournament, but many people from South America live in Miami, and the other half, they come to watch this tournament.  I think for us it's very important to play here.   
 We love to play here in Miami, and many Argentinian players have a house here, and for us it's great.   
 It's just we try to enjoy it a lot.  We have a lot of support for the people in my country, for the people in South America.   
  
  Q.  Do you think there will be a lot of players in the locker room asking you what the secret is?   
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  No, because I don't know.  The real thing is I don't know.  Just I go there, I try to play my best tennis.  I think I have luck because I played very good tennis last week against him, and I think today was better than last week because I think that he played better tennis, too, and it was a great match.   
 Really, I'm surprised because I beat two times the No. 1 in the world.  Really, I don't know what is my secret but just I'm surprised because I played very good.   
  
  Q.  In that final set you were a break down and Roger had the points for a double break.  How did you feel at that moment having to fight back like that?  Did you say to yourself, One point at a time?  Is this what went through your mind?   
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I feel like I played very good tennis, but he played better than me.  Just I tried to fight him every point.  Sometimes I get nervous because really, I feel I played great tennis, but he played better than me.   
 Just I tried to play point by point.  I tried to do my best every point.  Really, in that moment I have a little luck because I have many, many break points for go to break down, and I think I played very well that points.  And really in the match when it was 2-1 it was just one break and then I have a chance at 4-3, I take it.   
 Then after that I think it was for anyone.  I think I'm very happy because I played both tiebreaks very well.   
  
  Q.  When you were away from the tour when Roger was so, so dominant - not that he still isn't - but do you think you have less fear because of that, because you did not play him the last couple of years when he was winning everything?   
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I think he's still winning everything.  The first Grand Slam, he win all the tournaments he played.  For me, like I said, I just go there, I try to enjoy the moment I play with the No. 1 of the world.   
 I tried to do my best on the court, and really I have a lot of luck last week and this week, because sometimes it's tough to play well with the No. 1 of the world.  I think I have luck because I played very well the two matches.   
 But really I'm just -- after when I come back, just I try to play all the matches with my best.  I try to enjoy day by day when I get into the court.   
 But with Roger and with all the players, for me it's the same.   
  
  Q.  Aside from luck, is there any other common factor between the two victories to you, any particular strength?   
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  No, I think I played very good tennis.  I think today I fight him a lot, play the important point very well.  I think I play the third set very good.  The important moments in the tiebreak really I'm surprised because I play very good.   
 I go to take the point, I go to the net.  I think I played very aggressive tennis very well.  Really I don't know what the key is to beat him.  I just try to fight every point, and I think for that I beat him to tennis.   
  
  Q.  You've had to qualify for both Indian Wells and for here.  Do you think that that has sharpened you, made you more -- I know you were a fighter always, but because you have to fight to get into the tournament that when you actually start it you're in a much more strong frame of mind to play?   
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I don't know, because I think when I come the tournament I don't have the ranking to get in.  But when I play I was inside of 60th and I get in the tournaments.   
 Just I try to win all the matches I go to the court.  I don't know if I fight more because I played quallies.  I think if I didn't play quallies I'm going to fight the same thing.  Just I have -- I am lucky to play quallies because my ranking was high at that moment.   
 But when I get into the court I try to win all the matches I can or I try to play my best.   
  
  Q.  How deep do you think you can now go in the tournament, because last time you beat Roger you lost to Moya in the next round.  I think you play Robredo next.  How do you feel about that match?   
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  It's tough.  Last week when I finish, or when I beat Roger, it was a surprise for me because I was -- like I win the big tournament.  Everybody want to interview me and it was great, but it was a surprise.   
 Now this is my second time.  I'm very happy, but I try to be focused on the tournament.  I have tomorrow the day off.  I'll try to recover because for me it was tough.  I finished a little bit tired today.  But I try to be ready for the next -- really, I want to continue winning in this tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT