SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 26, 2007
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  You must be very, very happy with the way you played against Richard today. 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah, I think I played very well, very intelligent.  I'm very happy with it.  I think I played a very good match. 

 Q.  Really not much time to celebrate because tomorrow very a big match.  Are you ready? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah, I am ready, yes.  I'm ready.  I'm ready to enjoy it again, to be in the center court against the No. 1 in the world.  Yes, I'm ready. 

 Q.  It will be daytime, not nighttime.  Does that suit you? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  No, I think it's okay.  I have like 20 hours to be recovered from this match.  I think today was a very, very tough match, and I'm going to be ready for tomorrow.  Yes, sure. 

 Q.  When you look back at the last six months, does it still seem a little bit like a dream? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah, I think a little bit like -- not like a dream.  I don't know how to explain, but just when I saw what I did these six months I try to enjoy every day. 
 I don't know if it's a dream or not, but I try to enjoy every day.  I try to be 100 percent every day in what I do, and really, I'm very happy with what I did in this six months. 

 Q.  Do you feel a higher degree of confidence today than you did even when you arrived into the Top 10? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I've improved a lot in many things.  I think I'm playing very good tennis and improving my tennis and improving my mentality, and I think at this moment I'm as strong a player as I was in Top 10, sure. 

 Q.  And your mobility seems so much better now because your knee problem seems to be a thing of the past. 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah, and this is a good thing.  I don't have pain in my knee.  Yeah, now I'm recovered from that.  I dealt with this for two years, now I'm very good with my knee. 
 It's great, but now I'm two years more old and it's tough to recover, but I'm happy with the way I am or the way I've stayed in my physically, in my mentality, and in my game, too. 

 Q.  The conditions here are very different from Indian Wells.  The air is not as thin, the balls don't fly as far.  Do you have to change your tactics when you play Federer in these kind of conditions? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  Yeah, maybe a little bit.  Maybe a little bit, but just the real thing is I don't think in the match for tomorrow, just in the moment I try to enjoy the match from today. 
 I know it's tough to beat every week or two weeks in a row the No. 1 in the world, just I try to enjoy.  I try to drink, and maybe that happen.  But the only thing is tomorrow I'm going to get into that court and enjoy it and I'm going to play my best tennis I can. 

 Q.  What is your secret for playing Federer? 
 GUILLERMO CAÑAS:  I don't have any secret, just I have luck last week, and I'll try to have luck this week, too (laughter). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT