SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 22, 2007
Guillermo Canas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  You've had a pretty remarkable two or three weeks, in fact, four or five months.  Why do you think you've been able to get your form back as quickly as you have and had so many good wins? 
 GUILLERMO CANAS:  Because I think I prepare very well before I started.  I think I practiced very hard before September 11th.  I think it was hard practice, then for the last four months before I started, and I feel ready before I start. 
 I have a lot because I played very well the first tournaments and then I get good confidence in my game.  Week by week, I'm getting better in my tennis, in my mentality, in my performance, and then I think it was a gift for now in good moment. 

 Q.  When Tim was playing so well for 45 minutes today, a set and a break up, did you still have in the back of your mind that you have such a good record against him that you felt it was -- 
 GUILLERMO CANAS:  Well, not really.  It's just I think in the beginning of the match I didn't play my best tennis but Tim played very well.  Maybe that was the key, because he didn't give me a chance to play well.  Everything what I do, he do better. 
 After when he was a break up in the second set, I think I changed a little bit.  I tried to play -- to return better, just tried to play more aggressive in my game. 
 Now I have a lot because I break back very soon, and then the match was tough again, and I think there I start to play better.  I start to make a better position and start to move more aggressive in my game. 
 For that maybe that give me more confidence in my game, but I think it was a very tough match.  I'm very happy because I think it was a tough match for me and for first round.  It's very tough to beat one player like Tim, and I'm happy today. 

 Q.  Do you also think because of your history with Tim, because of Melbourne and the matches, does that help when you're on court and he's playing well? 
 GUILLERMO CANAS:  Yeah, sometimes before you start the match, you know, you're thinking that, and that is confidence for you.  But every match is different.  You know, I know when I got into the court, Tim, they're going to make different things to try to beat me, and this one is tough. 
 But when you are in there in the court, you don't think of the matches before.  It's just you're thinking this match and it's just you're thinking to play better to try to pass him.  But today I think I do very well in the second set.  I'm very happy with my performance today. 

 Q.  Do you record this as almost a second career? 
 GUILLERMO CANAS:  For me? 

 Q.  For you.  You've had one career, now you're having No. 2? 
 GUILLERMO CANAS:  I think maybe it's No. 1.  After my first surgery, my second surgery, the thing that happened to me with the Open, and really, really many started again and many things.  I hope this one is the last.  I'm getting old, and this one I hope is the last time. 
 I need to start with zero.  But really, I'm very happy the moment I have.  I'm very happy what happened to me in this moment, and the real thing is I'm very happy because I enjoy every moment I'm in the court, out of the court, and this one for me is great. 

 Q.  Would you be sad to see someone like Henman retire from the game because of the style he plays?  For you personally, obviously. 
 GUILLERMO CANAS:  For me personally because I have good relations with him.  We've played many tough matches.  I have in my memory good -- remember the matches I played against him, and they're going to be sad for me because I have friendly moments, tough moments. 
 They're going to be tough for tennis because he's the last players that plays the way he plays, and it's nice to watch him play.  It's very nice to see the tennis how he sees in the court. 
 Yeah, but I think we have one, maybe two more years, I hope, for Henman.  And now I know he's getting old.  I'm getting old, too.  And maybe, I hope he have a very good year to continue play. 

 Q.  That match in Melbourne, you played a lot of classic matches, but where does that one sit with you? 
 GUILLERMO CANAS:  For me it's one of the most important moments in my career, one of the matches I never forget.  I think for him, too (laughing).  For me it was happy; for him, not.  But really, it was a terrible match, was incredible, because it was five hours of fighting there. 
 Really it's the match what I'm going to remember for many years.  When I retire I'm going to still remember that match. 
 It's great to have a match like this in my mind against one player like Tim because I have a very -- I have a respect for him because he was one of the big players.  I hope we have one more match like that in -- 

 Q.  Wimbledon? 
 GUILLERMO CANAS:  (Laughing) I hope not in Wimbledon, but in another Grand Slam.  I hope so. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT