CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 18, 2020
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. First of all, how do you feel about your round today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I'm very happy.  You know, I play pretty solid overall.  Even from the beginning I hit a really good shot into the 1st and it spun back all the way and three-putted.
Other than that made couple silly mistakes, but I played really solid.  Hit my driver much better and hit a lot of good irons, so I gave myself lots of chances.
Q. How did today's round feel compared to other years you played here?  You have done really well at this course before.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I love this place.  I love tree-lined courses.  It's always in such good condition, so I always love coming to Portland.  It's playing so different though.  Normally it's pretty bouncy, you know, really firm and bouncing on the fairways.
Now it's super soft, so it's very different.  Still a really good golf course, so I love it.
Q. And you have had poor weather lately, but you also had poor weather at the Ladies Scottish Open and you did really well.  Do you think you like playing sort of that rainy weather?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No.  I prefer sunny and not rainy.  You know, sometimes you just have to take what it comes.  It is the same for everybody and it's not fun, but I feel like you have to have a good attitude, otherwise you're already behind.
I always try to do that, you know.  Regardless of the weather, just try to have the best attitude possible and just play golf.
Q. Some of your sponsors are out here watching you play.  How much does it mean to you to play this event with your sponsors here?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I love it.  You know, I was just talking to him because he follow me and I make two birdies out of the last three.  So I'm like, You need to follow me more often.
It's really nice to come here and have their support and know that they support the LPGA.  It makes me feel really good that I represent such a good company.
Q. Two more questions:  Earlier this week we had sort of unhealthy air quality.  How did you feel today physically?  Was a lot better than the previous couple days?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah.  To be honest, I haven't struggled physically.  I tried to not be out here for so long.  I was trying to be smart with my practice.  The first day when we landed on Monday I actually felt like pretty scratchy throat.
Other than, I haven't been so bad.  I think the storm overnight really help.  Today has been good, so much better.  So I think the LPGA has done a really good job keeping us safe and letting us be out here when we could and not out here when we couldn't.
I think we all done a really good job.
Q. Last question.  What are you going to do to relax?  Listen to music or watch Netflix?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Today?
Q. Yes.  Before the next couple rounds.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Today I'm going to go and watch the U.S. Open, but normally I like watching Netflix, going to coffee shops, especially in Portland.  Obviously it's not possible anymore this year.  Hopefully next year.
But Portland is such a great place.  It's such a shame what everything is happening.
But I'll probably watch the men's golf for a little bit and then watch a couple shows.
Q. Okay, sorry.  This is the last question.  I promise.  What is your go-to order at the coffee shop?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I normally get a matcha latte or just a latte.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT