MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 11, 2019
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was a beautiful final shot, a perfect shot.  What a dramatic way to end the day and turn a pretty good round into an excellent round.  What was really working for out there today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I guess everything.  When you shoot 65 you don't miss much.  I hit my driver much better today.  I was struggling the last couple of weeks, so today was much better.  Gave myself lots of chances from the fairway.  When you're in the fairway everything is much easier.
My putting was great.  All my long putts were literally tap-ins.  I almost made them.  And then I had a lot of chances that didn't go in, but a lot of them did.  And then obviously finishing with an eagle was amazing.
Q. You had the week off last week.  What did you work on or tap into that played out so beautifully today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I took a few days off.  I needed it.  I think I was a bit tired.  So few days off and then I didn't do much.  It's pretty hot in Florida, so I was very smart with my practice.  I went three, four hours a day and did what I needed to.
I think the key, I've actually got a new driver from Ping this week and it's been working much better.
Q. What was it like to end your round with an eagle?  Huge difference in 4-under and 6-under with the leaderboard.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, for sure.  Obviously I gave myself a pretty good chance for birdie, so that's what I was hoping, just make up and down.  You never complain when you chip in, especially on the last hole.  Dinner is going to be much tastier.
Q. What was it like on the course today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Actually I feel like the morning was a bit easier because there was no wind.  The afternoon was quite tricky.  I think my caddie and I did a great job managing that.  Sometimes it was gusting and we didn't know where it was coming from.  We did guess right, so hit a lot of good shots into the greens.
Q. Tomorrow you'll be in the morning.  Do you think you're in a good position to make a big move?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Well, I hope so.  I mean, I'll take another day like today.  I'm not complaining.  Obviously 6-under in the morning, in the afternoon, any day, it's a really good round.
Hopefully the greens will be a bit softer.  It was quite bouncy in the afternoon.  It'll be better to score in the morning.
Q. Putting up a number like that on day one, what does that do for you and your confidence heading into round two?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Obviously gives me confidence, but I try to take day by day.  Tomorrow is a new day.  I start fresh.
You know, I've been hitting ball really well today so I have good feelings, and hopefully I can keep that going for the next few days.
Q. After round one, how does this course play to your strengths?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I really like it.  I feel you have to really hit good drives, and today I feel that's what I did the best.  I was always in position and if I wasn't I was barely off the fairways.
I gave myself of lot the chances to go fro the greens, especially in the afternoon when the greens are getting firmer.  If you're not in the fairways it's quite tricky.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT