U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Very nice round by you today.  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Thank you.   
 Q.  You're smiling about it.  Tell me what was the best part?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I think my short game.  I started the round making a 10-footer for par on the 1st and another one on the second, so that was huge.  I was even par without hitting any greens yet.  After that, I think I come down a little bit, and I start hitting better shots and gave myself a few good looks, but even when I didn't, my putting was really good today.  So that saved me a little bit.   
 Q.  On your birdies, did you hit it close to the hole, or did you make some long putts?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I made -- two were close.  Three were close.  One was a really long putt, actually, probably a 40-footer.  Yeah on 14.   
 Q.  So how are you feeling these days?  Are you feeling pretty strong?  You had some health struggles, and, you know, you're 3 under at the Women's Open.  That's pretty darn good.  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: This year's been great.  I've been feeling so much better now.  I'm also smarter about it.  So when I have days that I'm not feeling so great or a bit more tired, then I take it easier.  Before, I used to keep forcing myself so I only got even more tired.   
But even my bad days now are so much better.  So I don't know if I'm 100 percent, because I can't remember what that was like, but I've been feeling really good, and I have energy.  And it's so much easier to play like this.   
 Q.  There's been some discussion by the folks that kind of look at the field and say who has an advantage and that kind of thing.  A lot of people said that the European players would do well because of the bump and run game, et cetera.  Do you think that plays into your favor?  Is that an accurate assessment?  We do have a lot of Europeans at the top of the leaderboards.  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, it might be true.  I grew up in Spain.  There's no bump and runs in Spain.  I've also been in America for 13 years, so I've played most of my golf over here so the girls, the European girls do too.  But if you guys think we have an advantage, I want to believe so.  Why not?   
 Q.  You played well in the afternoon and you have to turn around and play again tomorrow.  What do you do to kind of get things ready so you can do the same thing tomorrow?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Going to do a couple interviews and run to physio.  Hopefully, he can make me feel a little better.  I'm tired right now.  It was hot out there.  But quiet dinner and go to bed as early as I can.   
 Q.  When you do physio, is that like more massage type stuff,  or is it stretching?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: He's an osteo, so a little bit of everything.   
 Q.  Thank you.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT