KIA CLASSIC
March 31, 2019
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Five birdies on the front nine for you.  What were working for you out there?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Everything I guess.  I was hitting every fairway.  Hit a lot of good shots and make some really nice putts, especially on the 6th hole.  I made like a 50-footer.  That was definitely not expected.
But I just played really well overall all day.  Yeah, I'm very happy with the finish.
Q. You've played really well recently.  Fourth top 10 in last six events.  What's kicked into gear for you?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I think I'm maybe working on the right things.  Now I'm like I have a goal on things I want to work on and I don't move away from that.
Just making things simple.  I'm also feeling much better, which really helps.  Things have been clicking.  My attitude has been a bit better as well.
I think everything is adding up.
Q. What's been your goal?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Well, I mean, like I have goals with my swing, whatever, that's what I mean, but I don't move from that.  Before it would be like every day, Oh, let's see how I feel, and I would really move away from.
Now, regardless of how I feel, I work on something and I don't move from that.
Q. What are feeling better from?  What was hurting?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I just didn't have much energy and like I been -- well, I went through these problems and now I'm feeling much better, and obviously it's so much easy to practice and play when I have energy and I feel better.
So I think that's really helping a lot.
Q. If you don't mind me asking, what were the problems?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Well, couple years ago I got diagnosed with Hashimoto's Disease, which is bad thyroid problem.  It took me long time it discover what it was.  I was feeling bad for a long time, and it took me a while to level everything up.
Finally I'm where I'm supposed to be, and now I know how to how to deal with it.  It's much better.
Q. Your last win was in it 2012.  Being so close this year, has it been frustrating at all for you?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: No, it has not been frustrating.  Obviously the goal is winning and I would love to hold that trophy again, but I think I'm doing the right things.
The more I put myself in that situation, the more chances I'm going to give myself, and I believe eventually it's going to happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT