BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 23, 2019
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was the round of the week.  Bogey-free.  Tell me about what was working.  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, it was fun.  Everything was working.  I hit my tee shots really well and I hit a lot of greens and finally made some nice putts.   
But I just gave myself lots of opportunities.  I also made an eagle chipping in on 15, so that was a bonus.   
Overall, very nice round.   
 Q.  15 is the Aon Risk Reward Challenge hole.  Talk me through your strategy playing that hole today.  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It was funny, because I hit a really good driver and then I was going for the green, but I actually hit it like chunky and left, so I actually -- it's exactly what I would've laid it up.  I was joking and my caddie is saying, Oh, nice layup, and then I made it.   
If I would've gone for the green it would've been a better eagle, but I'll still take it.   
 Q.  So you went to ASU?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah.   
 Q.  How comfortable are you playing in Phoenix?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I love it.  It's nice to walk around and some people say, Go Devils, ASU.  I just love going back.  I always say that if I -- because the first three years I was on the tour I kept going back and forth to Spain, so when eventually I moved to America I moved to Florida.   
But I would've moved here if I moved right away.  I just love it.  It's just closer to home to be in Florida.  I love it.  The desert and the weather and everything.   
 Q.  What's so special about this event with the Founders and the DriveOn campaign launching this week.  You've been open about your struggles your thyroid issue.  What did seeing that DriveOn campaign mean to you?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It's amazing.  Like I didn't know what to expect when Mike sent us the video.  It's so well done.  I think it means a lot for a lot of girls.  Everybody has their own struggles.  I don't think anybody just goes through life and everything is so easy.  I think it's going to touch everybody.   
This tournament obviously the Founders, what they did for us, was incredible.  I don't think I could have done it, just drive from place to place.  You know what I mean?  They did it all.  They did all the cleanings every week, and it's amazing what they did for us and we are all super grateful.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT