HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2019
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 3-under round today, still very hot here.  Pin placements I think were a little more accessible.  What was good about your game today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I played really steady again.  You know, hit my driver really well, so I was always in position and hit my irons really well.
Today actually, I feel like I make a couple more putts.  I also hit a couple really good shots that went over the green and I ended up making bogey, and then I made a silly bogey on No. 8, chunking my third shot.  Other than that I played really well and had a really nice attitude, so proud of myself.
Q. Is this a golf course you've always liked?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: No, I liked the other one.  I've done really well on the other one.  This one I only played once before and I didn't play that great, so first time.
Q. What was it like playing in the final group?  Amy, overnight leader, didn't get off to the best of starts.  Ariya, playing ahead of you, obviously in a very good position right now.  How much fun was it playing in your group?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I loved it.  I love Amy, so it's always really fun playing with her, and Inbee is one of my really good friends on Tour, as well, so it was a very friendly group.  I haven't been in the last group for a long time.
I've had a good finish lately, but having a really good Sunday, so it was really fun playing in the last group and feeling the nerves again.
Q. You're three off the pace heading into the final round.  What are your thoughts going into day four here?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: You just never know what can happen.  This is a golf course that if you play well, you can make birdies, but it can also bite you in the booty.  You just have to play smart, and you can be very aggressive.
So even though I'm behind, I'm just going to keep playing the game I've been playing.  You know, trying to attack the pins I can and just take my pars when I cannot.  At the end of the day, hopefully I can make a few more putts and we'll be good to go.
Q. You're a five-time winner on the Ladies European Tour, just the one win on the LPGA Tour and I think that was seven years ago.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, it was a long time ago, so it would be really nice to do it again.
Q. Everyone refers to this as "Asia's Major."  It's an elite field.  You look at the number of top-ranked players in the world on that leaderboard.  How much more valuable is it to do well in a tournament where you've got so many great players?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It's amazing.  To be perfectly honest, on the LPGA Tour, every week is a really strong field.  It's not any other tour, where the pH PGA TOUR, you barely get the Top-10 guys together.
We play really strong fields week-in and week-out, but this one, definitely, the Top-10 are here, and 14 of the Top 15, and then the golf course is really tough.
It makes me feel really good.  I've been working really hard in the off-season and I think working on the right things, and it's nice to see that it's paying off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT