HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 1, 2019
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good effort today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, I just played really well.  I hit lots of fairways, lots of greens and I think the only green -- I missed a couple of greens but I was still putting like a yard or two off the green, and then the one on 18, which I made a really nice up-and-down.
But I just played really well.  I hit, again, lots of good drivers and then gave myself lots of chances.
Q. And you've just said the other day, it's really close.  Was there anything that you did to make it click today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: No, it doesn't take much to go from a really good round to not, you know, to an okay round, so today I hit a couple of them, like really tap-ins and those were easy birdies.  That was the difference, really, a couple tap-s in.
Q. And your score has been pretty impressive compared to many of the scores out there today.  Is it playing harder today?  It's not great scoring today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I never know that.  Like I was talking to my caddie the other day, how when I don't play great, then I think the course is tougher.  But then when I played good, I don't think it's difficult.  But it's happened a couple times that I've had a really good round and he'll be like, oh, that was amazing, and I was like, oh, really?  I don't know.
Maybe a couple pins were on the front and it's hard to hit it close.  You just have to be careful out here.  There's a lot of holes that you just have to accept that you are going to be 25, 30 feet away.
Q. And not to be so aggressive, a lot of people have said that.  Are you finding the last greens suiting you?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I love fast greens.
Q. Also a lot of roll-offs off the greens, do you like that sort of target?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I do.  I like target golf.  I've been hitting my irons really well, so I think that's probably why I'm doing good because I'm hitting -- you know, it's hard to hit greens and I'm hitting my irons really well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT