KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY GEICO
May 17, 2018
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you feel overall out there today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I felt great.  I hit so many good shots; gave myself a lot of opportunities; made some really nice putts.
I had a little bonus of a birdie on my 17th, the 8th.  I hit it left on my second shot and I made a really nice chip.  It was a bit too firm, but it was really nice.
Then it felt awesome finishing with the par save on the last.
So overall really good.  Hit lots of fairways, lots of greens, and played pretty solid.
Q. Did you chip in on 17?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah.
Q. From how far?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: So kind of pin high on the left.  Might have been, I don't know, 12, 13 yards.  Yeah, just a little chip and run.
Q. You started off with a bogey.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: With a bogey, yeah.
Q. And then just make seven birdies the rest of the day.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah.
Q. Hit a poor tee ball or...
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I did, yeah, and then I almost made par.  I lipped out.  I hit a really nice putt, but, yeah, I didn't have a chance to go to the greens, so...
Q. You've played here a lot over the years, right?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Every time, yeah.
Q. Every time.  Okay.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Well, every time I've been on tour.  I don't know how many times that's been.
Q. You like the course?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I love it.  It's one of the best ones we play.
Q. Do you think it suits your game as well?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I think when you play good, everything suits you.  But I feel like it's a ball strikers golf course.  The greens are so pure.  It's one of those if you play good you're going to score nicely.
Q. How are you feeling physically these days?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, good.  I have my days.  Sometimes I'm a little tired, but nothing -- like I'm a million times better.  Every now and then I might have one of those days if I push myself a little too much.
But other than that, it's so much better.
Q. Had you ever even heard of the condition before it was diagnosed?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: No.  But it's funny.  That's the reason why I actually wanted to talk about it.  Because now that I had it, so many people have it.
Q. Really?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: And so many people don't know they have it.  So that's the reason I wrote it on Instagram, is because I was feeling like crap for years and I didn't --
Q. For years?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Ever since I can remember I been so tired, so cold, and then lately it was getting really, really bad.  So that's when I kind of start noticing.
I had so much anxiety.  I thought I was stressed out.  When I started losing my hair and everything I thought it was stress.  I was like, Man, I'm really struggling.
So I went to the dermatologist and she's the one that knew it right away.  So the reason why I wanted to write it is because I think so many people probably have it and they just don't know.  They say, Oh, I'm tired.  I'm tired.
That's why I said not feeling good is not normal.  You should feel good.
Q. Right.  Especially when you're so young.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, yeah.  But it's funny.  Most people that get diagnosed are like 30 to 40.
Q. Is that right?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Uh-huh, so...
Q. Since you've been so open about it, have people reached out to you?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: So many.  So many.  Like at the beginning -- so it came out in Hawaii, and as soon as I said it I was like, Oh, my God.  I didn't said the whole thing, but literally I got a stomach ache.
Then we did the Podcast, and they asked me first.  I was like, Oh, okay, I'll talk about it.  And I did talk about it, because so many people got in touch with me after that interview, so many people that were going through the same thing.
There are so many people that have the same symptoms but didn't know.  So they're like, I'm going to go get checked out.  That's also the reason why I wrote the Instagram post.  So many people have reached out to me even asking me what I'm doing.  A lot of people lose hair but don't -- because every doctor is different.  Maybe what they told to do it's worked they didn't know.
So a lot of people have been asking me what I'm doing and all those things.
Q. And you're just on the one medication, right?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah.  And then I got something for my hair, but I don't take it anymore.
Q. And no meat, no fish.  How drastic of a diet change was that for you?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: So it was really lucky.  People actually can't believe it, because I eat a lot and I love everything.  Like I'm one of those that when they say, What should I cook for you?  I mean, you could cook anything.  I love it.
So people couldn't believe that I actually stopped eating meat.  But I feel like because I like everything, I don't mind so much.  Now like people that are not vegan don't understand it.  They literally think the only thing you eat is broccoli.
Q. Right.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: But there is so much.  So many legumes, sweet potatoes, potatoes.  So many veggies, like things that I never touched before.  So, you know.
Q. So are you strictly vegan?  No dairy?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: No dairy.  I mean, if I go somewhere and I know they cooked something with dairy I might make an exception.
But as long as I can control it, no.  No.
Q. So are you one now who when you're on tour do you prepare your own meals?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah.  So like today, for example, the lunch is okay.  Has a little salad bar.  Normally has grilled veggies.  If they don't have grilled veggies, or like a veggies salad, there might be veggies in the meat.
So, I mean, if the veggies are touching the meat, you know, I'm not like a psycho.  I don't want to say that.  Like a lot of people are super strict.
But I brought my own little quinoa with something that I made at home.  I put that on the salad.  Some tournaments you don't need to bring anything.  It's good enough.  They have garbanzo beans or they have beans or some sort of protein.  If they don't, I bring my own.
Q. Do I have this right, late last year an appendectomy?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: No, that was 2016, in December.  So, yeah, last year, on top of I wasn't feeling good I didn't have an off-season, I was so weak.  I was like, Come on.  More?
Q. Was that an emergency?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: So you see how long I took to go to the doctor.  I took three days to go to the hospital.
Q. You must have a high pain threshold.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I do, which is a bad thing.  So I was in a lot pain, but I never been sick before.  So I was like, I think this is gastroenteritis.  I'm going to go to the doctor and they're going to say, Well, you have to wait 24 hours.  Like, it is what it is.
So I was puking and all sorts.  Then the next day I was in so much pain but I thought I was in so much pain because I was puking so much.  It'll get to better.  I could barely walk.  I was like, Oh, Ma, this is bad.
Then my mom, which is in Spain, she said, I really think you have, how you call it appendicitis.
Like, No.  Because it started here.
Q. It usually hits you here.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Normally here, but it can hurt everywhere.  Like I didn't know that.  No, no.  And then finally she told me, she said, Aza, I'm going to go to the doctor in Spain because you have that.  Like you have to go to the doctor.  I was like, I'm not going to make my mom go to the doctor in Spain.
So I went to the doctor and straight in the ER.  I got really lucky.  It didn't burst or anything.
Q. So were they able to do it laparoscopically?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, they did.  They did.  Like through here and a little here.
Q. Were you on tour when this happened?  Was this the off-season?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It was the off-season, so happened in December; the 13th or something.
Q. So you were home where?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Florida.
Q. Okay.  Went to the hospital there?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah.
Q. Man, you've been through it.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It's all right.  Not going to happen again.  The appendicitis is done with me.  I'm done with her.
Q. Are you one now who -- do you do a lot of working out?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I do.  I mean, so that's another thing, too.  Because I was so tired I kind of stop working out with my coach.  I was doing my own thing, but obviously it wasn't golf-related or anything.
But I thought I needed a break because I was so tired.  So then at the end of last year I was feeling so much better, and this off-season we started working again.
I still worked out before, but after every work out I was so tired.  I was kind of doing like 20 minute sessions, and now I'm working out properly again.
Q. Cool.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah.
Q. Any favorite vegan dishes now?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I like everything, but I love everything I get with sweet potatoes.  I'm one of those that like to mix everything.  So like mix a few legumes, sweet potato, avocado, and a lot of veggies.  I'm very lucky because I do love everything, so...
Because I am not vegan.  Like vegan is you don't use anything.  That's why I don't want to use that.  Just say I don't eat meat.
But then the meat people think, Well do you eat chicken?  No, that's meat.  Fish?  No, that's meat.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT