MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 1, 2016
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








AZAHARA MUNOZ: Obviously would have been a shame to finish with a bogey, but I still thought it's a really good round anyway, so just hit a good putt and whatever happens happens.  And it went in, so that makes my lunch taste much better.
Q. How far was that one?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It was probably 20 feet or so.
Q. Did you enjoy the course?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, absolutely.  It's a great golf course, and I think it's nicer playing now than in June.  I think last year was a little cooler the first few days.  But the course is great.  The greens roll really nice, so if you hit a good putt, the ball goes in, and I think we all love that.  The fairways are good.  I'm not saying they're not.  But if a fairway is not great but the greens are nice, you always like the course.  And these greens are amazing.  But it's funny because I mean you feel like you should be hitting it so much closer, but the greens are pretty firm.  So that makes it a bit trickier even when you have short clubs.  But I hit my driver really well, gave myself a lot of chances, hit a couple of par-5s in two, so I birdied with two putts, and I just gave myself a lot of options.
Q. It seemed like you played very consistently today.  You had five birdies, no bogeys.
AZAHARA MUNOZ: No bogeys, yeah.
Q. What was the key to that consistency?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I don't know.  I mean just from the beginning I started hitting the ball really well and I never really got myself in trouble.  Couple of times I had to make a 20-footer and then another 10, maybe a 15-footer for par.  So that was nice to get me going.  That was on the tenth.  But other than that, I played pretty solid.  So I had a lot of birdie chances, and yeah, hopefully I can keep doing that.
Q. What does a round like this do for your confidence going into tomorrow?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah.  It definitely helps.  I was actually not hitting the ball great yesterday and I worked with my husband on something on the range last night, and it really worked.  So I've been hitting the ball much better today.  I'm finally getting my distance back, so it's nice to see the ball flying the shape that I like.  So yeah, we'll probably do a little work after lunch and just get some rest for tomorrow.
Q. There was quite a bit of wind, though, it seemed like during the day.  How did that impact your game at all?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It wasn't enough wind that was really uncomfortable, so it was okay.  But it was definitely windy, probably -- what was it, probably 10 miles per hour?  Yeah, but nothing crazy that you feel so uncomfortable over the ball or anything like that.
Q. And will your strategy be different at all tomorrow?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: No.  Just depends on the weather and where the pins are.  But there's a few pins that you can go for here because the greens are so firm, so whatever happens and you just play for par and when you go for it, you just try to take advantage of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT