OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Overall, how does it feel to be an official Olympian?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It's been amazing. It's funny, because before that, I almost felt like I was already an Olympian, but no, this morning walking to the tee, I thought about it, I actually am an Olympian. It's so good that golf is back in the Olympic Games. It's such an honour to be able to represent your country, always. But in something like this, it's even better.  
   
 Q. How did it go?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I shot 3‑under. I played pretty solid from the beginning. I didn't get myself in much trouble, which is not easy to do out here. Hopefully I keep that going.   
   
 Q. Are you aware that you're one of four Arizona State university players here?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I am.   
   
 Q. In any sense, are you also representing Arizona State?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I guess we are. We have a lot of actually Sun Devils in the Olympics, like swimmers and divers and all those people. They made a huge group on Facebook and we've been sending messages to each other. Obviously my coach, I could not miss it, because everybody's been reminding me. Maybe I wouldn't have thought about it, but our coach has been sending us, the four of us, messages. It's actually five of us.   
   
 Q. Who is the fifth?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Miriam Nagl. Carlota, Giulia, Anna and I. Giulia Molinaro from Italy. It's five of us, so it's very special.   
   
 Q. Are you going to anything tonight?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Maybe men's basketball. Not sure about the time, it's at six. Not sure if we'll have time to get there but hopefully.  
   
 Q. Your thoughts going forward?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: Just keep doing what I'm doing. This course is really tricky, so you have to stay patient. Just hit lots of fairways and lots of greens. Don't want to get ahead of myself. Everybody talks about the medals, but at the end of the day, it's a tournament. If I keep doing what I'm doing, I'll be fine on Saturday.   
   
 Q. What's been the highlight of the week so far for you? When did you arrive?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I don't think I can pick one thing. Maybe watching the tennis doubles win the Gold Medal, that was amazing, because Rafa is my idol, and seeing him up on the podium and listening to the anthem, that might be the highlight.   
   
 Q. Was it really inspiring?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It's incredible, because he's such a fighter. They came back and yeah, the last few games were quite incredible. So it's nice to see that he never gives up.   
   
 Q. You're quite a fighter, too. What's your mentality going out there today, and how did you feel walking up to the tee?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I wasn't as nervous as I thought I was going to be. I was nervous but not quite. You know, I've just been trying to smile a lot out there, just keep being patient. This year and last year were pretty tough, so now I'm trying to just relax a little bit, not get so upset when I miss a shot. And that's what I've been doing today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT