ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2016
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not the easiest of approach shots there on 18.  Explain what you were dealing with there.  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: Yeah, obviously I did not want to hit it in the water.  I know you're not supposed to think that, but the lie wasn't the best.  It was a little down, and the wind was really into my face, so we tried to play past the pin, and I mean, the contact was really good, so it just came a little too long and it was quite an impossible putt from there.  But to be honest, I'm glad it just flew the water.   
 Q.  It's your best round of the season.  What were you most pleased with out there today?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: My attitude.  I kept it super calm out there.  I really enjoyed it.  It's so nice to play with Lizette.  When you get a pairing like that, it's just nice.  We had such a good walk, and I never got upset no matter what.  I actually didn't hit my driver really well, so I put myself in not the best positions, but I just took what I got and made the best of it, and I'm really proud of myself for that.   
 Q.  Was there anything leading up to this that led you to believe this round was coming?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: It's funny because I've been really working on my attitude, but the results haven't really showed, even though I've been doing so much better.  But always something happened that it kind of crossed my round.  But I just -- I know I need to keep believing in myself and eventually it's going to happen.  It obviously hasn't been the easiest of years for me since the surgery and all of that, but I know I'm a good player, and eventually it's going to happen, so if I keep doing what I'm doing, I think I'll be okay.   
 Q.  Physically you're fine?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: Yeah, yeah.  Now it's actually -- this year is when it finally doesn't hurt when I hit it, so I'm feeling 100 percent like that.  If I touch it a bit, it hurts, but not when I'm hitting it, so it's just a little tender to the touch, but never when I hit it.  So that's all good.   
 Q.  The iron shots, especially at 16 and 17, were pretty tremendous.  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: Yeah, the one on 16 was pretty nice.  I was never expecting to make a birdie on that one, and 17, as well.  I just need to hit a few more fairways tomorrow, but my iron play was really good today.   
 Q.  67 is your best round of the year.  How does that help you confidence going into the rest of the tournament?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: I mean, obviously one round is not going to completely change my confidence, but I'm feeling good.  As I said, I've actually been playing really well and my scores haven't showed it at all.  I think it's just a matter of time when it's going to start happening, and it did today, so hopefully it keeps doing that.   
 Q.  Is this just a lingering deal from the thumb surgery?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: Yeah, uh-huh, but it's all good now.   
 Q.  The other thing is you talked about attitude; can you explain what you've been working on, what maybe troubled you?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: Yeah, when things go your way, it's really easy to be happy and whatever, but I felt like I was hitting good shots, and I would hit it just a little too far so I'd miss the green on the wrong side, just over, and then I would make bogey.  But I know I would make bogey because I got really down on myself quick, instead of having a good attitude and saying, I hit a good shot and let's try to make the best of it.  So I've really been working on that, and it's not easy when you feel like you are doing the right things but things don't turn out your way.  It's really not easy.  But I'm very proud of myself for keeping at it, which it hasn't been real easy lately when the scores obviously haven't been what I was expecting, and I've been putting quite a bit of work in, and it sucks and hurts when things don't go your way when you know you're really doing the right things and working hard.  You know, hopefully everything turns around.   
 Q.  How tricky was the wind at the end of the round?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: It was pretty tricky.  It's funny here, it was so nice before, and right when we made the turn, it really picked up.  But as Lizette and I were saying on 18, well, at least we were lucky, we were only playing the last few like this instead of the whole round, but at least you know where it's coming from.  That's the only thing.   
 Q.  Was it a factor on the bunker shot on 18?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: No, that would have been hard anyways.  Maybe the wind gave me a good excuse, though.   
 Q.  How difficult was that bunker shot?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: It was difficult.  It's the last hole, and the pin is short, and you don't want to go long, but you obviously have to hit a little bit of an extra club just to not hit it in the water, especially with the wind in your face, and it turned out I hit it really good and it flew a little too long.  But I hit a good shot, and I did what I wanted to do, so that's all that matters.   
 Q.  It is the last week of qualifying for the UL International Crown.  Tell us what it's like --  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: To not be there?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: It sucks.  You know, I mean, obviously we won, so I only have the best memories, and UL is one of my sponsors, so I really wish I could be there and represent them, as well.  But it is what it is.  Obviously we haven't been playing as good as we should have, and everybody is really stepping their game.  I think that's only going to make us work harder, and it's really going to hurt watching it on TV, but hopefully we'll be there in Korea.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT