HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 25, 2016
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So the day was obviously very good.  Give me just some quick background.  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: I hit a lot of fairways.  I actually didn't hit a lot of greens at all, but I had a pretty good short game.  My chipping was incredible.  I would just chip everything to like three, four feet, and then I just made all the short ones.  Overall I didn't -- it was weird because I felt like I played -- it was weird.  So I hit really good shots, and then like really good, so I would have like short birdie putts, and then some shots were like pretty bad, but then I would get up-and-down.  So overall I think the key to my round, I kept a pretty good attitude regardless, and I think that helped me.   
 Q.  What have you been working on?  You took last week off?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: Yeah.  Just been working on a couple of things with my coach, but pretty much just making everything more simple.  I'm one of those players that's always taking videos and things like that, so just trying not to check myself so much.   
 Q.  You've backed off the videos?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: Yeah, trying to.   
 Q.  Who are you working with now?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: Well, Tim always helps me, but the Spanish coach, his name is Marcelo Prieto.   
 Q.  Next three days, what's the key?  I know the greens are super fast.  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: I love the greens.  I really like fast greens, so yeah, you always want to be below the hole, but at the same time it's hard because there's so many ridges.  But just keep the same attitude, and I'm going to go hit a few balls on the range, and that's it.   
 Q.  What would a win or a top 5 do for this year, setting the tone?  
AZAHARA MUÑOZ: Yeah, absolutely.  You always want to start the year playing well, but to be honest, I just want to be happy out there.  I know it sounds terrible, but I haven't been very happy lately, so my goal is just to enjoy my day regardless, and I think that'll help me in the long run.  I don't want to set goals like that but just try to enjoy the week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT