ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 14, 2020
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   How are you feeling after your second round today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I'm feeling good.  I've been hitting the ball really well.  Just been playing really steady, lots of fairways, lots of greens, and today I actually didn't hit the ball as good as yesterday but still I was pretty much hitting every green or just off the green but putting.  So I think that's the key in this kind of golf courses, just don't want to get in trouble and that's what I've been doing.
THE MODERATOR:   You talked about this being the kind of course that you have to accept what it gives you.  How did you feel you conquered it today.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Today I didn't have to accept any.  I didn't get any bad bounces or any of that.  You know, I think my caddie and I have been making really good decisions with the clubs.  It's kind of tricky with the wind but I feel he's really good at judging that, so he's been helping me lots.
THE MODERATOR:   We noticed your short game was very well done today.  Is that something that you've been focusing on over the last few weeks or even over the break?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I've been working with my putting a lot.  So actually, trying to make it more simple, just trying to be more fluid, not think so much, and it's really been working, so I'm very happy with it.
THE MODERATOR:   What were some of the highlights you felt?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Just how calm I've been out there.  I've been just playing golf and enjoy being out there, not getting too upset if a ball just goes a bit too or a bit too short.  It so tricky to hit it close on these greens.  That's why it's so important to have really good putting because you're going to have so many three-, four-footers because you're going to have so many long putts because so many times, it's just really hard to get it close.  I think the can he was just to you know, those 30-, 40-footers, I felt really comfortable out there.
THE MODERATOR:   We were talking how this is your first time playing this course, the first time at this event.  What have you taken in now that you have two competitive rounds under your belt?  What are your feelings towards Scottish golf.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I love Scottish golf.  The only reason I've never come to this tournament is it's always the week before the British and it's my only chance to go home to Spain, so I always take the week off and go home and see my family.  I grew up playing the British Girls' and British Amateur, and we used to love coming over here and I love it.  It's where golf started, and it's such a good challenge because you have to be so precise and I really like that.
THE MODERATOR:   I know in Toledo you had a different caddie on the bag and now you have your regular caddie.  What was it like the past two weeks with your husband on the bag?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   It was great.  He's caddied for me before and it just happened that we weren't sure if Marathon was going to happen, so my caddie, Mikey, between maybe marathon wasn't going to happen and he had to come two weeks earlier to quarantine, it was just a lot to then come back here, which he's from England.  He is actually the one if I minded him not coming, which obviously I wish he would have been with me because he's my caddie but I understand.  It's just too much to have to quarantine.
So my husband came to save me and it was great.  Obviously last week, it was my mistake.  I didn't sign the scorecard.  He had two really good weeks.  We played really good golf and he's awesome, so it's really good to have him on the bag.
THE MODERATOR:   What's it like having Mikey back out here on the LPGA Tour?  You've got two events under your belt and two rounds of Scottish golf.  Are you back into it?  Is there a groove you have to get back into?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No, it's so weird, I haven't felt like we had so much time off, even with Mikey, either.  He's such a good caddie and he's so calm and he's really funny.  I mean, we get along great.  Obviously everybody has their moments, but for the most part we get along so well, so it's just so good to be back with him.
THE MODERATOR:   Staring at the weekend ahead of us, you've safely made the cut and you're tied for the lead at the moment.  What does that say about the confidence you have in your game.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I've been playing pretty good the last couple weeks.  I just always feel I have to be a little patient and I think this week I'm doing a really good job at that.  I just need to keep doing what I've been doing, just try not to force things and just let it happen.
THE MODERATOR:   The weather over the fast few days, we've gotten the gambit when it comes to the wind.  Do you feel you have to adjust at all, especially after the delay yesterday.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   You know, it's my first time playing.  I played nine holes on Tuesday, nine holes on Wednesday.  I'm one of those that really trust my caddie.  He has the lines off the tee, so even when the wind switches, he just tells me if it's a different club, if it's a different line and I've been trusting him, so it has not changed that much.  So I feel like whatever we didn't do in practise, it's worked really well.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Very excited.  I haven't been in this position for a while, obviously, since last year.  I'm really happy, hopefully keep doing what I'm doing and we'll see on Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT