CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2014
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I had so many chances and then I made lots of putts.   I made a couple of really long ones and quite a few shorter ones.   
I think the key of my round was on 4.   I was going for it in 2 with a 4‑iron, and I hit it in the water.   You know, I kept it calm.   I knew I could still make up and down for par, and so I did.   After that, everything just went my way.   
   
 Q.   When was the last time you had a round like this?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   9‑under?   I think my rookie year in Morelia, in Mexico, but the course wasn't the same.   I'll take this one.   I is really happy with my round.  
   
 Q.   How about on the 18th hole and that last putt?   Did it look like it was going in?   Would have been a course record?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I know.   I knew that, too.   I just didn't want to miss it low, so it wouldn't have the chance, like Inbee, to run by three, four feet.   So I gave it plenty of break.   It just stayed a little high up, but it was a really good putt so no complaints there.  
   
 Q.   A lot of the players in the first two days had trouble reading the greens.   Obviously you're not having that problem?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I did a little bit yesterday, but not the first round on today.   No, I'm rolling the ball really well.   These greens are pretty true.   If you start the ball on line, it's going to go in.  
   
 Q.   Some of the players may be giving too much break?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I don't know what they are doing.   I know what I'm doing.  
   
 Q.   It's working.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I mean, I'm only playing with where I'm playing.   I don't know what everybody else is doing.  
   
 Q.   You're a couple of back right now of So Yeon.   Have you played with her before?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, plenty of times.   We're actually really good friends.   She's such a good girl.   I think tomorrow is going to be a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you look at what somebody ahead of you is doing or do you want to play consistency and put pressure on them and see what happens?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   That's what I'm going to do.   Actually, I don't think any of these days I've been looking at the leaderboard.   On Thursday, when I got here, I already saw the 8‑under obviously.   
Since I've been on the course, I haven't looked at the leaderboard.   So not until I finished I knew where I stand.   Obviously, I knew with a 9‑under, I was going to be pretty up there.   I'm going to focus on myself and see where that takes me.  
   
 Q.   Is it a little daunting when you saw that 8‑under before you even teed to know that this course had that, to know that's what you are catching up to?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No.   It's actually good because you have a number in mind, you know it's possible.   At least you go out there thinking you can make a lot of birdies.  
   
 Q.   You adjusted pretty well from the first two days to now on the course.   Is something better in your game than it was the first two days?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   First round I played really well, and today I played really well, too.   I just didn't make the putts.   Today I think the make the most.   
Hopefully my putter keeps being hot like it is now and just have fun tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Going to stay with the long sleeves if it's sunny and warm tomorrow?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   They are supposed to keep you cool from the sun.   I will definitely keep them on.  
   
 Q.   So Yeon kept going back to the same restaurant.   Where did you go to eat before a round like this?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yesterday we went to the party, so maybe I need talk to CP and have the party again.   It was a lot of fun.   It was fun to be there.  
   
 Q.   Did last week give you confidence going into this week?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, for sure.   My game has been pretty good all year.   The last couple of months wasn't as good as in the beginning, but still playing really well.   
Ever since the International Crown, I started hitting my irons again really well and last week was super nice.   This is a good‑‑ it was obviously a good feel for this week.  
   
 Q.   When was the last time you were the final group on a Sunday?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Singapore, I think.   A long time ago.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT