KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 15, 2014
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (In progress. )
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I don't think it's easy.   You know, the wind is pretty tricky, but pins were somehow accessible.   Obviously the course is playing is much shorter than normal because it's warmer and drier.
You know, holes I been having 4‑irons in I was having 9‑irons in today.   So it's obviously a big difference for us.   The greens roll nice, so it's real nice to putt.   If you hit a good putt it's going to go in.

Q.   Did you even come close to making a bogey today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   One hole I came close.   I made a 10‑footer for par.

Q.   Which one?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Second one, 11.   Hit it in the bunker and up‑and‑down.

Q.   Obviously you've been very close this year.   Just doing everything pretty well right now?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I've been playing pretty well this year.   Normally my long game is pretty good and my short game is the one that is a little, you know ‑‑ when I do it good I play I good; when I don't, then I play bad.
This year it's been so much better.   I've been having a much better attitude, so it's easier.   When I miss a shot, I don't let it get to me so much like I used to.   I used to get pretty upset, and that really hurt me. 
It's been really nice to have a week off.   I was seven weeks on the road, so the last couple tournaments I was really struggling.   I was tired.   You always get to your bad habits.   So it was nice to have a week at home and practice and get back to it.

Q.   Is improving your attitude not getting upset with yourself about a poor shot, is that a matter of maturity?   Age? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No, I don't think so.   I wish could say that.   I've been working with this guy, Peter Krohn (ph), and he's been helping me so much.   I have been working with him since last September, and I'm just like a different person. 
I have bad days.   Sometimes I just really fall off.   I've never been awful, but like on the inside.   I don't really show it.   Like I'm pretty well behaved.
But this year I've been so much better.   It's just so much easier to have good rounds.   And when you have a bad round, it's not that bad. 

Q.   You're a passionate person and you don't want to lose all of that. 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No, no.   Yeah, of course.   I'm going to keep on (indiscernible) and I don't care if I look crazy.   I love it. 
What I mean is that if I hit a bad shot, I don't let the whole day to be ruined because of that.   If I have a bad round, it is what it is.
I want to play golf, but I don't want to be miserable every time I have a bad round.   You're going to have so many of those in your life.   I don't want to be like that.

Q.   You've been out on the tour long enough and you're really starting to finding yourself and hitting your peak years. 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I hope so.   Now I know everybody and I know all the golf courses and where I'm going, so that really helps out.

Q.   Were you an NCAA champion?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah.

Q.   Did you feel that was pretty instrumental in your development? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Going to college? 

Q.   Yeah. 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I think so, especially I came to the States and I didn't speak English.   I think it's really hard for some of the players that come from Korea and still don't speak English.   It's so hard.   You feel uncomfortable because you can't talk to anyone. 
I think just learning the language and how everybody is.   Obviously we're not that different in Spain, but how you call it, like behaviors are a little bit different.   So learning those. 
The golf courses, too.   Golf courses in Europe are easier and softer and not so much rough.   I think learning to play those in college really helps to get on the LPGA Tour as well.

Q.   You went one year?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I went four.

Q.   Four?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah.   I graduated.

Q.   Did learning a second language come easy to you or was it difficult? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Now it's easy to say, Oh, it was easy, because I don't remember.   But I remember the first month it was tough.   Like I remember walking from class to my dorm thinking, I don't know why I go to class because I can't understand anything.
So the first few months were tough, but then all of a sudden you learn it so quick because you have to.   It's so much easier when you have to.   Like it's not lessons in the afternoon.   It's either I learn it or I don't talk.   And I like to talk, so I had to learn.   (Laughter.) 

Q.   Have you played Pinehurst No. 2? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No. I was going to go last week after Dallas, but I was so tired I decided to just go home.

Q.   Do you think you'll have a chance, or will you go watch the men's?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   That for sure.   I'll watch that.   I'm not playing Manulife.   I have to go get my visa, so I won't have time.   The week before the Open, I think I'm just going to go home.   I like to be home.

Q.   Where is that?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Palm Beach Gardens. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on the Open experience, having the men and women back to back?   A lot of players are saying, Hey, we don't know. 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   It's hard to have an opinion because it's never happened.   I don't want to say I really like it or I don't like it.   I just hope the weather is really good and make everything easier on everybody.

Q.   It would be much easier if you were playing first. 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah.   I like that much better.   I will have no problem then.

Q.   Are you happy to have an afternoon tee time tomorrow?   The weather is supposed to be iffy.   You don't have to be out here early.   Is that an advantage to having an afternoon tee time tomorrow?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I think so.   I think if the weather is how it's supposed to be, like it doesn't change, I think it's definitely an advantage to have an afternoon tee time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT