HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 1, 2014
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     It's my pleasure to welcome Azahara Munoz, fantastic third round, 67, just two shots off the lead.   You have to be very pleased with your moving day, obviously took most advantage of it.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I played really well.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities, and I made really nice putts for par, especially on 17, because that would have left me with a bad taste.   Overall I'm really happy and played the course really well.   Just made a little mistake going in the water on 13 but other than that, I couldn't have played any better.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     You went birdie, bogey, birdie, bounced back really nicely on 14, really let you finish off the round strong. 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I think so, because sometimes you're really upset about things and sometimes you don't.   I hit it in the water, but I actually hit a good shot.   Just took a huge bounce to the right.   I didn't get upset at all.   I just made a bogey. 
On the next one, I was completely calm and I've been playing good. I actually almost made a hole‑in‑one on the next one.   I guess I was lucky so I didn't get too upset about it, so that helped me.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     Karrie said yesterday in tournaments like this when you get re‑paired after every round, this almost felt like a final day with everybody charging at the lead.   Did it have a Sunday feel?   Seemed like everyone was in the zone and charging up the leaderboard.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, everybody is playing really well which I think is going to be lots of fun for tomorrow.   But I looked at the leaderboard a couple times, because they are almost everywhere, so it's impossible but I try not to look so much, so I didn't really know how everybody was doing.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     Are you always a non‑looker? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I used to more, and now I try not to look so much. 

Q.   What are your feelings about tomorrow going up against Karrie Webb with all her experience? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I'm just going to try to keep it as a normal day.   I've been playing really well and putting really well.   It's a new day.   You never know what's going to happen.   I have no expectations, so I'm just going to take it as it comes, and obviously Karrie is such a good player and she's in the Hall of Fame, but you know, I'm just going to try to have a good day out there, hopefully it's good for everybody else, too.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     You're coming off two tied for 11ths in the past two events, playing very well, playing very solid all around.   Any key to the strong start to the season?   I'm sure you did a lot of off‑season training.   What was the key to get off to a strong start.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I think last year, I made the mistake of not seeing my coach for like eight, nine months and I was really struggling.   At the end of the year I go to see him quite a lot.   We were going to make sure we see each other every five, six weeks max.   This off‑season I went home and took a couple weeks off but then I tried to see him at least once a week, even though I wasn't practicing, at least I wanted to see him; so when I get back to the States‑‑ because obviously he's back home.
And then he's been already a couple of times already to Florida to see me, so I think working with him quite a lot consistently has been really helpful.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     What have you been working on the past months or so, anything specifically.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Nothing specific.   I used to work to try to swing a little bit but now I've almost given up on it; my swing is my swing.   I just try to make it work. 
Obviously I know I could make it perfect, but I've been swinging like this for so many years, so I just try to, with what I have, just click on little things that work for me. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   What's his name? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Marcelo Prieto.   He's the Spanish national coach for the amateurs‑‑
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     How long have you been with him‑‑
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   ‑‑ I've known him for a long time but when I was on the Spanish team, there's only so much you can work in tournaments, because he wasn't my coach.   But now this is my third year that we've been working together, or fourth‑‑ third or fourth, I'm not sure. 

Q.   Which of the men has he worked with?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   He works with the ladies amateur team.   He also works with Belam (ph) also.

Q.   As an amateur, what were your strengths and are they the same today? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I think so.   I think my strength has always‑‑ I don't want to say this, but I normally don't get into too much trouble.   I hit a lot of fairways and then I hit a lot of greens, so I give myself quite a lot of opportunities. 
As soon as my putter gets going a little bit, normally that's when I score low. 

Q.   And do you stick with the same putt error do you change it a lot?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   My putter, I used to stick to it more but I changed last year and then at the beginning of this year after Bahamas, the PING rep called me and said they got this new putter that they thought I would really like and he sent it to me and just put it in play.   I'm one of those that doesn't really care what I'm playing with.   I'm like, well, if he thinks it's going to work, I'll put it in and I really like it, starting in Australia.   It's the new PING putter. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     New caddie on the bag‑‑
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     ‑‑ how is that transition going?   How did you guys get set up? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   It's really good.   We talk at the end of last year but I wanted to finish the year with him because I knew I wasn't going to work with him anymore, so we wanted to finish the year.   We started in Bahamas, and so far he's really good. He's a really good caddie.   He's really funny.   He keeps me loose out there and we have a good time. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     What do you think is going to be the key for tomorrow on this course? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Just keep patient.   There are quite a few birdie opportunities, but you can get yourself in a lot of trouble if you really want them really bad.   So I'm just going to try to keep myself calm and be patient and just play the golf course. 

Q.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   I have one follow‑up, first win in 2012, I know a lot of commonality now is people get one win and it's tough to get that No.2, and went with a winless streak for a little bit to No. 3.   Have you been tinkering on what you need to do for No.2?   Has that been something you've been really prying on.
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No, obviously to play good, you have to play really good that week and kind of be lucky that no one else plays that great.   There are so many good players out here.   So obviously I want to get my second win‑‑ it's not something that really upsets me.   I'll be really happy when I do or if I do.   But you know, like I just want to be happy and have a good time out there, and whatever happens, happens. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   Good luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT