SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2013
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You came up just short, but good day overall? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, it was really good.   I was 4‑under through 12 holes, and I was really playing really well.   I made two bogeys coming in but I hit two really good shots and one came up short and one came up long, just misjudged the wind a little bit but I played really well and I had a chance and I'm happy with my week.

Q.   What did you think this morning waking up; did you know that you had to go pretty low to catch her? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, she's playing really well, so you know that she's going to come out strong and play good.   But she's leading, so she's not‑‑ I was thinking she wasn't going to go 5‑ or 6‑under, but, you know, when I was 4‑under through two, obviously I had a chance, we were tied, but she's a really good player.   She made three birdies coming in and that was it.

Q.   We talked yesterday about how you've been playing recently and seems like your game has really taken form again; what does this do for your confidence this week? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   It does a lot.   Well, France help a lot, and I've been playing so bad all year and finally I played a good golf tournament and won in Europe. 
The last couple weeks I've been playing well but every day something happens, like, I don't know, I hit one out‑of‑bounds or I miss short putts or whatever.   Finally this week I put four good rounds and I'm really happy.

Q.   What are your plans the rest of the year?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I'm playing Lorena and then Naples. 

Q.   So how are you feeling going forward? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I'm feeling good.   I'm on an invite in Lorena.   So I'm happy to qualify for CME this week and I'm just going to keep having fun on the golf course and hopefully I'll get to see my coach again before Lorena and keep playing like this.

Q.   You and Suzann were members of two Solheim Cup teams; did that make it any more special today?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I love playing with her.   We are pretty good friends and we had a good chat out there.   You know, it's fun, when you play with people that you like, it's much more enjoyable, so it's good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT