SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2013
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good playing today, what was the difference from the past two days? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I've been playing just as good.   I've been hitting really good shots, but I wasn't making many putts.   Actually I've been missing a few short ones and today I didn't.   That was the difference.

Q.   You've played well in Taiwan the past two years.   I know you finished tied for second the first year.   What is it about this place that you like so much?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I don't know what it is.   I think I don't mind playing in the wind I would say, and maybe everybody else does.   So, I don't know, I just tried to play my game.   My ball doesn't move much in the wind.   That's one of my strengths and I can kind of go right at it kind of.

Q.   Suzann has come back a little bit today to the rest of the field and kind of putting everybody in the mix now; what's your mind‑set going into tomorrow?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I'm just going to go like today and the past two days.   It's been a long year, so it's fun finally being in contention and being in one of either the leading group or second leading groups.   I'm just going to go out there and keep playing like I am.

Q.   Has it been frustrating this year? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, it's been a long year.   I didn't see my coach for a very long time because I moved to the States.   I was trying to make swing changes to my own and it was just a little mess, so now I'm finally back to normal.

Q.   What's been kind of the key?   Did you see your coach?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I saw my coach before Evian and after Evian, and I've just been playing really good.   The last few weeks‑‑ well, I won in France on The European Tour and the last few weeks I've been playing really good, but my putting has been letting me down.   Hopefully I make a few more putts tomorrow.

Q.   Who is your coach? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Marcelo.   He's from Spain. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT