THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 17, 2013
Carlota Ciganda
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was truly one of the most fantastic things I've ever witnessed.   How do you guys feel about it?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I don't even know how I feel.   I was so tired and after nine I told her I got blisters on my feet.   I'm so exhausted, and she said, come on, let's keep it going.   It's really close, so let's just get our point.   
And Carlota was really, at the end, she made a lot of really good putts and we got it done.   Birdieing the 18th is not easy, it's a tough hole.   
   
 Q.   You admit it wasn't your best nine holes of golf, you were a little bit off form.   Suddenly you hit an amazing shot on 10 and it just seemed to revitalize you, is that what happened?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   I wasn't feeling very comfortable, but I just tried to fight until the end.   To give it all.   I love Europe, I love winning, and I love beating the Americans.   And we're going to win tomorrow.   I'm so happy to play with her and it was so great to win on the last hole.   And it looks like we're going to win all the points today, so let's go.  
   
 Q.   There was very little noise out there this afternoon.   Obviously all the blue, that must have inspired you.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, for sure, that's what we have been saying all week.   The better we play, the quieter the crowds are.   Actually at the beginning we were losing 2‑down and the crowds were really loud.   So then we made a couple birdies on 8, I chipped in on 9, and then she made an amazing birdie on 10 and 11 and 12.   Well, yeah, both of us.   
And we played so great.   But we're so proud of everybody.   Everybody played amazing and I think that we're in really good shape for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   I can't remember, but I don't think we ever won an entire afternoon, but it's not over yet.   How do you approach the singles tomorrow?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   We want to try and focus on our game and do what we do and just try to win every point so we can win by 10 or 12, that would be much better.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   We just need to win.   Everybody needs to win their point.   It doesn't matter that we're winning by ‑‑ I don't even know what the score is right now ‑‑ but if everybody wins their point, then we get this done and it will be really good.   
   
 Q.   What a comeback.   Can you explain what happened out there to you today?   
CARLOTA CIGANDA:   It was definitely a tough day.   But we won the point and that's the most important.   I was a bit nervous and I wasn't hitting very well.   But I did some work on the range with the coaches.   And she is my best friend and we just tried to fight until the end.   And I said I know we can do this thing.   And even though we had to wait until the end, we still won the point.  
   
 Q.   You said that just getting a point was all that mattered.   You didn't look at the board, you weren't studying that, you were just trying to do your job and keep it in your favor.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   We knew that the other three matches were winning and we were all squared coming to the 18th.   And we said, at least we need to get half of a point, but obviously, if we could make the leaderboard all blue, that would be amazing.   As someone just said, that's never been done before.   And we're just so happy, the whole team is, we get along really well.   Lotta is amazing and we just wanted this for her.   She's the best.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT