LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 19, 2012
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   6‑under?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yep.

Q.   Run us through those.   How were the putts?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I hit everything super close.   On 11 I hit it to six feet; on 12, seven feet; on 13, five feet; on 16, eight feet; and on 17, four feet. 

Q.   So approach shots were just pretty dead on?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I played pretty good today.

Q.   And then cooled off on the front nine?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I was still hitting really good shots, but putts just weren't dropping.

Q.   And all those were just medium‑range length?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I miss‑‑ I missed a short one on 14.   I missed a four‑footer here, five‑footer, and then on‑‑ no, I mean, they weren't that close.   I guess on 4 it was like a 10‑footer, didn't make it; on 5, the same thing; on 7, probably the same thing, and it lipped out.   It wasn't as close as on the back. 

Q.   Have you played here before?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, the last two years. 

Q.   Everyone says the conditions are a little bit better?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I've never played the course this easy because it's normally cold and really windy.

Q.   And the weather is pretty perfect?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah.

Q.   Just go through the next two rounds.   Do you like three‑round tournaments?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I love them. 

Q.   How important is that to get kind of a good start?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, it's really important because obviously you have one day less, so it's pretty much like we're already on ‑‑ this is Friday, but it's like being on a Saturday almost.   Yeah, it's really important to get a good start because I think in a three‑day event you have to play pretty good the three days.   Four‑day events normally you can get away with one so‑so, but three‑day events, no.

Q.   You got your one win this year, a couple events left.   How are you feeling going out the last stretch of the year?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Well, I feel that I'm playing, again, pretty well.   I was pretty my irons really well today and my driver, too.   Hopefully putts keep dropping and I can be up there. 

Q.   I need to get a couple quotes from players just on the Tour dealing with Doug's passing.   I saw you at the service yesterday.   How are everyone's spirits?   Everyone has the stickers and everything like that.   How is everyone moving on?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I think we all kind of want to play for him because it's easy to say when someone passed away, oh, he's a great person, but he was freaking amazing.   All of us loved him.   I don't know one person that doesn't.   It was really sad and I guess really unexpected, but I guess he's in a better place now, so we just want to play for him.

Q.   Any memories or anything specific you can think of that personified Doug? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I just remember him, he was my rules official in my rookie hours, so I was with him for like three hours.   He was just‑‑ he really liked me for some reason, but he was just always so nice to me.   I don't know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT