SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 2, 2012
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We're here with Azahara Munoz after her round.   Congratulations.   A great day today.   Can you just take me through the day out there and what was working well for you?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Thank you.   Yeah, you know, I've been playing pretty good lately.   Today I actually missed a couple of shots, but I'm putting really well and chipping really well, too.   So that kind of saved me today.  
   
 Q.   I know you're coming off your first victory at Sybase a couple weeks ago.   What was that experience like and how have you taken that and kind of used it for your game this week?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   It's amazing.   You know, because you are waiting for that moment for so long, so finally when it happens, I didn't even know how to feel, but you know, now it kind of hit me and I'm just really, I mean proud of myself.   I'm really happy that I got that first win, and here now, I guess it gives me a little more confidence, you know.   I know I can win and hopefully I'll do it more.  
THE MODERATOR:   And the course conditions out there today, definitely different than yesterday.   Not quite as windy it seemed to be.   Can you just take me through what the conditions were like?   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, it was kind of confusing, actually, because, I guess it rained a lot overnight and the greens were pretty soft.   So sometimes I played for the ball to release, like yesterday.   Then it didn't and the balls bounced back way too much, but it is playing a little softer, so that's going to make the conditions more scorable.  
   
 Q.   And I know you have an exciting afternoon ahead of you.   You're heading into The Golf Channel truck to produce this afternoon.   What are your thoughts about that and how excited are you to try out something a little different?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I'm excited because I think it's going to be fun, but at the same time I'm scared I'm going to screw everything up, but I don't even know what to expect, because I don't know what it's like.   But I guess I'll get a little more appreciation of what the guys do behind the scenes.  
   
 Q.   What was working well for you today?   You played the entire round without a bogey.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah you know, I hit pretty much every green, or when I missed, it was by just a little bit.   I made a chip, so I birdied missing a green.   And then on No. 2 I missed it pretty good on the right side but I made a really nice up‑and‑down and after that everything was pretty simple, hitting a lot of greens.  
   
 Q.   What hole did you chip in on?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I chipped in on 12.   I just went over and chipped it in.  
   
 Q.   How much confidence does the win two weeks ago do for your game?   Did you come in here really, really confident?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No.   I was playing really well before Sybase, too, so it's not that just because I won I'm just a different person or anything.   You know, I was getting more confidence and more confidence after every week because I was playing pretty good, so I guess just a little more.  
   
 Q.   How did you find the attention in your off week considering what happened at Sybase with Morgan?   Did you find last week wasn't really an off‑week because people wanted to talk to you about it?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No.   It wasn't too bad.   I got a lot of interviews the first couple of days, but then after that it was calm and relaxing.  
   
 Q.   And two weeks later what do you think of the whole episode?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   You know, it is what it is.   Everything happened and I'm on a different tournament now and I just want to focus on this one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT