LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 19, 2012
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So tied for the lead with a really nice putt there on 18.   You shot 64 today.   In this wind, that had to feel really good. 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, you know, the good thing about this wind is at least it's consistent.   When it's gusting it's really difficult to judge.   But I don't feel that the wind really bothers me, especially after yesterday, because yesterday was super strong. 
But, yeah, I hit really, really good shots.   On 6 I holed my second shot, and then hit another two like that close.   So, you know, I made really good putts, so it was a really nice round.

Q.   Do you remember what club you hit on 6, your yardage? 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah.   It was a really easy wedge.   Oh, my yardage?   It was 102, I think.

Q.   When you came here this week, did you feel like you had a 64?   Were you feeling good about your game?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, I've been playing much better last couple weeks.   At Kraft and then at San Diego I've been hitting the ball much better, but my putting was kind of out.
These last two weeks I been working really hard on my putting.   I kind of change my setup and I think I'm stroking it better, and I think it's paying off.

Q.   With the conditions, with the hard wind, is that one of your best rounds maybe ever?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   With this much wind, yeah.   Probably, yeah.   My best round is 9‑under, so it's pretty close.   I think I shot 9‑under in Morelia.   Yeah, I'll take it.

Q.   So what do you do to deal with the wind?   Obviously your good at it. 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Well, as I said, the good thing about it is that it's consistent.   So you just have to aim where you're aiming and just trust it.   Forget about where the pin is and focus on the target. 

Q.   First two years you've been out here, what's the most important thing you've learned?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I been lately just trying to enjoy a little more.   I used to get ‑‑ well, except for the last three weeks ‑‑ so frustrated on the golf course.   Every time I miss a shot I was so pissed.   Now I'm trying to let it go.
Like on 2 today I miss a two‑footer.   Normally I would have gone crazy, but today I just said, You know, it's okay. 
Then I made birdie on the next hole.   That was good. 

Q.   You hit close on what two holes?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   On 6 I made it and 14 I hit it like that and on 17 like that, too.

Q.   Easy then.   That's cheating. 
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah.   No. 

Q.   Does to help when you're group is combined 19‑under?
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Both of them are really nice to play with.   We were talking all the time.   Especially these two rounds that have been pretty slow out there, it's really nice to get nice people that you can talk to and laugh with. 
I was making lots of birdies, so you kind of feed of it I guess.   It's fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT