KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2012
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I'm here with Azahara Munoz, and she just shot a 5‑under today to go 4‑under for the tournament, one of the low rounds today.   Just take us through your round and what was really working for you in particular.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   You know, this week I've been struggling hitting my driver.   I just only hit like three or four fairways, so today I started hitting all the fairways and pretty long drives, and my irons were really good.  
But on the front nine I struggled to get the distance right.   But you know, I made a really nice birdie on 9 and that kind of kept me going and on the Back 9 I hit really good iron shots.   I hit it really close and made the putts, so I was really happy with that.  
   
 Q.   You said earlier your hat threw off and obviously it's getting a little windy here.   How happy are you to get your round in before these gusts get pretty bad?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   I was really happy.   I played my last four holes they were pretty windy.   I made birdie, birdie, par and then bogey on the last which kind of stung a little bit, but I'm really happy to be done and the girls out there are going to struggle a little bit.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, what do you think will be the effect with the girls that are out right now?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   It's going to definitely be a factor.   I mean it's so windy.   The only hole that I played with a lot of wind was 18.   I mean I had to back off the ball like three or four times because my hat was blowing off, and putting is really complicated right now.   
   
 Q.   Any strategy, I mean coming into tomorrow it might be just as windy or even worse?   Playing in wind, do you have any prior experience or strategy going into that?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   No.   I mean you just have to focus, try to hit your targets instead of thinking of the wind and just staying stable and fairways and greens as always.  
   
 Q.   And then moving into tomorrow, what are you concentrating on, strengths that you had today that will help you tomorrow?  
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Yeah, hopefully I'll just try to remember what I was feeling today with my driver, and you know, my irons were really good and my putting was really good on the Back 9, so hopefully I can just focus on that and just do the same.  
   
 Q.   Great.   Congratulations.   
AZAHARA MUNOZ:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT