SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 13, 2011
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First off, 4-under par. Can you take me through the round a little bit, and what was working well for you? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, I actually made a few good putts, but I was just hitting it really close. Actually, the holes I didn't hit it close, it's because maybe I went a little over. Like I mis-clubbed it. But I was hitting the ball really well, so...

 Q. I know you had an exciting moment at the Solheim Cup with the experience of Europe winning and your match at the end too. What kind of confidence has that given you going forward? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Well, I took from Solheim that I can perform under pressure, because I was really nervous, but I still played good. So I want to take that. 
 Today is not the same, because it's the first round. But if I'm down the stretch on Sunday, then for sure I'll think about that.

 Q. What has been the biggest difference from last year? Rookie of the Year, kind of got off to a slow start, but you've been playing better of late. What's been the biggest difference for you? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: The biggest difference this year I made a few swing changes, and I made them, I switched coaches in April, so it took me a long time to make the swing changes, and now I'm hitting the ball much better. But at the beginning of the year it was horrendous. 
 Also I think a little bit of pressure like everybody was thinking when are you going to win? Just because you're the Rookie of the Year doesn't mean you're going to go ahead and win. So I think I put a little too much pressure on myself.

 Q. Have you noticed that now lately with the swing feeling better that it's just been easier for you out there and taking a little bit of that pressure off? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, and also I talked to like Cristie Kerr and players that played really well their first year, and they all told me that the second year is the toughest when you actually play really well the first one. So I was thinking, you know, just get through the year, and hopefully next year will be better.

 Q. Is this your first time playing this golf course? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: No, I played last year.

 Q. What's been the difference on this course from this year to last year? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Last year the greens were so firm, so it was really hard to hit it close. I don't know. Today, that's what I'm saying, I just hit it really close. Like every iron was pretty close, so I had a lot of chances.

 Q. What do you think about the course and the facilities and the tournament itself? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Oh, it's awesome, except it's a little too warm for me. It's really good. Everybody's super nice to us. Everything's great, and the course is in really good shape. I mean, we are placing just because you get mud on the ball, but you don't need to place it unless it wasn't so wet. The course is really good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT