THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 24, 2011
Catriona Matthew
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was going through your mind standing over it and talk about how good it felt to hole it?   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I was just thinking I couldn't let Catriona down. We had been fighting so hard all day. I just said I've hit a million balls like this, so I just focused and I hit it.  
  
  Q. What can you say about this young lady?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Oh, it's fantastic. I'm glad I hit the first putt. I was thinking they were going to hole and I was trying to make it -- but Aza was up to it.  
  
  Q. You have a lot of experience, Catriona. How much pressure do you endure in a match of that type?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: You feel a tremendous amount of pressure. It was kind of close all day, and we wanted to get the half a point so we could win that series. We hit some really good shots at some key holes. Aza hit a great putt on 16, and then they made a good birdie on 17.  
  
  Q. Fourball this afternoon, hoe much are you looking forward to that?   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I'm going now, so I'm very much looking forward to it.  
  
  Q. The pressure you must have been under standing over that putt on the 18th with so many people around, can you describe it?   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, I hit a lot of putts like that in my life, so that's what I was thinking. I've made a lot of them, just focus and hit it. It wasn't that far, so...  
  
  Q. With so many people watching?   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I know, but you know what, we've played so good today. We made really good putts and I think we deserved to make that one.  
  
  Q. It was a really close match wasn't it, never more than one hole, was it?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, it was. We both played well, all four of us. We made some good birdies and holed some good putts just around the turn we were 1-down or even. It was a good game and we were able to get half.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your game and all the people around the last game? It was very intense for you, was it?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, with the last game all the crowds are there, and you really want to try to get that half point. It was a great putt we made there at the last.   
  
  Q. The last hole was very important. Were you focusing on every shot?   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Of course, but I was kind of lucky because Catriona hit a huge driver, so I only had 125 to the pin. So thank you.  
  
  Q. What about the last tee shot was very impressive?   
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: Yeah, I was just really get on the fairway and at least have a shot at the green. But I think I was more pumped up and had a few extra yards.  
  
  Q. You had a lot of confidence today?   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, I didn't make that many putts at the beginning.   
 But we both made pretty important putts on the back nine, so that was huge for us.  
  
  Q. Are you going to stay and play?  
 CATRIONA MATTHEW: I think Aza's going back, and I'm going to have a rest.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT