THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 21, 2011
Azahara Munoz
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BETHAN CUTLER: So we have Suzann Pettersen and Azahara Munoz in the interview room. Suzann from Norway, World No. 2 at the moment and the highest ranked player in the tournament. She also won the Ladies Irish Open here at the beginning of August by six strokes. She has a 9-7-5 record in Solheim Cup competition, with 11.5 points scored, and a generally good player. 
 Azahara from Spain is one of five Solheim Cup rookies on the European team who received a pick from Captain Alison Nicholas. She was second to Suzann at the Ladies Irish Open here last month. 
 Suzann, how's it feel to be back here at Killeen Castle after your win and what is the main difference this week? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: There is a huge difference this week. When I was here last week, it was all about me. This week it's all about the team. So it's quite a big difference. It's always good to come back to this place. Obviously, I had a good experience a couple of months ago. It was fantastic then. 
 The course is playing quite a bit different now compared to then, so, overall, it's just great to be here and finally be here because there's been a lot of bussing and waiting the last couple of years. 
 I guess this is my sixth time, so I guess I've been kind of controlling my emotions a bit leading up to this. I remember when I was a rookie, I couldn't sit still for the last couple of months leading up to it. I guess now you know what to expect and you just try to save your energy for the week because you know it's just going to be the best week of the year. We have a great team this year, so it will be a lot of fun.
 BETHAN CUTLER: And Azahara, how have you found the experience of being a rookie on the team so far this week? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: So far it's been great. Everything, since we got to the room and trying on all the new clothes and all the stuff we get, and everybody's taken really good care of us. So I was really excited to be here, but it's been even better. So I just can't wait for Friday and tee it up.

 Q. Welcome back. The weather's slightly different than the last time you were here. How big a factor is that going to play? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, we've been chilling all day, so we're pretty rested up. Hopefully it doesn't get like this -- I think it's supposed to be pretty nice tomorrow, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
 So the good thing about our team is that we all know the course. We've all been here. We've all played our fair share of rounds here. We know how it's played. We've seen the course through dry conditions and pretty soaking conditions. So, for us, we can kind of rest up and recharge our batteries. 
 I think the Americans are desperate to get their rounds in and kind of get to know the place.

 Q. Can you beat this American team? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think this is the best European team I've been a part of. I think overall we have a very consistent team. I think you look at our rookies, I don't look at them as rookies. They've all been out on the main Tours and done well and they've all won. So I think this is the strongest team I've ever been a part of. 
 We have a great captaincy and two really good vice captains, so I think we're in pretty good shape.

 Q. Is that a yes? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Yes, we can beat them.

 Q. Azahara, I know you're very excited about being on the team. Could you just talk to me about where you were and what you were doing while you waited for the phone call? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I was in Canada, and I was going to the airport at 4 in the morning. So I got up at 3:30, and I had an email from Alison - Call me before 1:30. No, before 9:00 Eastern time in New York, so I was freaking out, and I just called her. 
 She's like what are you doing calling me at 3:30, but I was actually awake because I had to go to the airport. I don't know, she kept talking and talking, but she didn't tell me you're on the team. Then finally she did, so that was pretty exciting.
 BETHAN CUTLER: The pair of you are quite good friends, right? So have you embarked any of your knowledge to Azahara this week, Suzann? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Nothing. She has to figure it out herself. That's the way I got through it (laughing). No, just kidding. 
 No, they're all doing great. Like I said, I think they all feel pretty comfortable on the team. I mean, it's equally for us to make sure they feel good and for them to make us feel good. So I think every player is enjoying themselves at the moment. We can't really wait for Friday.

 Q. How significant do you think it is, Suzann, in the overall context of the future of the Solheim Cup and Europe's part, the part that Europe plays in it, that Europe wins now and that we don't go ten years without a European win? Do you think it's important for the relevance of the event itself that Europe do this? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: That's a good question. I don't really think it matters, because all the Solheims that I've been a part of -- I've played six, and we won once of my six. But I must say every year it feels like it's so close. It really comes down to Sunday's single matches. 
 Even though the final numbers might look like it was a walk in the park for the Americans, it usually comes down to certain matches and once the final putt has dropped, the points keep counting. 
 So I would say every single one has been good, close calls for each team to have a chance to win. I think we need to play really well Friday and Saturday, and I think we've all got to go out on Sunday and just find something because we need to play good on Sunday to get this trophy back.

 Q. If they've all been so close, why have we lost so many of them? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Unlucky. Unlucky. I don't know. Why have we lost? I mean, it's margins. Last year the Americans seemed to make those putts on the back nine on Sunday when we missed ours. So that makes the difference. 
 I think there is not one formula to how to win this Cup. But I think a good recipe for us to be at least maybe even or ahead of them going into Sunday, then try to -- I mean, all you've got to do is each one of us has to go out and beat one of those players. 
 I think all our 12 players, we all can take either one of them down. So we've just got to go out and believe in ourselves and believe we can do it. This is our best chance. We're on home soil. We have the crowds on our side. 
 I don't know, a little bit of luck. You don't win without being lucky, and you've got to risk for reward, so we'll see what it all comes down to.

 Q. Suzann, with Annika Sorenstam being on the team this week, can you just tell me what it's like to be reunited with her having experienced playing with her and now seeing her with the team again? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's almost unusual for her not to be here, because she used to be my partner. But she has given me so many great memories from the Solheims. I've learned so much from her being on the same team and playing alongside her. She's a great asset to this team. 
 For all the younger players now coming up, for them to know that Annika's there for them. If they want to chat, if they want advice, just to share ideas, thoughts, I think she's a great asset to the team overall. Her experience and what she's done is phenomenal. 
 I think we've all had her as a role model too. So to finally have her here sitting next to you on the same team is huge.

 Q. What about for you Azahara, is this the first time you've spent so much time with her? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Obviously, as Suzann said, she's a player that all of us look up to, so having her on our side is huge. You know that if you need anything -- like for me, if I want to ask any questions of how I'm going to feel on the course, she's the person to ask because she's been in so many, you know. So I think it's great for our team to have her. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I think everyone knows how she's been on the golf course, but as you get to know her with the regular shoes on, it's a little different situation and you might feel more comfortable being alongside her. I think it's just fantastic.

 Q. The players who are primarily Ladies European Tour players, Hedwall, Boeljon, and Reid, can you tell us a little about them? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Well, Hedwall and Boeljon, as I call her, they play on the LPGA. They pretty much -- Caroline's played a couple. Bowl general's played 10, 12 tournaments this year, so we've been around her. Mel Reid has been dominant on the European side. Just came off another win last week, so she should be in good shape. 
 They're all very, very good players. Like I said, they're rookies, but they've won their fair shares on their own Tour, and they have experience enough to be able to handle this.

 Q. How do you feel about your own game right now? How did you feel yesterday when you were out playing? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I feel great. I can't wait to start on Friday. It's kind of hard to sit around and just wait. That's almost the hardest thing throughout this week. There are a lot of duties that you have to, do and then you're trying to squeeze in whatever practice. 
 With experience, you know there is not going to be too much practice, so I tried to do as much as I could leading up to this. So I feel very good, very relaxed and just really trying to enjoy myself and get the crowd going.

 Q. I wanted to ask how you got in your respective quiz teams last night and how was that? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Did you not see my picture? 

 Q. I haven't, no. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Oh, I tweeted a picture. You should see. You should see what the winning team looks like. 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I was the losing team. I'll show you how the losing looks. 

 Q. So who was --
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: I was. I wasn't on the losing team. I'm blonde, but I'm not stupid.
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Well, she finished third. Where is it? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: There. 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: You want to see it? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Find me. 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: That's how we have to go to the first tee. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: Can we describe it? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, I don't know what the winning team got. 
 SUZANN PETTERSSON: They got a spa day. 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Since I don't need it, I got this. It's like wigs. How do you call that? 
 BETHAN CUTLER: Oh, everybody's wearing a sort of Irish hat, very tall, green hats. And so who were the winners? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: They're all losers. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: They're all losers.
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: We're the underdogs. We're losers. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: Some of them are wearing blonde wigs.

 Q. So you'll wear that tomorrow?
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: To the first tee. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: You won't believe how it looks with all our dresses on. With the wigs, it's going to look fantastic.

 Q. Are you happy with the clothing that's been chosen? As two glamorous ladies, you're probably into your fashion and so on. Do you find the captain's choices of dresses acceptable? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, they're pretty nice. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Not bad nice, but it's pretty nice. We all look the same at least. The Americans will show up in 12 different looks. We all look like a team.

 Q. You'll be the Stepford Wives? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Maybe, that's not a bad thing, is it? 

 Q. How important do you think the reaction of the crowd will be? 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: To be on one's home soil, I think you get the crowds going on your side. You have the crowds as your 15th club in the bag. We need to get them going. 
 I know there are going to be quite a few Americans here I've heard. There aren't too many, but I think we'll be able to quiet them, I think.

 Q. Just on the support, do you know if there's any Spanish support coming out this week? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, my parents are coming. 
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: That's two. 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: That's two. People from my golf course are coming, and then I just found out yesterday that my boyfriend and a few of our friends are coming too, so I'm going to have a few out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT