BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
May 13, 2010
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: Bogey free 7-under 65 today. Great round. Tell us a little bit about it.   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Thank you. Well, you know, like the course is playing tough, but I just hit like every fairway and pretty much every green. The only green I missed I made a bunker shot, so that was nice.  
 I was playing really well. Actually, a lot of putts didn't go in, but like every putt I hit had a chance. So that was good today.   
 MODERATOR: Mexico was sort of famine or feast for you. Talk a little bit about what you took away from that?  
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: You know, obviously I was disappointed after a great first round, but I think I learned a lot. You know, like I have to stay in the present, like one shot at a time.   
 Hopefully I can do that this week.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Which hole did you hole the bunker shot?  
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: 11, which was my second.   
  
  Q. How far?  
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: It was about maybe 15 yards. It was the right side bunker.   
 I missed couple greens, but it was like by this much.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the golf course and how it's playing and how the greens factored into it?  
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Well, I play in the morning so it wasn't too windy. I guess it's gonna be tougher in the afternoon.   
 But it's playing okay now: not too long; not short. The greens are really firm. They didn't play as many pins short, so it was playable today. It was okay.   
  
  Q. Are you a morning person? Do you generally like teeing off before 7:00?  
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: You know, I'm not a morning person at all. This morning I couldn't get up. But once I'm up I like and I get going and it's fine. But I'm not a morning person.  
  
  Q. Talk about what it was like. Irene is also playing well and you are playing well. How much do you feel like you may have fed off each other just the way you were playing.   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Actually it was really nice. I was playing with Irene, which I know from college, and then Stephanie. She was such a sweetheart, so we were talking all the time.   
 It was really a nice round. So I think the three of us play well because of that, you know. We were having a good day.   
  
  Q. You're also the subject of Golf Channel's rookie spotlight today, right? Tomorrow. How does it feel to be a rookie and in the spotlight and then go out and start off with a round like that?  
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I don't know. I mean, I just -- I don't know. I been practicing hard and I'm playing good, so I don't know. I mean, I love doing well.   
 I'm really embarrassed. Like I really don't like the cameras, but it was fun to do. Hopefully it will turn out good.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about playing well in the first round at the last tournament and what happened there and how you can maybe avoid that pitfall this time?  
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah. Well, I been working on my swing with my coach in the two weeks off. So the first round I just went out there and play normal and I play really well, like today.   
 Then the second round I went there and I start thinking of my swing, you know, like coming out this way. So that was big mistake, because that course is very technical. You don't get away with many mistakes. I messed up that, so...  
  
  Q. As a rookie, can you talk about what your goals, are and how does rookie of the year fit into that?  
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I don't really like setting goals depending on that. But, I mean, I guess being rookie of the year would be great.   
 I'm just trying to have a good year and enjoying myself. We'll see after that.   
  
  Q. Just what has been the biggest difference for you coming from the college game to this game? Was there anything that immediately jumped out?  
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: No, it's pretty similar. I guess the courses here are longer. But, I mean, probably the biggest difference is that I have to do everything by myself, you know. I'm lucky I'm traveling with Pernilla Lindberg, which it's been nice.   
 But, you know, in college coaches do everything for you and you travel with six other people. Like they kind of take care of you. You never -- I mean, I just follow people and I don't care about anything.  
 Here, I mean, I have to do my flight, you know, I have to pretty much do everything myself. So that's probably the biggest thing.   
  
  Q. Do you arrive as a rookie believing that you can win, or do you arrive thinking that it's something that you would have to learn how to do?   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I mean, actually, I don't think of that, because I play my first tournament as a professional it was a European Tour event and I won it.   
 So when I went to the tournament, everybody was like, What if you win? And I'm like, There's no chance I'm gonna win. But I did it.   
 Actually, I don't know if I'm ready to win, but, you know, I don't want to think about it. I just go out there and try to play my best and hopefully I win.   
  
  Q. What did you and Stephanie and Irene talk about in between shots?   
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I don't know. A little bit about everything. You know, about college, about Stephanie's son. I don't know. Just random stuff. Nothing -- about Erica we talk. Just a little bit about everything.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT