SOLHEIM CUP
September 13, 2019
Charley Hull
Azahara Munoz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Fantastic performance, maybe a little bit scrappy at the start. Charley, sum up the conditions and how the course is playing out there?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was quite, like, a few scrappy shots to start, but I was hitting my 4-irons and rescuers and then 6-iron and then another 4-iron. So it's kind of tricky. It's kind of like a major.
Q. You're both two of the more experienced players on the team, but actually never played together as a pairing. Azahara, what do you feel complements your game and Charley's game?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: I think this course actually suits us great. To be honest, I never thought I was going to play with her, but when Catriona told me a few months ago that she thought we were going to be a really good pairing, I loved her right away.
I think her irons are so good and she's such a good 4-foot putter. So I think we both -- I don't get into much trouble and she's pretty aggressive and good. I think we're good for each other.
Q. A dream team. You can see that. The winds seem to be really picking up towards the end. Charley, you obviously had a very strong finish, but could you feel that? Was it getting tough out there towards the closing holes?
CHARLEY HULL: Yeah, it was. I hit a 9-iron probably about 105 yards the last hole, so it was getting quite tricky in the slopes. And when it's wet it's kind of hard. But coming in with 4-irons and rescuers is quite tricky especially because on -- trying to play match play, people are used to seeing a lot of birdies because it's pretty long, because it's so cold as well, you're not going to get that many birdies. But hopefully this afternoon you will.
Q. Before we talk about what lies ahead, let's talk about what you all just did. You got up early; the Americans battled back. But you get this important victory. What was the key for you all down the stretch?
CHARLEY HULL: The front nine was actually playing very long. I had a couple of 4-irons in, a rescuer wood in. Not usually -- don't usually have that in match play. But on the back nine I felt like we had a few shorter irons in. We warmed up a bit as well, and the weather got warmer. So our bones (indiscernible) a bit closer.
Q. You've both have been doing this before -- you know what Solheim Cups are like. But watching the 17th hole, a ton of fans out there. Could you feel the support out there?
AZAHARA MUNOZ: It's amazing. There's nothing like Solheim. It's so cool, such a good experience, hearing all the "Go Europe," "Ole, Ole, Ole." It's my fourth -- both of our fourth -- but it still gets your blood running. It's such a good experience.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT