LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 21, 2009
Sarah Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Can we go through your scorecard?   
 SARAH LEE: No. 1.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Just the birdies. Well, yeah. Do you want to start on ten?   
 SARAH LEE: Doesn't matter.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: So 2, birdie.  
 SARAH LEE: 2, I hit a driver, and it's about 184 yards. And I hit a 4-iron up on the green, back left, about 15 yards, which is 30 feet. And I made a two-putt.   
 And No. 3, it was a 182 yards and I hit a 5-iron. It's about 12 feet downhill putt. I made it.   
 And number 7, I hit a 5-iron, and it's about 50-footer, uphill putt. And number 8, I hit a driver and it went pin left, and I hit a pitching wedge to about like --  
MIKE SCANLAN: Tap in?   
 SARAH LEE: Yeah. Tap in. And No. 12, I hit a driver and 3-wood. And it's about 78 yards left. I used a 52 degree and three feet.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: 14.  
 SARAH LEE: 14, I hit driver, and actually I hit the tree, and I hit a rescue to third shot. It's about 105 yards, and I used my pitching wedge. It's about 15-foot putt.   
 And number 18, I hit a driver and it went past the pin. I hit a pitching wedge, and it's about 21-footer.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Sarah. Thanks for waiting. We really appreciate it. Tied for the lead at 7-under par in the first round of the Corning Classic. If you would, just talk about how you played today.   
 SARAH LEE: I played pretty solid. I didn't make any big mistakes, and I really enjoyed the weather, actually.   
  
  Q. Yes. I see at last week's tournament you withdrew after the first round. Was that based on score or injury?  
 SARAH LEE: Actually, last year I got the injury on my elbow, and last week the weather is -- the temperature is really low, and the loft is really thick.   
 So first two rounds, I didn't hit many fairways, so I had to hit it in the loft. And after first round, you know, I can't turn my elbow, so second day, that's why I decide to withdraw the tournament.  
  
  Q. So what does it mean then after coming off something like that that's disappointing and coming out and shooting a good round? Does that give you more confidence in your health and your game?  
 SARAH LEE: Yeah. It's just one week and one other day. So I'm not thinking too hard or missing something. Or I don't try to work too hard here.   
 So just to play my game.   
  
  Q. I see in your history you've had several second place finishes. Still looking for that first win.   
 SARAH LEE: Yes.   
  
  Q. Did you learn anything with these second place finishes? I mean obviously finishing second is good. It's good money, but what do you feel you need to do maybe to get that break-through?  
 SARAH LEE: Yeah. Of course I want to win it, you know. That's the reason I kept playing LPGA TOUR. I mean other than that, maybe I go get married and have some kids.   
 But I really want to win a tournament, and as you say, I've finished a lot of second, and I learned so much how I -- my attitude was a little different when I go to sign around.   
 But I notice after the results, so if I had a good chance I think I'm going to be ready.   
  
  Q. And I see again your bio says you were born in England. Did you grow up there?  
 SARAH LEE: I was pulled back to Korea. At that time my parents were working over there.   
  
  Q. When was the last time you were in this position, at least at the moment tied for the lead?  
 SARAH LEE: Tied for the lead? I think Kingsmill. Isn't it?  
  
  Q. Just a couple weeks ago then?  
 SARAH LEE: Yes. And then after the round, someone shoots lower score.   
  
  Q. Do you find it just with so many players, so many good scores out there, so many players near the top of the leaderboard, is it going to be maybe more relaxing for you to still be in that position in the lead but not necessarily be the one singular person that everybody's sort of gunning at?  
 SARAH LEE: Right. I mean I think this golf course, everybody has a good opportunity to make a birdie, or eagle. So I mean I just want to keep patience and just play my game.   
  
  Q. Do you think with so many good scores, is that kind of a reflection of how good the quality of the field there is here this week, with 28 of the top 30 players on Tour that are in Corning this week? Do you think it's not even the afternoon yet, and you have three or four scores at 7-under, three or four at 6-under and so forth?  
 SARAH LEE: Yes. I mean this week a lot of good players, top 30 players came here. I mean I feel sad this is the last tournament I will have, but I mean I think this is a fun golf course and it's going to have good score, of course. So we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. I guess since no one asked it, how often do you hear at a tournament where they say "nobody does it like Sarah Lee." Do you get that a lot?  
 SARAH LEE: Yes. I heard that a lot. I mean I never actually see the commercial, but when I go to the golf course last year the galley, "nobody does it like Sarah Lee." First time that I heard, is that me? I didn't know there was a commercial.   
  
  Q. Have you ever tried the product, eaten the cake?  
 SARAH LEE: I love actually Sarah Lee cheesecake.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Sarah. Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT