SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 20, 2007
Sarah Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Sarah, thank you for coming in joining us.  You had a great tournament, second week in a row and you matched your career best with a second place finish.  Do you want to talk about your round for a few seconds. 
 SARAH LEE:  You know, I did my best today, and, you know, it's been a little bad luck, you know, starting second hole.  But I just keep hanging there and I keep trying to strike ball well but I didn't make any putts. 
 So, yeah, but Lorena played really good and it's been fun to play with her. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your scorecard? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, No. 2 I hit a 3-wood and pitching wedge and it's about 15-yard chip shot and about seven feet par putt.  I missed it. 
 And No. 11, I hit a driver and second shot rescue.  Hit a bunker shot about 25 yards and it's about four feet. 
 18, I hit a driver, pushed right and second shot I hit 4-iron to lay up, but it didn't quite work and hit a rescue shot, put it in the hazard and I used 58-degree about 30-yard chip shot and bogey putt about 18 feet. 
 That's all I made today. 

 Q.  How bad of a break was that on the second hole where you hit the flagstick?  Did you think you were all over that flag? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, I mean, as soon as I hit a shot, it was the perfect shot and I'm looking for -- hit a cross and hit the stick and I saw that my ball roll, come to the green.  And I felt a little bad, you know, bad luck for today, but you know, I just don't worry about that second hole.  I just keep focused what I did and I didn't make any putts today. 

 Q.  When Lorena made the birdie on 8 and 9 to take the lead, did you have the feeling like you had to make something happen? 
 SARAH LEE:  After starting first hole, I tried making birdie or I tried hit on the green or hit in the fairway.  But Lorena played really steady and I missed the green a lot of times.  I made a lot of up-and-downs but, you know, it's been -- you know, I try all day.  It's not starting after Lorena made a putt. 

 Q.  You talked yesterday about wanting to make sure you were aggressive today.  Did you feel that you played aggressively throughout your whole round? 
 SARAH LEE:  My shot all day is pretty much -- make the putt, 18 feet, another 21 feet, another one 15 foot.  But I actually misread, didn't make any.  So it's one of golf's day, right. 

 Q.  Is it a little bit discouraging the second week in a row to play so well through three rounds and Sunday to not come up with it? 
 SARAH LEE:  It's not disappointed but I'm looking for other tournaments.  I've got a lot of tournaments.  It feels good finishing second.  I really looking for winning this week, but maybe not this time but, you know, looking for ahead, yes. 

 Q.  The putt on 16 and 17 for birdie, were those putts you read differently?  Were they stroked where you wanted them to be? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, 16, I hit it what I want to hit it but just as soon as I hit it, a little bit break sooner. 
 And 17, when I hit the putt, I saw my ball is a pop up to maybe just four feet and rolled left. 

 Q.  How long were the putts? 
 SARAH LEE:  16 was about nine feet, and 17 was about 15 feet. 

 Q.  On the broadcast they talked about the warm weather kind of making the greens maybe a little bumpier with the poa annua grass.  Did you feel that at all today? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, I mean, the green is a little bit harder to read because even I try, I hit it what I want, but the break is something -- a little tricky today, yes. 

 Q.  Do you feel like Lorena gave you any openings at all? 
 SARAH LEE:  I got a lot of opportunity to make her, following her score, but I think that fifth hole is a par 5, I didn't make birdie.  I think that's big mistake for me. 

 Q.  On the fifth hole, was it a mistake going over the green or the chip from the back? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, I using -- it's over the green but I using my putter.  I thought that the green was a little bit slower.  That's why I say it's a little bit -- poa annua.  I hit it just a little bit aggressive, but my eagle putt is very past the hole.  So I, you know, miss the speed. 

 Q.  Do you think this course is too easy? 
 SARAH LEE:  Depends.  You have to, I mean, drive tee shot, you have to keep it in the fairway.  Other than that, it's really harder to make score lower.  You know, like a lot of dog-leg holes, and the fairway looks really narrow. 
 So I think the key point is the tee shot you have to, you know, keep it in the fairway this week. 

 Q.  Do you think they need to do anything to this course?  Are you comfortable with 18-under being the winning score here? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, I mean, I like to come back to this tournament.  I think maybe, you know, how they are going to put the conditions, maybe green speed is a little bit faster.  Sometimes it's not raining, it's going to be fairway getting faster and a little bit firmer; that makes I think the course conditions will be a lot different. 

 Q.  Watching the way Lorena came from behind today and then was able to hold you off for the majority of the round, did you take anything away from, you know, how to close a tournament out? 
 SARAH LEE:  Actually, you know, all I say is until 18 hole, I never give up.  That's all I can say, yeah. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thanks, Sarah. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT