SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 19, 2007
Sarah Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Sarah, thank you for coming and joining us today.  Your 65 is a new LPGA record here at this course.  Congratulations. 
 SARAH LEE:  Thank you. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  And you have a two-stroke lead heading into tomorrow's round.  Talk about how you played today if you don't mind. 
 SARAH LEE:  I'm really excited to play with Lorena Ochoa.  She's the No. 1 LPGA player, and I really enjoyed it today, yes. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your scorecard? 
 SARAH LEE:  No. 1 I hit 3-wood and pitching wedge, about seven feet. 
 No. 3, 5-iron to three inches. 
 No. 4 I hit driver and 9-iron and it's about nine feet. 
 5, driver and 4-iron second shot and uphill, 21 feet. 
 7, hit driver and second shot, I hit a 5-wood and I push right and grip 8-iron and it's about seven feet. 
 10, I hit a driver and second shot is 7-iron and four feet. 
 11, driver and second shot rescue and it's about 24 feet, eagle putt. 
 13, hit a 3-wood and pitching wedge downhill seven feet. 
 16, I hit a driver and push right, hit 6-iron to lay up, chip shot, par putt was about seven feet. 

 Q.  Can you just talk a little bit about you played well at Michelob obviously, and early, and didn't have scores you wanted on the last two rounds.  What's been the difference here?  Talk about, you know -- maybe I think you talked early in the week about your focus and trying to keep your focus. 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, it's same thing.  I mean, I keep -- I try same thing as yesterday, last two weeks, but they didn't work last week.  But I'm really comfortable to play with Lorena, and I just took more aggressive, nothing protecting anything, just, you know, stay solid. 

 Q.  Why do you think you were so comfortable playing with Lorena, seems like some players might be intimidated, but you obviously were not. 
 SARAH LEE:  Lorena, you know, is one of the greatest players and she's ball-striking so well and really exciting in competition to strike ball, hit fairway, hit it close to the pin, gets more focused.  So I think that helps playing better. 

 Q.  Looking forward to playing with her tomorrow again? 
 SARAH LEE:  Of course, yeah. 

 Q.  Your best finish on Tour is second place.  Do you feel as you go into this last round that you're ready to win? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, my goal is always to win, you know, so we'll see. 

 Q.  On the front nine you two looked like you were having your own private match, you were going birdie for birdie.  Can you talk about what that was like watching her match your high scores? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, it was exciting.  I made a birdie first hole.  Second hole.  Lorena made a birdie, and you know, third hole, her tee shot was really close and I saw that, and I wanted to, you know, hit it closer but it was very good focus.  I hit it closer, almost made it, and you know, she made a birdie and I made a birdie.  It was really exciting, a couple maybe five, six holes just to make a birdie and birdie and birdie and just keeps going.  And I think that helps making course record, yes. 

 Q.  Was it disappointing when you made the bogey? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, I had one bogey, so it's not disappointed, anything.  Just I made a mistake.  That's golf. 

 Q.  The two last putts, were they miss-reads? 
 SARAH LEE:  No, they break a lot. 

 Q.  Not to get ahead of yourself at all, with you I'm sure you've day dreamed about winning for the first time, what would a first win on Tour mean to you? 
 SARAH LEE:  It means a lot because when I come to the States, that's my goal to win tournaments.  I play every week, that's my goal, so, yeah, it's been fun, yeah. 

 Q.  Do you have any idea what that would mean for your career to get the first win? 
 SARAH LEE:  I mean, of course, career will be helped by winning, but it's you one of my, destiny, like dream about when I was young. 

 Q.  Do you expect some of the same fireworks, if you will, birdies tomorrow between you and Lorena?  Do you think it will be the same type of day that you guys had today or will it be a little more cautious and conservative tomorrow? 
 SARAH LEE:  Depends on the weather.  We have to see the weather.  Of course she's going to play best, and I'm going to play best, so, we'll see. 

 Q.  You've separated yourself from the rest of the field, you two.  Will tomorrow be at all kind of a match-play mentality for you? 
 SARAH LEE:  No, just play -- not match play.  Of course I play with Lorena, so it feels really competition, but you know I also looking for the good score for four rounds. 

 Q.  So it will be the same tomorrow? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes. 

 Q.  Today the majority of the scores were in the high 70s; it wasn't exactly the most prime conditions for scoring? 
 SARAH LEE:  I didn't know that high 70s are the score.  But really anxious to play today.  So as I said I really enjoy the play with Lorena. 

 Q.  With regards to Lorena, is there something about her personality that relaxes you?  It is the first time you've played together; is that correct? 
 SARAH LEE:  No, I played with her before.  You know, I mean, I can see her attitude is really positive and relaxed.  It's very nice opportunity to play with her. 

 Q.  Just curious, had you ever played with Annika? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes. 

 Q.  How did that compare? 
 SARAH LEE:  I didn't -- it's two different personality I'd say and then game time is a little different.  That's how I play with Annika, she shoots 9-under, I shoot 5-under; I felt like shoot 77 or something like that. 
 But also, the greatest player, the attitude is always positive.  You can see, you can feel it, positive and relaxed.  You're not hesitate to hit it.  So it's really fun to play. 

 Q.  Who did you play third round with last week? 
 SARAH LEE:  Last week third round? 

 Q.  With the lead. 
 SARAH LEE:  Becky Morgan and -- last week is twosome, right?  I think Becky Morgan. 

 Q.  What went wrong in that round that day, or did anything go wrong? 
 SARAH LEE:  Even twosomes, we take five hours to play, like we waiting every single shot.  So it's very harder to focus. 

 Q.  You shot -- your first two rounds, very low rounds, you're at the top of the leaderboard, but you didn't really have the crowd following you.  What was today like, you had that massive crowd all day, was it distracting, daunting? 
 SARAH LEE:  I mean, I didn't try different things.  You know, yesterday after round, I go to Korean town with my tomorrow and just to have fun, you know, shopping and something, try Korean food, something that can relax.  So it's nothing to different to try, just to play hole-by-hole. 

 Q.  Will you go back there today? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes. 

 Q.  In New York? 
 SARAH LEE:  No, New Jersey, like Broad Street or Avenue, 46, it's little Koreantown.  So I like walk around, it's really good.  I try Korean, Chinese food. 

 Q.  You started out with I think four birdies on the first six holes, and did you at that point look at the leaderboard and kind of look at Lorena, because Lorena started out with three birdies and an eagle; she had the great start and yet you look at the leaderboard and you're trailing. 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, of course I know how I played, but as I said, every -- I felt like every hole like making birdie, you know, it's really positive thinking is coming on.  So I really stay aggressive at the time.  But it's not thinking, you know, Lorena --  I know that her score is same as like me but I didn't see her playing.  Just to play my game. 

 Q.  What was it that let you play aggressive today?  Was it the course, the setup?  Why was it you were able to play aggressive? 
 SARAH LEE:  You know, I made a mistake last week before, after last two rounds, I was really protect something.  I like protecting tee shots, protecting something and I learn from, you know, you cannot protect anything.  You know, you just go play.  And that's what I'm talking with my coach, mental trainer and coach.  I learn from, you know, last two weeks, so that's what I'm trying, you know, more aggressive swing. 

 Q.  Now tomorrow, what do you do, what kind of approach do you take? 
 SARAH LEE:  I'm going to do same thing as today, you know, like just to -- I'm not trying different things. 

 Q.  You've never been in this position though, right? 
 SARAH LEE:  No, I've been there before. 

 Q.  When you were going back and forth with Lorena with the birdies, did you ever think, what's it going to take to get rid of her, to put some distance between you and her?  Like you're both staying neck-and-neck; did you ever think what's it going to take for you to take the lead and sort of stretch it out a little bit? 
 SARAH LEE:  I mean, it was really fun.  I really, really enjoyed it.  She made a birdie; I made a birdie. 
 So it's great to play -- I mean, it's really -- pleased to play like that. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT