SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 18, 2007
Sarah Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  You were the leader after the first round yesterday so thanks for coming in again today, 3-under.  Do you want talk about your round a little bit and how you played.   
 SARAH LEE:  It's cold out there, but, you know, before I played, pretty much maybe 20 extra warmup but still, my body is not moving, at all.  But I played pretty good, yes.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your scorecard really quick?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes.  I hit No. 1, I hit a 3-wood and second shot I hit a 52 wedge and 18 feet.   
 Then bogey, I hit a 3-wood and pulled it left and I hit a grip 8-iron and it's about 21 feet, I made a 3-putt.   
 Anybody five.   
 No. 5, I hit a driver and 4-iron and it's about 54-footer.   
 No. 7 I hit driver and rescue second shot and 52 third shot and 27 feet, birdie.   
 No. 9, I pulled it left, driver, and using 5-wood and 35-yard chip shot but my par putt was about 18 feet.   
 11, I hit a driver and second shot I hit a rescue and a little over the green and I hit a chip shot and four feet, birdie putt.   
 No. 12, I hit a driver, push right, and grip 9-iron to lay out and 6-iron the third shot, but into the bunker and bogey putt was three feet.   
 18, I hit a driver and second shot rescue and 52-degree third shot and 12 feet to birdie putt.   
  
  Q.  How difficult was it to stay focused on what you were doing in that kind of cold?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, I mean eight o'clock in the morning, the ball is not going anywhere.  It's really different course than yesterday.  I had, you know, one more extra club every single second shot.  So it was quite tough this morning, yes.   
  
  Q.  What are your thoughts on the course?   
 SARAH LEE:  All the course, pretty much you can see the green, but you have to keep it in the fairways.  The fairways are really narrow than, you know, other couple tournaments.   
 But it's been really nice, you know, course.   
  
  Q.  Does the layout play well for your game?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  Are you happy that you're done already for the day and everybody else is still out there and the weather is getting worse?   
 SARAH LEE:  No, I mean, it's been -- the weather is getting better I think.  But I'm glad to finish today.  But, you know, usually my weakest part is the cold weather, but I'm hitting pretty great so I'm -- pretty satisfaction, yes.   
  
  Q.  Have you had a chance to interact with any of the members out here?   
 SARAH LEE:  No.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you, Sarah.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT