SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 17, 2007
Sarah Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Thanks for coming in and joining us today.  Great round out there.  You shot 6-under today, you have a two-shot lead currently, just talk about how you played today.   
 SARAH LEE:  I stayed aggressive and you know, I never play this golf course.  So you know, just focus on what I'm doing and hit it on the fairway, hit on the green.   
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your scorecard.   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes.  First hole I hit 3-wood and it's about -- I using pitching wedge and ten foot.   
 No. 4, I hit a driver and I hit a 9-iron and it's about seven feet.   
 5, I hit a driver and rescue to about, 18 feet.   
 9, I hit a driver and 7-iron and downhill, ten feet.   
 Then I hit driver and 5-wood, 12 feet eagle putt and made birdie.   
 18, I hit a driver and 5-iron, lay up and 70 yards -- I using 58-degree and nine feet uphill putt.   
  
  Q.  Last couple of weeks you've been playing great golf; what's working for you?   
 SARAH LEE:  Just keep main things I'm working on, I talk to my coach and I do my homework, which is my backswing working on.   
  
  Q.  What do you work with on the backswing?   
 SARAH LEE:  I'm used to going outside a lot so I keep main the target, it's all same thing, focus my swing.   
  
  Q.  Somebody told me, and correct me if I'm wrong, you decided to take the name Sarah Lee, that's not your given name is that correct?   
 SARAH LEE:  I was born in England and at that time my mother's English tutor named me.  And when I was 4 years old I went to Korea and I take a Korean name.  When I got to the tour, there's a lot of J.Y. Lee and they confuse, you know, players so I decide to, you know, I have an English name, so maybe I better to using English name.   
  
  Q.  What does the J.Y. stand for?   
 SARAH LEE:  J is Jeong Young, Lee is initial and like Jee Young Lee, Jeong Young Lee.   
  
  Q.  You are aware what Sarah Lee is, are you?  Have you heard, "Nobody Doesn't Like Sarah Lee?"   
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, I hope everybody is singing for me.   
  
  Q.  Does it bother you?   
 SARAH LEE:  No.   
  
  Q.  Was there something you saw on the golf course today, does it set up well to your game?   
 SARAH LEE:  I was nervous on this golf course because I never practice before -- yesterday the Pro-Am, just was playing on to the 7th hole and Tuesday practice round I was sick.  So I could not play, maybe I play until five hole, so I never look at that back nine.  So I was really, you know, extra focused, especially the back nine, and caddie explained pretty good.   
  
  Q.  Last week you shot 63 in the opening round which is the low opening 18, you had a 131 which is the low 36, and you finished third.  What did you learn from last week?  What's the difference between those kind of scores and winning?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, I got great opportunity to winning but you know, I couldn't handle the last two, three holes.  But I learn from that how I'm going to play.  But it's not change swing or change, you know, stroke, figure, just to maintain my working on during --   
  
  Q.  Maintain your focus?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes.   
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT