MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 12, 2007
Sarah Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN:  First of all, you're 10-under, you're in second place right now, and you mentioned to me on the way over that the course was a little bit tougher today.  Can you just tell us what was different? 
 SARAH LEE:  Actually the course is the same, but, you know, today I got a lot of between shots and I didn't actually commit to the shot every time. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Let's go through your scorecard quick.  Bogey on 1. 
 SARAH LEE:  I hit driver and grip 7 and I pulled it left, hit about a 20-yard chip shot and a par putt about 18 feet. 
 2, I hit 5-iron and hit it to about eight feet. 
 10, I hit driver and I hit second shot 8-iron and it's about 36 feet, uphill putt.  I made a 3-putt.  It's not on the green but I'm using my putter. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  How far was your shot with your 8-iron? 
 SARAH LEE:  145 to the pin. 
 13, I hit 9-iron and it was just short and 15-yard chip shot and par putt is almost like 15 yards -- 15 feet. 
 15, I hit a driver and I hit rescue to about 200 yards, and 20-yard chip shot and four feet birdie putt. 

 Q.  How close was your birdie putt on 17? 
 SARAH LEE:  17, it was a 21-footer. 

 Q.  And did it stop right on the lip of the cup? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah. 

 Q.  How big was the birdie on 15 to stop the bleeding and get you going back it the right direction? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, I tried so hard on every single shot and finally it's working 15th hole.  I hit a good driver and I got a good number for second shot.  I hit really aggressive and I made a birdie. 

 Q.  Jee Young was in here earlier telling us about the group of GM -- - 
SARAH LEE:  GMG. 

 Q.  What can you tell us about her? 
 SARAH LEE:  She's a great player and she hits it so far.  I think it's her advantage, like, you know, hitting long-hitter shot.  You know, we've been practicing together a lot and I mean, yeah. 

 Q.  Will you have to convince yourself to not pay attention to how much further she hits it than you tomorrow? 
 SARAH LEE:  You know, I practice with her a lot, so I know how far she's going to hit.  So it's not a new thing.  So I'm expecting, you know, to be behind her. 

 Q.  Will it be easier being in the final group with somebody who is a good friend? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, of course it's very comfortable to play with her, and yeah, it's very nice to play with her. 

 Q.  Is it hard to play as a leader? 
 SARAH LEE:  I think yes, especially like you know, I really want to play well, but today just all day, I mean, in between shots, I hit aggressive and that makes it really difficult to not commit to the shot. 

 Q.  Despite a few struggles today you're a shot back going into the final round.  How do you feel about your chances? 
 SARAH LEE:  Oh, it's a lot of chance, just one shot back.  I mean, I will definitely be aggressive playing tomorrow and see what happens. 

 Q.  You said yesterday that it was a good nervous when you were nervous before the round.  Will you be nervous tomorrow? 
 SARAH LEE:  I think I'm used to this, so it will be okay. 

 Q.  So three days in a row of this has been good for you? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yes.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  Have you thought about what that first victory will finally feel like?  Is it something that weighs on your mind at this point, or do you think about that? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, I mean, definitely a win is my goal.  But I have to control everything before, you know, 18 holes, to my goal.  So I have to focus what I do on every single shot. 

 Q.  Can you tell us a little about that group? 
 SARAH LEE:  The GMG is six Korean players who live in Orlando, so we can practice in wintertime.  And the six players are me, Se Ri Pak and Meena Lee and Jee Young Lee and Sae-Hee Son and Sun Young Yoo.  And actually we're going to get -- it's not gamble -- fine system on during tournaments.  First and second is no penalty, but third to fifth is paying for 20 dollars and last is 30 bucks so we're going to have every penalty. 
 So if it's 18 holes more than two bogeys -- actually I made three bogeys, so I have to pay penalty.  And if I make a double-bogey, we're going to pay for extra, you know, penalty.  But we're going to keep the money and then maybe end of year we're going to donate in Korea. 

 Q.  Have you picked a charity in Korea in which to donate? 
 SARAH LEE:  We didn't pick yet but we're going to think about it. 

 Q.  Will you guys talk about that stuff tomorrow?  If you make a double-bogey, will she say, "That's going to cost you 20 bucks?" 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, oh, every round we talk, how many bogey you made; oh, I made a double-bogey a couple holes, you know.  But it's fun. 

 Q.  And what is the penalty for making more than two bogeys in a round? 
 SARAH LEE:  Just five bucks each bogey, so it counts. 

 Q.  And the penalty for a double-bogey? 
 SARAH LEE:  Is ten bucks. 

 Q.  Do you know how much you've collected so far? 
 SARAH LEE:  I think it's over $3,000. 

 Q.  And you just started this at the beginning of this year? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Is it a relief after starting the day at minus 11 and going 1-over, to see that minus 11 is still the leading number; that you don't have to come out here and shoot 58 tomorrow? 
 SARAH LEE:  I mean, I don't want to focus, you know, that Jee Young's score.  I want to play my game starting whole new 18 holes.  So I'm not focused at 11-under par. 

 Q.  Are you guys staying together this week? 
 SARAH LEE:  No.  But I think most -- I think five players staying same resort. 

 Q.  But none of the GMG are staying together this week? 
 SARAH LEE:  No. 

 Q.  I can't remember if this was asked earlier but have you and gee young ever played to the in the same group on the Tour? 
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, like Tuesday practice round, we always practice together and have another game also.  And in practice round, also, not hitting two or three balls.  We're just playing counting score, so we make our own game. 
 You know, a lot of times we play like gentlemen young Lee and Se Ri Pak but it's not all the time same group, it changes. 

 Q.  As far as a tournament round, have you ever played in the same group with her? 
 SARAH LEE:  Jee Young Lee, not this year. 

 Q.  When you play these practice rounds against Jee Young Lee, who usually wins? 
 SARAH LEE:  It's harder to tell.  (Laughter) sometimes I do, but I don't know, it's 50/50 I think.  It's hard to count. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Sarah, good luck tomorrow.  Thanks for coming in. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT