MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 11, 2007
Sarah Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Sarah Lee, 3-under today, 6.  You're 11-under overall and you're the leader in the clubhouse.  A great round, before we get started, want to ask you about your scorecard quickly.  No. 3, birdie?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, I hit a driver and second shot I hit a rescue like 210 yards, about 15 yard chip shot, and three feet.    
 MIKE SCANLAN:  No. 7, you had an interesting par.  Can you go through that?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, I hit a driver and 3-wood.  I pulled it left and I thought I went into the hazard but it wasn't.  It's about uphill maybe 50-yard chip shot and hit the green and like 12 feet downhill putt and I just made a par.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Birdie on 14.   
 SARAH LEE:  I hit a driver and 8-iron, and 15-foot putt.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  How far out were you with the 8-iron?   
 SARAH LEE:  145.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  And finally, No. 16, a birdie.   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, I hit a driver and 123 yards.  I hit a pitching wedge and it's about six feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  All right.  Can you just quickly talk about your round?   
 SARAH LEE:  I was a little nervous after 8-under par.  I just had to focus and just enjoy my game.   
  
  Q.  It seems a lot of times after a player has a round like you had yesterday, a record or just a really low round, that the next day they often go high.  How proud are you of what you were able to do and come back with a 68 today?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, I mean, everybody said to me, oh, that's a great job, and keep reminding me it's a good number.   
 But it's hard, you know, yesterday everything is working.  You know, today I hit 3-under, it's a good score but it's like, oh, a little hard, yes.   
  
  Q.  When you shot the 60, do you remember what you shot the next day?   
 SARAH LEE:  I had even the next day I remember.   
  
  Q.  You said you were nervous.  Did that take a while to get going?   
 SARAH LEE:  No, as soon as I hit the first tee shot it go away.  Just in practice, a good nervous I think.   
  
  Q.  The scores are much higher today than yesterday all the way around.  Were the conditions that much different today or was it pin placements?   
 SARAH LEE:  I think it's a couple pin placement is pretty hard than yesterday.  And I think -- yeah, I mean afternoon, the green is a little bit slower.   
  
  Q.  You used the word "steady" yesterday, and it sounds like today was pretty steady, too, not as spectacular, but pretty steady as well?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, of course, I didn't make any bogeys, so that's a good round for me, yes.   
  
  Q.  There's a lot of people that are kind of up and down, making bogey one hole and a birdie the next and you kind of avoided that.  Did you have any other saves for par?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, I mean, I got a great save a couple holes, especially No. 1.  I hit a fairway bunker and I cannot get it out of the bunker shot, so just to lay out, and it's about a 50-yard chip shot and maybe 12 feet, par putt and I made it.   
 Then No. 4, I hit a driver but pulled it left.  Hit it on the fairway bunker shot and it's also, you know, can I not hit properly, so I just lay out and about 60-yard chip shot and up-and-down, you know, so I did good up-and-down a couple holes.   
  
  Q.  How far was that putt at 4?   
 SARAH LEE:  About seven feet.   
  
  Q.  When we hit the ball down there where you hit it on 7, we make 9, 10, 12.  No. 1, how much did you miss the 3-wood shot that you hooked; did it take some bad bounces or how did it get so far down?   
 SARAH LEE:  I really pulled it, the second shot, I know I can get there on the two, but just I felt a little into the wind.  So I let my topswing go really quickly and just pulled it left.   
 You know, luckily I find my ball.  I think that's good things, but I had room for shot.  You know, I can see it visually, which is good.   
  
  Q.  So after seven holes, you had one birdie and three really good par saves.  Does that give you more confidence that you're kind of there again today?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, yes, of course.   
  
  Q.  I think the last time you were in this situation was Safeway last year; is that right?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  Did you learn much from that that you can draw on?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, but I think it's different tournament I think, yeah.  Score-wise, it pretty much similar but I think it's a totally different tournament.  I think me, personally, is different, also.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you're a considerably better player than --   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes.  I'm working hard and you know, I know what I'm doing.  And then I've got more experience, I believe.  So, yeah, we'll see.   
  
  Q.  Did you almost feel like you didn't know what you were doing at Safeway?   
 SARAH LEE:  I mean, I don't want to talk about my past, but, you know, that time, I hit it great.  I played all the time just steady, good round, but just one hole got me, and Juli Inkster won.  I didn't play bad.  You know, I played steady but Juli Inkster hit it better.  So, what can I say.   
  
  Q.  After you hit that second shot at 7, what kind of lie did you have down there?   
 SARAH LEE:  My ball lie was maybe loft like kind of maybe three inches loft and then maybe 60 degrees maybe, 70 degrees uphill, uphill lie.  But I've got -- luckily I got room for, you know, hit the green, maybe ten yards.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised that you had such a good lie?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yeah, I was pleased.  You know, when I see the ball lie, I can hit it.   
  
  Q.  Did you find your ball or did somebody else find it?   
 SARAH LEE:  Volunteer find my ball, yes.   
  
  Q.  Was it almost so high that you were concerned that you might go under the shot?   
 SARAH LEE:  No, I didn't doubt my shot.  I just took aggressive swing is what I did.   
  
  Q.  Do you watch the scoreboard when you're out there?   
 SARAH LEE:  No, I didn't even look at it.  I want to play my game.   
  
  Q.  Could you see any weather coming and did you look at the skies at all and think that we might be happening a delay?   
 SARAH LEE:  I didn't look at the weather, so I just like, hit the ball, go.   
  
  Q.  Are you pleased to be done and avoid the possibility of having to come out early tomorrow to finish the round?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  You were through so early yesterday, did you get a lot of people just coming up to you and when they saw you just saying, wow, great round?  Did that get a little weird after a while?   
 SARAH LEE:  Yes, of course and my friends, a lot of players come to me and just say, you know, "Good round; great round; how can you play like that."  It feels really good.  They are cheering me on really good.   
  
  Q.  Will you be nervous tomorrow, too, do you think?   
 SARAH LEE:  Maybe good nervous, yes.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Thanks very much and good luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT