U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2019
Jeff Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was a hard-fought one.
JEFF WILSON: I played damn good. I mean, I think 3-under par and kind of come down to the last hole. Brady played well. Match could have went either way.
Q. What did you hit in on the last?
JEFF WILSON: I hit a 9-iron. Probably the best shot I hit all day, you know what I mean? It was the right weight. I mean, I didn't want to have 40 feet coming back up the hill.
It was probably the best swing I made all day.
Q. Tell me about the eagle at 14.
JEFF WILSON: You know, I can fly those bunkers from where they had the tee today. I knew if left was okay, right, going to go hit it in the fairway bunker. I hit it a little far left, but it actually provided me a pretty good angle where I was shooting away from the water rather than at it.
You know, I hit a pretty good shot, but, I mean, it lined up pretty well for me.
Q. What did you hit in?
JEFF WILSON: 6-iron.
Q. And then how long was the...
JEFF WILSON: Probably 12 feet, yeah. Yeah, I mean, you know, it was great to pull it off, but from where I was -- I shouldn't -- it wasn't that difficult of a shot, I mean, from my angle I had and the lie I had.
Q. And then you hit a good tee shot at 17.
JEFF WILSON: Yeah. I mean, Brady, he kept the noose around my neck, you know what I mean? He didn't miss; he didn't blink. I made about a 15-footer there.
Q. What did you hit off that tee?
JEFF WILSON: 7-iron. Yeah, so I hit a really good shot there. Last two iron shots I hit were probably the best swings I made all day.
Q. About a three inch break on the 15-foot putt?
JEFF WILSON: A little bit more. Probably maybe six to a foot, maybe six inches to a foot. It was just one of those matches you had to keep hanging in there, you know what I mean? Brady made a great 30-footer for par on 16, you know, and I'm 30 yards short of the green and all of a sudden looked like I'm going to lose the hole.
Q. Yeah.
JEFF WILSON: So just hang in there with all your worth.
Q. Last one: With all of your experience, is that what helps you get through these type of the matches?
JEFF WILSON: I don't know if anything helps you get through these types of matches. You just keep playing. You keep playing and hope for the best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT