U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2014
Jeff Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JEFF WILSON: The qualifying was at our home club, and it's something I really look forward to all year.  Not really playing that much, but, you know, I got off to a pretty good start today, and made a couple of putts.  That kind of really helped out.Q. You had it at 2-under at the 18th tee.  What happened on 18?JEFF WILSON: I was leaking oil a little bit is what happened if you really want to know the truth.  I actually hit my drive a little too good, and I got on the downslope to that 9th green, and it's kind of an awkward shot because you're on a downslope hitting to an uphill green, hit into the wind.  So it was a short shot, but it wasn't an easy shot. You know, I just bailed out on it and, you know, hit it over the green left.Q. How much has your experience at the highest level at the USGA events as an amateur helped you when you get to this level when you're playing with the big guys?JEFF WILSON: It's familiar.  The surroundings are familiar, although, you know, the stage is a little different. But, sure, it helps.Q. How about the way you're playing?  Do you feel like it's better?JEFF WILSON: I was fortunate a couple of times today on our first hole, No. 10, and No. 18 I got some lies in the rough where I could actually get it on the green.  And I made 4 from places where I was pretty fortunate to make 4 on. But, you know, you're going to drive it in the fairway, and hopefully I cannot get too nervy out there on my putting and I'll be okay.Q. Golf isn't your full-time profession now.JEFF WILSON: No.Q. How do you prepare to play in a national championship when you have something else you have to do in your life besides playing golf?JEFF WILSON: Well, you know, I love to play golf.  You know, so I'm always kind of preparing the way I would normally do.  But this week I got a chance to come out and play with Gil Morgan on Monday, which is a great person to pick.  Olin Browne, Steve Pate I played my practice round on Tuesday.  There is a lot of information there that you can gather if you just pay attention. So, you know, that kind of helped me prepare a little bit for being out here today.Q. How about the test of golf that you are seeing at Oak Tree for the Senior Open?  You have been in the deep levels of U.S. Amateur, Mid Amateur, et cetera.JEFF WILSON: It's a hard golf course.  I think that it rained a couple of days, and I think it softened up the greens a little bit or else it would be really hard. But, you know, it's hard.  It's going to be hard.Q. Do you see scoring opportunities on the par-5s in the back nine?JEFF WILSON: I think it's No. 12.  No. 12 is just a hard hole.  I mean, I don't think that's a scoring opportunity.  It's almost like a scoring un-opportunity (smiling). But, you know, the one on the front over here, you know, that's reachable.  The other one, if you can chase it down there and the pin is not too crazy, it's not too bad.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT