U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 1, 2018
Jeff Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JEFF WILSON: You can tell on the driving range this morning the wind was moving the ball around.  The other days it was blowing, but it wasn't really affecting the ball that much and today it was moving it around quite a bit.  So I knew it was going to be hard out there today.   
 Q.  You talked about it yesterday, but what does it mean, low amateur at the U.S. Open to you?  
JEFF WILSON: It means I played pretty well to qualify and get here and finish.  It's not easy, especially I think maybe doing this every so often, maybe once a year -- I've done it four times before.  I remember being so nervous on Friday trying to make the cut and that's one hurdle you got to get over.  And then coming down the wire today, I mean, I was about as nervous as you could be.  And I told Scott, I said -- who played very nicely today -- I just said, I hope I didn't, my nerves didn't rub off on you out there.  But it's nerve wracking.   
 Q.  Bogeys on back-to-back to finish your outward nine.  How did you settle yourself down?  
JEFF WILSON: I just, after that, and they were both 3-putts, after I hit a really nice shot on 8.  I don't know how you could get it much closer than that, it was probably 20 feet and I 3-putted.  Then made bogey on 9, which is probably one of the easier holes out here.  I just wanted to play nine solid holes on the way in and kind of let the chips fall where they may.  And I made a really nice par on 10 that kind of settled me a little bit.   
 Q.  What does this mean to you as far as future?  What does it get you the low amateur?  
JEFF WILSON: Well it means that I'm done with qualifying for the year, that's for sure, because I get the U.S. Amateur, the Mid-Amateur and the Senior Amateur, I think, and I get back in this next year.  I think those are all -- I mean, so it makes my life a little stress-free for the rest of the summer.   
 Q.  Going to Pebble?  
JEFF WILSON: Well, you know what, my qualifying was at my home club on the 9th, but I am now.  Those things are no gimmie, let me tell you.   
 Q.  And you were low amateur in 2000.  
JEFF WILSON: The 2000 U.S. Open at Pebble, yeah.   
 Q.  What's it going to be like to, in a way, be playing at home?  
JEFF WILSON: I played there a lot.  I know it will be hard, I know they have lengthened it a little bit.  But it's Pebble Beach and a USGA event, you can't really beat that.   
 Q.  Now you're in a little bit of a rarified air, you and Vinny Giles are the only ones to do it in both Opens to be a low amateur.  What's that say?  
JEFF WILSON: Well, he was a great amateur player and to be mentioned in the same light as that, that's terrific.  I haven't really thought about it.  I was really trying to kind of just finish.  You can't get ahead of yourself out there or bad things could happen real quick.  But that's awesome.   
 Q.  Qualify you for the Masters?  
JEFF WILSON: No, no, no.  Not the Masters.   
 Q.  And then can you just help us frame what the leaders will see as they come down the stretch?  
JEFF WILSON: Well, I think those holes, 12 is brutal, 11 is hard, 10, 11, 12, once you get to the downwind holes, I think you have a little bit of -- they will have a little bit of a break.  Not that they're easy, but at least you're not -- it's easier to drive the ball.  The par-3 is short, even though it's a tricky pin.  So I think once they get to the last four holes it probably won't be as bad.  But that being said, you're trying to win a golf tournament, I'm guessing it will probably be pretty tough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT