U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2018
Jeff Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So we just want to ask you, the last hole, did you have any idea what the cut was and what you had to do?
JEFF WILSON: I think I saw the scoreboard on, when I was going up 7 and I saw it went from 9 to 8.  So I had been like playing in cardiac arrest the whole stinking day and that put a little more stress in it right there.
Q. Tell us how you birdied the 9th hole.
JEFF WILSON: Well actually I just -- I killed it off 9 and it rolled through the fairway and I just got a horrible lie in the rough.  So I had to lay up.  And I think I had like adjusted about 125 yard shot.  And it came off pretty well and I managed to just creep a putt over the front edge.
Q. Was there a sense of relief at that point?  I mean, you played in so many USGA championships.
JEFF WILSON: You know, I got a lot of respect for these guys that do this on a daily basis because playing on -- I knew I was on the edge of the cut the whole day and it's nerve wracking.  All it is is just a feather in my cap, I'm not playing for any money or anything, but it's hard.
Q. You got off to kind of a tough start, how did you get it back together?
JEFF WILSON: I went on the driving range -- I had just a terrible warm-up session and I played really poorly on the back nine yesterday -- and then I went out to the back nine where they had the little practice center out there and I took a couple swings with a wedge and it's like something kind of clicked and I started hitting the ball a little bit better.  So even when I doubled 11 I think it was, it wasn't like I was -- I hit a perfect drive and I pulled an iron shot a little bit and got just a horrible lie.  But it wasn't like I go, oh, God, this is disaster.  I mean, I hit some pretty good shots.  So I think really just that, just a little something I got on that practice center over there kind of carried me through the rest of the day and I started feeling pretty good.
Q. The birdie on 16 or was there something else that told you, hey, I'm back?
JEFF WILSON: You know, yeah, it was nice to make it, but really I had hit some really nice shots coming into that, so you just try to keep throwing them up there.  And that one went in and it was nice, but I played pretty solidly.  Without being arrogant, I probably left a few shots out there today.
Q. Most people don't know that you have quote unquote a real job.  Tell us how are you able to manage an auto dealership and still play golf at the same time?
JEFF WILSON: Luckily, we have a really good team and that's first and foremost.  But my golf -- funny story is I got this dog, I got an Australian Shepherd and I take him out to the driving range with me about six in the morning.  And I flip balls back in the driving range for about an hour, hour and a half and the dog follows me back to the house.  It's about a two and a half mile trip and it takes about an hour and a half.  And all of a sudden my golf game got better.  I should list him as my coach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT