DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS
April 8, 2006
Team Chile
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Adrian and Paul, when did you find out you were going to play today?  Can you talk about your emotions and nerve when you found out? 
 GARCIA:  We found out like half an hour or one hour before, but we were prepared for everything.  I think they play very good.  They are the No. 1 in the world.  In the beginning, we was a little bit nervous, but is normal in this situation. 
 We tried to give our best.  That is the thing we did. 
 Q.  Was it a good decision? 
 GARCIA:  I think so.  We tried to win the match, but the main thing is give a rest to Fernando and Nicolas because they have tomorrow the finishing day. 
 Q.  I would imagine it's pretty intimidating getting word that you're about to go up against one of the best doubles teams in the world.  What kind of nerves were happening when you heard the news? 
 GARCIA:  We was, like I said, a little bit obvious.  We are playing against Bryans, No. 1 in the world.  We were a little nervous, how I said.  But is our work, so we have to do it anyway. 
 Q.  Hans, when did you decide to do it?  Was it entirely your decision?  What did González and Massu feel about it? 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  Well, last night when we talk, we decided it's up to the four players to be ready to play today because there's a good chance that Fernando and Nicolas couldn't play, especially Fernando because he get some cramps, was very sore last night. 
 We decide to wait till this morning practice.  We had breakfast together with Fernando.  He had a 50/50 chance to play today.  But when we came out and practice, he tried to move, and he was a little bit sore.  We decided with the doctor and Fernando that it was very dangerous to play Fernando today because he could have been injured today.  I decide that Adrian and Paul should be ready last night when we talked to them to play in case Fernando wasn't be able to play.  That was the decision. 
 I think you are playing against the No. 1 team in the world.  It's very difficult to play.  But we are still alive.  In the beginning, my idea was to be alive on Sunday because on Sunday anything can happen, especially knowing Fernando and Nicolas.  Andy is not play his best tennis.  Fernando has improved very much.  I think he played yesterday his best match of the year. 
 I think tomorrow he has confidence against Andy tomorrow.  I think the tie is still open.  If Fernando plays his best tennis and Andy makes some few mistakes, doesn't hit the ball well, all depends on serve also, Fernando can do some damage.  In the fifth point, anything can happen.  Nicolas, he's special for that. 
 I don't know about how Blake is going to react playing the fifth match.  I hope we get to the fifth match. 
 Q.  A good gamble? 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  It wasn't a gamble. 
 Q.  Not a gamble? 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  Not at all.  If Fernando was in condition to play, he would have played with Nicolas. 
 Q.  Do you think they could have beaten the Bryans if Fernando was in shape? 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  Really I think the Bryans have a better chance because they are the No. 1 team in the world, they play very good on grass.  But Fernando and Nicolas, they beat them in the Olympics in hard court.  I think it's a 50/50 chance maybe.  But Fernando was not able to play. 
 Q.  Hans, how is Fernando's shoulder? 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  Good.  His shoulder is good.  His shoulder is perfect.  The muscles are very tight.  That's why he's taking Jacuzzi the whole afternoon, a lot of stretching, relaxing, massage.  He's going to be a hundred percent tomorrow, maybe 110%. 
 Q.  Yesterday you said the pressure tomorrow would be on the Americans.  Do you feel that is still the case? 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  Definitely.  I mean, they make their decision to play on grass.  Andy's best surface.  Fernando, he has to play his game, go out there and see what happens.  Keep the pressure on Andy.  I think, yeah, of course.  I mean, if not, you guys would have picked a hard court maybe.  Hard court would probably be different.  But on grass the pressure is on the US. 
 Q.  Hans, do you think Nicolas is a better big-match player than Blake? 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  I don't know how many Davis Cup matches has Blake played.  First time against Romania, I don't know. 
 Q.  More than that. 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  Nicolas has a lot of matches played in Davis Cup.  He beat Hrbaty in February in Davis Cup against Slovakia.  Probably.  I hope so.  I think so.  I have a lot of confidence in Nicolas.  First we have to win tomorrow morning's match. 
 Q.  You seem pretty confident if Fernando.  What did you think of Roddick's level yesterday, not that high? 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  Not really.  Nicolas make a few mistakes big points.  If he would have won those two or three points, would have played maybe four or five sets.  Especially he was 4-All in the third set, 15-40, second serve.  He missed that ball.  Maybe would have changed that match.  In the fourth set, Andy, you don't know.  He served well in the first set, middle of the second.  After that, Nicolas was winning the serve much better. 
 Q.  You think if Fernando plays as well as he did  yesterday against Blake -- 
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  -- he has a good chance.  Andy has to play his best tennis to beat him. 


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT