DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS
April 7, 2006
Team Chile
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Fernando said he kind of struggled with the surface today.  What was your thought about the surface today?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  I don't know.  I think sometimes the bounce are not so good.  Grass court is like that.  You have to get used to it, and that's it.   
  Q.  How would you assess where your team is at now after today?   
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  We have to play tomorrow doubles.  There are three points left.  We're going to try to do our best.  There are three matches that we have to play that are so important.  We're thinking now in tomorrow.   
  Q.  Is there any chance that Fernando would not play doubles?   
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  I don't know.  I have to talk.  We'll see after the dinner, see how they wake up tomorrow morning.  We have an hour before we play.  Make the decision tomorrow morning.   
  Q.  James seemed to have a little problem, thought there was a little gamesmanship in the first match with Fernando.   
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  Especially in the fifth set, 8-7, good point, ball for us, and they call the ball out for us, the umpire.  I know your question.  When the umpire overruled only two or three points in the whole game.  In the fifth set, I don't know, was 8-7 or 7-6, the linesman said the ball was good and he overruled.  The ball was good.   
 I mean, I have to defend my players, save the players on what they're doing.  They're working there four and a half hours.  I'm not going to allow someone to make a mistake like that.  The TV give me the right.  I make a good discussion.  I have to take care of my players.  That's why I'm the captain there.   
 We're playing away, we're playing in bad conditions.  You see the way is the court.  I think this is not a perfect place to play Davis Cup.  You see what the bounces are?  We're not happy at all.  But we're happy because we are 1-1 and we're going to finish on Sunday.  In the beginning, nobody was giving us good odds, going to be 2-0 down.  We had a great game with Nicolas and Roddick.  He had to play his best to beat him.   
 I'm very happy because on Sunday we can do something very big.  The pressure's going to be on America on Sunday.   
  Q.  If González can't play doubles, who will?   
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  I'm going to think over the pillow tonight.  That all depends of the doctor tomorrow morning.   
  Q.  Did you think the overrule in the third set was a good overrule?   
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  In the fifth set?   
  Q.  I'm asking about the third set.   
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  I don't remember.   
  Q.  You don't remember that?   
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  No.  If I see the play, probably.  But in the fifth set, nobody overrules.   
  Q.  In the third set, the overrule, the score would have been 40-15, he would have had two match points.   
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  I don't remember really.  I'm being honest.  I don't remember.  The match was too long.  I'm remember some games really.  Maybe tomorrow I'll be remember the whole match, but today I remember a few matches.  I was very concentrate on my player and that's it.   
  Q.  What about the court condition?  What are your thoughts?   
 HANS GILDEMEISTER:  You see there were two lines there?  I mean, they painted again this morning.  If you were be on the court, inside the court, you see two lines on the service line.  I mean, I don't know, I don't think it's good for the game.  That's why maybe they were making some mistakes.   
 There weren't any big mistakes, but there were some points very important for us.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT