DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS
April 6, 2006
Team Chile
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Fernando, you're known as a highly competitive player.  Where does that drive come from in you?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Since I was five or six years old, I mean, I used to play with other people.  They hit me high and slow balls.  I practice many times that shot.   
  Q.  A lot of people think maybe if you took a little less pace off the ball, you'd hit more winners.  Is that never going to happen?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  Sometimes.  I mean, whatever I feel.  Depends of the time.  But I try to play the best way that I feel.   
  Q.  Fernando, would you mind talking about in 2002 you played with Andy in doubles.  In Madrid you got to the third round, lost to the Bryans.  Can you talk about playing doubles with Andy, if you remember that match against the Bryans.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  You know many things (laughter).   
  Q.  I was on the computer last night.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  We play two tournaments with Andy three years ago.  Once we lost against the Bryans.  We have really fun that time.  It was very easy to play with Andy because with his serve I feel like I was -- my volley was like Stefan Edberg.   
  Q.  How did that come about that you played together?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I ask him.  I mean, I was -- we have a good time.   
  Q.  Fernando and Nicolas, could you bring us up to date on the Olympics.  I read some stories that you played doubles until early into the morning, then you played the singles final the same day, is that correct?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  I played singles, bronze medal.  I played doubles till, I don't know, 3:00 in the morning.  Nicolas played the next day.   
 But it was okay at 3 in the morning because Nicolas feel really good at that time of the night.   
  Q.  Maybe we should reschedule this.  In other words, you played doubles together till 3 in the morning, then later, what, eight hours later or something you played the singles final?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  We finished the doubles like at 11, 12, then we went to the ceremony.  Then I wake up at 8 because I have to make the doping.  I didn't sleep so much.  I sleep like six hours for the final.   
  Q.  Then played five more sets?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  Yeah.  I was tired in the first three sets.  But then I get a lot of motivation and try to do my best.  Is the final of the Olympics, so is one time in your life maybe.  Hopefully I win.   
  Q.  Nicolas, Andy was asked about honor playing for his national team.  I would like to know what your feelings are about that, playing for your country.   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  For me is the best for play for your country.  Is the best feeling that I have in all my career.  I think normally you play a lot of tournaments, but you play alone.  But this is a team now.  We try to do our best tomorrow.  We are in the quarterfinals in the World Group.  After 25 years, is very important for us.   
 Chile needs to win the Davis Cup one time.   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  For me, is my favorite tournament, Davis Cup.  It's the biggest motivation that you have to play for your country, especially on Chile.  It's second sport.  The people is pretty excited about this match for tomorrow.  It's really big for me.   
  Q.  When you went back to Chile after the Olympics, the streets were so full, it's like when the Pope visited Chile.  Can you talk about that celebration, what kind of celebration would you anticipate if you beat the US?   
 NICOLAS MASSU:  No, I think when we arrive to Chile, was after the US Open.  We didn't arrive after the Olympics.  We have to play the US Open in that moment.   
 No, I don't know.  I don't know.  I just want to win this tournament.  I'm not thinking about the celebration now.   
  Q.  Fernando, what do you remember about that celebration?   
 FERNANDO GONZÁLEZ:  We get back after three weeks.  The people was still exciting after three weeks of Olympics.  There was many people on the streets.  It was many people, I don't know, like 10,000 people outside the government house.  It was really, really the best remember in my life.  I will never forget.   
 If we beat the States, we need to have a big celebration.  But I think it's going to be more private celebration.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT