DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS
April 4, 2006
Team Chile
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  Fernando and Nicolas, can you guys talk about your level of play from Indian Wells and Miami coming into this tie. 
 NICOLAS MASSU:  In Indian Wells, I play a good first match.  Then I lost to Federer.  In Miami, I won two matches, and then I served for the match 5-2 against (Radek) Stepanek. 
 So feel that I'm playing well. 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I haven't had good results the last few weeks.  The first tournament, Indian Wells, I just didn't play good, but in Miami, I played much better.  I was trying to find my tennis and I couldn't.  I had a really tough match against Kiefer, but that was two weeks ago and Davis Cup is completely different. 
 Q.  Can you guys talk about your adjustments coming from the hard courts to the grass in such a short period of time. 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  Well, normally you do it from clay court to grass court, so it wasn't too bad this time.  When you go to grass court after 2 months on the clay, it can be tough to find your game. 
 Q.  When did you guys get in to town, and how have you found the grass courts here? 
 NICOLAS MASSU:  We arrived on Thursday and we practiced on some grass courts outside from here.  The courts here are playing good.  I think a lot like they do at Wimbledon.  If you practice for one or two weeks, it's good. 
 Q.  Can you guys talk about if you win this match against the Americans here on grass how big that would be for your team and for your country. 
 NICOLAS MASSU:  It would be great to beat the USA here.  They chose the court, the balls, the city, everything.  To win here would be a really big memory in my career, not only for me but for the team, so to win here and make the semifinals would be something big for Chile. 
 Q.  Have you had a chance to watch the form of the Americans at Indian Wells and Key Biscayne coming in here?  How Andy, James and the Bryans are playing? 
 FERNANDO GONZALEZ:  I know they are playing really good.  I mean, we know all these guys.  We don't have to watch too much.  I know how they are playing, and James is playing really, really good. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT