NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 4, 2015
Brian Boyle
Jason Garrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Brian, you've been so good all year long.   Looking back at last night, what were some things that maybe surprised you, what things you didn't do well in the third? 
BRIAN BOYLE:   I don't think we gave up too many grade As.   It wasn't necessarily like an onslaught of chances against.   Certainly wasn't the way we wanted to play, though.   It wasn't the possession game, the forechecking we wanted.   I think it was a little too cautious. 
We're here for a reason.   I think we're a really good team.   We need to be able to understand that we can lock it down by playing our game, skating forward, forechecking, taking the puck out of their hands. 
They're a really good team, too, if you give them too much time and space.   They can hurt you. 
That being said, we didn't give up necessarily too, too much.   Kind of a seeing‑eye shot and one off a forecheck where they made a pretty good player. 
We want to try to get to our strengths, using our speed and skating, create opportunities for ourselves.   I think that's a good way to play D, when we have the puck in their end, it's hard to score. 

Q.   Brian, you're no stranger to playing well in a Stanley Cup Final situation and getting the result you want.   Anything that comes from your experience last year, last night?   Anything you take from it, trying to put games like that behind you? 
BRIAN BOYLE:   It's definitely disappointing.   You wake up in the morning today, you should be a little angry, a little pissed off that we had a chance to take Game1.   Again, it's just Game1, but it was a good opportunity for us to start the series the way we wanted to. 
Obviously, you can't change it out.   But understanding we shouldn't have any regrets in the morning when you wake up.   We might today because there are things we could have done a little bit better that were in our control that we didn't do. 
However the series plays out, you don't want to look back saying, We were a little bit passive there.   If you want to make a mistake, do it being aggressive, have that confidence that got us here. 
We're a really good team.   We have a number of guys that have had great years throughout, starts with Bish, our D core, right on through.   We have guys all year long, even now, tough to get in the lineup with some of them. 
We got depth, a great team.   We need to understand we got to play our system and play it aggressively, knowing that you can't wake up in the morning having some regrets that we were a little too passive. 

Q.   Strong start for the penalty kill in Game1.   Talk about some of the unique challenges the Blackhawks present on their power play. 
JASON GARRISON:   Yeah, I mean, obviously they have some players out there, guys that can put the puck in the net.   For us, we just wanted to make sure that we kept them to the outside and pressured them when we could. 
I thought our penalty kill did a really good job of that, not letting them set up too much in zone.   It paid off, I think, not allowing them too much on the power plays.   That's pretty good for us. 

Q.   Jason, Brian touched on this, just the thought you guys were a little too passive in the third period.   Do you agree with that assessment? 
JASON GARRISON:   Yeah, I mean, it's not the third period we wanted to have with the lead going in.   Like he said, we have to stay aggressive, we have to stick to our game plan, probably spent a little bit too much time in the defensive zone. 
Just have to make better plays with the puck at certain times, still establish a strong forechecking game.   That's when we're at our best, when we're cycling the puck, making the D men turn.   Forwards do a good job of putting pressure on them, then we can come in waves. 

Q.   Brian, this team got scoring from all its lines during the season.   Top‑heavy during the playoffs.   How important is secondary scoring at this point? 
BRIAN BOYLE:   You take goals when you can get them.   I don't care who puts it in.   Going into a game, you want to contribute however you can, whatever situation you're put in. 
Taking a lot of D‑zone draws, killing a penalty, you have to do a good job with that.   If you're put in an offensive situation, even if it's one offensive zone draw the second period, you want to try to create some offense, create at least some momentum. 
Yeah, I mean, I know I got one goal, and I'd certainly like a lot more than that.   But you got to kind of play the game as it plays out in front of you.   It's something that we want to get more production, but we're in the Cup Final right now.   We're getting enough production so far from everybody, I think. 

Q.   The result wasn't what you guys wanted last night.   For either one of you, how much confidence was gained in the way you skated with them the first and second period? 
JASON GARRISON:   Yeah, I mean, obviously it was a good test for us.   Don't see them too much during the year.   They're a team that's proven to win in the past.   I thought we did a really good job of playing our game, and our game seemed to work.   It was only unfortunately that a couple shifts in the third period, the puck found the back of our net. 
We can learn from a couple things, but for the most part we're going to stick to the same game plan we had from Game1. 

Q.   Brian, from your perspective, as a guy who is often put in that role, what were your impressions of watching Cedric go head‑to‑head with that Toews line? 
BRIAN BOYLE:   Did a great job.   We got a number of guys, our whole team really, if you can't defend, you're not going to play really.   So it's been preached throughout.   There's obviously guys that can put up some points.   Fil 's line, Johnny's line, they've produced offensively for us.   But they have been put into huge spots, huge situations offensively as well.   Ceddy, Cally, Brown any last night, you know, that's a tall ask against some good players.   They've done a great job.   I think our D have done a great job, too.   That's important, as well.   Everybody needs to kind of be on the same page. 
I think you limit them to as few chances and opportunities as they had, it was a great effort out of them, frees up the top two lines to go out and play, try and create.   We're going to need that going forward, for sure. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT