NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 28, 2015
Brian Boyle
Brenden Morrow
Steven Stamkos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Steven, Game 7 that you played in, if I remember correctly, you were injured pretty good in that game.   What do you remember about that game and what do you remember about that Game 7?   
STEVEN STAMKOS:   Yeah, well, I remember not winning that one, so that's tough.   Don't really remember taking the puck to the face as much as you remember losing.   That was a tough one.   That was my first experience in the playoffs, and it was a great run.   We're right back in the same position right now, so I'm excited about the opportunity of having a little different result this time around.  
   
 Q.   Brian, you see similarities between the 2012 Rangers and this year's team in terms of experience?   This is the first real deep run for a lot of these guys, first deep run for these guys since 2012.   Are there any similarities there and anything you can take from that and use to help you guys out?   
BRIAN BOYLE:   Yeah, I remember going through all that and ultimately I think we had the lead in that series in 2012, and we lost in six.   We thought we were right there.   The margin for error we know is so small.   It gets smaller and smaller.   You see how different things change in the course of the game, and the momentum when it's against you things can slide pretty quick.   When you get things going and rolling for you, I think we've taken advantage of that.   
The similarities, I think‑‑ I mean, I remember that run.   But kind of like what Stammer said, I remember mostly that Game 6 loss in Jersey.   I think every playoff year you remember probably your losses more so, unless you win the Cup, but I can't speak to that.   
We did.   We had a relatively young group of guys that hadn't been there.   It was a lot of fun.   We were just kind of along for the ride.   This is a bit different just because, for me, I've been fortunate enough to be on some playoff teams after that, and I think there's guys in our group that have been on some playoff runs.   You have obviously Mo and Stammer can speak to it as well.   
Every year seems to be a little different, I guess, to finally answer you.   It's hard to say.   Even throughout the playoffs, if you look at the series they're going on now, everything seems to be a bit different.   It's always exciting and it's always a lot of fun to be part of it.  
   
 Q.   A couple of the guys I mentioned in the third period in Game 6 were using some panic plays, and your guys were kind of pressed to get the tying goal and kind of the wind out of their sails after that third goal went in.   How can you keep kind of a calm measure of play even when the stakes are going to be higher tomorrow night?   
BRENDEN MORROW:   That's going to be one of our keys is just to keep our focus.   I think this group of guys this year, when we've been put to the test and we've had to need desperation to our game, we've been able to find our best game.   And I don't think there is a code word or anything that's going to be able to be used to keep the focus if there is that type of pressure again.   It's up to us as leaders on the team if we see that to try and calm the waters a little bit.   
But I think this group, like I said, when they've been pushed against the wall, they've responded the right way.  
   
 Q.   Steven, your line has been going up against Rick Nash's line for a lot of the series, and they added J.T. Miller to that line in Game 5.   Then in Game 6 they were really effective.   So what is it that that line does that makes them so effective?   Has your line talked about changes to make in Game 7 to limit them from what they can do?   
STEVEN STAMKOS:   Well, they obviously had a good game last game, and probably some confidence now.   I can speak to having a good game and then you're getting on a run.   To be honest, I don't think we're too keen on matching up all the time when we're at home.   I know when we're on the road, we'll probably get their line.   
They're feeling good about themselves.   They can all play at both ends of the rink.   I think that's a big thing.   You know, you see Nash and Brassard and now with Miller, all responsible guys.   So I can't see‑‑ hopefully not -- this game being as high scoring as some of the games this series.   
This is a Game 7.   These guys have played in Game 7s.   I've played in three of them.   They've all been 1‑0.   Detroit we scored an empty net goal to make it 2‑0.   So I think we have to expect the same.   
But we have to play well defensively no matter who we're playing against, and when we've had that mentality this year, especially in the playoffs of expecting a 1‑0, 2‑1 type of game, our team has responded, like Mo just mentioned.   So we're looking forward to the challenge, and it's going to be tough, but this group, as Mo just said, has responded well to every challenge that we faced so far.   Obviously, this is the biggest one and we want to make it count.  
   
 Q.   Brenden, can you describe Steven's impact up and down the lineup, the trickle‑down effect he has throughout the team?   
BRENDEN MORROW:   Well, I think it was Game 5 when he stepped up and made a big hit for us.   To win in the playoffs you need to get out of your comfort zone a little bit.   I don't think the hockey world really looks at Steven Stamkos as a big, physical player, and that was a key point in the game and kind of turned things around.   
At this point of the year to win, like I said, you've got to be out of your comfort zone, and he did that.   And I think it carried over and the rest of the team sees that.   He's a vocal leader, but he's also, he goes out and he does the walking too, so it gives everyone some confidence.   He's scoring now.   We all knew it was a matter of time, and that's taken some pressure off of the triplets as well.  
   
 Q.   Brian, you know better than most how tough an out the Rangers are.   What makes them such a tough out, and have you shared anything in particular with these guys going into 7?   
BRIAN BOYLE:   Well, I think they're well coached.   They have depth throughout the lineup.   They have, obviously, good goaltending.   They have a strong group of "D", and they've gotten contributions from, I think, all their lines.   So they're a really good team.   
I think they have good leadership on the team as well.   I think that goes a long way, honestly, in playoff‑‑ come playoff time.   I think they're a resilient team and they're a confident team, but we understand that.   We've played them six times now.   We can beat them.   We've beaten them.   It's obviously not going to be easy, but there are two teams left in the Eastern Conference.   
I don't think there are any rabbits that are going to be pulled out of any hats at this point in this stage.   It's going to be our best against their best.   Obviously, we want to execute.   It's something that it's no real secret to this point.   Maybe before the series started we had some conversations about certain players, but by the time the puck finally drops, you've got to play your game.  
   
 Q.   Steven, this is obviously the first time in four years you've been this far.   I think you mentioned a couple days ago the harsh reality that many of these guys will never get back to this point again.   Being the young and talented group you guys have, do you think the guys understand and realize kind of that situation?   
STEVEN STAMKOS:   I think so.   I think this group, we talk about having some young guys on this team, but a lot of the young guys have been through the process.   I mean, they were together in Norfolk at the time when they had that run.   We got a taste of it last year.   It's just got a different feel this time around.   
I think those guys know how to win.   They play the right way.   For us, you just never know where hockey is going to take you next.   I mean, Mo's been to the Finals before.   Brian has been to the Finals.   You know, when I was one game away, you think you're going to be right back there next year.   Like you said, it's taken four years to get back.   You have to realize the magnitude of the game and the situation that you're in and really how close you are, and I think our group realizes that.   
There's going to be some nervous tension coming into this game, but I think our group over this playoff run has embraced every single moment.   And every time we've had our backs against the wall, or every time the other team seems like they have momentum, we come out and we play well and we respond, and that's all we can do at this time is just respond the way we have.   
Who knows what's going to happen.   Game 7s are almost a coin flip.   I mean, everyone talks about how low‑scoring, how tight they are, who gets the bounces, who maybe gets that one power play opportunity.   So we're going to put ourselves in a position to hopefully succeed, and we've done that so far.  
   
 Q.   Brian, as a member of the Rangers, obviously you've enjoyed this so‑called mystique of MSG during the playoffs.   As the opponent, given the success you guys have had in the building, do you buy this Game 7 mystique that the Rangers fans say they have in this building?   
BRIAN BOYLE:   Do you think I buy it?   What am I doing here if I buy it?   Why would I fly up from Florida if I bought it?   They've obviously had success in Game 7.   It's a new year.   Obviously, we're expecting their best and they've been good.   It's a fun place to play.   
They're going to have the crowd support.   We're going to try to take it away from them as quick as we can, and hopefully it's going to be a really fun, memorable game.  
   
 Q.   This will be for all three of you.   You knew how you felt going into Game 5.   You know the type of game you produced.   How are you feeling now, and are there any comparisons at all going into this one?   
SPEAKER:   Well, today, I don't think the feelings are any different.   I think once the puck drops that adrenaline rush that you get will come.   It hasn't happened yet, but we're talking about it.   The actions haven't started.   But hopefully, I mean, our focus and our mindset, and our game plan, and our keys haven't really changed much from Game 1 and 2 of this series.   We have things we need to do.   Some games we've executed them and played them to a T, and sometimes we've let them slip.   
But I think once that puck drops, that needs to be where our head's at and where our focus is at, and the adrenaline and the energy will come.  
   
 Q.   How important are the first ten minutes for you guys going to be for you to quiet the crowd?   
STEVEN STAMKOS:   You know what, the starts of games have been important, but we've been on both ends.   We've played well.   We've taken the lead and seen their push.   We haven't started games well, and we've come on strong lately.   I think for us, everyone talks about home ice advantage, yeah, the crowd's going to be rocking.   It's going to be loud.   But anything can happen in a Game 7, and that's why it's so exciting.   
As a player, all you have to do is focus on your next shift.   Focus on our game plan.   When we've stuck to the game plan, we have to have confidence in ourselves that we can win.   We've done it in this rink before.   We know it's going to be an extremely intense, fun game to play in, and you're one game away from the Stanley Cup Final.   
I mean, just saying that puts a smile on my face because of the sacrifice we've all made in order to get here.   I think we're going to be ready.   What happens will be yet to see.   But whether we start the game with a goal or they score first, we can't stray from our game plan.   We've maybe done that in the past and it's come back and bitten us a little bit, but I think we'll be focused no matter what happens the first ten minutes of the game.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone) basically the emotions?  
BRIAN BOYLE:   I mean, yesterday, I remember being really pissed off about how kind of Game 6 went, and it resonated throughout the day.   It wasn't going away really.   Today, getting back on the ice was good.   We're excited to get a chance at it.   There is still a chance to win a game and advance, and that's all you can really ask for at this point.   
A couple days from now there are going to be two teams left, and that's, again, not where you want to be.   But when it's all said and done, you want to be the last team standing.   But it's another opportunity to climb another Hill to get to where we want to be, and it's pretty exciting stuff.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT