NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 25, 2015
Brian Boyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You know just how good Hank can be in a Game 7, but is there extra motivation for him here?   
    BRIAN BOYLE:   It's going to be obviously a tough game.   Last game was a tough game.   We have to understand the momentum and all of that, and it starts fresh now.   
    We also need to understand when you're a desperate team, you're a dangerous team.   So we need to match the desperation.  
   
 Q.   What is the emotion?   What is the mindset going into Game 6, knowing that you're one win away from getting into the Finals?   
    BRIAN BOYLE:   It's the opportunity we've put ourselves in.   We're a good team.   I think we know that.   We have confidence in that.   
    If you look back on the wins that we've had, none of them have been really easy, so it's understanding the challenge that faces us, the opponent, having respect for them.   But we need to focus on what we've done well and what we can improve on and come with the right mindset for Game 6.  
   
 Q.   You guys were in the same situation in the Montreal series, up 3‑2.   What was the approach in that game?   
    BRIAN BOYLE:   Yeah, we had a couple of chances to close that one out, so it might be a little bit different.   But, again, it's an opportunity to move on.   You think about one game at a time all throughout the playoffs, and it can't be any different here.   
    But, again, the accomplishment you set out to‑‑ what is waiting for it on the other side of that is a pretty special thing.  
   
 Q.   With your size, you're not the typical Tampa Bay Lightning when people think of a smaller, speedier team, but ‑‑   
    BRIAN BOYLE:   We've got a number of big guys on our team, wouldn't you say?   Four or five guys over 6'5".  
   
 Q.   When people think of this team, I think they think of the Tyler Johnsons, the Kucherovs, obviously.   What kind of message do you think you're sending?   We know the NHL (Indiscernible)?  
    BRIAN BOYLE:   I think those guys play as big as anybody though, to be honest with you.   Those guys are hard on pucks.   They play, they can make both sides of the rink, obviously.   You just have to try to play to your strengths as best as you can.   
    And (Indiscernible) you look at a guy like Hedman, how big he is, how strong he is, the way he skates and makes plays with the ability of smaller, quick guys.   It's amazing how he can skate.   
    For us, it's all about knowing what your role is and trying to accomplish that and help the team on whatever it is you're asked to do.  
   
 Q.   How much did you guys talk about the PK last night as the key to victory?   
    BRIAN BOYLE:   Oh, quite a bit.   It just needed to be a heck of a lot better than it was, and I think it was.   It was sure a little more attention to some details and commitment to making sure we killed the two minutes off and simplified it.   
    But, again, the chances to come up where you can maybe try and get a shorthanded goal, that's important to the series.   But when you're reeling a little bit and giving up two games, we want to get back to basics and do a good job of it.  
   
 Q.   When you don't give up the goal, the momentum kind of swings on your side?  
    BRIAN BOYLE:   It can, yeah.   I mean, again, you don't want to be hemmed in for two minutes letting them bomb away, but we did a pretty good job of limiting their chances.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the blocking shots.   I was wondering if you and Callahan had the same shot?   
    BRIAN BOYLE:   Yeah, it's frustrating when you get your shot blocked.   I know that.   When we see guys block shots on the bench, and (Indiscernible), it's a momentum shift, I think, for your club.   I think it picks everybody up.   
    So to be able to do that, I think, it just goes into our contact and team defense and making sure we do everything we can to keep the puck out of our net.  
   
 Q.   How good is it to be a part of the (Indiscernible) defensively outside of the PK?   
    BRIAN BOYLE:   It just feels great.   At this point it just feels great to win games.   We've just got to keep winning.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT