NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RANGERS v KINGS
June 4, 2014
Brian Boyle
Dominic Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What did you go through today? 
    DOMINIC MOORE:   Yeah, we had a meeting, just went through our normal routine.   Obviously it's an afternoon game, but it's good to get up and get moving a little bit, go for a walk, just try and stick to the regular routine as if it were a normal time. 
    BRIAN BOYLE:   Yes, breakfast, took a couple laps around the hotel.   Then we had a little downtime for lunch, a little rest.   A compressed day because it's a 5:00 game. 

Q.   What have you seen from the Kings' power play that you're going to focus on? 
    BRIAN BOYLE:   They've had success.   We're going to watch a little bit more of it in like 20 minutes.   We'll go over more of it then.
    They've had some success.   A number of guys that can hurt you. 

Q.   Do you have to be focused on Doughty?
    DOMINIC MOORE:   Yeah, definitely.   That's what makes them go.   We need to limit his time and space as best we can. 
    When you're down a man, we have a system that we have had success with.   We need to stick to that. 

Q.   They have big centers who do very well in the faceoff circle.   How do you turn that into your advantage because of their success? 
    DOMINIC MOORE:   Faceoffs are a big part of any series.   Obviously Brian and I take a lot of pride in that. 
    Faceoffs are also a team thing.   There's always a lot of 50/50 pucks which we can try and focus on getting back as best we can. 
    But just keep doing what we've been doing. 

Q.   After all these days off, how do you use that as an advantage?
    BRIAN BOYLE:   We just got to rest and we got our work in on the days that we needed to.   Had some good practices.   A little bit longer than what we're used to in the playoffs.   Shortened practices up, games every other day.   We had some time off.   We came back to practice, I think the mindset was there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT