NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 26, 2014
Brian Boyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A lot of additions to this team in the off‑season player‑wise or even this season you guys were Klein, Carcillo, Marty, has it been difficult to assimilate new players or have you guys been able to?   
BRIAN BOYLE:   I don't think it's been too difficult.   I think the additions have been some good people.   We've gotten guys that have helped us that are obviously good players that fill the need, but they're good people.   We get along so well as a team, and if there is a new face, I think as a team from the leaders and right on down, we try to get them acclimated as fast as possible.   You feel pretty comfortable with your surroundings it can help you maintain a level of confidence.   I think for the most part our structure and the way we play is pretty straightforward.   
You're asked to do the essential things like skating and forechecking and being responsible defensively.   Those are traits that our team likes to carry, and we've had guys come in here and it's been pretty seamless.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
BRIAN BOYLE:   We've had some‑‑ I mean, we had one game in these playoffs where we weren't totally focused.   It was Game 4, I think, against Pitt.   But you weren't totally focused whether it be mentally or have everything physically.   It sticks out.   You can tell that if you're not a hundred percent in the moment and focused and have all your energy on what's the task at hand.   We were embarrassed in that game.   It can happen quickly, and momentum, obviously, can turn quickly in series and throughout games even.  
   
 Q.   With all that's gone on in this series and the back and forth with the coaches, how have you guys been able to keep that out of the mind?   
BRIAN BOYLE:   It's not hockey.   It's not on the ice.   It's something that hopefully it's over and done with.   But if it isn't, it doesn't really matter because the team that plays the best on the ice and wins the game gets to advance, and that's really all that matters.  
   
 Q.   Are you always looking for that (Indiscernible)?  
BRIAN BOYLE:   I heard‑‑ I was yelling for Mac.   We try to make small plays like that if we can get a higher percentage play to get it down the ice, so I was yelling for Mac.   He gives it to me, and I kind of hear this build up in the crowd.   Before I could even look up I thought either a 'D' man fell down or we had two‑on‑one.   I looked up and Hags was on the other side of the rink, it looked like.   So I just bared down and tried to rip it, luckily he handled it.   I was pretty surprised he was up there though.   It was a good read though obviously.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT