NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 3, 2000
Ken Hitchcock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Was the penalty kill in the first period when you had the -- was that the key you
could have been up one?

COACH HITCHCOCK: I thought Arnott's goal was the key, no. I thought we played a great
first period and we lost energy on that goal. I don't think that we played with the sense
of desperation until halfway through the third period that we did in the first period. I
thought that his goal -- we missed some chances on those next two powerplays, but his goal
set us back a little bit.

Q. Why did you shy away from the Modano matchup against Arnott's line?

COACH HITCHCOCK: We needed better advantage. There is no point in only breaking even.

Q. How do you think Joe Nieuwendyk is playing? He hasn't got a point in this series? He
came on late from the third, but until then, he didn't do too much?

COACH HITCHCOCK: I think he is a lot like our forwards. If we are going to win the next
game, or expect to win the series, I think we are going to have to play with a much higher
level of sense of desperation from the red line in. I think both teams are going to get
their chances off the rush, but I don't think that we are getting the quality chances with
the time that we are spending in the zone. Part of it is what Jersey is doing, but a
bigger part is that we are just not -- including Nieuwendyk and a lot of other people, we
are not playing with that necessary sense of urgency. Both teams are committed
defensively, and if you are going to score, you are going to have to be a lot more
desperate.

Q. This team seems to thrive when they go down in a series. You are obviously expecting
them to bounce back once again.

COACH HITCHCOCK: I think we are the team that has to pick up the pace. I thought once
the game went 2-1, Jersey controlled a big part of the hockey game until the end. And we
had the flurries in the last, like I say, nine or ten minutes. But through that middle
period and the start of the third, they were certainly controlling the level of play. We
are the team that is going to have to pick it up.

Q. From the point of view of what "it" happened -- you said the Arnott goal
was the point of view. From the point of view of what "it" happened, would it be
your lack of production on the powerplay?

COACH HITCHCOCK: A little bit, we created a lot of powerplay chances for ourself with
our hard work. I thought that we didn't take advantage on the -- on the 5-on-3, I thought
that we were just too slow moving the puck, and we could have really put a nail in things
if we would have scored on that. But I thought the powerplay in the third period, we just
-- we got out battled in a couple of areas that you need to be more desperate in. I think
it was the critical one. We needed that powerplay to work, and we didn't take advantage of
it.

Q. Do you feel like you didn't take advantage of goalies giving you a chance to steal
one, and will you match Nieuwendyk now, change up with Nieuwendyk on that line?

COACH HITCHCOCK: I am not sure. I think we got to go back and look at some things. I
think with we have got -- Eddie has played great for us. And I think if we are going to
take better advantage of it, I think we have got to be as a group, not just Nieuwendyk,
but as a group, we have got to be more desperate than they are to defend. I don't think
that we were tonight. I think -- it was a good hockey game, but the level of desperation
for them to defend and us to produce offensively was greater on their side.

Q. Beyond the obvious, what were you aiming for trying to accomplish with all the
change of the forwards during the game?

COACH HITCHCOCK: Well, I think like everything else, I thought when the game went 2-1,
we lost energy and you are trying to create energy by putting people who are working
together. I thought we had some speed matchups that looked good for us so we tried to take
advantage of that. I think at that time when you feel like you don't have control, the
other team's ability to defend is controlling everything. You want to try to create some
type of desperate measure on both sides, and it started to work towards the end, but it
was a little bit too late.

Q. 7 Playoff series in a row, it has been a very similar game for you. Even tonight you
get the first goal; you got real good performance from Eddie. It is not enough. Has that
merely heightened your level of concern?

COACH HITCHCOCK: I think, yeah, we are concerned. I think what we are concerned is that
our inability to outwork them in their zone. I think that their ability to control that
sets up everything. It sets up their counterattack and a lot of their offensive push. We
are not spending a lot of quality time in there. There isn't a sense of enough -- sense of
desperation. Some of that is what Jersey is doing, but also I think that we can play
better in that area. If we do, we will create more chances, but I don't think we can win
-- expect to go create the number of chances we are creating, because I think that if we
can just score a few -- a couple more goals, our goaltender is playing so well right now,
that we can maybe create a gap in a game here that we can take advantage of.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT