NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 21, 2002
Jeff O'Neill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What percent vision do you think you had the rest of the game after you got hit? 

JEFF O'NEILL:   It wasn't very good.  I think that when my eye swelled up rather quickly, and the vision wasn't so much a problem as my balance.  My balance was a little off there for the first 10 or 15 minutes.  Luckily, I was able to keep going and get a big goal.  It was an exciting moment.

Q.  You got hit in the first period?

JEFF O'NEILL:   Yeah, McCabe tried to clear the puck there, and I'm sure you can all tell where it struck me.  It was just a fluke thing.  When it's coming out fast, you can't protect your face.  Like I said, it swelled up pretty quickly, and I was able to  -- the trainer did a good job of icing it on the bench.  It was getting a little annoying when he kept sticking that ice thing on my eye, but it kept the swelling down.

Q.  Did they cut it open during the first intermission?

JEFF O'NEILL:   I think they used a needle or something to drain some of the blood, and it worked pretty good.  The swelling seemed to go down and it was fine after that.

Q.  Can you talk about the game-winner? 

JEFF O'NEILL:   It was a pretty standard play.  Francis came over the blue line, and when you play with a player like that, you've got to go to the net because he always makes good things happen.  It obviously was not one of his prettier assists, but it just kind of squirted free there and I was able to pounce on it and put it upstairs.

Q.  Were you still able to see the puck and know where it was shot? 

JEFF O'NEILL:   Yeah, it was just sitting right there and I tried to shoot it as quick as I could.  Fortunately, it went in.

Q.  What is it about your team in overtime? 

JEFF O'NEILL:   We just try to keep it simple.  Most of our goals have just been defensemen shooting the puck and having good traffic in front of the net.  We go to the net and try to create havoc for the goaltender, and we've been successful so far.

Q.  What was your thought going into the locker room getting ready for another overtime?

JEFF O'NEILL:   It's always an exciting time, when the next goal wins.  You've got to stay sharp because you know any play or any scrum can make the difference in the game.  We just try to keep it simple and work hard and play our systems and good things have happened so far.

Q.  The game's legends are full of guys playing hurt; do you think this is a moment like that for you? 

JEFF O'NEILL:   I mean, everybody is out there.  Everybody's got something going on.  You see Mats Sundin coming back and Darcy Tucker, it's the spirit of the Stanley Cup Playoffs.  No matter what happens, you go out there and play and that's what makes it so special.

Q.  Did they want you to wear a shield?

JEFF O'NEILL:   It was recommended but I can't see down on the ice.  I think he wanted me to wear one, but I wasn't in favor of that decision.

Q.  Do you get a sense that the Leafs have been flat the last couple of games? 

JEFF O'NEILL:   I don't think so.  I thought they were out there flying tonight.  They skated well and had a lot of great rushes.  I thought it was an all-around great hockey game.  We got the win, and it was great. 

Q.  Scoring in your hometown, basically, such a big goal, were you your friends and family here? 

JEFF O'NEILL:   Actually, there were no friends and family here.  I think they know now not to call me and ask for tickets.  My mother doesn't want to come to the games anymore.  I hope she doesn't want to come on Thursday now, because I've never scored in front of them in this building so, maybe they can stay home again and good things will happen for me.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT