MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
March 23, 2012
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Bob, 3‑under 69.   One of 12 people who are going to finish round one.   Just talk about that.   You've had good finishes here.   Talk about finishing and getting through the day.   
BOB TWAY:   I love this golf course.   If you all can imagine, eight inches of rain, you would have thought we had an inch.   Except for the bunkers, everything was fabulous.   You weren't even walking through too much water.   It was pretty incredible.   The staff did an amazing job.   
But I played really well for 17 holes, really bad on one hole.   But 17 I played very good.  
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Questions.  
   
 Q.   It looked like you were hanging around the fallen oak.   
BOB TWAY:   Hit it straight right off the tee.   
   
 Q.   How was it to be a golfer and you're waiting around and you don't know whether you're going to get to play, how do you handle that?  
BOB TWAY:   We're just used to that.   It happens so often.   When I woke up this morning, I saw that radar, I didn't think we'd play any golf today, and we got finished.   
Thumbs up to the maintenance crew for getting everything ready, Tom Fazio for having a golf course that drains pretty well, because it was pretty playable.  
   
 Q.   How important was it to be one of the guys that's going to be finishing?   
BOB TWAY:   You know, I don't think it really makes a whole lot of difference except you get to sleep in, which is always nice.   You don't have to get up at 5:00 and play.   You always like to get finished.   
We were lucky to have one of the earlier tee times.   Luck of the draw kind of deal.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your game?   
BOB TWAY:   I played very poor this year.   The three tournaments I played I played just awful.   Been working really hard on my swing.   Kind of found some things early in the week.   Got a little help from Tom Pernice and my brother, who is caddying for me this week.   Things clicked a little bit.   
So for 17 holes I actually looked like a golfer.   It was nice to hit some good shots and I really drove the ball well, except for the last hole.   That was really pleasing because I haven't been doing that.   
There's some very good positives.   
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Okay, Bob, we'll let you go.   
BOB TWAY:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT