MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
April 30, 2010
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Bob Tway, 34, 33, 5-under 67 to start the Mississippi Gulf Resort Classic. Couple general thoughts about your round, and then go through the card, if you could.   
 BOB TWAY: Well, I'm pleased with how I played. The golf course, I think everybody likes it. It's in wonderful shape. If you can avoid the bunkers, that's the starting point, I think, off the tee, because they're awfully penal.   
 But if you get on the ball on the fairway you have a chance to get some iron shots close to the hole. And even though the greens are big and undulating, if you can get 'em in the right spot you got some chances to make birdies.   
 It was a challenging day because of the wind. It always makes it more difficult. But I was pleased with how everything went.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: You birdied three holes on the back coming in to get to the 5-under score. Start at 1.   
 BOB TWAY: 1 I hit a nice drive. Was actually surprised. I was kind of hitting my 3-wood trying to be just kind of short of the green. I really flushed it and kind of kept it under the wind. I was able to get it up there by the green and hit a nice chip about 6 inches from the hole. So it was a nice start.   
 The 4th hole I made bogey. I actually hit a beautiful drive and I kind of tried to hit an easy 9-iron I just and sanded just a little bit into the bunker and made a bogey.  
 Par-5, No. 6, I hit another nice drive and just missed the green in two and chipped up and made that.  
 7th hole was...   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: How far was your...   
 BOB TWAY: It was about six feet on No. 6.  
 No. 7, went ahead and hit driver off that tee. I'd been doing that in the Pro-Am, and I went ahead and did it again today. Got it down there in front of the green and was able to hit a chip up there about six or seven feet and make that one.   
 Then a few pars and hit a nice shot at No. 12, oh, I don't know, probably eight, ten feet; made that.  
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: You hit a wedge?   
 BOB TWAY: Hit a wedge. The par-3, 14, 158 yards downhill. I hit an 8-iron about 15 feet behind the hole and made that one.  
 Didn't take advantage of the par-5s. That was a little bit disappointing. Didn't drive it well on either one of those two holes. Those are really about the only two drives I didn't hit well, so I wasn't able to get up by the green in two.   
 And then the 16th hole I hit a nice sand wedge left of the hole about ten feet and made that.   
 So that's about it.  
  
  Q. This is the first year of this event. Coming out here today, how does the crowd strike you?   
 BOB TWAY: You know, the whole week has been wonderful. Everywhere we walk, everyone thanks us for coming. You know, it's kind of like, Well, no, thank you for having us.  
 You can tell the people are very excited. It's wonderful for us. But everywhere you turn, Thanks for coming. From our standpoint, we just want to thank you all and the volunteers. We know how many volunteers it takes to put this tournament on, so you can tell the pride of the community.   
 It's wonderful. I've actually been here the last three years over at Shell Landing for Habitat For Humanity. That's why I was excited about coming back over here. I just knew how excited the people would be.   
 It's just a wonderful area.   
  
  Q. You have to be feeling pretty good obviously, first day tied for the lead?  
 BOB TWAY: I'm sure someone will come in with a better score most likely. I'm just pleased with the start.   
 Hopefully I'll get to play with my buddy, Leonard, tomorrow. That would be a lot fun.   
 Like I say, we got a long way to go. First round doesn't really mean much, but it's always nice to get off to a good start.  
  
  Q. I know you don't want to get ahead of yourself, but if you're in the lead - and you probably will be Sunday or close to it - will driver be your choice on No. 7 again?  
 BOB TWAY: Well, I think it'll just depend on how you feel and what direction the wind is playing. Today it was a little bit more right to left; it wasn't back into me, so I felt pretty comfortable about getting it down there where I had have a decent chip.   
 Obviously you can't hit to the right or you're in the water, and you can't pull it because you'll catch that bunker. It's not a good place to be.  
 But if you hit a solid tee shot, it leaves you in a nice spot.  
  
  Q. (Question regarding the hole location.)  
 BOB TWAY: A little bit. A little bit. You know, I think more so than the hole location, on than particular hole I think it's just gonna be how you feel.   
  
  Q. What do you mean by how you feel?   
 BOB TWAY: Well, you know, how you feel when you get up to the tee. Have I hit my drives just like I want to? I had driven the ball for the first six holes just like I wanted to, so I felt good about it. You know, if I just go ahead and make the same swings that I've been making, I felt pretty good that I could get it down there.   
 Now, if you kind of barked a few or whatever you might not feel so good on your way up. I think you just got to play as smart as you can.  
  
  Q. Do you feel good with where your game is right now and how it pertains to the rest of the week?   
 BOB TWAY: Well, you know, yeah, I haven't played -- you know, I played okay this year. I haven't played bad; haven't played real good. I just enjoy playing and I work at it real hard. It's fun to be out here. I thoroughly enjoy it. I'm just gonna keep plugging along, and hopefully give myself chances to do good and hopefully win. That would be a lot of fun.  
  
  Q. Looking at the course, are there any key spots where you kind of feel like you need to make something happen, and if you don't, then you'll be disappointed at the end of the round?   
 BOB TWAY: You know, I'm not gonna say that there is. I think if you hit good shots you can make birdies on almost any hole.   
 Obviously 17 is a very difficult par-3. There are some other ones that are a little bit more difficult. But you never know. If you hit a good shot, you can.   
 You hate to think about one hole, saying, Boy, if I don't make a birdie there it ruins my round. You'd always love to take advantage of par-5s if you can. I was only able to do that I think once today -- or I guess twice, so that's not bad. But you would like to take advantage of the par-5s.  
 Other than that, get the ball in the fairway and you'll have some wedge shots. Try to get those close.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Bob, good luck tomorrow.   
 BOB TWAY: Thanks guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT