LIBERTY MUTUAL LEGENDS OF GOLF
April 24, 2010
Blaine McCallister
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVE SENKO: Blaine and Bob, another good round, 9-under again today, 63 to follow your 63 yesterday, and 18-under. Blaine, maybe just get us started, just maybe some general thoughts on your round and then I'll get Bob. 
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: You know, we haven't really played much strategy together. We just basically just said hit it in the fairway, hit it on the green and give ourselves some opportunities, and we've done that the last two days. 
 Didn't get off as good a start as we did yesterday. We were only 2-under at the turn, but we put ourselves under a little test there on 5 and 6. We both had to make -- both of us left each other hanging out there, and one of us had to make -- we both made pars, and that was a good feeling to know that one guy was there for the other guy. And then the next hole he came right back and made that par for me. 
 But we had some birdie opportunities. We didn't take advantage of the seventh hole, the par-5 there like we should have. The tee was up today. We made a par on that hole. But we hit some good putts. It just didn't go in on the front nine, but then the Back 9, it's kind of like yesterday, we'd get off to a quick start, he makes eagle on 11 and then off we go. He follows that up with birdie, and then of course, he makes one on 15. So I'm just riding hard. I'm riding my horse. 
 But we've been a great pairing. It's been fun. Wish we had more of those. 
 DAVE SENKO: Bob. 
 BOB TWAY: Everything Blaine said. If you can have two guys -- yesterday was probably a little less stressful because actually we both drove the ball really well yesterday and we always had two guys putting for birdie. 
 Today I didn't drive it as well, so it wasn't quite the same as yesterday. But if you can do that, there's a little bit less pressure and it's a little more relaxed and seems like you can go after putts a little bit more. And we kind of did that both days on the back side, and I think that's the key. And someone will say, if you have a number in mind or whatever. I think the key is really just to put the ball in the fairway and give you two-putts at it, and it's a less stressful day and then you can be more aggressive, and that would be or game plan.
 DAVE SENKO: Go through the birdies real quick. Starting with No. 1. Do you remember who made the birdie there? 
 BOB TWAY: Yeah. I made about a, I don't know what, a 7-footer. The pin was in a little bit more receptive place today, with a sand wedge up to about seven feet and made that. On 4 Blaine made a nice putt for birdie.
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: I made about a 12, 15-footer there for birdie on the par-5. He was already chipped up to about four feet, so I mean worse comes to worse if I miss, he's going to have a 4-footer for birdie, and that's what we talked about as far as giving ourselves two opportunities. If the guy is 12 feet away, 15 while he's putting for birdie and the other guy is in there six feet, the guy putting from 12, 15 feet can go ahead and feel like he's comfortable putting a good roll on it. And that's kind of the way it's been today, the way we've played. 
 And we had birdie opportunities on No. 7, 8 and 9, and he had a great putt on No. 7 -- or 8 that didn't go in. And 9 I hit a good putt that just didn't break there at the end, but then we go to the Back 9 and starting on 10, we both had birdie opportunities we just missed, but then he hit a 3-wood, beautiful 3-wood from the fairway on 11 to about 15 feet, maybe 20 feet. 
 But just that kind of got you on that feeling of, okay, let's get after it, and then he follows that right up on the next hole, and I don't know, what did you hit in there? 
 BOB TWAY: 6-iron, I don't know, 12 feet probably, 12 feet. 
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: And made that. 
 BOB TWAY: Blaine made a real good birdie on the next hole.
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: Yeah, I hit an awful second shot into the right rough and fortunately had a good lie, and I was able to hit it on the green about 15 feet and made that for birdie. 
 And then we -- the next hole is such a great little par-4. I mean what a great little design that is, but I hit it just on the left side of the fairway and just into the rough there and hit it short, about 30 feet, and he hit an unbelievable second shot and stopped that ball about, I don't know, couldn't have been more than seven feet. He hit a good putt, it just broke off hard on him. We kind of felt like we let one get away there after we had that short of hole but then he just followed that up with -- what can I say? Doesn't come much better than that. 
 BOB TWAY: Then Blaine birdied the next hole.
 DAVE SENKO: How far was that, Blaine, on 16? 
 BOB TWAY: 45 and, what, 10, 11, I think. 
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: On the par-3? Yeah. It was 56 to the hole on No. 15 for his hole-out for the one. And then on 16 I hit it just behind the hole with a 9-iron about, what was that, 12 feet? And I mean he was up there, he hit it about eight feet. 
 So like I said, we got two birdie putts. And I could feel a little more aggressive, and I hit a good putt, went right in the hole. And of course, you play 17 and 18 at this golf course it's not like you're hitting a lot of birdie putts there. It's tough two holes to finish on, and we made two good pars. 
 The good thing about our two rounds is it's just been comfortable. We've been very comfortable playing together. It hasn't been stressful, and we've just enjoyed the heck out of it. It's kind of fun, just set up there and go at it, and we've been doing that. 
 DAVE SENKO: Before we get any questions, I just want to pass this little tidbit along. About your hole-in-one earned $25,000 for the Hunter Army Airfield and Ft. Stewart's Chaplain Fund under their Birdies For Charity program. 
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: Awesome. Too bad we didn't make more. 
 MAUREEN RADZAVICZ: Liberty Mutual is who actually pays that. 
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: Tell them thank you very much. That's wonderful. 
 BOB TWAY: That's awesome. Makes it more fun even. 
 DAVE SENKO: Questions? 

 Q. I do want to revisit the hole-in-one, but I want to ask before I forget. You guys have identical scores on completely different weather kind of days. I guess you can handle anything, hot and sunny and wet and yucky I guess. 
 BOB TWAY: Today wasn't really too bad. It rained a little bit on the front side to where it was a little bit of a hassle, but it actually probably made the greens putt a little bit better to have a little bit of moisture in them, and the wind wasn't blowing as strong as yesterday. So today was probably a better day for scoring, and you can probably look at the scores and see that. They are a little bit better than a dry windier day with the sun out. Usually on a day like today that's when the scores were very good.

 Q. Could you walk us through the money-making hole today?
 BOB TWAY: Well, I hit an 8-iron. It was the perfect club for me, at 145 at the front of 11 a little downwind. I usually hit an 8-iron about 150 to 155, and it was playing 155. And you know, it's obviously a lot of luck. You could hit a lot of good shots that don't go in and it happened to go in.

 Q. Can you walk us through the eagle?
 BOB TWAY: I hit a pretty good drive on the left side, and I had 237 yards to the front of the green and the pin was back about 30, so I tried to hit my 3-wood about as hard as I could. And I flushed it and got back about 20 feet short of the hole and made that putt. So it was kind of nice because we were struggling -- I mean not struggling, but we hadn't made any birdies and you feel like, well, you're getting passed by the world and that kind of jump started us.

 Q. How many have you made on Tour?
 BOB TWAY: On Tour I think I've made seven now. 

 Q. How about you, Blaine? 
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: On Tour I think I've had three. I've had 11 overall, but I've had three on Tour I know of, well, I can remember. After 27 years it's kind of hard. We were just talking about how we've made some at certain courses. I've made two at Hilton Head in one tournament, and where did you say you've made two? 
 BOB TWAY: At Memorial. 
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: At Memorial he made two in one tournament. It's amazing how those will come to you. It's exciting to be here in this position. I know that. We're both looking forward to getting after it tomorrow.

 Q. I was going to say, what's kind of the strategy tomorrow? 
 BOB TWAY: Same thing, you know. We kept stressing, you know, try to get two guys putting for birdie at each hole because it's less stressful that way. 
 Like you say, if you have two guys there, the first guy feels like he can be a little bit more aggressive as opposed to someone out of the hole. You'd like to make it, but then you don't want to run it way by, so that you know, you can't be quite as aggressive. If you can get two guys in the fairway, on the greens, putting, then it should help.
 BLAINE McCALLISTER: It's just a great -- you know, that's what we talk about, if you can get two guys that are in the fairway, able to go at these flags and then you got the opportunity when you get on the green, one guy's 12 feet or eight feet, you just have a comfort level. It's kind of like having a security blanket and it makes you really feel more at ease. You can really get after it. 
 And you're going to have to the next -- I mean we saw that earlier when we were only 10-under after 10 holes, you knew where we were going, we were going backwards. So I mean these guys are too good. I mean they're not going to go back. You just gotta go forward and that's what we're going to go try to do tomorrow. 
 DAVE SENKO: Okay. All right, Blaine. Thanks, Bob. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT