VALERO TEXAS OPEN
October 4, 2007
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Bob, for joining us for a few minutes in the Media Center here at the Valero Texas Open.   
 Nice start to the week and nice finish with the four birdies and 30 on the front-9.   
 BOB TWAY:  It was kind of a, I don't know, very average round there for 9 holes and made a birdie at 2 and still kind of an average round.   
 All of a sudden I hit a good shot at No. 6, par 3; hit two nice shots at 7 and 8, hit real close at 9.  I made four in row and all of a sudden became a good round.  It was kind of strange.   
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Actually, this course you played well here since '02.  You've had great finishes.   
 BOB TWAY:  I've always enjoyed coming here.  I love San Antonio.  I like the golf course.  You know, there's some goofy holes out there but it's like Weiskopf said when he came here, he didn't design it for a tournament golf course.   
 You have a couple goofy holes over by the La Fiesta.  I've always enjoyed it.  The golf course is always in good shape and you have to hit the ball straight or you end up in the woods and that's no good and so for some reason I just -- I like coming here.   
Q.  For some reason the guys that have done well here are playing well.  Got three former champions that are either in the lead or stroke out of it.   
 Can you see anything about that?   
 BOB TWAY:  I think it happens a lot.  You have guys who enjoy going to places, they have good memories and there might be a particular reason why they have played well.   
 Maybe they like bermuda grass.  Anytime you go somewhere you did well, you have good memories.  As you all know, the game is a whole lot more about confidence than it is anything else and kind of gives you that little bit of extra boost.   
  
  Q.  We were talking about could somebody shoot better in the afternoon?  It's getting a little bit more windy, probably not.  Those last four birdies of yours had to come in some sort of a wind.   
 BOB TWAY:  The wind is not blowing very hard.  I don't think it's predicted to blow very hard all week.   
 That's kind of what makes the golf course start playing difficult.  You get some very difficult holes out there, with the south wind blowing or when you have a front come through, a north wind.   
 Other than that, the greens are pretty receptive and you have a lot of short irons.  Guys are going to hit them close and make some birdies.   
 With bermuda greens, you don't get them beat up like you normally do with bent grass.  You will have some good scores in the afternoon especially if the wind doesn't below because the ball will go further.  They'll be hitting shorter irons and for whatever reason -- oh, sorry.   
  
  Q.  At least we know your ring tone now.   
 BOB TWAY:  Basic.  They'll shoot some good scores.   
  
  Q.  You're coming off of three missed cuts.   
 BOB TWAY:  Two.  Come on.   
  
  Q.  Three.   
 BOB TWAY:  May be three.  I don't know what it is.   
  
  Q.  I was just wondering if you were struggling with something during those three weeks.   
 BOB TWAY:  How many is it, three?  You're right.  Sorry.  I put it out of my mind already.  I didn't count the FedEx ones.   
  
  Q.  Actually I was just wondering if there is something you were struggling with right now that's turned around this week.   
 BOB TWAY:  I've been struggling all year.  I finished what, 30th, 40th all year long.  I haven't really put any four consecutive rounds together.   
 At times I've actually played okay but I shoot a 73, 74 and finished 35th or 38th or whatever I finished when I made the cuts.  You can do that all year long and never make any money.  That's why you're struggling to keep your privileges.   
 Anyway, I'm not displeased with how things have been going.  I didn't play very well the last few weeks but, you know, it's nothing like anything is bad.  It's just not good enough.   
  
  Q.  I just remember you played well up in Dallas.   
 BOB TWAY:  Only good time I played good.  That was my only good finish of the year.  I finished 13th.  That's not good but compared to the rest, that's the only one I actually was kind of up there.  Actually, I think I played four decent rounds but I just hadn't been able to do that.   
  
  Q.  What did you do well today?   
 BOB TWAY:  Well, like I said earlier, I didn't do much until last four holes.  I was just 1-under.  All of a sudden I hit two shots very close and two pretty close and also made four birdies.   
 Like I said, obviously, it I could have been here with 69 but instead 65.  As you all know, it's a very small margin between good and little bit better.   
  
  Q.  I'm just interested in the clubs you hit close there on two of the last --   
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Let's go through the last four holes.   
 BOB TWAY:  I hit an 8-iron at the 6th hole, couple feet away.  On 7 and 8 hitting sand wedges, 80 yards and 60 yards.  I hit those about five, six feet, something like that.  The last hole I had a pitching wedge and hit about it two feet.   
 Like I said, you're going to have a lot of short irons out here especially on those four holes and there's some more difficult holes you have to play well but if you drive the ball well you're going to have a lot of short irons.   
 JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Bob.   
 BOB TWAY:  Okay.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT