THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 24, 2014
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PHIL STAMBAUGH:   67, 4‑under bogey‑free today, very good with switching winds.   Fourth appearance in this event, you tied for 12th in 20011, you were saying out there, you enjoy coming over.   A couple initial thoughts about Porthcawl, what your assessment is, and then talk about your round.
BOB TWAY:   I was telling the guys outside that I think as I've gotten older, I've come to appreciate the golf over here more and more.   I think when I was young, I don't think you really pay much attention to anything and it's different to what you're used to at home. 
I know later in my life, playing in Open Championships and on the Champions Tour, we pay more attention to what good golf courses are and just different shots and stuff.   When we arrived here Sunday, we played nine holes and Tom Pernice and I said, what a great golf course this is.   We don't get to play this type of golf ever, especially running this fast.   So it was a pleasure just to play a nice round of golf on a great golf course. 
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Sort of go through your round‑‑
BOB TWAY:   I got off to a good start at 1.   I made a birdie.   I hit a 5‑iron and it was playing very short obviously, straight downwind with a wedge and made a 12‑footer for a birdie and I played the par5, sixth hole.   And parred around and made a long‑ish putt on the par3, 12.   And then knocked it just over the back of the green on 13, the par5 in two and 2‑putted that one. 
Really, for the first 14 holes, I played really well.   The last four holes, I did not play well.   I hit it in the bunker on 15 but I was able to save myself. 
16, hit a very, very poor tee shot.   I just chipped out just thinking that I'd better just play for five and hit a pretty good 8‑iron that just barely went over the back of green and I holed it from off the green for par, which is something I don't have do.   It was really nice.   It was probably 30 feet. 
Then I didn't hit a good drive at 18 but I was able to get it up there by the green in three.   They were asking me, you know, I haven't been playing all that great, but I still enjoy playing and it's nice to shoot a good round occasionally. 

Q.   You say you haven't been playing too well this season? 
BOB TWAY:   I haven't been playing too well since I've turned ‑‑ on the Champions Tour.   I've had some good finishes now and then where I've finished second somewhere.   What I figure is you have a chance to contend to win tournaments, and I just haven't been able to do that. 
And it's been disappointing, because I really love to play the game and I think the reason we play to get yourself in the hunt to have a chance to win and I just haven't done that, so it's not as much fun.

Q.   You won a lot on the main tour. 
BOB TWAY:   I didn't win a lot but I won some and had some good years.   I still think that I could still play well.   It's a matter of doing it. 

Q.   With a bit of breeze, how impressive was that without a bogey?
BOB TWAY:   It's very good.   As you know, a bogey can pop up any time.   And I got lucky.   I probably should have bogeyed a couple holes coming it, and I didn't.   Even if I would have made a couple bogeys, 69 still would have been a great score.   I think any time‑‑ especially with the way the breeze is, if you shoot under par, you've played wonderful.

Q.   It was a few years ago but do you still recall the PGA Championship win? 
BOB TWAY:   Oh, yeah.   There's a few people that still remember it, anyway. 

Q.   The wind obviously got up a little bit today.   Do you think it was a different course today from what it was yesterday?
BOB TWAY:   Well, it's funny, let me go even further back than that.   Sunday when we arrived, we played nine holes and it was out of the west right off the water. 
So the very first hole was a driver.   Today it was a 5‑iron and it was exactly the opposite wind.   Yesterday when we played, we had east wind but it changed at the turn on the ninth hole. 
Today it started to turn on the 18th tee.   We played more with the east wind.   On Monday, we played the entire day with the west wind and the golf course played so drastically different with the two winds, it's hard to even fathom. 
The other day on the ninth hole, I hit a driver and a 3‑wood.   Today I hit a 5‑iron and 7‑iron. 
So you tell people that and they look at you like you're from Mars, but that's just what links golf is, because the ball will chase so far when downwind, and then into the wind you have to go ahead and flight the ball. 
It's unlike anything that we get to play at home.   And when the wind does start changing, you've got to be a little creative because you don't really know how far the ball is going to chase and what to do sometimes. 

Q.   Most say that as they get older they appreciate links golf more‑‑ were you one of these guys that hated it the first time you played it? 
BOB TWAY:   I don't think I hated it.   Yeah, appreciate would be a great word, and I didn't appreciate the different type of shots you needed to hit.   We just hit a ball in the air. 
I can remember when I'm young, I didn't remember golf courses as well and stuff, holes.   Now I remember every hole I play.   It's strange.   I don't know what it is.   I don't know whether it's because over time you're thinking about designs of golf courses or you just pay more attention or you don't have kids to chase around, I don't know what it is. 
But you appreciate it more and think about it more.   So now, I see good golf courses and good holes and I go, gosh, what a great golf hole.

Q.   Is there any one thing that has held you back since you started on the Champions Tour?
BOB TWAY:   My short game's been terrible.   If you don't chip‑and‑putt the ball well, you can't do well.   That's why I was pretty excited todayabout not ‑‑ 

Q.   The putting‑‑
BOB TWAY:   I was able to putt instead of chip a little bit.   But that's been kind of my downfall is I haven't wedged the ball very good, chipped the ball very good and at times not putted the ball very good, which on the Champions Tour you need to do really well.

Q.   They have put a good golf course at Celtic Manor; do you think there will be more competitions coming to Royal Porthcawl? 
BOB TWAY:   I have never played Celtic Manor so I can't comment on that one, but this one here is a hidden gem.   I didn't know much about it but it's fantastic. 

Q.   Had you ever played Royal Porthcawl?
BOB WAY:   I have not.

Q.   (Inaudible.) 
BOB TWAY:   1, I made about a 15‑footer.   6 was a par 5 just off the green in two.   On that hole I hit a very good drive and a 2‑iron, chased it up the hill, chipped about three feet and made it.   I made a real good 25‑footer after hitting a good 4‑iron at No. 12. 
And then the par5, I hit a really nice drive and a 3‑wood just over the back of the green and 2‑putted that one. 
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT