WGC WORLD CUP
November 20, 2004
Bob Tway
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  We'd like to thank Bob Tway and Scott Verplank for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the World Golf Championships World Cup.

Great day out there, guys, 8-under par 64 and you're right in there going into Sunday.  Bob, you had a great day today.  Why don't you give us a little background on it.

BOB TWAY:  Well, I would say we both had a good day.  Obviously it's a lot easier to play when you have a partner like Scott who is so steady, so it makes me a little bit more relaxed and a lot easier to play.

So I was fortunate enough today to get off to a good start and kind of build some momentum.  I think we didn't play as well the back side as I know we should have.  We could have kept it a little bit tighter.  But like you said, we're still close and we have to play well tomorrow.

I'm very much looking forward to tomorrow because I think it's a great format for the last day with a lot of pressure on trying to win this tournament.  I can't think of a better format for us to try to do that.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Scott, you guys played pretty well yesterday in that format.  Will you change anything?

SCOTT VERPLANK:  I don't think so.  I think we'll hit off the same tees that we did yesterday.  We got off to kind of a slow start yesterday, but the last ten holes we played very well.  So, you know, tomorrow we'll have to get off to a little better start.  We're good partners in that format, and I think we'll enjoy playing it again.
Q.  You think it will be easier tomorrow playing without Spain tomorrow and without all of the crowds?

SCOTT VERPLANK:  I don't think so.  I mean, I enjoy having all the people out there.  You know, they all love Sergio, and Miguel, as well.  It makes it a little more exciting.
Q.  I don't know if you heard, but there was a statement put out overnight by Titleist that they are terminating their commercial relationship with Paul Casey, and I don't know if you have any comments on that issue.

SCOTT VERPLANK:  My name wasn't in there, was it?  Okay, good. (Smiling).  I'm all right then.

BOB TWAY:  I'm just worried about the tournament.  I'm not really worried about that.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT