WGC WORLD CUP
November 18, 2004
Bob Tway
Scott Verplank
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You guys battled back there, how do you feel going into tomorrow?
BOB TWAY:  I didn't play very well the back side.  We both did pretty get front side.  You know, we made a bogey, which is bad.  But, you know, I just need to play a little bit better.  Scott always plays good.
Q.  Obviously a tough day but a great finish there at 17 and 18.  Bob, did do you play today?

BOB TWAY:  Well, I played okay on the front.  I didn't play very well on the back side.  I didn't drive the ball very good.  This golf course, if you drive it good, you've got a chance to shoot a good score.
Q.  Scott, how important in a format like this, when it's four-balls and then obviously alternate-shot, plays in your mind, keeping everything afloat there, how important is it in an event like this to play with a close friend?

SCOTT VERPLANK:  I think it's important because it kind of eases the pain.  You know, I don't think either one of us played all that good today.  Finished strong, that obviously helps, and we were just kind of treading water there most of the day.
Q.  For tomorrow when you think about the alternate-shot format, have you picked a strategy of who is going to play odd and even holes?

BOB TWAY:  I'm going to play the odd holes.  Most of them are par 3s and par 5s.  It just worked out that way.  Hopefully I can drive it the ball in the fairway and Scott can knock it on the green.
Q.  You look at that aspect of it, but you've got to think it's probably going to be your strong suit for the week?
SCOTT VERPLANK:  I would think so.  Like I said, I feel like I need to play a little bit better than I did today.  But if I'm playing normal, I'm going to hit the ball in the fairway and leave Bob with a good lie, and hopefully a good number and he'll hit it close.  And maybe I'll get my putter straightened out this afternoon and we'll make a few more.
Q.  Scott, talk about the course today, obviously the conditions, Bob was talking about how warm it was compared to when you practiced.

SCOTT VERPLANK:  It's a whole lot warmer.  The first time I've been able to take a sweater or jacket off.  That makes it easier, no wind blowing and the golf course is in nice shape and the greens are receptive, so you can shoot low scores.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT