VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 28, 2003
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Bob, for joining us for a few minutes, 19-under 261, which won the tournament here last year at the Valero Texas Open, Tommy Armour put on a show.  Talk about the week a little bit and the conditions.

BOB TWAY:   I'd like to have highlights of how he did it.  I think all of us would.  I will have to watch the tape of this and see what he did.  I saw him yesterday coming in making all the birdies.  He must have played unbelievable.  I felt I played very good and I'm sure a lot of other people did too.  To play that well and lose by eight shots is pretty amazing.


Q.  This continues a great year for you.  Did you do anything in particular this year?

BOB TWAY:   I don't know.  If I knew, I would write a book and I could retire.  I've played well pretty much all year, pretty steady.  Obviously winning at Canada was huge.  I think it gives you more confidence.  In order to win there, I had to be playing well and so I kind of carried it over to this week.  I like how I was hitting the ball this week.  I hit a lot of close shots and putted the ball reasonably well.  I think, too, you're a little bit more relaxed after you play well.  I don't think you force the issue quite as bad.  I talked the other day, if I hadn't won before today, you would be out there grinding, putting too much effort into it, instead of just playing well.  Perhaps the rest of the year I can do that and play well.


Q.  Is this the first time you've played here?

BOB TWAY: No, I've played here four or five times.


Q.  You didn't have to wait for 13 years, but you had a long time between wins.  Tell us what he's feeling now after that long wait.

BOB TWAY:   He's probably feeling pretty good.  Tommy didn't play well this year, and to win in the fashion he did is remarkable.  It's got to give him a lot of confidence for the remainder of the year and his career.  I think all of our hats are off to him for playing that well.  That's the lowest stroke average on a par 70 I've heard of.  It's going to do a lot for him, I'm sure.


Q.  Could you compare how this course fits your eye as compared to the Canadian Open that you won?

BOB TWAY:   It's similar in the fact it's not that long of a golf course.  Everything is bermuda here, where everything up there is bent.  So it's a totally different style of golf, I believe.  I'm really amazed the guys were able to putt as well as they did this week.  I guess it's a tribute to the superintendent for getting the greens in as good a shape as they are.  I can just remember pulling our hair out most of the year because there is so much grain we can't figure it out.  But the guys, they filled it up this week.  We had good weather, which always helps.


Q.  Did you find the greens were consistent, 1 through 18?

BOB TWAY:   I sometimes haven't enjoyed playing here because I couldn't figure out the greens.  I think maybe this year they didn't have as much grain, so I was able to putt the ball better.


Q.  Are you going to have a busy schedule the rest of the year?

BOB TWAY:   Atlanta, Vegas, Disney, and the Tour Championship and I'm done.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  This is the fourth week in a row that a plus-40 player has won.  It's pretty unbelievable.  It's pretty neat for you guys.

BOB TWAY:   They asked why, and I don't have an answer as to why.  It's great.  I think it motivates a lot of people.  I think you see your friends who are old or whatever doing well, I think the guys will keep going.  It just shows, especially on the types of golf courses they've won here lately, it's not just a bomber's golf courses.  You have to play smart, and even though Tommy hits the ball long, he had to play golf this week, and I think it's just, you know, an attribute that the guys who have been out here a long time have learned to do.


Q.  A couple of years ago, 19 new winners, and last year it was the young guys, this year it was the plus-40s.  Are the plus-40s going to keep the record going for the next two or three years?

BOB TWAY:   I hope so.  I hope I'm one of them.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Bob, for joining us.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT