VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 26, 2003
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Bob Tway, thanks for joining us.  Second round 69 this morning.  If you could talk about the conditions.  It was probably a little tougher out there with the rain and some of the wet weather out there early.

BOB TWAY:   It wasn't horrible, but it always is a nuisance when you're teeing off like that.  This morning it was not fun.  It only rained for like three holes or so.  It really wasn't too bad.  After that, actually the conditions were pretty nice.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Talk about your round in general.  A couple of bogeys and three birdies.

BOB TWAY:   It's funny, you're playing along and everybody says it's tough to follow-up with a round like yesterday.  I don't know, I never really thought much about that.  I didn't feel like I played a whole lot differently than yesterday.  After nine holes I'm only one under and I think the difference is you don't convert the putts when you get a chance, and I threw a 3-putt in there.  Instead of 3 or 4-under, I'm 1 under.  It's a fine line between really good and just okay.  I think the other difference is I didn't hit the ball as close to the hole.  Yesterday I either made a nice putt or knocked it stiff.  I didn't have the luxury of those tap-ins we all love.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Talk about your expectations since winning the Bell Canadian Open a couple of weeks ago.  What are your goals the rest of this season?

BOB TWAY:   Well, I don't know.  I really haven't thought that much about it.  I achieved with the wind in Canada quite a bit.  I hadn't won since '95, so it was a huge deal.  I'll get to play in the American Express next week, the Tour Championship, Mercedes.  It opened up a lot of doors I hadn't gotten in.  Beyond that, I think when you're playing well, you just want to continue to give yourself another chance.  So I'd like to play well again tomorrow to have a chance come Sunday and kind of use that little bit of knowledge that I had a couple of weeks ago and momentum to maybe win again.  The ultimate goal is to win.  We don't get that many chances out here.  Maybe if you take advantage when you're playing good, you'll get multiple ones.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You will feel more comfortable if you're in that position having won a couple of weeks ago?

BOB TWAY: Yes, and a little less pressure.  When you haven't done it, you keep trying so darn hard to do it.  And maybe since I did do it, I can relax a little bit and not press so much and maybe that will help a little bit.


Q.  It looked like you and Rory both lost a little momentum at the same time around 4, 5, 6.  Does that have an impact when players you're playing with struggle at the same time?

BOB TWAY:   Not really.  Yesterday we kind of got on a good momentum.  Scotty played better than we did.  I don't know.  I hit a poor drive at 5 and got a little unlucky.  It stayed in a raked furrow where I didn't have a shot to go at the pin.  So it was a bad bogey.  Rory hit it over the green there and didn't hit a good chip.  We both made bogey on that hole.  The key is we didn't hit the ball as close to the hole to really give us legitimate chances like we did yesterday.


Q.  Was it tougher with the moist conditions this morning?

BOB TWAY:   The first few holes starting out were a little more difficult.  After that it was actually really nice.  The fairways were a little soft and a little bit wet the first few holes.  As soon as it quit raining, it dried up nicely.  There was more mud on the ball.  That was a pain.  Maybe that's why we couldn't hit iron shots as close as yesterday.


Q.  Do you like playing aggressive?

BOB TWAY:   With mud on the ball you can't play aggressive.  I would rather have it like yesterday, no mud on the balls and the greens receptive.  You can play more aggressively.


Q.  The afternoon tee times today are going to be more of an advantage than maybe it was yesterday.

BOB TWAY:   I think it will be pretty similar to yesterday afternoon.  You're going to have some guys shoot some low scores.  The golf course will dry out.  I don't think the wind is going to blow, and the greens are going to stay very nice.  You'll have some good stores this afternoon.

JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Let's go through your score card.  You started off on the back side with a birdie on No. 12.

BOB TWAY:   I hit a nice 6-iron there about 15 feet from the hole and made a nice putt.

I birdied the par  5.  I 2-putted from -- I was quite a ways away, probably 50 feet.

17, I 3-putted that one.  I hit my first putt too hard and missed the next won.

Then I bogeyed 5.  We talked how I drove it in the bunker.

And then I birdied 9, my last hole, hit a long iron to six, seven feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT