U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2014
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How did you feel about how you finished up today?  BOB TWAY: Well, I actually had a chance to shoot a good score.  It played easier today.  The wind wasn't blowing as hard.  So, kind of actually messed up a chance to have a decent round.   Q.  When you look back on this tournament going forward, what will you remember about it?  BOB TWAY: Well, I just think that the golf course was in immaculate condition.  I think the tournament was run great.  I think it was a huge success.  So, from all of those aspects I think it was fantastic.   Q.  Do you feel like going forward this course has the potential to host a big Major, a PGA Major, like a U.S. Open?  BOB TWAY: I don't see why not.  I was afraid you couldn't put enough people if you're going to play a U.S. Open at Merion on.  You don't have to worry about that. We've got plenty of places to put corporate hospitality which is a huge, huge factor.  We have plenty of places to park people.  You've got a golf course that definitely could handle it. You know, like I say, it was a little bit easier but the other days -- like I said, I played U.S. Opens that weren't as difficult as a couple days that we had. I think you'd have to change it, just a few things.  I think there's a few different tees maybe could be added but I definitely think you could do it.   Q.  Willie was saying he's kind of a creature of habit and routine.  Do you feel like the routine kind of being thrown off for you home course guys was a factor in this tournament at all?  BOB TWAY: The golf course played different than what we usually are accustomed to.  You know, when you're home playing you play from the back tees on every hole and we hit driver every hole even if it's not appropriate because you're just working on your game.  You weren't able to do that this week. You were playing tees that are farther up and was a lot of 3-woods because the fairways were playing so firm and the necessity of being in the fairway.  So you couldn't be as aggressive off the tee as we normally are. I actually, I enjoyed the way the golf course played.  I think it really played -- really good tournament conditions.  The reason I say that, it was a premium on driving the ball in the fairway.  If you did that then you were able to play this golf course.  You still had to hit good second shots but you had a chance. If you were in the rough you didn't have much of a chance.  You were trying to figure out how the heck you're going the make par and not make double bogey. Throw in the wind the first three days, it was quite difficult.  Today, you know, with the wind laying down, you saw some good scores being shot.  I saw Bart shot 5-under.  You have some other good scores going on out there.  The greens were receptive early.  Without the wind you could get some shots close.  I think that's good. I don't know what's going to happen this afternoon.  I know the wind is supposed to shift.  I don't know what time it's going to.  The only thing I saw that was maybe a negative is the par 5 tournament what, tournament 15 -- no, tournament 14, they played the up tee the last two days which is not necessary.  It's not a good hole from there.  There's no place to hits the driver.  You just need to stay back on the other tee.  People can still get there in two. But other than that I think they did a good job with the set-up and I think the golf course looks great on television and I think -- I haven't really heard any bad comments so it's all good.   Q.  Bob, when you look back at it with your play, you're obviously pleased with the course and the way it was received, your play overall, how will you remember it?  BOB TWAY: Terrible.  It's just -- it's kind of a little bit what I've been going through the last few years.  My wedge game and my chipping and my putting is just not at a caliber it needs to be to compete even at a Champions Tour level. So, until that gets better, I'll have some decent finishes but I won't be up there with a chance to really contend.  You got to do that.  You can't hit the ball good all the time.  You're going to miss some fairways and greens.  You got to get the ball up and down.  I just don't do that consistently. So, like I said, the golf course, like Willie said, it plays different than it normally does.  That was the change.  There's no reason why you can't adapt to it and make changes.  My game is just not -- it's not up to the caliber where it needs to be.  Simple as that.   Q.  Can you get the short game where -- you still have good hope?  BOB TWAY: Well, you know, if I didn't I would quit, but I enjoy working at it.  I enjoy practicing, I know that if it can get better, that I can do well. So, you just got -- if your desire is there to make it better -- I've been through a lot of ups and downs in my career. I'm at a point now where you're not really playing to put food on the table so that's a whole different deal.  I'm actually just playing for pride, really, and, you know, because I love to play the game. So, if that ever you know, wanders a little bit then I'll just come here and slap it around for fun.  I'm not to that point.  I still think there's a lot of good golf left.  I'm in good shape.  Hit the ball as far now as I ever hit it.  At times I hit the ball better than I ever hit it.  But I got to do little things that you have to do to score well.   Q.  You come in here, working with "Pernice" a little bit, made some progress?  BOB TWAY: I keep think I'm making progress but it doesn't show up in a tournament.  It's always a little bit disappointing.  Like I say, I just think that, you know, the ability that I have should be up there to be able to contend and win tournaments.  That's it's.  That's the only reason why you play. Last couple of years it just -- I just haven't been able to do that and it's frustrating and not much fun and if it was something of the fact that well, you know, you're out of shape or you don't hit it good enough or far enough or whatever, that would be I guess a reason to say well, then, I won't do anymore.  That's not the case.  I can hit good shots.  So it's just a matter of, like I say, the little things. Yeah, there's always hope.  If you just keep practicing.  I've always practiced very hard and will continue to do it.  Until I lose the desire to do it, then I'll keep at it.   Q.  Bob, as a member here and as a Champions Tour player, what's the next logical step for Oak Tree National to pursue as an event?  BOB TWAY: They were just asking if they could have a bigger championship and I said earlier that I was always concerned they couldn't put enough people around the golf course. Pinehurst when I was there with Kevin, hell, the weekend I think there was about 80,000 people.  People everywhere.  But, you had U.S. Open at Merion last year, limited the number of ticket sales.  That's not a problem. The main thing if you have corporate hospitality.  We've got plenty of places for that so I think, you know, you can make your revenue up there, then you limit the ticket sales to 25,000 or whatever and everybody can see what's happening and concessions here is okay and parking is okay. All I know is the golf course can handle it.  There's no doubt about it.  Today was easier because of the lack of wind.  First three days -- 7-under par is leading the golf course.  You can't say golf tournament.  You can't say because we're older the kids are going to come in and shoot that much better. Obviously they're better but, like I said, I think you could play some tees further back.  I don't even know if you have to grow more rough.  Maybe get the greens just a hair firmer or something but other than that, I'll tell you, like I said, I've played other U.S. Opens that I thought were playing easier than what it played the first three days. So, I don't see why they couldn't.  The support around town is sure there  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT