VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 25, 2003
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOB TWAY:   It was a very good day.  We had a nice day to play.  There was a little bit of wind, but not a whole lot.  The golf course is in great shape and the greens are good.  I had a nice pairing.  I played with my buddy, Verplank.  We play almost every day at home.  And Rory played very well.  We made a lot of birdies today.  I think when a group does that, people tell you you feed off each other, because the other guy makes it look easy.

I had a nice run.  Four birdies on the front and three more on the back.  It's kind of a bad thing to say, but I was disappointed when I made the par.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  You took a pretty good shot at it.  You were close.

BOB TWAY:   I guess when it's going that good, you have to take advantage of it.


Q.  What got your score going?

BOB TWAY:   I had a nice shot on the par 3 on 6.  I hit it below the hole.  If you stay below the hole, you don't have to read as much grain.  It was to about seven feet and made that. 

The next hole, I hit it very close, just a couple of feet from the hole.

8, I did the same thing, hit it about a foot from the hole. 

Then I made two nice putts on 9 and 10. 

And 11, I hit it close, and 12 I hit it close.  It was a combination of good iron shots and putts that weren't so close.


Q.  There were couple of 62s in the morning, so you knew the course was going to play low.

BOB TWAY:   I knew when it was overcast and not much wind that the scores were going to be good.  The greens were receptive and the golf course is in good shape, so you know the scores are going to be low.


Q.  Were you aware of the birdie run you were on?  Did you count them as you were going?

BOB TWAY: No.  I knew how many under I was.  I know you shouldn't think ahead.  I thought if I could birdie the par  3, I have a par 5 after that.  It didn't work that way.  But unfortunately, we think that sometimes.


Q.  Why do you think you were so successful today?  Because you were in the zone?

BOB TWAY:   Why I was successful?  I hit shots very close to the hole, and the ones that weren't so close I made the putts.  I don't know a particular reason.  I don't know why.  Call it the zone or whatever it was, but I played nice.


Q.  When you're making that many birdies in a row and you've got it going, is it hard to keep the thoughts of 58, 59 out of your mind?

BOB TWAY:   I never thought that.  I did think about trying to make a few more in a row.  I can't remember what the record is.  I know it's eight or nine    eight.  Those are nice records to have.  Maybe I got ahead of myself, but I gave myself a good opportunity on the par 3.  I got a little aggressive with the putt, but I'm not known for being overly aggressive with my putts so it was a nice change.  It was a nice day.


Q.  A lot of guys are talking about thinking more the bigger picture, whether it was 59 or, like you, nine straight birdies.  Is that something you battle on a day like today?  

BOB TWAY:   Daily, you like to play shot to shot, sometimes we let our minds wander.  You would like not to, but it's difficult.  It's difficult not to.  It's like when you have a chance to win the tournament, you just like to play the shot at hand, but your mind wanders to other things.  That's why it makes it hard.  I should enjoy it when things are going good, so it's okay to let your mind wander.


Q.  A lot of people have been talking about the 40 and over crowd.  More power to them.  What is it about it at this age in your life?

BOB TWAY:   I've been asked that ever since     I don't know who was the first to win this year, but we've been asked that all year long.  I don't have an answer to that.  You can only guess.  One might just be coincidence, the other might be people can still play, they stay in shape, and there's a lot of knowledge you gain from playing on Tour for 20 years.  I think you know the golf courses and if you play well, you can go get it done.


Q.  You shot a course record 61 and you're still tied at the top.  What can you expect for the week?

BOB TWAY:   It all depends on the record.  I don't know    wind is always the determining factor, usually.  If the weather forecast stays like today, pretty calm in the morning and a little bit of wind in the afternoon, the scores are going to be good.  If the wind starts blowing 20 miles an hour they're going to go up.  You know on a calm day here that you better shoot a low round because a lot of people are going to.


Q.  You've played a lot of golf.  Do you remember the last time there was a day long feeding frenzy on par?  Do you remember?  The Hope?  Is there something that sticks out?

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Are you talking this year?


Q.  Yes.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:   The hope always does.

BOB TWAY:   There are some places you know you have to shoot low.  I don't know what numbers have been winning here, but I know there are low scores here being shot, especially when the weather is good.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's quickly go through your birdies and bogeys.

BOB TWAY:   On 6, I hit an 8 iron about seven feet.

Sand wedge on 7 to about two feet.

Another sand wedge on 8, about a foot and a half.

I made about a 15 footer after hitting a sand wedge on 9. 

Pitching wedge to about 20 feet on 10. 

Sand wedge on 11 to about two feet.

12, I hit a gap wedge to about a foot. 

The par 5, I knocked it on in two, to 30 feet, 2 putted.

The lone bogey was on 15.  I hit it in the trees off the tee left, it scurried up short of the green, didn't get it up and down.

Hit a pitching wedge on the next one to about 15 feet.

Got up and down on 17 from just off the edge of the green, chipped to a couple of feet. 

And 18, made another nice putt to about 20 feet left of the hole and made that one.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT