THE INTERNATIONAL
August 7, 2003
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vON THRON:  Thank you, Bob for joining us for a few minutes.  Great round today.  A couple of six birdies there, 12 points.  You are the first player that we have had in the media center.  Talk about the conditions today; then we'll go into questions.

BOB TWAY: Well, it was another beautiful day at Castle Pines   - usually the mornings are.  Usually when you tee off early you need to take advantage of it because there's usually not any wind and the same this morning.  So the conditions were very good.  The greens were receptive and so you had a lot of chance for birdies.  Always nice to take advantage of that morning time. 

In the afternoon you usually have weather delays and the greens are usually beat up.  So it's not that you can't shoot a good score but I think just more factors into it. 


Q.   The rough is a little bit up from past years?

BOB TWAY: The rough is much deeper than previous years.  Never really seen it like this.  I guess solves the rain problem, (inaudible) now you get rough.  Actually I think it's playing great.  The fairways are wide here.  They give you plenty of room, but if you do miss the fairway, it's a much more difficult shot than it usually is. 


Q.   I was reading you had a career-year in earnings last year.  Yet you won four times in 1986.  Does that kind of say something about where the sport has come when you win four times and   ---

BOB TWAY: There has been a tremendous amount of change since I started the Tour no doubt about it.  I guess we age ourselves when we talk about it.  You know, they paid for range balls and there's no food in the locker room.  So you win at your own course.   We can go on and on; not just that, but the prize money, but, yeah,  things have definitely changed in the 19 years that I have been out here. 


Q.   You have had a great career but you haven't won since '95.  Has that been a little frustrating; you feel like you have been really close or--

BOB TWAY: I think that's why we're out here is to win.  I enjoy playing golf so you need to be able to do that.  But winning is our main focus.  I think it's difficult to win.  Everything has to go pretty good.  I have had some chances; I just haven't quite done the right things at the right time to do it.  I just -- when you get asked that all the time, you haven't won in seven, eight years now, but  I still feel like I can; keep playing and well, maybe it will happen.


Q.   Peter Jacobsen said when you see guys that are over 40 winning it, it kind of tells others that we can do it and it's not a young man's game necessarily.  Does that help you at all?

BOB TWAY: It's funny, Peter and I were laughing last week after his win I saw him last week, we were saying the ball doesn't really know how old you are.  So if you can go out there and hit the shot, and it doesn't make much difference.  I think a lot of times you can use some of your experience and knowledge and it may help you.  I think most of it us stay in pretty good shape and that's probably been the main aspect of it, continue to play without having injuries, things like that.  But I don't see there's any reason why you can't.  Luckily in this support you can play when you get older. 


Q.   Compare what clubs you are hitting into a couple of holes when you first came to this year, such as No. 1 and maybe pick another hole.

BOB TWAY: Well, they just asked that outside and with the technology and the golf course playing much shorter, obviously from -- the first year we played in '86 we were still hitting wooden drivers.  There were some holes, I never really ever thought about knocking it on the first hole.  Today I hit a driver and a 4-iron.  So it's a big difference, it really is.  I am trying to think of some other holes.  They have moved some tees back so you can't -- 5 I can remember hitting woods to.  Today I hit a good drive and I believe I hit a 7-iron.  They are different conditions.  The fairways may have been softer and maybe some wind, but granted, technology has definitely changed the game. 

Now, you got to be careful when you say that because you still have got to hit the shot and still have to hit the ball straight and have to play well but the ball and everything has definitely made you know, distance a little bit less of a factor.


Q.   Winning a major at a relatively young age, does that kind of take some pressure off maybe that some of these guys are facing, Phil, and particularly maybe helped you?

BOB TWAY: Well, yeah, I don't really -- I can only guess what they go through.  They get asked the question repeatedly, you are the best player without winning a major, this and that, I guess you try to put it out of your mind.  I would say there are millions and millions of people that would like to have a career like Phil Mickelson.  So I kind of laugh at the point and say well, so he will, eventually, and those questions will go away, but in the meantime he sure has played awfully great.  I look at it that way.  I was very naive in my second year on Tour, I was obviously having a very good run and I treat it like any other tournament probably just because I didn't know any better.  Now if I was hitting it hot to win a major, I think I'd probably feel a lot more pressure than I did in '86 because I realize the importance of it; how much more we strive to win those because of what is attached to it and what we think of them.  But also I think what helped me then was I had played so well prior to that winning three -- if you win three times prior to that you are feeling pretty good about your game so that would maybe it easier too.  You start winning tournaments so you feel good about everything.  I don't know if it is the  chicken or the egg.  I think it would be tough to have to answer that question all the time.  But obviously they played very well.


Q.   What is your history on 9 and 10?  Have those been tough for you?

BOB TWAY: Oh, I don't know.  I do not know of any holes that have been exceptionally tough.  I just thoroughly enjoyed coming here every single year.  I think I have only missed one in all the years they have had it.  I am sure something was seriously wrong or I would have been here for that one.  I just love coming here.  It is a beautiful place, they take such great care of you.  I love the format.  Everything about it is wonderful.

JOAN vON THRON:  Thanks, Bob. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT