BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 5, 2003
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THE MODERATOR:  We thank Bob Tway for joining us.  Bob, you're two shots behind the leader, Lee Janzen. 

Give us some thoughts on your position. 

BOB TWAY:  Well, I would like to have been a couple shots better, but, you know, hopefully the weather will hold off and we'll get to go at it tomorrow. 


I'm excited about it.  I feel good about my game.  There's some things I need to do a little bit better, I'll think about a little bit tonight, but I'm excited. 


THE MODERATOR:  Just that one mistake on 17, but you got it back on 18.  That had to give you a positive night?

BOB TWAY:  Yeah (inaudible). 


17, I drove it in the rough and had some mud (inaudible).  Tried to get a cut shot, mud wouldn't let it cut.  Actually got a decent bunker shot, didn't make the putt. 


Overall, I wasn't displeased with how I played.  I could have done a little bit better.  We always say that. 


THE MODERATOR:  We'll take some questions. 

Q.  Bob, you played a fine third round, 69.  Only one bogey, yet you lose ground. 

BOB TWAY:  Well, with 69, I would think I would lose ground.  Players out here are too good.  So I know tomorrow that I need to go out and shoot a good round, and I'll kind of have that in mind and see what could happen. 


Q.  Obviously, the course conditions today are a lot different.  Could you talk about that, the adjustment maybe.

BOB TWAY:  It was tough to adjust.  You know, the greens, you see what a difference a day makes.  They went from rock hard to very soft.  It was kind of a tough adjustment at the start because you kind of are in the mode of letting the ball short and really watching it bounce. 


All of a sudden, you know it's not going to.  You change your thought process, "Okay, now what do we really have to the hole?"  Before, you weren't worried about what the hole was, you were worried about the green.  You definitely have to change it.  There are some holes that play differently because of that, no doubt about it. 


Q.  Tomorrow, do you expect it to dry out enough where it would be more like the first day?

BOB TWAY:  No, they'll probably try to roll them and cut them.  They'll get a little bit more speed and a little bit firmer.  But I don't think they can get like they had it on Thursday and Friday.  With the weather, we're probably going to get some rain, so I don't foresee that. 


The fairways were nice.  You still got some roll on the fairways. 


Q.  You deal with weather all the time and are used to having to adapt.  Does it get a little old sometimes of just having to deal with it?

BOB TWAY:  You know, I've been out here for so long, we play in so many, like you say, inclement weather days, it's just part of it.  We started back when we were kids doing that.  We thought it was fun then and we probably don't think it quite as much fun now, but it's just something you just have to do. 


Q.  You seem remarkably relaxed.  Are you really happy with your game?  Are you having a good time right now? 

BOB TWAY:  I think part of it is I feel good about my game, so I think when you do, I think you can be a little bit more relaxed. 


Like I said, I'm excited about tomorrow.  I've got to come in the press room a little bit more often in the last month and a half.  I'd like to give myself a chance (inaudible).  The more times I get there, the more comfortable I'll get.  (Inaudible) It's a re-learning process of getting in that Winners Circle.


Q.  Talk about how much fun it is this year, how satisfying it is to keep putting yourself in position here on a regular basis, it seems like. 

BOB TWAY:  Well, you know, I work extremely hard in trying to keep myself in shape.  And even though I am getting older, I feel good.  I don't feel old.  I still am very excited about golf all the time, you know.  I go home and I play golf.  So I really have a passion for the game still, so it's nice when you do play well, because it definitely is a lot more fun. 


Q.  When Lee tied it up, you were tied for several holes, did it feel like Match Play at that point, or does that come late in tomorrow's round?

BOB TWAY:  I would say it would probably be more tomorrow.  There's still too many guys.  There were some low scores today.  I saw a couple on the board. 


The same thing will happen tomorrow  - guys from behind will play a good round.  So you just got to keep hopefully going more and more under and give less and less people a chance to catch up. 


Q.  Looked like it took both you guys a while to get warmed up today?   

BOB TWAY:  I think that's part of it, I think adjusting to the golf course.  I think playing a round in the lead is a little bit  -- sometimes you're maybe a little bit  -- maybe not quite as aggressive as sometimes you need to be.  I think that will be good tomorrow, knowing I'm behind, knowing I'll have to go out and play a little more aggressive. 


THE MODERATOR:  If we can go through your birdies. 

BOB TWAY:  Par 5, No. 4.  I hit it just to the right of the green in two, chipped out about 5 feet.  Made that one.


Where else?  10th hole, I hit a good drive and a 5-wood on the fringe, 2-putted from about 30 feet.


13th hole, I hit a great drive.  I drove it about  - I don't know  - 12 feet from the hole.  I had a nice eagle opportunity, but I made birdie.


Then I told you about 17.


Then 18, I hit a 5-wood over the green, hit a nice bunker shot about 8 feet and made that. 


Q.  When the greens are softer like this, does that bring more people into the final round?  More people can come back? 

BOB TWAY:  Well, I think it's a little bit easier to shoot a lower score.  We haven't had that many low scores and we had some today.  So I think any time the conditions are a little bit softer, you definitely have a few more low scores, yes. 


Q.  Bit of a silly question, but my second time at BellSouth was your win here in '86.  When you're playing the game you want, when you're playing well, is your style noticeably different than when you played well in '86? 

BOB TWAY:  Well, in '86, I can honestly tell you I don't know if I was as good a player, but I had a lot more confidence in what I was doing.  I think I was young and naive and I had already won two tournaments, I'd won the week  -- two weeks prior.  So I kind of thought things were kind of easy (laughing).  I didn't know any better. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT