FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 8, 2003
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOHN BUSH: Bob, thanks for coming by.  Tied for the lead at 14-under.  Your thoughts on your round today and your thoughts on being in the last group tomorrow.
BOB TWAY: Well, did I some good things today and some things I need to improve on, but overall it was a fairly solid round.  I was able to take advantage of the first 3 par-5s.  I was and I believe able to hit those in two and 2 putt for birdies and only made one bogey, that's always good.  I need to hit the irons closer to the hole to give myself more opportunities so if I continue to drive the ball in most of the fairways and hit my iron better maybe I will have a chance.
JOHN BUSH:  Birdie on No. 1.
BOB TWAY: I hit a wonderful shot at the first hole with a 7-iron to the green and 2-putted.  That was nice.  I made a wonderful birdie at No. 4, the par-3, 5-iron about 20 feet passed the hole and made it. 
I made the bogey at 5, drove it in the rough had a horrible lie and gouged it into the front bunker and actually didn't have too difficult a bunker shot  but did not hit a very good one and I made bogey. 
Then I hit 2 nice shots on 8.  I hit a 3-wood about 20 feet and 2-putted that.  And hit a 5-wood on 10 in front of the green and 2-putted that one.  I made a nice save on 13, the par-3 from the bunker, and had a couple of opportunities on the backside.  But wasn't able to make the putt.  I needed to hits the ball closer to the hole to give myself a better chance. 
JOHN BUSH:  You hit driver on 8 and 10.
BOB TWAY: I hit driver on 8.  I hit a 3-wood off of 10th tee. 
JOHN BUSH:  Questions.
Q.  7-iron in on No. 1, how long was that drive?
BOB TWAY: That was a long drive.  I need to figure out what I did on that one.

Q.  It was playing downwind?
BOB TWAY: Downwind, obviously but, I hit that one awfully very good.

Q.  You were in here yesterday talking about how you did not score that well on Sundays last year.  What do you do now to try to reverse that this year?
BOB TWAY: Well, I probably need to relax a little bit more.  When you haven't won in eight years you get pretty excited to have a chance to.  I've got to go out there -- I think it was good to be in the lead today so you have kind of  the same type of emotions going on.  That was nice and always can in the last group so I can pull off of that a bit.  The main thing is to be patient and try to relax as much as I can and try to continue to do what I'm doing.  I played well this week so if I can continue to do that, you never know.  I am probably not expected to win but I notice if I play well, I can. 

Q.  However you did shoot two 67s in the final round this year.
BOB TWAY: Well, so that's good so far.

Q.  Will 67 win tomorrow, you think?
BOB TWAY: I don't know.  I never like to put a number on it.  You go out and shoot 67 and a guy comes back and shoots 64 and all of a sudden you get beat.  That would be a nice score, I'm sure.  The scoring was very good today.  Before I came over for lunch I looked on the board and everybody is 6-under through nine holes.  You notice when the wind stops blowing and you get the greens as nice as they are in the mornings there will be some good scores.  Whether someone later in the day can do that   - it gets tougher as the day goes on.  Scott played a nice round and some other people.  Billy Mayfair played a wonderful round.  There is definitely a chance without the wind blowing for somebody to shoot a low round.

Q.  Bob, you said you don't think you are expected to win.  You are the only guy that has won a major -- (Inaudible)
BOB TWAY: Just because I haven't won in eight years.  Mike Weir has won two tournaments this year and some other guys are playing very well.  I guess if you are going to put the odds out, you put me higher odds than the other people.  I would.  But that doesn't mean that I certainly can.  Favorites doesn't always win as we know. 

Q.  You saw all of those low scores when you came out.  Did you feel any pressure?
BOB TWAY: Usually here as many times as I played here, you have some people shoot low ones and the wind picks up, the greens dry out and more difficult to putt.  It's the same thing all the time.  But the wind really didn't blow as hard this afternoon as it normally does.  I think that's why you saw some other good scores.  I would assume the weather pattern probably won't change a lot, there will be some good scores, it does change your mindset when guys are shooting lower you have to tackle more.

Q.  Did you tell yourself to be patient?
BOB TWAY: I have to always been patient but I also know that I have to try to shoot a good round.

Q.  How well do you know Scott?
BOB TWAY: I have known Scott -- when you have been out here as long as we have, you know each other well.

Q.  How do you like the pairing?
BOB TWAY: Scott is fine.  He is such a great player, that's always good to play with someone.  Scotty talks a whole lot more than I do.  But I will just listen. 
JOHN BUSH:  Anything else?  
Q.  Two 40-year-olds in the last pairing.  Is there anything to make of that, does it say anything about this course, this tournament?
BOB TWAY: Well, it's hard to say.  I think there are courses that local knowledge is a little bit more important than other ones.  It happened the other day except for Charles at Riviera, he had some older guys playing well, with Nicky up there.  I think local knowledge of playing a golf course a lot definitely helps.  Now you are going to have a fewer number of older guys because have a lot of great young players.  I don't think it's really that surprising.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT