U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2014
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How did you feel about your round today, 4-over, 9-over for the tournament?BOB TWAY: Played terrible.  Golf course is playing difficult but I'm making it play much more difficult than it should be.  Missing too many fairways and can't play from the rough.  It's not that the rough is too penal, it's just that you can't hit the greens.  So, I just -- I'm not playing very good.Q. Is it because of everything kind of going on and different than when you usually play the course?BOB TWAY: It's different than when we play, believe me.  We talked about it yesterday.  I wish it would play like this all the time.  We may not have any members if it played like this all the time is the problem. It's just more difficult.  I think the main reason is because when you hit it into the rough it's just very hard.  Normally when you hit in the rough, you get it on the green somewhere.  Everything is compounded. You got a little bit more green, greens are firmer, places a little bit faster, not overly fast.  You know -- with everything being a little bit firmer your shots into the green kind of bound off if you don't hit it on the green.  Like I say, everything is just kind of compounded just a little bit worse than kind of normal.Q. You got to be thrilled about making the cut and being able to play this weekend on your home course.BOB TWAY: Yeah.  Obviously we all were hoping to play a lot better than we're doing.  It's like I said all along, it's nice to be at home, it's nice to be playing your home course but if you're not playing well it doesn't do you a whole lot of good.  We know where to hit it but you got to hit it there.  I don't think any of us are really hitting it there.Q. Gil said that the greens were reasonably receptive early on.  Maybe the sun keeps heating and dry out.BOB TWAY: No doubt about it.  It's always the case.  The guys who go off in the morning usually have a little bit better weather.  The greens are smoother, little bit more receptive. The little bit of moisture hangs in there this time of day.  Leaders go off, it gets more difficult.  Kind of the nature of the beast. But, yeah, the backside if you could have played well you had some opportunities to shoot some good scores.  I made double bogey on a hole that's 123 yards or something.  It's just not that hard.  You know, so --Q. What did you do on that hole?BOB TWAY: Hit in the little bunker.  Only place you can't hit it.Q. Bob, how do you balance the excitement of having the course here and it all working out great but you're struggling at the same time?BOB TWAY: Yeah.  You know, I just said the golf course is not like how we normally play it.  You play it, Dean, you know what it's like.  Everything is a little bit more difficult. Misses are compounded more because the ball in the rough you can somehow get the ball on the greens, the greens are more receptive, you can play from the rough and stop it on the greens. Now you can't.  The premium, you got to get the ball in the fairway.  If you don't get the ball in the fairway pretty good you're going to make a bogey.  Lot of times you're trying to figure out how you can make a bogey. So, it's totally different than what you normally do.  Greens are firmer than they are in regular play.  So, everything is a little more difficult. Like I said yesterday, there's quite a few U.S. Opens that I thought had a lot less difficult shots than on this course and I think the reason is because when the conditions are firm like this and the rough is at a perfect height, it's not wedge out.  You can try to hit a shot but it's just a hard shot.  Greens a little bit faster, not overly fast because they don't need to be but it just makes it that much harder and plus you throw the wind in.  There's some difficult shots out there. But, for a guy who -- if you get the ball in the fairway, hit some quality iron shots you can shoot under par.  I think the test is fantastic.  If you don't play well you shoot 75.  If you play well, you can shoot under par. I think that's exactly what you're supposed to have.  This is what I have.  I think that's why I'm so happy with how it's turned out.Q. What are some realistic goals for you tomorrow as you finish up?BOB TWAY: Hell, I'd like the shoot a round under par.  That would be good.  I'll go for that.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT