VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 28, 2002
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Bob, thanks for joining us.  Let's talk first and foremost about your shot on 18.  That seemed to be the shot of the day so far.
BOB TWAY:   It was? 

Q.  Maybe not your first shot, but certainly your second shot.
BOB TWAY:   Probably Charlie Rymer said I had no shot.  He probably pulled a Rossie on it.  I could give Charlie some trouble, I guess you have to be skinny to hit that shot.  I had a little bit of a swing, I had to choke down quite a bit.  I took a 4-iron and choked down and abbreviated my backswing and hit a low punch and ran it up to the green.  It took me a little while to figure out what I wanted to do.  I was able to manufacture a shot and make par.

Q.  As far as making the decision there, when you're in the lead or right in the hunt there, is it a risk/reward thing if you pull off a great shot, you're right there?
BOB TWAY:   I wasn't going to try to get too fancy.  I didn't want to catch the tree and have something silly happen, like I did on No.  2.  I thought I could, like I say, choke down and keep it low enough that I could get it left of the green and if it happened to turn out right, it would do what it did.  I wasn't going to get too pretty.

Q.  Pace of play today was about an hour better than it was yesterday.  Did that make everything a lot more comfortable and smoother, getting a rhythm?
BOB TWAY:   I don't know why it was.  We were talking about that in the scoring trailer.  I just don't know.  I know we finished way before TV had us scheduled to finish.  We kind of actually were half a hole behind the group ahead of us all day long.  The only answer I know is we went in ten-minute intervals, and it gets things spread out a little bit.

Q.  72 players?
BOB TWAY:   72, as opposed to 78.  Two less groups.

Q.  What does that do for you as a player?  Do you stay a lot more comfortable mentally?
BOB TWAY:   I think you're better off if you can keep a decent pace instead of waiting around today.  Today was very nice.  I see we are in twosomes tomorrow, which is shocking, because it went pretty nice today.  Hopefully it will play just as well in twosomes.

Q.  Just out of curiosity, you just finished the third round in the Texas Open.  Do you know the Ryder Cup positions?
BOB TWAY:  Unless the board was wrong, I saw we were eight to eight.  I've been watching  -- I don't watch much Golf Channel, but I've been watching all week long, every interview.  I love it.  I watched the opening ceremonies.  I was fired up to play the Texas Open, just from watching that.  Nothing against this tournament, but I just, I don't know, it kind of -- I was really excited watching those guys over there.  Unfortunately, I never got to play, there's still hope, I guess.

Q.  Will you change your game plan at all for tomorrow?
BOB TWAY:  No.  You know, I don't try to do anything different any day.  I just try to drive the ball in the fairway, hit some greens and make some putts.  That's the only way I know how to play golf.

Q.  Anybody's tournament tomorrow?
BOB TWAY:   No doubt about it.  I don't know exactly how many guys are within the lead, but as low as the scores can go sometimes out here, you just never know.  I don't know where the leader is at.  I would guess you would have to get to 16, 17, 18 under par, maybe.  I don't know what the weather is going to be like.

Q.  The greens are really fast?
BOB TWAY:   The whole golf course is beautiful.  Fairways are beautiful, the rough is not deep, so you are able to play out of the rough.  That's probably why the scoring is a little bit better.  But the greens, I've always had a tremendous amount of trouble here, because of the grain, but I think they're rolling so quickly.  There is grain, but it's not as severe and dominant as it has been in the past.  That's why I think people are putting better.  Here it kind of all goes with the slope, in, down, up, in.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thank you, Bob. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT