BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2002
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







STEWART McDOUGAL:  Bob Tway, 66.  He's 6 under par.  How does that feel?
BOB TWAY:  I feel very good. When I first saw my tee time I didn't know what to expect.  It was a very late start, but we had very nice conditions and sometimes it works out, and it was a nice day to play and I played well and I'm very happy to be here.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BOB TWAY: I always thought I should play well over here and I never do.  I've only played good one time so  maybe I can change that this week.  I have always loved the golf over here. I always wonder when we come over what we did wrong in America about designing golf courses.  It's always fun to come over.  I'm happy to be in this position and look forward to playing the next two days.

Q.  When you look at American golf courses versus these, what's so pleasing to you?
BOB TWAY:  Everything is so simple here.  You can take a very simple hole, grow some heather and all of a sudden and it's very difficult.  Bunkers are strategically placed, but you can still run the ball up if the weather gets bad.  At home, all we do is fly it to position and it fly it to another position.  Here you have a lot of options.  I realize the weather and conditions are a little bit different, but you could -- there are courses at home that are very similar.  They're more pleasing to play than sometimes what we play.

Q.  Why do you think there is a such a bunch of guys at the top?
BOB TWAY: It may just be the weather.  I think when the weather gets bad, you'll probably see a little bit more separation.  I don't know what to expect this weekend.  Every day they told us it will get bad and it hasn't.  I think when the weather conditions are like this, it makes it a little bit easier and the scores are usually more bunched together when that happens, unless someone pulls away.  I thought the way Ernie played the front nine, he was going to pull away.  Like I said, if the wind blows, you'll probably see the scores get a little bit farther apart.

Q.  How do you like your chances if the weather blows more?
BOB TWAY: I don't know what to expect.  Like I said, I've always thought I should play well here.  I live in Oklahoma where the wind blows a lot.  I don't hit the ball very high, but I've only played good one time.  I'm just going to try to have fun and see what happens.

Q.  The last 7 attempts here you haven't   --
BOB TWAY: I've missed the cut every time.

Q.  What is it you love about it this time?  You have got it right, obviously.
BOB TWAY:  I don't know.  I didn't play very good -- maybe I just haven't come over early enough to get adjusted.  I didn't play very well in the practice rounds.  I was fighting my swing a little bit.  I arrived on Sunday.  So maybe I had enough time to kind of work things out, but I don't know the reasons why.  I just haven't done very well.

Q.  Did it feel strange coming in this late on the back nine?
BOB TWAY: I tried to kind of pretend it was a rain delay at home.  Sometimes we tee off real late, and the people have gone, and they're picking up the trash and clearing out Port O'Potties and that's where we were.  It doesn't really matter.  There will be more people tomorrow.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
BOB TWAY:  No.  As long as I'm exempt, I probably would not have come to qualify, no.  I'm getting too old for that.  I'll always come if I'm exempt.  There's no doubt about that.

Q.  Having a major championship, does that make the pressure different for you?  You'll feel better about a week at a major? 
BOB TWAY:  I don't know.  My major was 16 years ago.  I would feel better if it was a couple years ago.  I've been pleased with my golf game of late; the last five or six years.  I don't know what's going to happen, but it doesn't really matter.  I'll just go out there and play.

Q.  Do you believe in your heart of hearts you can win this one?
BOB TWAY:  Yes, in my heart I think I can, but also I might shoot whatever.  But in my heart I know I can.

Q.  Can you describe the up and down at the last?
BOB TWAY: That was nice.  I drove it into the rough and it was kind of sitting down a little bit, and the club just twisted a little bit, so I pulled it.  The bunker shot  -- the bunker, the sand is very heavy and I just kind of went under it a little bit and didn't hit a very good shot.  I missed a few putts on the back side that I thought I could have made and for some reason I made a long one.  I've never been tied for the lead here after two days, so that was nice to have happen.

Q.  What did you make of Ben Barham, what did you make of his game?
BOB TWAY: He didn't have a very good two days, but I very much enjoyed playing with him and we had a good threesome.  He was fine.  It was good.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT