THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 25, 2002
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOHN BUSH:  Bob, we would like to thank you for coming to the media center.  Some general comments on how your round went out there today. 
BOB TWAY:  Well, I was very pleased with how I played today.  I hit the ball very nicely.  I think there was some good scores today but I still think it was a difficult day to play.  The wind was blowing pretty good while we were out there and as you know, on this golf course there's some fine lines between good and bad.  So I was really pleased with the way I played. 
JOHN BUSH:  Questions? 
Q.  You didn't have any bad shots, did you Bob?
BOB TWAY:  Well, I didn't make a bogey, so that's always very good.  If I could do that tomorrow, then I would feel very good about it.  But it's kind of the way that you can make a lot of birdies and a few bogeys and the score is the same.  If you can just make not as many bogeys you don't have to make as many birdies to shoot the same score.  So I kind of like the rounds that are like that. 

Q.  It's been a long time since you won.  What did you tell yourself today, what do you tell yourself tomorrow?
BOB TWAY:  Well, I'm really looking forward to it regardless of if I win or not.  The reason I practice as hard as I do is to get in this kind of situation.  I think that's what we all strive for and what we all play for is to have a chance to win a tournament.  So there's a lot of guys that are going to have a chance to win.  I don't know how, where everybody's at, but there will be some good rounds tomorrow.  But I'm really looking forward to it.  If it doesn't turn out good, then I'll learn something from it.  If it turns out good then that will be great.  But I'm just going to go out with the same approach I had today.  
The first tee shot, hit it down the middle of the fairway and go from there.  And I don't really know any other way to go about it.  And so regardless of -- it's nice to have be ahead but it really doesn't mean a whole lot.  You're in the last group but a guy a couple groups ahead of the time you tee off might birdie three or four holes before you tee off, so you don't know what's going to happen.  So you just go out there and hopefully if I can hit the ball like I did today, I'll be very pleased.

Q.  If you were to win tomorrow, what would be the best thing about that?
BOB TWAY:  Well, I think it would just be a tremendous boost for your confidence.  All the -- I'm 43 years old, I don't think I really, I don't feel that old.  I feel like I'm in pretty good shape and I like what my golf game has been the last six, seven, eight years.  So I think it just would be a boost of confidence to know that I can do it again.  It's been seven years since I've won, it's been 12 years since the one before that.  And if you would have asked me after 1990 if I would have only one tournament since 2002, I would say I would like to think you're crazy.  That's just the way it's worked out.  So like I say, it would really be a great boost to my confidence. 

Q.  When was the last time that you were leading going to the final round?
BOB TWAY:  I don't even know.

Q.  Olympic Club maybe?
BOB TWAY:  I don't think I was even leading then.  I know I was close but I don't think I was leading.  I don't know if I -- have been in the last group very often.

Q.  Did Costas say something on TV about the last time you were in the last group, did he say something like '95?
BOB TWAY:  Well, that was the last time I won.  I haven't been in the last group very often.  I said, I don't know if I have since then.  So I don't really know.  I mean I was in a playoff at L.A. last year and I had some other chances, but obviously no wins. 

Q.  You've been around a long time, so you're, I mean you will be comfortable going to the tee tomorrow and the lead, will you not?
BOB TWAY:  I don't, I think you'll still always have butterflies, I always have butterflies coming to the tee.  I think that's the fun part about it.  And I'm really looking forward to the opportunity.  It's a lot better going off in this position than going off early in the morning trying to play a good round.  So like I say, this is what we strive for.  Obviously, you, yeah, we're trying to make money and support our families and all that.  But the real reason is to have a chance to win tournaments.  So I've been there before and I've won before and I won here.  I think that will help.  But there's six, eight, ten other guys who are thinking the same thing tomorrow and that's they're still trying to try to win the golf tournament.

Q.  What did you think of the Major Champions Tour proposed?
BOB TWAY:  Well, if, it's not a bad idea.  I wish it could be in coordination with the SENIOR Tour, actually.  I was not ready to give up my membership out here.  That's for sure.  I feel like I could still compete and play well out here.  The tour has been great to me so I don't feel like doing anything detrimental to it.  And so I think that it was a good idea, I just think it needs to be worked on a little bit.

Q.  And the other part that's only partially related, did you draw any inspiration at all from a 45 year old Nick Price winning last week?
BOB TWAY:  There's no doubt about that.  I could see it from Nick, I told somebody else asked me this week about how he played good at New Orleans, he played good at Dallas and so going in that he shot some real low rounds the last day and he was going to a golf course that he really loves, one that length is not the biggest deal, it's one that you need to be a shotmaker.  Nick is a shot maker.  And sure enough, I know he felt confident going into that week and he won.  So I think it was wonderful.  And I was watching highlights the other day, I saw when Tom Watson won here in '97, was that the right?  '96 or so, what was he 46 or something?  So I guess you try to draw from those things as much as you can.

Q.  Do you see any parallels with you?  You said earlier this week you love coming here?
BOB TWAY:  Well I love coming here.  This is one of my favorite places to play.  I love the golf course, I love everything about it.  I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, I wish I knew, but I just like I say, it would be a great -- I'm glad I won this golf tournament because I think so highly of it it would be wonderful to win again.

Q.  Stewart Cink was just in here talking about he said the reason he thinks he's played so well here the last two years is because he's learned to pick his spots here, where to be aggressive.  With so many guys having a chance to make a run tomorrow, is that even more crucial for you guys to make good decisions and that pick your spots?
BOB TWAY:  Yeah, it's paramount to make good decisions here because one bad decision can lead to, turn into a disaster.  You have holes like nine and three and 12, you know, 14, you have very fine lines there between good and bad.  If you hit it good, it looks real easy.  You hit it bad it turns out very difficult.  So I think that's why you see low scores here and it's like yesterday afternoon you saw a lot of low scores, but then you see some that aren't so low.  And that's the whole deal.  If you're really on your game, if you're hitting it right there where you need to where you have short birdie putts.  If you just barely miss it you have spots where you have no chance of getting up-and-down.  It's a very fine line.  You have to pick your spots.  The more times you drive the ball in the right side of the fairway and more chances you come up with the right club and get a chance to get it in those little corners and the better off you are.  And some places there are that you play away from.

Q.  Was the reason nobody was able to go real low this afternoon because of that and also because of the wind?
BOB TWAY:  I think the wind picked up.  I know it was blowing a lot harder on 7 than it was our first six holes.  I don't know how it was this morning.  And I think it's easier to play well when you're going off earlier.  I don't know if it's the pressure, I don't know what it is, but you have a little bit different mentality sometimes.  Sometimes -- you would love to have that same mentality like you're in the position I'm in tomorrow, just go out and freewheel it.  But it's hard to do that.  There's not much consequences, I guess, if you're in fiftieth place going out and doing that as opposed to leading.  So.  It's kind of a hard mindset I guess. 
JOHN BUSH:  Can we get you to go through the card.
BOB TWAY:  I made birdie on three.  Hit a pitching wedge about 10 feet. 
I hit a sand wedge on number 7 about 10 feet.  Made that one. 
Beautiful 6-iron on eight.  About three feet from the hole. 
And then I made about a 15, 18-footer on 17 from behind the hole after hitting a pitching wedge in. 

Q.  What did you do on 15?
BOB TWAY:  15 I pushed my drive to the right, caught a tree, dropped down in the fairway where I couldn't go for it .  I had to lay up.  And I hit a very nice sand wedge in there about five or six feet, but didn't make it.  I had some good opportunities today.  I didn't take advantage of all of them.  But the greens got a little beat up a little bit, I think, being late in the day after the rains yesterday they were a little bit more difficult to putt. 
JOHN BUSH:  Anything else?  Okay, Bob, thanks a lot.
BOB TWAY:  Okay.  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT