BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
April 4, 2002
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   This is only the sixth year here but nobody has ever won it at both courses.  Would that be something special and are the courses at all similar?
BOB TWAY: Well, it would be nice to win at both courses, no doubt about that.  It would be nice to win any time.  The golf courses , I don't think they are really that much the same.  I would have to say that the other golf course is a little bit more position-golf course than this one even though it is -- it still is, I think.  Here, I think the true long hitters have a little bit of an advantage, where at the other one I don't think there's really that much. 
I have always enjoyed playing here.  It is my second home, and it's nice to see family and friends.  So it's a fun week.

Q.   Recognize Cobb these days?
BOB TWAY: No. I keep telling people   -- I obviously grew up and went to high school here.   You wouldn't come up this far in a bet.  It is so far out and it's so big and so much going on, since really 25 years ago that I have been here, it's really, really changed.

Q.   You're old neighborhood is a little crowded too?
BOB TWAY: Yeah, like the whole place, I guess that's why I moved away.

Q.   How much would it mean to you this week just to kind of jump-start everything?
BOB TWAY: I haven't played horribly, but I did play as well as I think I am capable of playing.  I just keep plugging along - even though you are getting older you still feel like you can still play well.  I still hit the ball well.  I love playing.  So I just keep going out and hopefully you make a few more putts and see what happens.

Q.   It's hard to believe it's 16 years since that tournament?
BOB TWAY: Time is flying by very fast, isn't it.  I think this is my 18th year on Tour.  It's going by extremely fast.

Q.   You were pretty fresh-faced and bright-eyed in '81 when you won.  How would you compare your style, your mental approach to in '86.
BOB TWAY: I don't think the style is a whole lot different.  The mental focus I don't think is a whole lot different.  I still really enjoy playing and enjoy practicing.  Obviously  -- I am not saying your goals are different, but you have a lot more different demands on your time.  Back then I was just married, no kids and played golf everyday.  Now you have got kids and family and so I guess your priorities are a little bit different.  But I still enjoy working at the game and playing.  So I guess a lot has changed in some regards, but not that much in others.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT