BUICK OPEN
August 10, 2001
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOB TWAY: Thank you.  
 
BOB TWAY:  We had a good group.  I don't know, I am sure if Brett comes in here, he will tell you he is still upset because I think if he had made that putt on the last home that he lipped out, we would have birdied every hole between the three of us.  Had a nice group, made a lot of birdies.  
 
BOB TWAY:  That's good.  Can't fault that.  I got off to a good start, started on the backside and birdied the 10th hole and the 12th hole and those are really holes that you kind of need to make birdies and I was able to.  And then had a stretch of some good holes at 13, 14, 15, 16.  So shooting 6-under those nine holes.  Like I said our group was making a lot of birdies, and good to get off to a good start.  
 
Q.  How much does that help when everyone is playing well feed off of each other?
 
BOB TWAY: I think most definitely.  I think when a group is making a lot of birdies, I think you kind of look at it maybe it is a little bit easier, and I don't think there's any doubt about it that when a lot of birdies are being made that it kind of pulls each other to do it.  When guys are struggling I think you kind of can go that way too.  We had a good group, everybody played well so it was good.  
 
Q.  Look at the board here and you see just about everybody is going crazy -- (inaudible) --
 
BOB TWAY: Yeah, I did look at the board sometime on the -- I don't know, about at the turn and Kenny was -- I don't know  -- how many under is he?  He was at 15 or something, I think, when I saw it.  So I think he just has a mindset here that especially under these conditions that you just need to keep making birdies, really doesn't matter who has the lead.  It's just that you know although the greens kept getting a little bit firmer late in the day, tougher to putt, but tomorrow they will be beautiful.  There will be great scores tomorrow, you know, here.  The golf course is playing fast in the fairways and soft greens and they putt so smooth that there's going to be a lot of birdies being made. 
 
Q.  You can know that you are playing great and then you look at the board  --
 
BOB TWAY: I think I am used to it.  Really doesn't matter how good you're playing, somebody is going to just play just as well.  Especially around here I think the scores every year are the same, they are just very, very low.  
 
Q.  I don't know if you guys talked about this yet, you play well here a lot.  I mean seems to be one of your best courses.
 
BOB TWAY: Well, I think there's some golf courses that you enjoy going to more than others and this one, to me, is a very straightforward golf course.  It's not particularly hard, especially when the conditions are as they are right now, so if you drive the ball well, set up your iron play, if you play good you can shoot some good scores.  Greens seem like they are the best set of greens we play all year.  Maybe the fact is that they are pretty smooth, not a whole lot undulations, also always a nice speed and guys make a lot of putts here.  
 
Q.  Can you imagine the way Kenny Perry played in the first nine holes, do you think you can maybe do that and try to catch the leader next two days?
 
BOB TWAY: Well, I hope so.  You never know what is going to happen, but I would think that the golf course will be very receptive to some good scores.  Tomorrow in the morning the greens are going to be perfect, they are going to shoot some good scores.  I know as the day goes on golf course dries out a little bit, it's a little bit tougher late in the day to shoot  a good score, but I still think you are going to have to shoot -- get to 20-under or so to win this tournament so hopefully continue. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT