U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 1998
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOB TWAY:  No, I think that he was correct in most everything.  I was looking here at my statistics, it says that I hit five fairways today, which is exactly right, but on the front side alone I hit what I thought were excellent tee shots on every single hole but one, and they all ran off to the first cut.  I was able to get the ball on the greens, I hit 8 greens on that side.  It shows you how difficult it is to get the ball on the fairway.  We're hitting what we think is pretty good tee shots, and it continues to go until it hits something, and that's usually the first cut.  I made a birdie on the second hole.  I hit a 7-iron in there, about 15 feet left of the hole and made that.  Actually had some nice opportunities at the start of the round that I wasn't able to take advantage of, which you need to be able to do.  The 7th hole I 3-putted from about, I guess about 25 feet.  The 9th hole I played very poorly.  I hit a 3-wood off the tee, and took a deep rough in the right side, played smart, just wedged out and hit a poor 8-iron right of the green, and chipped out and missed a 5-footer and made double bogey.  Which is the first one I had.  It would be nice to go a tournament without making a double bogey.  13th hole I hit a decent 7-iron, the wind hit it, it just left the green, again you're in the deep rough, and it's very difficult to get up-and-down, and I hit a pretty decent chip and missed that.  17 I hit a poor drive left into the deep rough, just had to wedge it out.  18 I hit a nice sand wedge about three feet short of the hole. 
  
 
Q.  How difficult will it be for anybody to catch Payne with a four-stroke lead, how imposing is that going into the final round?
 
BOB TWAY:  If I was in Payne's position, and had a four-shot lead, I wouldn't feel very safe.  I don't know how he's going to feel.  I think his objective would be to go out and play the best, smartest round he can.  And if he's able to shoot even par, one under, we  probably can't catch him.  But if he's -- if he goes out and shoots a couple over, I think you can probably go out and shoot one or 2-under par.  I don't know that people can do much better than that, as difficult as it's playing. 
  
 
Q.  Given your position, would you rather the course stay in it's current condition or would you rather have them throw some water on there?
 
BOB TWAY:  I think they need to throw a little bit of water.  I'm not saying a lot.  But I think the fairways need a slight bit of water to keep the ball in the fairway a little easier.  I think the greens definitely need some water, not necessarily for receiving shots, but just so they'll putt a little better.  They're getting pretty tracked up.  And they start turning blue and gray, and the surface is not good to putt on.  So a little bit of moisture tends to help that.  But I doubt we'll see any water. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT