U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2014
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bob, you played well most of the day.  Can you -- I know you didn't finish the way you wanted.  Can you just address your round?BOB TWAY: Yeah.  I played good for about 14 holes and, you know, then I hit some poor shots.  I hit it in the rough on the 6th hole, tournament 6th hole.  It makes it difficult.  Hit a very poor chip on the par 5.  Actually hit a pretty good shot at 17.  I guess I hit the wrong club.  I hit normally hit a 6-iron 165 and hit it 185.Q. Could be worse.BOB TWAY: Then the last hole I hit a very poor drive.  It's kind of sad to play that well and then throw it all away.Q. (Inaudible)?BOB TWAY: Yup.Q. (Inaudible)?BOB TWAY: It's a dead spot.  Trying to give yourself a chance to make a par and maybe I was a little bit too aggressive on the second shot, caught the trees.  I made bogey.  Next hole was a very easy par 5.  Wind is down right to left and --Q. Did you lay up?BOB TWAY: I was in the first cut of rough.  I hit a 3-iron.  You kind of expect to hit a flyer.  It came out soft and I was short of the green.  Still it's not a very difficult chip at least to get it up there somewhere. I hit it thin over the green.  You know, it's kind of how I've played, though.  If I hit the ball well, I play good.  If I miss greens, I play bad.  My short game is terrible.Q. You would rather be higher up on the board.  If you do make the cut what would be your focus if you're playing Saturday and Sunday?BOB TWAY: I guess that's better than not, I guess.  I haven't really thought about that.  I probably need some food and then think about it.Q. Overall, how do you assess the golf course and the tournament?BOB TWAY: The golf course is fantastic.  It felt more like a U.S. Open than a lot of U.S. Opens I've played in.  I don't think that you really could find a much more demanding, better conditioned golf course anywhere.  I just think it's fabulous. I mean we got the breeze blowing today.  If you hit the fairways you're going to hit the greens and you can shoot a good score.  If you miss the fairways well, good luck, because you're going to have a hard day.Q. That's the way it should be?BOB TWAY: That's the way it's supposed to be.  I'm so proud of the people here.  You know, they've worked their tails off to get it in this kind of shape.  It's fantastic.  It's just a great test of golf.Q. Bob, how do you adjust your goals from this point on?BOB TWAY: It's the same deal.  I play golf every day and some days are better than others and just probably work on it a little bit this afternoon.  Like I said, I did pretty good for 14 holes.  I wouldn't do a lot different there but I would have done a little bit different the last. But, you know, it's just golf.  It's not like I came in this tournament thinking boy, I'm playing great, I'm going to have a chance to win this tournament. I haven't played any good this year.  I haven't played any good since I've been on the Senior Tour.  So, you know, just got to try to get better if I want to keep playing.Q. With all the hoopla about the Oak Tree guys at their own course, is it a good thing or not to have you all playing together the first two rounds?BOB TWAY: Oh, I think it was great.  I think it was great for the people who wanted to come out and watch.  It was good for us.  Unfortunately, we just didn't play any good


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT