U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 1998
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOB TWAY:  I am pleased with what is going on.  I didn't play quite as well as I did yesterday, but I thought the conditions were a little bit tougher today.  But I was able to hang in there, and, although I made five bogeys, I was able to make five birdies.  I am pleased with what is going on. 
 
BOB TWAY:  I do like it.  I think every golf course that we come to for the Open is -- we realize what we are into when we come here.  The rough is going to be -- just like last year, rough is going to be extremely deep.  You are going to have to hit the ball in the fairway; need to hit as many greens as you can.  I think regardless of the golf course you are playing, the type of golf you have to play is very similar. This golf course is a great golf course.  There is not really a water hazard on it and I think it is one people enjoy playing. 
 
BOB TWAY:  I hit a nice drive at the first hole, hit 5-iron just over the back of the green and chipped up to about three feet away, made that for a birdie.  2, par on 2 and 3, and 4.  5, drove it left in the rough, just had to wedge it out.  Made bogey there.  6, I hit a nice 8-iron about three feet from the hole, made that.  7th hole, hit a nice sand wedge from about 70 yards to about a foot from the hole, made that.  8, I had it a little bit short of the hole, and I came back and about 30 feet, and I 3-putted, missed about a 4-footer for par.  10th hole, I drove it through the fairway on the left.  From there, I hit it to the bunker, hit my bunker shot long, about ten feet away, missed that, made bogey there.  13th hole, I missed the green to the right.  The deep rough, and made another bogey.  14, I had a nice 8-iron about ten feet behind the hole, made a that for a birdie.  17, I actually hit a pretty good drive off that  tee.  It rolled down to the first cut.  Kind of a bad lie. From there, hit it in the bunker, then made another bogey.  18, hit a nice pitching wedge about a foot from the hole, made that for birdie.  You can tell the round is kind of up-and-down.  Not as consistent as you would like it.  But like I said, it is pretty tough out there.  Every time you miss a shot, there is a good chance you are going to make bogey. 
 

Q.  You said the conditions were tougher today out there.  What were the major differences today from yesterday?
 
BOB TWAY:  I thought, although the greens were still a little bit inconsistent, some were soft and some were firm, I thought they were a little firmer than they were yesterday.  I think probably because the sun came out a little bit.  The wind blew a little bit harder, so I think they are drying out a little bit more. 
 

Q.  I have got a great picture at home from 1986 at Inverness, you in that bunker.  Doesn't seem like twelve years ago.  I know it is a big question but --
 
BOB TWAY:  Just means we are all getting old. 
 

Q.  It seemed like the horizons were unlimited for you twelve years ago.  Are you generally satisfied then to now, or are you frustrated, or what is your read on the career so far?
 
BOB TWAY:  I am probably neither.  All you can do is the best you can do and look at what comes from that.  I played good up until about 1992, and I didn't play like I played in 1986, but I can't complain, still played pretty good.  I tried to make my game better there for a few years, it went worse.  I went back to what was natural for me; I started playing good.  I played good for the last four years - I would think - since 1986.  I would have thought we'd have done a lot more than I had done to this day.  I can't complain.  I think we all like to play better than we do.  All you can do is the best you can do. 
 

Q.  Bob, the shot to 18, were you above or below the pin at 18 and also what did you think in general at pin placement?
 
BOB TWAY:  On 18?  Fortunately I was so close I didn't have to worry about if I was below it or I was only about a foot from the hole.  But, I would think that if you are above it, it would be hard to stop going back down the hill.  But not only on that hole but a lot of holes it is that way.  So you need to try to be below the hole as much as you can. 
 

Q.  What was the distance on that shot in?
 
BOB TWAY:  I had about 114 yards. 
 

Q.  How do you rate the Majors?  Would winning an Open  mean more than winning a PGA?  How do you rate them in terms of importance to you?
 
BOB TWAY:  I don't know that any one is more important than the other.  I'd rather win an Open now since I already have a PGA, but I think if you are fortunate to win any of them, you have done something very special.  So I wouldn't be too concerned about which one. 
 

Q.  Seemed like you were struggling with your driver a little bit on the back 9 there and then you seemed to straighten things out.
 
BOB TWAY:  I did.  I played really well for the first seven holes.  Actually the tee shot on 8 was good.  I 3-putted that one and then I didn't hit the balls well.  I hooked three drives in a row on 9, 10, and 11.  So I could feel my swing getting a little bit quick.  And then I actually played a little bit better from then after I kind of settled down a little bit.  It is difficult out there.  I think maybe you get caught up in what is going on a little bit and it is tough to keep playing, kind of have to play like robot golf.  You can't miss shots.  If you do miss a couple of shots, you make a few bogeys, it is tough to settle yourself back down.  But that is what you have to do in this tournament.  Everyone is going to fall into that unless you are hitting it just perfect.  So it was nice that I kind of rode the ship a little bit and made some good swings coming in. 
 
BOB TWAY:  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT