DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 6, 1997
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOB TWAY:  Everybody came in talking about how the weather was today.  Not many days we've played Doral in these nice of conditions.  It was an ideal morning for scoring.  The golf course is like -- they were saying in perfect shape.  If you played well this morning you had a good score.


Q.  Just take us through it.

BOB TWAY:  Sure.  The second hole I hit an 8-iron about 15 feet short of the hole and made that one.  The 8th hole I hit a sand wedge about 5 feet, made that for birdie.  10 I hit it just short of the green in 2, actually hit a poor chip about 20 feet short of the hole but I holed the putt.  12 I hit a pitching wedge 15 feet left of the hole and made that one.  16 I actually hit a poor pitching wedge about 25 feet right of the hole and it was actually a very fast putt and I was trying to lag it down there and it fell until the hole.  I actually missed a short birdie putt at 17.  Then 18 I had another one about 15 feet and made that.  I made 3 nice putts on the backside.


Q.  What did you hit into 18?

BOB TWAY:  8-iron.  We were lucky today, 18 was playing downwind, right to left.  So it was playing a lot easier.  Yesterday at the Pro Am it was into you left to right.  I hit a very good drive yesterday and had to hit a 5-iron.  So it was a lot easier today.


Q.  You hit a good drive today?

BOB TWAY:  I did, today.  But it's a little bit of an easier tee shot if you know you can carry the stuff on the left if you hit a good one, as opposed to yesterday where you know you can't carry anything.  It makes it much more difficult.


Q.  You took it over that left bunker?

BOB TWAY:  Well, I didn't, but I knew if I happened to pull it I could carry it.  I went down the fairway.  But it's a better feeling than knowing that you can't.


Q.  What do you make of 18 under more severe conditions than today, say?

BOB TWAY:  Left -- where the bunker is on the left it used to be rough.  So if you hit it over that, before you couldn't play out there anyway, so I don't know if being rough or bunker makes that much difference.  I think the bunker on the right is actually brought in a little bit where the rough  used to be, but you did have a little bit of a bail out, you might be able to catch a good lie and knock it on the green. It is more of a demanding tee shot.  I think it's a more demanding second shot, because the green is more severe, plus being shaved on the left makes it more difficult.  It all depends on the conditions.  I think the whole golf course really on a calm day like we had today, you don't really notice the changes that much.  I'm sure we're going to get some very windy days and we're going to find out what the changes -- the changes are going to be much more severe.  Hitting the fairway will be more difficult because of all the bunkering off the tee.  And then if you start missing them there, the second shot is going to be more difficult.  There is some holes out there that the areas off the tee are much tighter because of all the bunkering.


Q.  How did you feel with your game coming into this week?

BOB TWAY:  Actually I feel good about my game.  I didn't scorch the west coast, but I played 5 tournaments and I made the cut all five weeks, and had a couple of decent finishes, nothing to write home about, but I played some solid golf, so I was feeling okay.


Q.  What's your schedule like, do you play all the Florida tournaments?

BOB TWAY:  No, I'm going to take the next two weeks  off.  I played pretty heavy west coast, and this is my third in a row, so I'm going to take a couple off and get ready, start TPC and play through Hilton Head.


Q.  Bob, could you just -- your yardage on 18 with that 8-iron, do you remember?

BOB TWAY:  I hit 169 yards to the hole.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT