U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 1995
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 LES UNGER:  Bob Tway has a steady round. Bob, I guess the
favorite subject of everybody is the wind and how it has affected
play.  Why don't we address that one right off the bat.

 BOB TWAY:  I am sure you have probably heard it all day long.
 The golf course is finally getting, I think, where they wanted
it.  After all the rains the first of the week, it was a little
bit soft.  Now with the wind blowing the last two days, it is
playing very, very difficult.  The greens, you can't fly -- if
it's a downwind hole you have to-- you can't stop the ball, but
you have to hit a great shot because those holes are playing so
tough.  I heard Phil talking -- just repeat the same things. 
We have been saying all week even though the weather was good,
the golf course was soft;' even the par is going to be a good
score.  I still think it's  going to be a great score.  I don't
know that you could ask anybody if they take even par they probably
wouldn't go play tomorrow.  But you're just going to have to remain
as patient as you can.  And getting back to the same old thing
of hitting the ball in the fairway, hit it on the greens, and
try to play as smart as you can.

 LES UNGER:  Any particular save or shot today that deserves
mention?

 BOB TWAY:  Well, I made a nice chip-in for birdie on number 2
which kind of is a nice thing to have happen, kind of settles
you down.  2-iron just short of the green and actually 4-iron
just short of the green chipped it in; so that was kind of nice.
 The bogeys I made, I bogeyed the 4th hole but I missed the fairway.
 Then I made a bogey on 16 and 17.  I hit a poor third shot on
16 and a poor shot on 17.  You just can't afford to mis-hit any
shots.  It is playing so tough, you really have to hit every shot
almost perfect to have it end up good.

 LES UNGER:  Questions.


 Q.   Obviously your game today was a tremendous contrast with
Phil, you had the stretch of 11 straight pars.  Was it frustrating
coming so close to so many  birdies; did you feel good seeing
what the rest of the field was doing?

 BOB TWAY:  Well, I was just trying to play as steady as I could.
 There was a couple of opportunities out there that I would have
loved to have made, but you just can't get aggressive even with
your putts.  I would like to have made the putt on 14 and 15 which
would have really helped, you know, then you make the bogeys on
16 and 17, so it is just tough. Those putts were good opportunities
and you hate to let those get away because you don't get that
many of them out there.  But I am pleased.  I played fairly consistent
considering the wind.  It was -- still wasn't quite as good as
yesterday, but you know, I am still -- I still have a chance so--


 Q.   Bob, can you address the 16th hole, you and Phil both
bogeyed it and--

 BOB TWAY:  It is playing very long.  You hit straight in the
wind.  I hit 3-wood so I could stay short of the bunker; I kind
of popped it up.  I laid up with a 3-wood.  I really only had
136 yards to the pin, and I am hitting a 6-iron, so you are playing
for about 40, 45 yards of the wind usually.  Hit my 6-iron, 180,
185 yards, so you have to do something quite different on your
approach shot, keep the ball away.  I kind of  got over mine.
 Hit it way left.  But you really have to use some imagination
on that shot because you are having to hit so much more club than
you normally would.  It is like playing, you know, Scotland or
whatever.

 Q.   Bob, describe the 2 putts on 14 and 15 and also the length
of the chip-in at 2, please.

 BOB TWAY:  2, I think the pin was back about 12 yards under onto
the green.  I was a few steps short, so you know, 40-foot chip,
and 14, it was about a 12-foot putt and 15 was 6 or 7-foot putt,
so you don't get that many opportunities that close.

 Q.   Nine years ago you were in a very similar position as
this.  Any feelings of flashbacks or anything from that experience
that you expect to help you tomorrow?

 BOB TWAY:  Well, you know, I think it could be very similar to
the last time.  There is quite a few people who are very close;
9 holes to go.  I might look on the leader-board tomorrow and
see that there is 9 people tied again; that could very well happen.
 I said yesterday when I was playing in '86 I had a whole lot
more confidence than I do now.  But you know, hopefully I can
keep playing like this and maybe regain some of that.  But, you
know, whatever happens tomorrow, it  doesn't really matter to
me.  I am just trying to appreciate the situation I am in; you
know, trying to learn a little bit more and be happy that I am
here and have a chance.

 Q.   Can you talk little bit about playing out on fescue?

 BOB TWAY:  The shorter rough or the real deep stuff?  It all
depends on a lot.  Sometimes, if it is thin enough, you can take
a shot at hitting towards the green.  If it is all the high strings
and a bunch of them, the club is going to turn over; you hit it
straight left.  In that situation, I just take a wedge and go
to the fairway.  Couple of times if it is bare you can go ahead
and swing at it.  But I have pretty much had the philosophy this
week if I hit my tee shot with trouble, I wedge back to the fairway;
take my bogey and go on.  Very seldom have I tried to advance
it very far.

 Q.   Just after everything that you have been through in the
last few years, is tomorrow going to be fun?

 BOB TWAY:  Yeah, no doubt about it.  Like I said, regardless
of what happens, I am just trying to enjoy it.  It is great to
be playing golf and being in this situation instead of being at
home trying to  figure it out or sitting on the couch watching
it, if you missed the cut.  So like I said, it would be a dream
come true to win the U.S. Open, but like I said, no matter how
I play tomorrow, I am very pleased with how I have done. I am
very pleased with the whole year; how it has been happening. 
And just like I said, I am just trying to climb the ladder again.

 LES UNGER:  Anyone else?  Good luck.

 BOB TWAY:  Thanks a lot.

  End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT