MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2012
Bob Tway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVE SENKO:   Bob, thanks for joining us.   9‑under for the tournament, 7‑under 65 today, and maybe just talk about your day.   Eight birdies until your only blemish was on No.18.   
BOB TWAY:   Yeah, it was a lot of fun.   The first hole, hit a pitching wedge about ten feet behind the hole and made a birdie.   That was a nice start.   Just kind of parred my way around until the seventh hole, the par5, and hit a very nice drive and hit a 4‑iron, then actually hit the pin and trickled to just over the back of the green and 2‑putted for a birdie.   
Par 3, eighth hole, hit an 8‑iron about ten feet and made that for birdie.   
Then hit a foot from the hole on No.9.   So nice to have a three in a row.   
Then I hit another good shot on 10 with a pitching wedge about three feet.   Made that one.   
11th hole, the par5, I hit two good shots just short of the green and hit a nice chip a couple of feet from the hole.   
Then on the 12th hole, I hit a good drive and a so‑so sand wedge just in the left fringe about 20 feet, made a good putt.   So it was nice to‑‑ you don't make six birdies in a row often, so that was nice.   
And then I didn't play quite as well the rest of the time.   I hit a good shot on the next par 3 and hit just kind of on the green on the next one.   The par5 is playing very easy, 16, and I hit a very nice drive but pulled it in the left rough and I was in the trees and I tried to hit an 8‑iron over the trees, way right of the green and couldn't make birdie there.   
Hit a nice shot at 17, kind of released past the hole but I hit a nice putt and then I hit a very poor drive on 18.   It was probably playing about as easy as it could because the wind was a little left‑to‑right helping, and I pulled it into the trees and kind of a bad lie and had to go through a gap.   And the clubface just kind of turned over and whacked the tee and just hit a wedge on the green and 2‑putted for bogey.   It was disappointing to finish that way but it still was a nice round.   
DAVE SENKO:   How far was your putt on 17?   
BOB TWAY:   Probably 25 feet.   
DAVE SENKO:   What did you hit for a second?   
BOB TWAY:   Sand wedge.   
   
 Q.   This year still looking for your first win, you're in great position.   
BOB TWAY:   I haven't won a golf tournament in a long time.   Last time I won a golf tournament was the 2003 Canadian Open.   So maybe there will be some good thoughts, I don't know.   But you know, I think that's why we play.   I haven't played like I think I'm capable of playing since I've been out here but that's just the nature of the game.   You keep plugging along and practicing.   
Seeing signs of much better play but my scoring has been poor for a long time.   If you don't chip the ball well, if you don't wedge the ball well and if you don't putt the ball well, it's tough to score.   This week has been a little bit better and therefore, I'm doing better.   
Hopefully I'll continue to do that tomorrow, and try to take advantage of the par 5s.   I need to hit a few more fairways than I did today.   It always makes it easier.   The golf course is getting firm so you need to get in the fairway to play your second shots.   
You know, it will be fun tomorrow, because I haven't really had that many chances to win.   The last best tournament was a couple of years ago in Houston.   
So it will be‑‑ I think that's why we play, or I know that's why we play, to give yourself a chance to win golf tournaments; the competition and feel the butterflies and see how you do. If you do well, great, and if you don't, you keep working at it.   
   
 Q.   And obviously the course is to your liking?   
BOB TWAY:   I think any time we can play an old‑style golf course that's playing firm like it is, the fairways are firm, the ball is rolling, you have to hit the proper shot off the tee, you have to think your way around, you just can't stand out there and smash it; you have to hit different clubs off the tees.   
The greens are firm, so you have to be playing from the fairway to try to attack the pins.   It's not an overly long golf course, but the scores are not that great.   
I think that just shows, if people would understand that it's lot length that really makes a golf course difficult; it's firmness and having to maneuver your golf ball, that's what makes a golf course, in our opinion, fun, as opposed to having something that's 7,800 yards long and we just stand there and bomb it.   This is what we think golf should be.   I'm sure if you ask anybody out here playing, everybody loves it.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned butterflies.   Is that something that maybe you're starting to feel a bit now that you have got that round in and setting up for tomorrow?  
BOB TWAY:   I think any time you're playing good‑‑ I felt them out there today, but I think it's all positive.   I think when you feel nervous, sometimes you're able to do things better than when you normally can.   
Adrenaline and things like that, if you do it right, will be an advantage to you.   If you hit the ball further and sometimes better than you can just in regular; sometimes it can be, you know, handled the right way.   It could be bad, but you know, I think that if you remain focused and keep going, you can continue to play good golf.   You may not, but that's just nature of the game.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about your memories of your Canadian Open win?   
BOB TWAY:   Well, we know, it's funny you say, that because it's the same place they are playing this year, Hamilton, which is a very old‑style golf course.   It's almost the same as this.   You didn't hit driver off of every hole.   You maneuvered the ball around.   It would start to play very firm.   
I was even par after the first two days and then shot 66 which was only 4‑under and then 66‑under on the last day which was only 4‑under, and finished 8‑under in a playoff.   It's not like it was a 20‑under par win.   It's not a long golf course.   I think it's 6,800 yards.   Therefore, it just shows you that it's that type of golf.   
   
 Q.   Are you playing this year?   
BOB TWAY:   No, they won't have me back.   I'm too old.   
   
 Q.   Even as a past champion?  
BOB TWAY:   That doesn't matter anymore.     
   
 Q.   Would you want to ‑‑  
BOB TWAY:   Not really.   I'll let the kids play.   I have plenty to do out here.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   What do you expect the winning score to be tomorrow?   
BOB TWAY:   You never know.   You know, the wind is going to turn around back to a different direction tomorrow.   Today we had almost a northerly wind today, and it has been out of the south and southwest.   I think it's supposed to go back to the southwest tomorrow.   
Looks like it's going to be a pretty nice day.   All depends on how much water, if any, they put on the golf course; if they keep it firm, then the scores probably won't be all that great, unless someone gets going, which is obviously very‑‑ people can do that.   
But like I said earlier, I think you need to hit for fairways tomorrow to make it easier on myself and then to kind of do the rest of the stuff that I've been doing.   
DAVE SENKO:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT