UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 23, 2016
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Who is the leader of Chinese Taipei?
YANI TSENG: Candie Kung.  She's the oldest, too, so she's the leader.  I think the four of us, we are very close so we know each other's game really well, and we're very good friends off the course.  It doesn't matter who's playing with who, we're having a good time.
Q. What team has been the biggest surprise to you this week?
YANI TSENG: England.  Yeah, they've played really well.  I think once they bring everything together, they are playing for their country, playing for teammates.  I think they are very strong.  It's kind of very similar to what they do on the Solheim Cup, too.  I think Chinese Taipei is very well, too.  When we play a team event we're right there.  We want to make birdie, we want to win this tournament for our team, for our country.
Q. Based on their play this week, what team to you looks the strongest right now going into Sunday and why?
YANI TSENG: I don't know.  I don't even know who's in Sunday.  But right now I think everybody is strong.  This is the top eight in the country, and now it's top four, top 5, and everybody -- you have to be great to be here, so it doesn't matter who's in the top 5 going into tomorrow.  I think they're all great.  You have to play very good to win a match.  It's not easy, so you just need to make a bunch of birdies out there tomorrow and see who gets the crown.
Q. If you guys do go ahead and win tomorrow, what's the feeling like to win for your country?
YANI TSENG: I think it means a lot for Taiwan, especially the Olympics this year.  For all of us, golf is not very big in Taiwan, but now I think some players from Japan, Malaysia, and we play in U.S., and I think a lot of people try to grow the game in Taiwan, and I think this is huge for junior golf in Taiwan, and we want to show them that everybody can do it.  It doesn't matter if you're from a small country in Taiwan, but you have a dream of playing golf, one day you can play in the International Crown, you can play on the LPGA, you can be No. 1 in the world.  If you can dream big, one day it's going to come true.
Q. If you go ahead and do win, how do you think your team would celebrate?
YANI TSENG: I don't know, maybe get some vodka, get some beers.  One of our teammates is only 19, so probably only three of us will celebrate.  But I think we're going to have a good time.  We are going to the British next week, but it's kind of pretty cool that we can share this experience together and play as a team.  I would think how we start is very important.  We're going to get together and be strong tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT