LPGA HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY THESIER: We would like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Yani Tseng into the interview room today, shot 2-under today and sits one shot out of the lead heading into Sunday's final round. Can you just take me through your day and where you are heading into Sunday.
 YANI TSENG: I feel at this point today, I had lots of shots I should not miss. I make lots of mistakes today. I just didn't finish the way I want. 
 Hopefully tomorrow will be better. 

 Q. I know yesterday, ten birdies; today, six birdies, but it seems to be the bogeys that are kind of getting in the way, what do you think has been the difference? 
 YANI TSENG: I know it was really tough. It's hard to make like two good rounds in a row. But I was patient today and tried my best every shot, but I just had too many mistakes. I had six birdies, but I had four bogeys; like yesterday I had three. Hopefully tomorrow I can make birdies but get less bogeys, too. So just concentrate on every shot and not thinking too much and be positive all the way. 

 Q. Overall making so many birdies, do you feel good about where your game is right now and how you're striking the ball?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think I feel pretty good right now. If I don't think too much, I just try to do the things that I can do and that I can control and just play one shot at a time, I think tomorrow's going to be fun. 

 Q. You have five wins already on the LPGA Tour this season, eight worldwide, does it get any easier being in the hunt on Sunday? Does the feeling change at all? 
 YANI TSENG: I don't know, just get more experience, and then tomorrow, tomorrow is another day and I'm one shot back, so tomorrow I just have to be aggressive and like I say, try to make as many birdies as I can and try to less -- try to have less mistakes. 
 And tomorrow I think I play with Na Yeon again, so I think it's going to be fun with all of the big crowds and just so many people that come out and support this. I'm really enjoying the tournament. 

 Q. I know you know what it's like to defend a title, Na Yeon is going for a three-peat here, how impressive is, that just considering to be up near a lead in a tournament and to win it that many times?
 YANI TSENG: Very impressed that she had two wins in a row. I think she knows the course very is well. I played with her yesterday and she played awesome. She knows what she's doing. But I think tomorrow, it's going to be very good competing and I think it's going to be tough. You have to play good to win this tournament. 

 Q. Playing with tomorrow with Soo-Jin Yang, what do you know about her? 
 YANI TSENG: I don't know her really well. Maybe I've seen her face and then I would know. 

 Q. Playing in Korea, your game is impressive right now. 
 YANI TSENG: I really enjoy it. I have lots of good friends here and it's always fun to have the gallery follow you. I was really impressed how many people here today was following us, on 18 holes, just everything is a big crowd. When you make par, you make birdie, just everybody goes crazy. 
 So it's really fun, and we should come back every year to play here. 

 Q. You said earlier that you wanted to play with Na Yeon tomorrow, is it because of the memory of two years ago?
 YANI TSENG: (Laughing) No, I don't want to say that. You know, every year is different and I think we are both getting improved and become better and better, skills, mental, everything. 
 So I know it's going to be fun and we both are one shot back, so tomorrow is going to be very fun to compete together, match-play for three of us. You can shoot a low score here, so maybe like four or five groups back, they still have a chance to win this tournament, too. 

 Q. Looked like you were being pretty aggressive because of the conditions -- your scorecard might indicate the risk/reward with all of the birdies and bogeys. 
 YANI TSENG: Most of the time when I play a tournament, most of the time I play very aggressive. But today, I think I just didn't hit the ball quite as solid as before, and I think that's why I make some mistake.
 And those mistakes is from the putting, too. I think I had two or three 3-putts, and yesterday I had three 3-putts. If I take those 3-putts down, I think tomorrow will be better. I think speed will be very important for me tomorrow, so I just need to get some more feel about the speed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT