LPGA HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KELLY THESIER: Congratulations, 7-under par, leader after the first round. Can you take me through your day and what was working well for you?   
 YANI TSENG: I played pretty well. I hit lots of good shots and I stayed really patient today. The first three holes, I feel like my tempo was a little off. I was a little too rushed. And then after, that I kind of figured out, what can I do and what can I do to make better today.   
 So it's good I figured it out, I hung in there and was really issue all day. I made ten birdies today and I had three 3-putts, so that's 7-under. Still very happy about it.   
  
  Q. This golf course, what are the keys to being able to shoot low, and what do you think it is about this course that fits your game?  
 YANI TSENG: I think the par 5, we can reach on the par 5. I need to make lots of good birdies on the par 5, so that kind of helped. And I played with Na Yeon, that was fun, big crowd today. I know it was very crazy out there, but it's just not so fun to play.  
  
  Q. What's the focus for you going into the weekend?   
 YANI TSENG: I don't want to think too much. I want to work on my putting, my game, kind of get tempo back. It gets very windy when we play the back nine, so I need to control the ball better.  
  
  Q. You've had so much success this year. When you get a first-round lead, do you start thinking about what may come, or do you still have to think round by round?   
 YANI TSENG: I'm still thinking round by round, and then I mean, shot by shot, actually. I'm not thinking ahead or not thinking about Sunday what's going to happen. I just focus on every shot, every hole and then the do best I can do.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about the state of your game right now? How is the swing feeling?  
 YANI TSENG: I feel pretty good. I work on my game and with my swing, and I do lots of training this week. I think that helps a lot, too.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT