LPGA HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY THESIER: We would like to welcome Rolex rankings No. 1 Yani Tseng to the enter view room. Congratulations on yourself under round today. Can you first off take me through the round and what was going well and kind of what the keys were to you being able to shoot such a low round.
 YANI TSENG: I feel pretty good today. I hit lots of good shots and made lots of good putts, but the first three holes, I was a little rushed. My tempo was kind of off a little bit and try to figure out what can I do to play better today. And then I'm going to figure something out with my swing and my putting. 
 I had ten birdies today, and I had three bogeys and the three bogeys were from 3-putts. I made three 3-putts today. I think overall I played very good and I'm very happy about this. 
 KELLY THESIER: You had talked a little about playing with Na Yeon today and the crowds. What was that like, knowing that she's two-time defending champion here. Tell me what the round was like.
 YANI TSENG: She is a big star here, it's lots of fun to play with her. So many people come to watch us today, and I know it's very crazy out there, everybody is, oh, (describing cheering). I think she loves this course. She's playing good today. We are very good friends and I enjoyed to play today. 

 Q. Last time you played with Na Yeon Choi here how was that like, comparing?
 YANI TSENG: Oh, that was two years ago. I lost by one shot. It was very, very windy and cold. It was crazy. 
 This year the weather is beautiful, so much better. I think on Sunday I would love to play with her every day, because when it gets a big crowd, it gets more exciting. 

 Q. You had ten birdies -- how many birdies did you have, the most, on the LPGA Tour? 
 YANI TSENG: I think maybe 11, 11 for one round, because I shot 62 is the lowest round and I remember I made one bogey. I think it's 11. No, maybe ten is the most, because when I shot 62, I had two eagles, so I think maybe ten is the most birdies without no eagles. 

 Q. And what's your mind-set for the next two days?
 YANI TSENG: You know, I'm just going to relax today and enjoy the Korean barbeque tonight. 
 I mean, tomorrow, I play shot by shot and day by day. I just focus on every shot, every hole, and just do my best to make birdie every hole. 

 Q. The gallery was almost all for Na Yeon Choi, how does that feel to have all of those fans for Na Yeon?
 YANI TSENG: It's okay. It's fun. If I play with her, that means I'm getting paid attention, too. Some people are following me and saying a lot for me, so I'm really happy about that. I just really enjoyed the crowd, because I love to have more people to watch us, because maybe that's more exciting. 

 Q. Did you have your fan club come here?
 YANI TSENG: My mom's friend, her very good friend with my mom, maybe five, six of us, but my dad is not here. My trainer is here with me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT