NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 13, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Yani Tseng into the interview room. First off, congratulations on your win last week. That was a pretty exciting finish. Can you just talk a little bit about last week's win and how you feel about your game heading into this week.
 YANI TSENG: I feel pretty good. I've got lots of confidence right now, and I love this course. This is not an easy course. You have to hit good drives to stay on the fairway to give you more chances to make birdie. All the scores they're playing this week is like 20-under or 15-under to win in this tournament. You've just got to go out there and shoot lots of birdies, the most birdies you can, and I just feel pretty good right now and happy to come back here. I didn't play last year, but I'm very happy to come back again. 
 THE MODERATOR: Last week was your fifth win of the season, putting you in pretty elite company. What does it mean to you to be able to have that kind of success this year and win five tournaments? 
 YANI TSENG: You know, I always tell myself, my goal this year is to be No. 1, and then I did it first this season. Now I just keep achieving my goal, like hitting the driving straighter and bunker shots save more and getting my putting average lower, and those are three things I needed to work on and improve, and I just keep doing it this year, and it seems to work out pretty well.

 Q. Did you get to play the course this morning?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I played nine holes, and it was very interesting on the back nine because you're hitting all the different angles. It makes you think a lot. 

 Q. You didn't play last year but they made some renovations to the course. Everyone is talking about how nice it is out there. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, the golf course is beautiful. The greens are so fast and so smooth. Very beautiful, very good condition out there. I heard the front nine, like No. 5, No. 8, they changed it a little bit, but I haven't played it yet, and I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q. What do you think is going to be the most difficult thing about this course this week? 
 YANI TSENG: Well, I think, like I said, you need to make lots of birdies, because if you don't make birdie, you play so-so, you have no chance to win this week. Everybody here plays very aggressive, and this is a great golf course. I'd love to see the course change a little bit. It makes it better and better. The crowds here, the people here are really, really nice, and we always really enjoy to be here. I think I just need to play aggressive and try to make as many birdies as you can.

 Q. We talked to a golfer this morning and they said they're hoping for really, really hot weather because it makes all the difference in the way the ball rolls on the greens, the way you're able to play. Are you happy with how things are going so far?
 YANI TSENG: I don't know if the weather is going to help that much, but this weather is beautiful. I don't want to be too hot. I heard this week is going to be nice. We just play the conditions we have, so it doesn't matter. If it's too hard, we have a different strategy, and if it's great weather maybe it's a different strategy, so we'll see. 

 Q. One thing this week Navistar is done is they've made admission free to all fans so they can bring a lot of people out here. What does it mean to have a sponsor be able to do that, to bring fans out for free, and how excited are you to see what should be some pretty large crowds?
 YANI TSENG: That's very exciting. This morning I watched the junior clinic, everybody was going crazy, just a very big heart to do it, and thanks for doing this, because it's going to bring lots more crowd here, and the people are going to enjoy and have lots of friends from different states driving here because they love this tournament, and this is going to make golf better and better, and the more people that know the LPGA and the more people that know Navistar, I think it's going to grow a lot.

 Q. Is it more difficult to get to the No. 1 place or is it more difficult to defend the No. 1 position?
 YANI TSENG: I think it's difficult to get to the No. 1 position because when you have a goal there, you just keep achieving. If not, you just keep working hard. Right now I'm No. 1, but I feel like I still have a long way to go. I still have so many things I need to learn, I need to achieve and I need to work on. I'm only 22, so I feel like I have lots of things I need to do, I need to work on. 

 Q. This tournament will benefit the Wounded Warrior Project. Have you heard anything about that or do you know what it is?
 YANI TSENG: No, I'm sorry, I have no idea what it is. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much for joining us today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT