SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 18, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1, Yani Tseng, into the interview room. Thank you for joining us today. Can you just talk a little about your last win at the British, Women's British Open, and kind of how you feel about your game coming into this week? 
 YANI TSENG: I feel tired because I went back to Taiwan after the British Open, and I was doing lots of sponsor things, media, and did a cover on a magazine and photo shoot. But it was so much fun. I'm always really happy to go back to Taiwan and see everything, my family and my friends. 
 So we're here now and now just very happy. But I just got back here three days ago and still have very bad jet lag. So now I don't have a good sleep the last few days, but hopefully getting better. I'm really excited to be here and see all the friends again and just can't wait to go out to play tomorrow.
 THE MODERATOR: When you were over in Taiwan, did it set in a little bit about what you had accomplished becoming the youngest golfer, male or female, ever to win five majors? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, it was proven in Taiwan and more people recognized me when I walked on the street and people were always congratulating me. They always say, oh, good job and keep going. It just feels like a lot of fun. You know, when you walk on the street, you know the people are looking at you, so it was very different. 
 It seems like this time when I go back and see more people know about golf, and more young people are starting to play golf too which is really nice. I'm very happy about that too.
 THE MODERATOR: So far this season you've won two majors, two other tournaments, four wins total. What are your goals going forward for the rest of the season? 
 YANI TSENG: My goals, I think I really like it. I wish I'd win more. I need to keep working hard. There are still so many things I need to learn. You know we have two weeks and then the Cup and then the Asian swing, so hopefully I can get some more in and keep in good shape. 

 Q. Yani, can you talk about your play here at the Safeway the last two years at Pumpkin Ridge? Maybe you didn't contend like we sort of expect. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, you know, I practiced a little bit today. I played nine holes. On No. 8 and No. 9 has changed. It's very different. But the course is in very good condition, and the greens were so smooth, so smooth and fast. It was just, I don't know. I just I feel like it's not easy. I feel like the course this year is harder than the last few years. 
 I didn't play quite good on this golf course, but I just needed to keep focused on every shot, and play the best I can, and play one shot at a time.

 Q. Do you like the change or not like the change for the three par-5s that they had the last two years? 
 YANI TSENG: Actually I was thinking on 17 it was a really good hole, but now they moved it 60 yards back, and it's going to be very tough. You have to have like three good shots to get to the green. It was very tiny already. I remember 18, the hole was a long par-4. You have to hit a perfect second shot to get on the green.

 Q. I was enjoying reading the articles here in the magazine about your relationship with Annika. She was your childhood idol, your childhood hero. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, she was my hero all the time. When I was young, I looked at her and I said one day I want to play with her, and that's kind of my motivation to get into the LPGA and play with all the best that play on the Tour. 
 It's an older or younger player's dream to come here and play in a tournament and enjoy here and play with other player great players.

 Q. What was it like to finally meet your idol? 
 YANI TSENG: I was, actually, first I was really, really nervous. I didn't know what she would say. I was just so nervous. I couldn't focus on golf. I just kept watching her play. So now I kind of get used to it and to be a friend with her it's my honor. Even now when I see her, I'm still nervous talking to her.

 Q. You purchased her home even? How does that happen? 
 YANI TSENG: I know, I never thought that was going to happen, especially that big house. Two years ago I don't feel I can afford that much money to buy that big house. 
 But our family we decided this is Annika's house, and I want to follow her steps. I mean, I love the house too. I just told myself and told my family, I think I can do it. I just need to keep playing good, and I think I can afford this house. 
 Every time I go back to the office, I saw the empty trophy case, and I kept telling myself I need to work hard to fill all the trophy case.

 Q. But you still live very close to Annika, and you have sought her council on occasion? You talk to her? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I do. Sometimes I go to her house visiting her, and sometimes she's visiting to my house. And we just live a hundred yards away. She's really nice. She always tells me if you have any question, you know where I live. Just knock on my door and ask me any questions, so that's really, really sweet.

 Q. You've been No. 1 for most of this year. Is there something different that you're doing better than you did the last few years? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think my mental and my attitude is much better. Then the way I'm learning every tournament, like every shot, even I won at the British Open, but I still feel like I'm learning a lot. I know what I can gain for next time. 
 Now when I tell myself chin up, chest up, and always be very positive and have good body language. That helped me last through this year because last year maybe when I told myself like this, I couldn't do it. But now I feel like if I tell myself more, I can do it better too.

 Q. Talking about childhood idols, obviously you have a lot of small girls now that look up to you as an idol. What do you think of that? What does it mean to you? 
 YANI TSENG: It's really different because I'm still 22. So I still have a big idol I can look at. But I wish I can be a good model for them, so I want to play good and I want to be a good personality. It doesn't matter inside the ropes, outside the ropes. I wish I can help now if I can turn my experience and everything. And when I go back to Taiwan, I always have something I can tell them. So lots of things I can help.

 Q. Is there a difference in the young girl golfers in the United States or Taiwan or are you an idol seemingly for all the young girls? 
 YANI TSENG: I think it's both the same. Because I mean in Taiwan sometimes we look at the LPGA players. But now I think it's probably the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT