RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we have our new champion Yani Tseng in the interview area after a 69 for a finishing total of 217, 16-under par. Congratulations. How did you feel out there today?   
 YANI TSENG: It feels really good. I played really consistently today, and I just had fun. But I was a little nervous before I teed off. My stomach was hurting, and I feel really nervous. But after the first tee I felt really good. I just needed to be patient today. 18 holes is long, so I just trust and play one shot at a time today.   
 I feel like on No. 15, I had a 10-footer to save par which was really huge for me because I've been struggling with my putting this morning, in the morning round, but after that there was more confidence with my putting. I felt like Brittany Lang and Catriona Matthew is pretty close to me, a couple shots different. But it feels really good to win this tournament again.  
  
  Q. Did you feel more nervous this time than last year or did last year's win help?  
 YANI TSENG: Last year helped a lot. I learned from my mistakes, and after a year I feel like my mental is getting mature and I can hold under pressure better than last year, and I'm learning lots from my mistakes. I think I've done really well to be patient and to control the whole round today.   
  
  Q. Did you feel more nervous this morning than you had in previous majors where you were in the final group on Sunday? Was there a reason for that?  
 YANI TSENG: Normally if I come from behind, I don't even feel nervous. I just go there, have no pressure. But today I feel like I was -- I mean, when I practice I feel okay, but when I get to putting green, when the tee time is getting closer and close, my stomach is getting worse. I just feel like this is the real deal, I feel nervous. But I told my caddie and told my coach today, I feel nervous, and they told me, that's okay, the other players are going to feel as nervous as you are. So that just made me feel a little relaxed.   
  
  Q. You've won five majors at age 221/2. How many more are in there?  
 YANI TSENG: I wish to win more, but I am really happy. I think in my mind I say, wow, five times major, I never think about that. It just feels really -- I feel like this is just very special, and I'm very happy and very appreciative that I worked hard and finally all the hard work has paid off.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday that you were using your body language to stay positive and looking around yourself. When you had the back-to-back bogeys, did that policy help you?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I looked at my yardage book, a put a little note in my yardage put that said good posture, good preparation, smile, and so I looked at yardage book and just kept telling myself, okay, sometimes on links golf course you're just going to get bad luck easy, and just forget about that, always look forward, good posture, chin up, and then smile, and it helps a lot.   
  
  Q. Did the fact that there was a par-5 coming up next help?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, that's for sure, because I know this is a very good chance, even I can make eagle here, so that helped a lot, too.   
  
  Q. That lovely shot you played into 18, what did you use?   
 YANI TSENG: I hit a 9-iron, and I was thinking about Jean Van de Velde. I had a three-shot lead so I'd better hit a good drive here to win the tournament. I thought, okay, let's hit a good drive, finish here, and I hit a good drive and the second shot I hit 9-iron, and I feel like a little juiced up, so full shot 9-iron. I hit it like 135 I think, so that was a great shot.   
  
  Q. Given that you were thinking about Jean Van de Velde, did you ever think about not hitting a driver off that tee?  
 YANI TSENG: I know, when you come on this golf course you're going think about him. But I did think about it a little bit.   
  
  Q. Who was it that showered you with champagne at the end?  
 YANI TSENG: My manager and my mom and Katie, my caddie's girlfriend.   
  
  Q. Just your reaction to being the youngest player to win five majors, the history, historic element of that.   
 YANI TSENG: I know, it's wonderful. I mean, especially winning on this golf course, Carnoustie, in the home of golf. There's just so many great players making history on this golf course. It's my honour to be part of this and just feel very special to win on a links golf course and the British Open. It's not like you're playing lousy and you can win a tournament; you have to play good, and there's so many challenges for this whole week. And I just was really patient, and I feel like I did it. I really did a good job, and just very proud of myself.   
  
  Q. Can we go through your birdies and bogeys. You dropped a shot at the 1st?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I hit a 6-iron for my second shot, left myself a 30-footer and made a three-putt. I missed a three-footer.  
 No. 3, I had a birdie. I hit a pitching wedge for the second shot and pitched to one foot and made birdie.   
 No. 6, par-5, I hit a rescue but I didn't get on the green, and I chipped 52 near the left green and hit it to like five feet and made birdie there.   
 No. 11, I almost drove on the green again, and I just putted and tapped in for birdie.  
 No. 12, I hit an 8-iron for second shot and flew over the back of the green and chipped up, went through, then didn't make par.  
  
  Q. You were very unlucky on 13.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, that was really -- I feel really bad at that one because I hit a 9-iron and hit the pin, and it got a big bounce to the left side like close to the bunker and didn't make up-and-down from there. 18-footer for par, but I didn't make it.  
 And No. 14, I hit a 4-iron for second shot and left myself 20-footer for eagle and didn't make that, so tap-in for birdie.  
 No. 17, that was a huge putt. I hit rescue, 19-degree for my second shot, left it short like 25 yards to the pin, and I putted, left it short, had like a 20-footer, hit it too hard and I made that. That was a huge one.   
 No. 18, I hit a 9-iron and pitched to three feet and made birdie there.  
  
  Q. What do you plan to do to celebrate tonight?  
 YANI TSENG: I don't know, my flight leaves at 6:20 from Edinburgh tomorrow. Probably just no sleep and have a little party with my friend here and just enjoy tonight.   
  
  Q. Now that you've had a chance to play four rounds, can you just kind of comment on the course setup and the conditions for the entire week?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I feel like this course can set up even longer. They can put the tees back because they always can move forward, depends on the weather. But it was set up a little shorter than we expected. But I played good, so I'm not going to complain. I've enjoyed this week, and the conditions were very good. It's not very -- not much divots on the fairways, so it was really good. Greens were very smooth.   
 There's lots of history on this golf course, and I came here and it was like, oh, I just want to enjoy this week, not even think about winning. Just very happy to win the tournament here.  
 Hopefully next time we come back here they can set it up more tough and more challenge, too.   
  
  Q. You've now won four of the last eight majors. Next year will you be setting any goals?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, always U.S. Open is one of the tournaments -- one of the majors I haven't won, so that will be my goal next year. I just want to keep improving myself. It doesn't matter skill or mental or feeling, everything I want to keep improve. I want to become a better and better player every year. There's a long way to go, and maybe next year my goal will be the same thing as this year, to think about what part I have to improve upon and have to work on more, so that will be my goal next year.  
  
  Q. No one has ever won this championship three times. Will that be a goal, three times in a row?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, that might be another goal, too, but I wasn't thinking that. It's a little too far now. Just maybe keep doing the things I'm doing right now, and I hope they will get better.   
  
  Q. Is pink your colour, and is everybody wearing it in Taiwan and supporting you?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think so. I did ask my friend if people were wearing pink in Taiwan to cheer for me because they couldn't come here to watch. So when they wear pink to cheer for me, I feel like lots of people are supporting me.   
 So I wear pink today, but I was thinking, like I want to -- because I always wear white shorts, but when I'm at the Kraft, I wore the black shorts. But I was like, no, I've got to wear the white. I couldn't wear black. I was thinking about that last night. So I wear white shorts and pink top. It's my lucky colour for winning the tournament.  
  
  Q. Pink is your lucky colour?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, starting this year. I've been wearing lots of pink to win tournaments this year.   
 THE MODERATOR: Many congratulations. Well done.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT