RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We have Yani Tseng here, who's just had her second consecutive 66 and is currently 13-under par, 203, I think currently two shots behind the lead. Congratulations, great round of golf. Can I get your general thoughts on the round today.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, you know, I played awesome. I played really good today. They had some really tough pins out there, but I played really smart and I hit my irons very well. I gave myself lots of birdie chances today. I missed some but I still made a lot, and I played one shot at a time and tried my best every shot and every putt, and I just feel really good.   
 I made one really, really long putt on No. 14. That was like 23 yards, and after that I told my caddie, I haven't putted that long putt for a while, and it was really good, and very happy.  
  
  Q. What about your position going into the last round? You must be pleased with that.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, actually before the won this tournament last year, I always come from behind. After I won the British Open I feel I learned how to be leading and winning tournaments. But now I've got two shots back, and I feel really good. I'm just very excited and can't wait to go out there tomorrow. On this golf course two shots is not -- it's very easy, just one bogey, one birdie can make basically the difference.  
  
  Q. There's one girl in front of you, a German called Caroline Masson. Have you ever heard of her before?  
 YANI TSENG: No. I just asked my caddie, who's that. I've never seen her play before. I've never played with her. But I'm very excited for tomorrow to go out in the last group.   
  
  Q. Since you didn't know her, were you surprised that she would hang on there as well as she did after you holed that massive putt and there was a big roar?  
 YANI TSENG: You know, golf courses like this are really tough, and I don't pay too much attention to her. There's so many great players out here competing in this tournament to try to win in this tournament. I think she's a great player and it's good to see her on the top of the leaderboard. But I think tomorrow we'll become friends tomorrow, and just have a little chat and just enjoy it.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised that somebody you didn't know should be at the top of the leaderboard?   
 YANI TSENG: No, I think it's -- sometimes it's -- so many great players, I didn't know some players on the lead, and maybe some players don't know me, as well. After a rookie when I was two rounds, three rounds leading on a major and people would say who I am, just the same thing. So many great players that are just playing this good week.   
  
  Q. Will you have a particular game plan tomorrow?   
 YANI TSENG: Hopefully just stay like today and just be aggressive. I kind of was very aggressive today and just trust and try my best every shot, and that's all I can do.  
  
  Q. You must be incredibly confident given the huge run you've been on recently.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I do. I feel really comfortable and confident right now. Just feel very excited for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Talking about your comfort level, now that you've got four majors, just talk about how your ability to cope with the pressure has changed from the first one to the most recent one.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I learn lots of things the past three years, and I learn from mistakes, and I've been winning and lost tournaments a few times, and I've learned from the experience. But I know I've got to experience it tomorrow. The only thing I can do is try my best and play one shot at a time and try to not think too much. I don't want to put too much pressure on myself to say I have to win. I just want to do the things I can do and enjoy it tomorrow.   
 We always get a big crowd at the British Open, so I'm very excited and looking forward to tomorrow.  
  
  Q. I remember last year you were humming a song. Have you been using a similar strategy this year?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, this year I changed things. I kind of sort of just look at the sky and look at the view around, the people around, so it's kind of enjoy and keep my chest out and chin up, be a good professional, good body language and smart, look at the gallery, and that's the things I do for this year to keep me relaxed and thinking positive.  
 THE MODERATOR: Yani, thank you very much, and good luck tomorrow.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT