UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 21, 2016
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about this format compared to a couple years ago when you guys did it.  
YANI TSENG: I think it's the same format, but we changed a little bit about the strategy about how we're going to play this year because we both won on the first day, like four points, but we lose them on Friday and Saturday.  We kind of changed it a little bit, the teammates and the strategy on the golf course.  We tried to make as much birdies as we can instead of one play aggressive and one play more smart and safe.  Both me and Teresa today, we'd go for every shot almost.  We had fun.  I think we were a very good team.   
 Q.  What were your impressions of the course?  How did it play today?  
YANI TSENG: The course is playing great.  The greens are not as fast like we thought, but the fairways, everything is running very good, and I think the way they set it up, it's awesome for the match play because there are some go-for shots and on some of the par-5s you have to make eagle to win the match.  Like Teresa made eagle today, and she tied for the match.  It's a lot of birdies out there, so it's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  You guys finished up kind of early, but did the weather change on you guys towards the end of your round?  It was hot and then the wind kind of kicked up.  
YANI TSENG: On No. 15, we thought it was going to stop there, and it feels like we just walk into the clubhouse, it's freezing in one second.  But I had a short iron in my hand, I had 120 to the pin and left-to-right wind, and I hit it good, and that wind actually helped my ball to get closer to the pin.  I made birdie on that hole.   
 Q.  What were you hitting into 8, the par-5?  
YANI TSENG: I hit 8-iron into the par-5.  I think Teresa did, too, and Teresa made eagle on that hole and Webby made eagle, too.   
 Q.  Did you like that kind of a setup?  
YANI TSENG: Yeah, I liked it.  Just a couple holes with like that, and then the next hole is a par-3, like 220 to the pin, so you're almost hitting your 14 clubs out of the bag for match play.  I think that's really good.  We both really enjoyed the format and everything today.   
 Q.  Last year you guys also swept the opening match.  Do you kind of learn something from that, too, about how to approach the rest of the event?  
YANI TSENG: For sure.  We're not going to do the same thing like last time.  We're going to figure it out because tomorrow we're against Korea, and they're very strong, so I think we've got to figure out how do we tee up and try to get the point tomorrow instead of can we spread out a little bit.  So me and Candie and Teresa, we're going to talk about the strategy for tomorrow.  I think it's going to be a little different than last year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT