RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Good morning, everyone. We have Yani Tseng, who just scored a 66 to be at 137, 7-under par for the tournament. Congratulations. How did it feel today? Was the course as easy today as it looked? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think so. I think the course is a little easy today because there's no wind, it was just very quiet out there. I went out in the morning, so the course was not as hard like yesterday. I feel very good before I tee off. I know I'm going to shoot a low score. Today when I went out on the course I don't know how many birdies I have, I kind of just focus on every shot and focus on every hole. 

 Q. What was different this morning from say yesterday morning? How did you feel out there today?
 YANI TSENG: Yesterday the weather is not as good. We played in the afternoon and got a little rain and windy but today was much better. We don't need rain gear, which is really nice, and really enjoy it out there.

 Q. Are you surprised how calm the weather is here this week? Did you expect more wind?
 YANI TSENG: Yes, for sure. This is the British Open. I expect much more tough, raining, windy. Yesterday the weather is bad, but today I was really enjoying it. The weather is so good. But it's still very enjoyable. So many people come out here to support with the nice weather, and I think people enjoy here, too.

 Q. Would you like it to stay this weather for the weekend or would you like more wind, more difficult?
 YANI TSENG: More wind. More wind, more rain, everything. But supposed to be good weather this weekend I heard. 

 Q. You've obviously looked beyond the course. What have you seen in the area? You saw Glamis Castle, for example. What did you make of Glamis Castle? What were you taking in there? 
 YANI TSENG: This is my first time there, and after that I kind of searched online to see what was the castle's history and it was more interesting if you know the history and you went there. It was really exciting, and I put it on Facebook with my picture, and it was just really nice, very enjoyable there. It was beautiful, big castle. 

 Q. You had your picture drawn there, as well, didn't you?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, like funny cartoon picture, yeah.

 Q. Can we just go through the birdies and bogey today. You birdied the second hole?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I birdied the second hole, I hit a wedge and had a 12-footer.
 No. 4, I had a pitching wedge and like a 10-footer.
 Par-5, I had a rescue second shot, and it was like a 30-footer for eagle and I didn't make it and had a tap-in for birdie.
 No. 7, I hit it short of the green and made a putt from there and had a four-footer and didn't make it.

 Q. How far off the green were you when you putted?
 YANI TSENG: Like a 30-footer.

 Q. You birdied 10?
 YANI TSENG: No. 10, I hit a wedge and had a three-footer.
 No. 11, I hit my second shot in the left bunker and didn't hit it out and hit out again, like 10-footer, made bogey there. That was a really good bogey.
 Eagle on 14, hit a 7-iron for second shot and had a five-footer for eagle.
 15, I hit a 6-iron for second shot and 20-footer.
 17, I hit a rescue and just short of the green about 20 yards and tap-in for birdie. 

 Q. Do you still keep in touch quite a lot with Annika and does she still give you advice? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, like this year before the U.S. Open trying to get some advice, but she's always so nice to text me before rounds to say good luck and be patient, and she's kind of given me lots of motivation, the way like she's always texting me to support me. She trusts me a lot, so I feel like I have to trust myself more to believe I can do this.

 Q. Is one of your goals to beat her ten majors? 
 YANI TSENG: No, I just kind of focus on --

 Q. The next one?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, probably on the next one. If I win the next one I'll focus on another one, so I don't think about the record too much. 

 Q. We're very proud of our bunkers on Scottish links. What do you think of our bunkering and faces? 
 YANI TSENG: The bunker is so deep. I mean, when you get in a bunker you just try to hit it as high as you can. Sometimes you get into a bunker and you've still got to play and sometimes you might hit it into the back or hit into the sides. It's really very interesting.

 Q. Do you think they're fair bunkers?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think they're fair because if you get a good lie you can still get out. I think it's playable.

 Q. Have you seen bunkers like them anywhere else?
 YANI TSENG: No, probably just at links course. At normal courses there's no bunkers like this. We only have one chance to play the links course like once a year, so I'm always excited to play links course, and I love it. 

 Q. You knew that Rory McIlroy has built himself a bunker in his garden like the one at St. Andrews on the Road Hole?
 YANI TSENG: Oh, really? I didn't know that. 

 Q. You don't fancy making one for yourself?
 YANI TSENG: No, it's okay. I get in a bunker, I just hit out of it. 

 Q. If the conditions stay like this for the rest of the day, how far behind do you think you will be? 
 YANI TSENG: I would think four or five, three shots behind. I will probably stay top ten but I don't think I will be very close to the lead. Three or four shots behind I think for sure.

 Q. But that will be close enough do you think?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, after two days I'm very happy with that. Very good position. 
 THE MODERATOR: Yani, thank you very much indeed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT