U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You came in here obviously with high aspirations. Everyone projected you to be the favorite. Characterize your week. Obviously I would imagine pretty frustrating.   
 YANI TSENG: I know. I have been expecting that, too. I always want to win this tournament. I'm always very exciting to come here.   
 This weather, it's just really tough. It's tough to play on and off. Sometimes you just want to try to get rhythm, and it's really tough.  
 I tried my best. Just wish come back next year and do my best again.  
  
  Q. This afternoon you went out to your first nine and seemed to have fixed everything, a lot of birdies. What happened on the back nine?  
 YANI TSENG: I know. I don't know what happened. I just very struggling and make three misstroke putt. I just couldn't make any putt.   
 I know I played really good front nine. I thought I have chance. I was three, four shots back, so really good chance to win, too.   
 But on the back nine I probably just tried too hard and thinking to much and didn't make par.  
  
  Q. Just tired? Did you get tired from all the golf you played today?   
 YANI TSENG: No, I feel I been tired all week. It's just like we been here 13, 14 hours every day. It was really tough.   
 But when I go back to the golf course, I just always really exciting to go back.  
  
  Q. How much did the delays affect you? I know everybody had the same conditions, same delays, but can you talk a little bit about that?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I know it was just like really tough. I mean, the conditions was different after the rain. It just softer and there's no wind, very calm. Few holes just very windy. So it was very tough.   
 You just need to be very, very patient in play in a course like this and play in a condition like this. Because like you say, everybody is the same. It doesn't matter who gets more lucky or who gets not.   
 But I'm happy we're able to finish today.  
  
  Q. So you're done. You don't have to come back tomorrow. It's just done.   
 YANI TSENG: I know. I'm so excited I can go back home. I tried my best to win this tournament, but at least we get it done today. And hopefully we have -- I have a great time here.  
  
  Q. Is that why you were running down the 18th fairway?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, the rules officials say we have 15 minutes, you know, next one 15 minutes. So we have to get down in like 15 minutes.   
 Suzann tell me, I gonna run. You better run, too. I was like, Okay, okay, I'll run with you, because we want to make sure everybody get down.   
  
  Q. When did they tell you you had 15 minutes?  
 YANI TSENG: After 17 hole.   
  
  Q. How come 15 minutes? More weather?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, they say maybe it's gonna horn in 15 minutes, so we just run just in case. I don't want to come back and putt one putt and miss my flight.  
  
  Q. When is your flight?  
 YANI TSENG: Tomorrow 8:00.   
  
  Q. Have you ever played in a tournament with this many delays?   
 YANI TSENG: No, I never, so I learned lots of things from this week, you know, be patient. I mean, I have so many things I need to work on. I didn't do my best, but I know what I can work on next week and do better next time.  
  
  Q. Do you take anything away from this? You didn't have your best golf, but put yourself in contention in the final round. Is that something you can take from this?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I tried my best. I hit lots of great shots, but I just couldn't putt. Green was very tricky. And actually today I feel I play really good, but I just couldn't shoot a low score.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT