U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   YANI TSENG: In the morning I was a kind of nervous a little bit. I was nervous for sure. It's U.S. Open. I'm very exciting. 
 Afternoon, I kind of get used to it and just feel like it's getting better. I get more confidence back. Putting better, too. 
 But, you know, this green was just really crazy to read. I just keep be patient. Tomorrow I think will be fine.

 Q. Are you in striking distance? You're in a good position heading into the weekend. 
 YANI TSENG: Not bad, but it's not very good. I think I still have a very good chance. Still two more days, like my hole on back nine just started. U.S. Open is really tough. I just gonna go out there and have fun and try to make more birdies as I can. Stay aggressive, too.

 Q. How was it that you were struggling with your confidence? Everyone was talking about how confident you've been all year. What happened when you stepped up to the tee today, that first tee?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think I just trying too hard. I mean, I trying to play well and try to hit it close to the pin. You know, I just need to play one shot at a time and do my own things and make a good swing and good stroke and I don't have to try. 
 Sometime like you trying harder, worse you get. 

 Q. You looked like you were really struggling with yourself on that, especially that first 18. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.

 Q. Your body language even was a little like... 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, not as bad, though. Trying to find like why, you know. I don't get upset. I try to be very patient. I don't know, yeah. 

 Q. (Off microphone.)
YANI TSENG: Yeah, I'm so exciting ready to go. It's like day off yesterday. We go and practice and play long day, 14 hours today. It was just -- and then tomorrow you come out at 6:00 and then play only two holes and back until the afternoon. 
 It's tough out there. We just try to think another way. Everybody is the same thing. It's not just you, you know. It's not like you're on last or something. 
 Just still go out there and have fun. It's always big crowd here, and just try to enjoy the crowd. People are very nice. They stay until very late with us, too.

 Q. Did you get to go to IHOP and have your steak and eggs?
 YANI TSENG: No, I had no chance to go. 

 Q. Can you tell the school you're taking classes with? What is that? It's in Taiwan?
 YANI TSENG: You mean the English class? 

 Q. No, no, are you taking college studies in Taiwan?
 YANI TSENG: Yes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT