LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 11, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome back Rolex Rankings No. 1, Yani Tseng, into the interview room, and one of our current leaders. Congratulations on your round today. What went right out there today for you? 
 YANI TSENG: You know, I think today was a little tough because the wind was different than last two days, and some of the par-5 couldn't reach.
 So today I kind of just sitting on my goal. Just I want to just be patient every hole. Some of the holes you couldn't get close. Just want to hit the fairway and green and make two-putt. 
 So I feel really patient today. All the par-5s I make birdies. Just make couple par-3s and Par-4s. 
 So it was great, even I miss a putt on the 18 hole. That's okay. I try my best. 
 MODERATOR: When you look at all the players and the scoreboard today, there were a lot of low scores. Did you know early on? Had you looked at the scoreboard, that a lot of players were going low even before you tee'd off? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I looked before I tee'd off. Some were 8-under, like Stacy Lewis; some were 6-under, like a lot of 6-under, 8-under. I was like, Wow. Is today easy? Probably is different wind than in the morning.
 But, you know, this is Saturday, so I just try to be focus on myself and then do what I can do and try to play my best out there. 
 MODERATOR: How nice is it for you once again to find yourself up near the top of the leaderboard heading into the final round? 
 YANI TSENG: I feel very exciting. I have a lot of energy right now, so I can't wait to go out there tomorrow and make lots of birdie and just keep focus and try to not putting too much pressure on myself and try to not think too much and just do the same as today, and I think it will be good.
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. As we say, is it ironic -- you mentioned the first day before this week that you and Mindy Kim, I think you said you hadn't played together since you were 12 years old. Now in in tournament you're going to be together three days. You did not play with her today. This is I think her first situation where she's been of at the top throughout a tournament. Maybe earlier in your career did you have a tournament like this where for the first time you were really up there and your confidence, it built your confidence, the situation Mindy is in now?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I do. Actually it was in my rookie year. I think after three round I was couple shot back and Lorena was leading, and I was so nervous. I never played with her before. First three hole I was just very, very nervous. But after couple hole, when you feel more comfortable, I think you going to be fine. 
 And so like Mindy, we play already two day. Before I go out today I said, I will miss you out there. So tomorrow we going to play again, and I think we will have fun.

 Q. You said the first couple days when you and I.K. and her, Let's go make some birdies. You feel like tomorrow, especially if the course stays like it is, kind of soft and so forth, that you'll have the same approach tomorrow, be aggressive, especially playing with her?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, actually I think going to be aggressive, and then I told my caddie, Let's make some more birdie. You need to make some more birdie to win the tournament. You're not going to shot even and then to wait another player to miss. So you need to be aggressive. 
 And tomorrow my goal is just having fun and play one shot at a time.

 Q. You won a tournament very early in the season, right, as far as LPGA? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.

 Q. Since then, have you been in a couple other situations like in this year, either tied for the lead or close to the lead going into the last day? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I was in Kraft, but I -- yeah, I tried my best, and Stacy plays very well and I lost that tournament. 
 So this is probably another time I be in this situation, have a chance to win the tournament. But you know, I know it's been a while, but we don't have much tournament, too, so I still feel like I have lots of energy and still very exciting for tomorrow.
 I just want to try my best. 
 MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Yani.
 YANI TSENG: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT