LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 10, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Yani Tseng into the interview room. Congratulations on another great round today.  
 YANI TSENG: Thank you.  
 MODERATOR: Take me through your round today. Was it any different than yesterday, or were you able to kind of capitalize on opportunities?   
 YANI TSENG: I think I hit much more closer today, so I have lots more birdie chances today than yesterday.  
 I had eight birdies and two bogeys that I don't think I should make that mistake, because I kind of feel I losing little focus. Like when I'm hitting the ball, I just lose a little focus.  
 But I had a great round. I'm very happy. Especially on No. 9 I save a par from a five-footer, so I'm pretty happy.  
 MODERATOR: How has that been the last two days with you and Mindy? Seems like it's just birdies after birdies. Does that make it fun out there when you're with other people and everyone is playing that well?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, for sure when she make birdie I want to make birdie, so she kind of push me harder, too. I think after 6th hole, me and I.K. we kind of very quiet. We don't make any birdie.  
 I told I.K., Let's go make some birdies. She took all the birdies. So I say, Let's go make some birdies, and then both of us we start playing better, too.   
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. It seemed like -- I mean, it's kind of been windy most of the day, but it seemed like maybe the last few holes the wind, did the wind change? It was more windy, but did it change as far as direction?  
 YANI TSENG: I think today was different than yesterday, direction was different. The wind back nine especially pick up a little bit. Last three hole was pretty strong windy.  
 On final hole, on No. 9, hit great shot and just kick it all the way back to the green. I was really surprised.  
  
  Q. I was gonna ask you, especially late, did certain holes -- because the wind played a lot different today as far as clubs and stuff?   
 YANI TSENG: I don't think not that much. But the front nine, the par-5, we thought maybe they watered the fairway because the ball didn't go that far and didn't hit as far as yesterday. From front nine it's kind of pretty far.   
 I think No. 6 I hit a 4-iron; I.K. have woods, and then Mindy have woods and rescue, too. So it's pretty long for that hole.  
  
  Q. On number -- well, No. 1, would have been your 10th hole.   
 YANI TSENG: Yes.  
  
  Q. There was a delay. I think Grace Park had to get a ruling and she had to come back and hit her -- I guess it was her -- from her second...   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.   
  
  Q. I don't know exactly how long of a wait that was. In other words, did she have to hit on and they had to finish their hole before you...  
 YANI TSENG: Yes, yes. They finish. So, no, I just sit down on my golf bag, so just relax. They're finish first.   
  
  Q. Mindy, I think she had a little birdie streak yesterday, and I think she birdied four in a row. I mean, you've been talking about birdies, but, again, you played with her these first two days. Is there just more confidence? Can you tell that she's just even more confident the last couple days the way she's making putts?  
 YANI TSENG: I think so. She looks a lot of confidence. When she have like 15-, 20-footer, I feel like she's going to make the putt just how confident she is.  
 And then, I mean, she really push me hard to get better, too. Today I kind of really focused, she would make close and I want to make close, too. So I don't want to hit out of range if she's close.   
 So it's very nice you have a player like compete with the same group for first two days.   
  
  Q. And you said earlier, Let's go make some birdies. There are 140 some other women out here. But to be in that same group, you know, you're competing against everybody else but, you know, you're chasing that other person in your group or does it feel that way?  
 YANI TSENG: No, not really. Because I think after three holes I was six shot back, so I really didn't think about I want to chasing her or something. I just want to play one shot at a time and stay up front.   
 It's only second day. I wish next two days I still could still be that relaxed.  
  
  Q. Earlier in the week I think I asked you, I think at the ShopRite your shoulder -- one of your shoulders was kind of bothering you. Are you totally over that now?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, now it's fine. My elbow is still bothering me a little bit, but it's not really big deal. Just ice after I play.  
 MODERATOR: Okay.   
  
  Q. I just wanted to ask about the two bogeys you had. What happened there?  
 YANI TSENG: That two bogeys I think was -- was it No. 5? No.4? It was the par -- No. 13. It was a par-5, and I hit down to like 50 yards and I just -- I don't know, like I said, I lost some focus and hit all the way back to the green, like over 10 yards.  
 So that's a really big mistake I made. And then I chip in for like 12-footer; I didn't make it. Almost make it, so I make bogey on that hole.  
 On 15 hole I had a 4-iron and I hit out of rough and little bit it short. The pin is all the way back like 30 yards, so I didn't chip well and left 12-footer again and didn't make it.   
  
  Q. Mindy is -- she's at minus 13 total. I think last year Cristie Kerr won here at minus 22. The weather could maybe change and have an impact I guess. Based on where people are right now, what do you think it might take to win here these next two days?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, you need to make lots of birdies to win this tournament. I mean, 20, 22, I don't surprise. Like two days 13-under already, so next two days going to be even more.   
 Just need to go out and make more birdies, as more as you can.   
 MODERATOR: All right. Thank you very much.  
 YANI TSENG: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT