LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 9, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Yani back to the interview room. Thanks again for joining us, and congratulations your round today. What was going well for you out there today? 
 YANI TSENG: You know, it's first day and it feels pretty good. I made bogey on the first hole, so I kind of -- my heart was kind of a little felt like I need to like make lots of birdie today to coming back. 
 I mean, because this is a great golf course. All the par-5 today is reachable. I make some pretty good putt today, and especially on 18 hole. I drove to the bunker on the left side and that's a very good second shot for me to get out of the bunker and save par.
 MODERATOR: Knowing the conditions and how this course can score, did that bogey on No. 1, did you think, Okay, now I really need to get going because there's going to be a lot of low rounds today? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, for sure. And I was pretty surprised it was 6-under leading in the morning, because it's not much wind and I though people was gonna like shoot 8-under. 
 In our group, Mindy Kim, she shot 8-under, so it was like she make lots of putts and she playing great today.
 MODERATOR: Do you feed off that, too when you have someone playing as well as Mindy was playing? When she's making birdies it's easier for you to make birdies?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, if she makes birdie I really want to make birdie, too. Like one hole all three of us, we all make birdie. 
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. You said you saved par on which hole? 
 YANI TSENG: No. 18. I drove to the bunkers on left side and I pulled driver. After that tee shot I told my caddie, Why I'm hitting driver? I never hit a driver on this hole. I just don't know why. I should've hit 3-wood, got on the fairway.
 And told him the story, say, First year I'm here, you know, I make bogey on last hole and lost the tournament. And then I play and we make bogey again. He's like, What a great attitude. Because I was hitting the driver and have negative things in my mind.
 But like after I walk in the bunker I say, I can get out of here. I hit a 6-iron and big fade and with the wind, and then it was a 12-footer for birdie. 

 Q. I think you said you were maybe a little surprised that out of the morning rounds, 6-under. In other words, you thought it could have been lower because of the conditions? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think so, because the conditions today. Greens was so smooth. In the morning not much wind. I think some people was going to shoot low score. 

 Q. You mentioned Mindy, and she's at 8-under. I don't know how often you've played with her... 
 YANI TSENG: First time.

 Q. Oh, first time?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, first time I played with her, and she's great girl. She's really nice. I think last time in tournament we playing together it seems when we was 12 in the like Callaway Junior. 
 I asked her this morning, How did /you remember we playing before? She was like, Oh, my mom told me. I was like, Yeah. I wondered. That makes sense. 

 Q. I know she's had some Top 10s this year. Like you said, today was the first time you played with her. I mean, does she seem like somebody who is maybe on the verge of finally having a breakthrough, you know, maybe finally getting over the top, so to speak?
 YANI TSENG: She playing great. I mean, she have lots of good run this year and she win like three top 10. I think it was very exciting to play with her today. We have lots of fun and we challenge each other, and she make lots of putts. She always make closer, like very close to the pins, so it's pretty fun to watch, too. 

 Q. A lot of low scores today. You feel like you're, I mean, off to a good start? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, that's for sure. You're not winning a tournament on first day, so I'm pretty exciting. Still looking forward for the next three days and to go out and make more birdies. 
 MODERATOR: All right. Thank you, Yani. 
 YANI TSENG: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT