LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 8, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1, Yani Tseng, into the interview room. First off, can you just talk about how you're feeling about your game coming into this week? I know you finished the ShopRite with a 65 in the last round and have been talking about feeling like your game is coming around. How do you feel this week? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, actually that tournament really give me some confidence for week for sure. My putting just been like -- I was really struggling, but on Sunday I play really good so that gives me little confidence.
 So this week like my short game coach is here, so I probably wanting to take a look at my putting little bit. I feel really good about this place, you know. I always getting so close but never one won it before, so I really want to, you know, give it a try and do my best this week.
 MODERATOR: What is it about this course that you like so much? 
 YANI TSENG: I think the -- I don't know, the course I can just hit the driver most of the time and just bomb it and par-5 is reachable. So that's why makes so much fun, like No. 1 and No. 17, I mean, some home you can try to make eagle. 
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. This is maybe the first time in a little while where we've had two tournaments or two weeks in a row. Did you play in Brazil?
 YANI TSENG: No, I didn't.

 Q. So this is the first time in a little while we're getting into a regular routine. I mean, when you do come off a really good final round in New Jersey and then, boom, you turn around and play again, does that give you a boost going into tomorrow after playing well in New Jersey?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, yeah, that's for sure. You know, it's been a while like where our schedule is on and off, and it was really tough to keep the rhythm going. 
 So I think this is a good week. Like last week feel like kind of little warming up, and this week is kind of reaching (indiscernible.)
I know next week is another week off, but it seems like our big tournament is going to come very soon, and this is a great tournament before for a major.
 I think the rough was a little thick this year; it was really tough there. 

 Q. What have you seen on the course? Several players said they noticed the rough. Maybe it's not U.S. Open rough, but for Panther Creek it's thicker than what you're used to. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I mean, the rough is much thicker. And then -- I don't know, some fairway I feel it was tighter. I just have no idea that is true or not. Some fairway I feel is wider because I got more confidence. That's why I feel it's wider -- especially on 18 hole. So that gives me lots of confidence playing here. 
 This is my fourth year playing here, so I know the course pretty well. I played 18 holes today, and I think course is in very good shape.

 Q. You said there is your fourth year here. Are there one or two holes out there that are kind of your favorites? I know you said some you can go for it. Are there other holes that have just been tough for you for whatever reason?
 YANI TSENG: I think it's 18 hole, because first year I'm here I made bogey on 18 hole in this tournament twice. That was kind of in my mind a little bit, but this two year I been get used to it. 
 Last year I made couple birdies on 18 hole, so that give me the confidence, too. But I think 18 hole is probably the toughest hole on the course. And 9, No. 9, too. 

 Q. A lot of people have talked this week about the situation with this tournament and needing a sponsor or sponsors after this year. Have you paid much attention to the situation? Some others have been maybe in situations like this. You played here for a few years now. I mean, as a player, do you say to yourself, What can I do to keep the LPGA coming back here?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, that's for sure. I love this tournament. I been here since I was rookie, and everybody so nice, tournament director, staff, volunteer here. 
 All the people are so nice here, so I was really sad that this tournament's gone. I really love this place. So anything I can do, I will do it for sure.
 I just, I don't know, hopefully we can keep going, keep coming back in Springfield. I think we love to see all the fans, and I think the fans love to see us, too. 
 MODERATOR: Thank you, Yani. 
 YANI TSENG: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT