SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 1, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings number one Yani Tseng into the interview room. First off, thanks for joining us. Coming off Sybase, you made it to the quarterfinals and seem to be playing well. How do you feel coming into this week? 
 YANI TSENG: I feel very excited especially after last week I've been working with my coach, and putting and my game I feel is getting better and my mental is now ready to play this week. 
 I didn't finish in the top of Sybase, so the last week I'm kind of working very hard. So this week I really feel I'm ready. I played 18 holes yesterday. The course is in great shape, and it's really, really good.
 THE MODERATOR: You got off to a really good start at the beginning of the year, kind of hit a little wall at Avnet and then you're starting to play better again. What's been the biggest difference lately for you do you think? What do you think in your game is coming around? 
 YANI TSENG: I think it's all about mental. When I'm ready and not trying to think too much about rankings and those kind of things, don't try too hard, and I think I'll start getting better. I do feel a little pressure at this point, but I try to get the pressure to get better instead of thinking those negative things.

 Q. What is the difference playing as the No. 1 player in the world or as a player chasing the No. 1 player in the world? 
 YANI TSENG: As I said, I felt a little pressure, but now I feel I'm ready to go and ready to rock. Just don't try to feel -- I still feel like I have a long way to go. I feel I need to keep working hard. There are still the people in front of me and there are so many great players on the Tour that if you don't play good for a couple of weeks, everybody's going to take you down very quick. 
 So I don't feel I'm really on the tee right now very consistently, so I want to be more consistent and keep working hard.

 Q. What was it that kept the pressure for you? Was it something that you felt all the time or how did you come to cope with it? 
 YANI TSENG: I just kept telling myself I can do this, and I just kept doing my routine. I don't try because everybody will miss -- even the best people on the Tour will miss. And my coach made it simple. (Indiscernible) So even the best of players are going to miss a shot. So don't worry about it too much, just go ahead and have fun. 
 So I just look away and don't look at my score and just keep doing what I can do and try to be my best.

 Q. Have you noticed any differences in the course between last year and this year? 
 YANI TSENG: I think the course is very much longer. Like on the second hole it's like 420 par-4, and 4-iron for a second shot, so that's fine for me. It just played longer and the greens are pretty good. The greens are much faster, too. The course is really in great shape.

 Q. I was reading somewhere that Annika Sorenstam was your idol, and now you're living in a house that she used to live in. 
 YANI TSENG: Yes.

 Q. First of all, what when did you first start following Annika, and what did you like most about her game?
 YANI TSENG: I think when I was - probably when I was 12. Women's golf is not really popular in Taiwan. So when I was here, it was my first time to come to the States, and it was the first time to watch the LPGA Tournament. 
 And my friend kind of was watching the LPGA, and was most liking it. So I saw Annika when I was 13. I went to watch the U.S. Open, and at that time Juli Inkster won it and I think Annika was in second. And it was so crazy. She was giving autographs, and just like holding the flag and she gave all the people her signature. 
 That's kind of at that time I told my friend, can I play this tournament? And I didn't know in the U.S. I had to go qualify. I was just like can I play? So my friend went online to look how can I join to play the USGA U.S. Open, and that's how I go to qualify for the junior girls, and that's how I got started. It was fun. It was really a good experience for me.

 Q. The house, when did you buy the house? 
 YANI TSENG: Two years ago. I've lived there two years, so these two years have been great, so I hope it just keeps going.

 Q. How did you come to buy it? 
 YANI TSENG: I was going to buy a little condo, not a huge house because I didn't think I could afford it. So I was thinking a little condo near Lake Nona or near the Orlando area. Then Annika knows I'm looking for a house, so she just text me, Do you want to come and look at my house? At first I said, no, I'm looking for a small house. 
 Then I told my dad, Dad, Annika asked us to go look at her house, and my dad's like, why not? Just go look. You don't have to buy, but it's Annika's house. We're just going to take a look. 
 So then we go there and take a look at her house. But I think the first time I went to her house she knew I was going to buy the house because I just loved it.

 Q. Are you still in touch with her? Do you talk to her much? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I do, because she's right across the way from me. We live very close, so we stay in touch with each other.

 Q. Does she give you encouragement or tips? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, we kind of just talk. The beginning of this year we talked about a little bit of golf. I tell her I feel like I'm going to have lots of pressure this year, and she just told me to face it and don't think too much negative. When you face it and there's time there, then you're not afraid of anything. So it helps a lot too.

 Q. Did you get to play in the Pro-Am today? 
 YANI TSENG: Yes, I played nine holes. I pulled out because my shoulder was really painful. I have no idea. So I did ice, and I did deep tissue a little bit, and hopefully tomorrow it will get better.

 Q. Did you hurt it today? 
 YANI TSENG: No, I hurt it yesterday, but today it got worse. So I just keep icing and hopefully it will go better.

 Q. Will you be able to play? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I feel I can swing, but it's just a little sore when I swing, so I'll just take a rest a little bit today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT