AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 27, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 player, Yani Tseng, into the interview room. If you would, just tell us about your year so far and how you feel you've been playing.
 YANI TSENG: It's very exciting for me this year, especially the beginning of the year I set a goal for No. 1 in the world, and then after three weeks No. 1 in the world. 
 It's been a couple months, and I really enjoy out here. I don't feel any pressure, you know, because I love to compete all the players, all the great players on the LPGA. I really enjoy out here. 
 Last three weeks we don't have any tournament. On the tour I miss all the friends, and I can't wait to come back here to play the tournament again.
 MODERATOR: Did you do anything fun in the last three weeks? 
 YANI TSENG: I went to Masters to get award, GWAA award, so I was there. It was fun to be there. It's a very big honor. Then I had a three-minute speech. I was very nervous about that, but working so hard for my speech. 
 Then I went back home, and I my friend, my mom's friend was there, and then I have my mom there with me the last two, three weeks. So I'm enjoy stay with my mom. It's always fun my mom is around me. Play some golf, and she's always cooking for me, so it was it really good thing. 
 Got some practice with my coach, Gary. It's been fun. I'm enjoy. I had a pretty relaxed sponsor week. But really good enjoy for me.
 MODERATOR: You said on the way in you have to get a part-time job. Is your bank account okay? 
 YANI TSENG: It's pretty good, yeah. Just get some more tournament to play. You know, I think the fans miss us out here, too, and I miss all the fans and all the volunteers, and I miss those guys here. 

 Q. You got off to such a great start, and then you did have three weeks off between the events. How do you stay tournament-ready, competitive-ready, during that time?
 YANI TSENG: I start practice last couple weeks. I took first week off, but after I been work with my coach for my tempo, my swing, and get to where I feel I have a lot more energy to come here this week. 
 And I did. I feel I'm fresh. I can't wait for tomorrow for getting off. Feels really good right now.

 Q. How does your game fit this course? You feel like it's a course you could do well on? 
 YANI TSENG: I played this two, three years already and I never done good. Always on Saturday I always go the first in the morning, so I wish this year I could do much, much better. I feel much confidence right now. I played 18 holes today, and I'm seeing the course very well. 
 Just need to get some green speed out there. The wind is very strong, so I just need to be patient and I need to make lots of birdie out there.

 Q. Is there a different feeling be the No. 1 player? Setting that goal and then achieving it, how has it been since that time?
 YANI TSENG: I still don't feel much different, you know, because I still feel like it's a lot of good player out here. I still need to working hard. Still a long way to go. 
 I just do what I can do right now step by step, and then just keep working hard. 

 Q. I know today is very windy, but what is the most challenging part about this course?
 YANI TSENG: I think it's the greens. I heard it's much better than five or four years ago, but I still think the greens, I kind of struggled a little bit on these greens.
 So I just need to read them better and speed better, and I think will be fine. 
 MODERATOR: Yani, thank you very much.
 YANI TSENG: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT