KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 3, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Like to welcome Yani Tseng. Yani, thanks for coming in. Can you tell me a little bit about your day?   
 YANI TSENG: It was a tough day out there. It was very windy today and the green was pretty firm and it was very hard to adjust my distance and the speed of my putting.   
 Stacy really played awesome out there. She handled the pressure really well and she played great.   
 I did my best. I tried my best today, and I didn't give her any shots today. So I hung in there until the last putt and smiled the whole way, whole day. So it was good and it was very good experience for me this time.   
 Golf is golf, so this is normal. I just didn't play well. And hopefully next tournament will be good, and I just really want to congratulate Stacy. She did really awesome today.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. Yani, you played so well yesterday, six birdies, no bogeys, tough golf course.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Was it the conditions, the wind today or was your game somehow not as good as yesterday?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. My game was not as good as yesterday. I probably was a bit thinking too much. Just needed to commit to the shot better and trust myself more, and it was just a tough day out there, you know, being leading.   
 But I tried to not think too much, but with the wind just swirling and the green was firm. So just trying to be perfect all the time. Maybe trying too hard, too.  
  
  Q. Not trying to think about it too much, obviously looking back to the ninth hole, you made a bogey and she made a birdie and took the lead. Were you aware of where you were at that moment?  
 YANI TSENG: No, not really. Still nine more to go. Like golf is you don't know until the last putt drop in. So I still have nine more to go, but I didn't think that much, and I still feel I still could get it back.   
  
  Q. The back nine, there were a couple of chances where maybe you had chances to make birdie. I think 11 might have been one of those places.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Were those just, I mean seemed like the speed of the greens on your chips were hurting you as much as your putts.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I didn't chip well. I tried and then I chipped too hard, and I didn't think the greens was going to go that fast. I mean I was three birdie chances out there. But I don't get a good read. My reading was terrible out there. I just couldn't get it right. But just couldn't get it right, but I really tried my best. And I think she just holed a lot of putts out there and just give me some pressure, too. It's not easy. She played great.   
  
  Q. How did your warmup go? Did you have any indication coming off the range that, you know, it wasn't going right?  
 YANI TSENG: No. My warmup was pretty good. I know strong wind. I told my caddie, this is a wind, because I love the wind. When it's windy, I play pretty well, but I mean this course is really tough. This green is not soft. It's really hard to hold the ball. I mean fairway was tight. Fairway was rolling a lot and you don't know where it's going to bounce. But I had a pretty good warmup this morning.   
  
  Q. You're still one win from a career grand slam. You still have a long way to go, but is this a pretty big letdown for you?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. It was pretty disappointing for me, but I really tried my best out there, and like I say, she played awesome today.   
 But U.S. Open is still three, four months away. I still feel very confident. I learned something from this week and I just want to get to the U.S. Open. I don't lose any confidence after I played today because I know I can do it.   
 It's not far away. I just need to keep working with my coach and always be positive thinking and keep building my confidence, and until the Open, I think everything will be good. I think I still have a really good chance to win that tournament. I feel more, I have more chance to win now after this week.   
  
  Q. You played -- actually you played a lot of golf at the start of the year, Australia, Asia, now. Now you get a little break or are you going to find other tournaments to play over the next month?  
 YANI TSENG: No. I got three weeks off, and I'm going to Augusta tomorrow to go look at men, watch them play. I always like to go there and have fun, drink, it's so cheap. It's really nice to go there and walk around the great golf course.   
 And then after that my mom's going to spend with me like two weeks in Orlando, so I'm just going to stay home and relax and get ready for the next tournament.   
  
  Q. Can you go through the scorecard?  
 YANI TSENG: I had a birdie second hole. I hit a 6-iron, second shot then get up to the green and I putted four feet for birdie. And No. 4 I hit to the left into the rough and then second shot I pulled it; it was a terrible shot. I chip on and it was last like 20-footer I didn't make par.   
 And No. 8, I birdied 8-iron, 150 yards to the pin, and I think it was like a six-footer. And on No. 9 I hit third shot with a 58 wedge to the back and then chipped on the green, missed four-footer for par.   
 No. 16 I had a bogey, three-putt there. That was 10 yards, 30 feet, and putted for six-footer, didn't make it.   
 No. 17, I had a 5-iron, hit it left front and then hit it very hard my second putt. That was terrible, too. And then passed like a 20-footer and didn't make it. And Stacy make that like 25-footer putt. That was a really big par. Otherwise I would feel I have a chance next hole.   
  
  Q. Maybe a little bit more about that putt? I mean was it a tough putt? I mean not so much surprised that you made it, but just --  
YANI TSENG: Actually I was really surprised that she made it, because it's like tough putt, I mean the pressure there, and you need to hole that putt.   
 You know, I was just going to try my best to make that putt. She putt very good. I mean I see the ball just right dead in the hole, so it was a great putt. It was very awesome.  
  
  Q. How has this week and your play better prepared you for the Women's Open?  
 YANI TSENG: I think it's really good. I learned a lot this week, and I feel I got more support this week, lots of fans out there supporting me. It's not just Asians. It's more like people that live here and start to support me. They know more my name. So I feel very happy, I mean out here this week.   
 I've really enjoyed this tournament. Even I don't finish the way I want, I still really enjoy it. I still looking forward to coming back next year and to win the tournament again.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions? Thank you, Yani.  
 YANI TSENG: Thank you, thanks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT