KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We're here with defending champion, Yani Tseng. Great round today. Can you tell me a little bit about your round and how you feel going into tomorrow?   
 YANI TSENG: Feel very excited, especially it's always good to have six birdies, no bogeys out there on this tough golf course. I was hitting more fairways today, so give me more chances to have birdies chances.   
 So I make a lot of putts, still missed some. But I really had fun out there, and you know, I just want to keep smiling all day tomorrow and have a lot of fun. You know, I did it before, so I just want to do it again.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. As well as you were playing, were you even a little surprised at how quickly you made up that three shots? I think by the seventh hole you were tied and seemed to have grabbed the momentum at that point.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I just try to focus on one shot at a time. I played pretty aggressive today. I want to get over to catch Stacy, so I really hang in there and played really good today.   
  
  Q. Yeah, you really looked like you were having fun. How can you balance out being aggressive and having fun and smiling and yet playing serious golf at the same time? That's really gotta be a challenge. How do you pull that out?  
 YANI TSENG: You know, I see the people following me they were having fun, too, so I don't feel like they are watching -- they enjoy watching me play. That's why I want it. Every time I smile it makes me feel more relaxed.   
 Sometimes when I'm nervous I smile, too. Even when I have a bad shot, I try to smile because I will get rid of it. Always looking forward to the next shot.   
  
  Q. It looks like sometimes you must be playing so well you're almost mad at yourself when you miss a putt or don't get within a few feet of the hole. Are you feeling that good that it's almost like target practice?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, like today's back nine I missed like I think four or five in a row, I missed like 12-footers. I didn't make any one.   
 I was disappointed. I was thinking, where does it end here? I was like, where is it? It just feels different. It's really tough to read like those three holes, and you sometimes just need to make one to get rid of that. So it was tough out there, but I still finished really good today.  
  
  Q. Yani, you had a lot of friends out there today. Did you know all about the organization of all the people coming over today? I think it was over 300 tickets.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I know they bought lots of tickets to come here and support me. They are from Beaumont because that's where I practiced before. I lived there about three years and only 40 minutes from here. My mom is still has a house there. So it was really nice that they come out here and cheer for me, and I feel very appreciative, because I need a crowd. I need a big crowd here to make me more excited.   
  
  Q. When was the last time you played this well for this long of a stretch?  
 YANI TSENG: When is the last time?   
  
  Q. Yeah. Have you played this well before, do you think, for this -- you've had five pretty good tournaments in a row.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. Probably not really, but like this year, I've been working hard on it all season. And I started very good this year, and like every tournament I keep building the confidence.   
 So I mean I'm trying to not lose the confidence. So even if I had a bad shot, I still try to build the confidence for myself. So this is good for me when I hit one good shot and I know next one I can do it better.   
 So like this four, five tournaments, I really learned a lot. And I know now -- I'm not afraid that I'm leading right now. I'm not afraid that I'm two-shot lead. I don't think too much for tomorrow that I have to win. You know, I just want to enjoy it and I know how to play one shot at a time.   
  
  Q. Yani, you've talked about how you learned a lot at the British Open, Women's British Open last year because you won while you were leading rather than coming from behind. Obviously you get a chance to put that into practice tomorrow. What did you learn at the British?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. That's the first time I really like I'm leading and leading the tournament. So that was really tough. I didn't have a good sleep on Saturday night. I was dreaming about beat me on the final day, and I wake up at 6:00 in the morning. So that's a curse really for me.   
 And like on Sunday and me and Katherine she's playing so good. So she pushed me a lot. And then I just retried to focus on my game and keep telling myself, I can do this, I can do this. I probably repeat a thousand times, I can do this. So tomorrow I need to do the same way. Like I said, I did it before and now I'm leading, so I just want to do it again.  
  
  Q. Yani, you are on the brink of becoming a back-to-back champion. What is it about this course that you particularly like?  
 YANI TSENG: I love it. I love this course because you're not hitting driver every hole. You need to play smart. You need to have a good strategy. Like you need to hit it the spot you want to hit it. If you don't hit the spot you want to hit it, it's really hard to get up-and-down. It's really hard to make a good putt.   
 So today I really hit the ball where I wanted. So it was really good. But I don't think too much for like back to back, and tomorrow I think the course is going to be pretty rough. So I just want to make more putts today and make more putts tomorrow. And then I think it will be fine.  
  
  Q. Yani, can you just sort of replay for me what happened on 18 there?  
 YANI TSENG: What happened on 18?   
  
  Q. Yeah. What did you do on 18?  
 YANI TSENG: I hit a rescue, hit it too far and all the way down to the rough. And second shot I tried to lay up, and I pushed the bunkers. And then I hit the third shot real -- like 125 to the pin. And I hit it pretty good out of the bunker.   
 I was a little nervous because the water, and I'm lucky to get a good lie out there and finish par there.  
  
  Q. Why do you think in the long history of this tournament there's only been two repeat winners?  
 YANI TSENG: You mean why? I don't know. I don't know. I just -- that's a tough question. I just want to keep doing my job and -- I don't know.   
  
  Q. Yani, two-parter: How well do you think you're going to sleep tonight, and what would winning a fourth major this early in your career mean to you?  
 YANI TSENG: I think I'm going to go (out) first tonight. Last return (indiscernible) on Saturday night and then I ended up winning on Sunday. So it's really good to keep (indiscernible) on Saturday night and I just want to go out with my mom, my family a little bit, and wish tomorrow could be the same way winning the tournament again.   
  
  Q. How long did you spend in Beaumont, and can you spell your mom's first name?  
 YANI TSENG: My mom's first name is Y-N-G. And I stayed there like two years because first time we had Q-School in Mission Hills. That's why I lived there. It was very easy for me to practice there and get ready for Q-School.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I don't think it's for young kids. I just want to -- it's good for practice, but you hear that you want to party there. There's no players going to party with you there.   
  
  Q. The way you're playing this year and last year, it might be best not to know where Indio is.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I told my caddie, I think it's that way. So it's good. I just want to make sure everything is right.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Yani.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT