KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: All right. We'd like to welcome Rolex Ranking's No. 1 and defending Kraft champion Yani Tseng into the room. Yani, can you just tell us about your round today? 
 YANI TSENG: It was very exciting for me today to go out and play on the first one. I shot 2-under. Not bad, but sort of tough day out there. I didn't make lots of putts, especially when I see that Sandra Gal make every putt, every hole I was like, gees, I need to get some balls drop in the hole. But there's still three more days to go and I'm still looking forward to the next three days. Just going to go there have fun, be aggressive, make more putts and get some more birdies. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. The pairing with Sandra who just won, so you're playing with a player who you know is hot, does that make any difference out there?
 YANI TSENG: No. I've been with her a couple of times. It doesn't make any difference out there today. 
 Yeah, she's a good player and I was very happy to see her first win last week. And she seems really confident today. She's really making lots of putts. I think she only putted like 20 today. So I really need to putt like her. 

 Q. I think it was 15 you had a putt to maybe go to 4-under, and it curled off. Was it 14? I mean 15, the par-4.
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. 

 Q. Was that the kind of putting it was today where you were just missing a little low or a little high?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I didn't get a good speed today. I thought I could see the line, but my speed was a little off. Sometimes hit too hard, sometimes too soft, but I just need to work on more speed on the green and make sure everything is good. 
 Like you said, sometimes I go too low, sometimes too high. So it was a little tough out there.

 Q. Yani, how did the course play and how much tougher is it going to get out there?
 YANI TSENG: Especially the rough this year. It's so thick. Like 120 yards I hit 8-iron off the rough and you only could hit like 120. 
 It was tough. You really need to hit on the fairways to get more chance to make birdies, and the greens were really firm. I mean we played in the morning. Afternoon is going to get worse, so just need to get yardage right, hit on the green and make the putts. 

 Q. When I was watching, I saw a lot of 3-woods off the tee. What holes were you able to hit driver on today and how comfortable did you feel with the driver?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. Not many holes I hit driver out there. Like No. 10 I hit 3-wood and No. 11 I hit a driver, but I pulled to the left. 
 And I just played a little bit -- not aggressive, but just very like aggressive and then be smart and then my strategy I think is better because when you're hitting driver and 8 out of the fairways it's very hard to hit on the green for second shot. 

 Q. Did it start to feel warm out there?
 YANI TSENG: So hot today. It was so hot. There's no wind and then I had an umbrella out there. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any more questions? Thank you, Yani. Good luck the rest of the week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT