FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 20, 2015
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yani, happy to be back home obviously.  How is coming back to such a warm reception here?  
YANI TSENG: Oh, very exciting.  I'm always very excited to get back to Taiwan, especially to see the fans.  I can't wait to start the first day of the tournament to see how much friends are going to be there supporting us.   
 Q.  How has this event evolved since the first year that it was in Taiwan and you won it that year, but how big has this event gotten since 2011?  
YANI TSENG: I want to thank all the fans and sponsors in Taiwan that really are supporting this, and I'm just really enjoying the tournament here.  And then to have great friends that come to Taiwan to experience the Taiwan culture, food and everything, and they love it.  They just love to come back here every year again and hopefully I can win it again here, too.   
 Q.  Now you've been playing so well, what's been the difference?  I know you said you're just trying to have fun and relax but you've been playing so well in the recent past.  What's been going on?  
YANI TSENG: That may take a few days to say (laughing).  But for the simple one, I think I'm really happy and enjoying being on the golf course now and feeling very comfortable where I am hitting the shots and making the putts.  Just enjoy the last few holes, little nerves and just missing that feeling a lot to have a chance to be winning a tournament and to see my name on the first page of a leaderboard, it's always very exciting.   
 Q.  What do you remember most from that win in 2011 here?  Do you remember anything specific?  
YANI TSENG: All I remember is all the fans.  The fans are incredible.  I still remember how many people that's on the golf course and just incredible.  Hopefully I can bring that back and just to do the best performance for the fans in Taiwan.   
 Q.  Do you ever get nervous coming back in the past couple years, have you gotten nervous?  
YANI TSENG: Always nervous.  I enjoy the nerves.  My hands are shaking and still shaking on the first tee.  I always enjoy the nerves and after the first couple holes, I'm fine.   
 Q.  Do you feel more pressure coming here when you play, is it because you want to play so well?  
YANI TSENG: Depends how I played these few months.  The last couple years was a little more pressure than now.  Like I say, playing better now and I'm just being happier, and the last couple years, I'm putting lots of pressure on myself.  So that was a little too much extra pressure.  Just every year is different coming back and I feel like this is one of the best years I'm coming back and getting mature, getting old.  Just more experience and it feels like I can handle the pressure different ways.   
 Q.  When you're so close and the runner-up finishes recently; did you ever think about winning?  How often do you think about getting back in the winner's circle?  Does it come back a lot?  
YANI TSENG: Yeah, I want to win for sure.  I didn't know I was that close actually.  There was a couple shots, you always say, oh, that could be better.  But I do my best on every shot.  I think it's going to happen in a matter of time.  I still believe that and never give up and keep doing my best.   
 Q.  You think about it, once a week, once a month or do you not try to think about winning so much and just the process?  
YANI TSENG: I'm thinking of winning every day.  I try to not think but it's just so hard.   
 Q.  Is that what drives you still?  
YANI TSENG: Yeah, when I'm on the course I want to win, but I try to put it on the side and focus on one shot at a time, because I know if I'm enjoying on the course, I focus on one shot at a time and the win will come.   
 Q.  What is it like for you to see the LPGA players come and play in this event?  Do they still ask you for advice?  
YANI TSENG: Yeah, we do a little practice round and give some short game tips on this grass.  It's kind of fun to hang out with your old friends coming back, and we never change and we still go out this week.  It was exciting to give all the Taiwanese players to have a good opportunity, like biggest stage on the LPGA that they can play in and some experience, and after this, they might know what they can work on or how good they are.   
 Q.  You say you do practice rounds with them?  
YANI TSENG: Yeah, two of them today.   
 Q.  Who is your caddie now?  
YANI TSENG: Scott Lubin.   
 Q.  How long has he been on?  
YANI TSENG: Probably five months now.  He gives me lots of good motivation and good advice, and I think he's got lots of experience at what he's doing.  He has never been here before.   
 Q.  You showed him around?  
YANI TSENG: Yeah, I showed him around a little bit.   
 Q.  Does he like Asian food?  Has he been trying --  
YANI TSENG: No.  He's American (laughing).   
 Q.  What's the most adventurous thing he'll eat?  Has he eaten anything crazy?  
YANI TSENG: No.  I kind of force him to do it.  So I give him the little bit, like this morning -- he said, you should put this in my bag every day, like some little Taiwanese breakfast.  Tomorrow we're going out -- I introduce to my doctor, too, my eye doctor.  So it's kind of funny.   
 Q.  Lit check-up?  
YANI TSENG: Yeah.   
 Q.  Are you still working can Claude Harmon?  
YANI TSENG: Yeah, still with Claude, still with Dave and very happy with most of them.  It feels good.  I like especially with Bob Rotella, too, mental coach.  Without them, I wouldn't be this far.   
 Q.  And you've been with them since the beginning of the season?  
YANI TSENG: Beginning of this year, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT