HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 27, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us your thoughts, pretty good week; third in the end.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I can't wait to go back and take a break. It was fun today. I played great on the front nine. I just couldn't get it on the back nine. But I tried my best today and it was just great fun.  
 Karrie, she played very well on the back nine and she deserved to win. I'm very happy to see her win this tournament.   
  
  Q. And what about the amazing start you had, reeling off five birdies in a row there, you must have been thinking anything was possible.   
 YANI TSENG: Last night, I didn't think I was going to win today. And then after the front nine, I was thinking I can win today.   
 But I just didn't -- the back nine, I didn't quite play quite well, especially No. 10 and No. 12. That's an easy hole but I just missed a putt and like I said, I tried my best and I'm still very happy and very proud of myself to finish third.  
  
  Q. What will you do now? What do you have planned for the next few weeks?  
 YANI TSENG: I'm going to go back to Taiwan to do lots of press conferences for a couple of days, and then back to the States to get ready for the next three tournaments; the Founders Cup.   
  
  Q. You mentioned when you came in everybody was talking about this many wins, that many wins. You must be pretty happy, though, with what you did up against that sort of pressure?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, very happy, four is pretty good. Five would be perfect, but that's golf. This is why golf is so much fun.  
  
  Q. Did you grow up watching Karrie? Karrie she has not won in a few years but she's won so many times.   
 YANI TSENG: That's for sure. When I was younger, I watched Karrie playing golf all the time and then the first time played with Karrie, I was so nervous, and the first time I played with her, she shot 62, so I never forgot. Some of the putting tricks, I learn lots of things from Karrie Webb.   
  
  Q. There are lots of you youngsters on Tour at the moment, but what about one of the sort of veteran stars doing so well?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think everybody is the same, doesn't matter how old you are. Everybody is always looking forward to winning a tournament. I always know that someone as experienced as Karrie or Juli, they have been here like 20 years, ten years, and it's just lots of fun to play with them.   
    
  Q. Tough round today, how do you feel about having come in here having won four tournaments to end your streak?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I don't care at this point. I feel I tried my best and I played really good today. I played an awesome front nine. I felt really, really good and actually I told my friend, I'm going to win tomorrow -- I don't know, I have this very strong feel.   
 But that's how I played on the front nine but on the back nine I missed No. 10 and No. 11, short putts I missed. But I tried my best and I really enjoyed today. And Karrie played awesome on the back nine.  
  
  Q. You're not too disappointed?   
 YANI TSENG: No, it's not like I played really bad today, I had no chance. I tried really hard.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT