HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 24, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE SCANLAN: We would like to welcome the Rolex Ranking No. 1 player in the world in, Yani Tseng, 2-under par 70 for the day right now and in a tie for third place. 
 Yani, if you would, just take us through the day, I know it wasn't quite as good as would you have liked, but still pretty good.
 YANI TSENG: It was like a roller coaster today. I had six birdies, four bogeys and I had two 3-putts. I was really just going for the 3-putts. And the greens, they were a little slower than last week and so I'm still trying to get used to it and I was just having a lot of long putts. 
 Still in very good position and still three days to go, so I'm still very looking forward to the next three days.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Have you done any changes in your routine recently given the attention you've been getting the last couple of weeks being No. 1, have you changed anything? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, more interviews. (Laughter). Lots more interviews. I need more time. 
 But now I know how to manage it I think, and I would like to share my story, but still very happy to talk to the media. 

 Q. Do you have a strategy to relax, because the more you relax, the better you play; how do you stay relaxed out there? 
 YANI TSENG: I felt relaxed right now and the tournament, it gives me a lot more confidence here and I don't feel any pressure, I just am competing with the best players in the world and I enjoy on the Tour and I'm not expecting too much. I know I'm now No. 1 but everybody is still very close and anybody can win the tournament. It's just tough but I'm enjoying here, right now and just keep working hard. 

 Q. You are enjoying it --
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I love it, and my friends told me, if I had a ton of people watching me, they would have fun, too. When I'm enjoying and the people watching me play golf, I want them to enjoy watching me play golf and watching the LPGA players playing golf. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, especially the 3-putt on the par 3, No. 11 and No. 17. I know it was a long putt and I know it was very slow, but I just couldn't control my speed. So I just needed to get better for the speed on the putting green. 

 Q. When you look back, what did you do --
YANI TSENG: No, just stop talking about it and I didn't even really -- I tried my best. I always stay very focused on one shot at a time and tell myself I tried my best. So just pass and the next hole is a new one. 

 Q. Do you think more of the top five players should be leading? 
 YANI TSENG: No, I'm not surprised. I think right here, this is like -- everybody has been so well, like all of the players have a chance to win the tournament. It's not just the top 5 of us. 
 So it's really competitive and it's very good for like everybody, and it's so much fun, it's always of the different players, not just the top five or top three or something. There are so many things, everybody have different ways of playing golf and I think it's really a challenge and it's fun.

 Q. Do you like to play in the wind? 
 YANI TSENG: I like wind. Before that I like the wind. I know that I can control better when there is wind. So I don't -- I still focus on one shot at a time. So when the wind comes, just thinking more and strategy and just need to control my shot and play smarter. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Yani, thanks so much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT