RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2010
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we have Yani Tseng, who's just completed the championship with a 1-over par round for a total of 277 and a one-shot victory. Congratulations. How does it feel to win your second major of the year and your first Ricoh Women's British Open? 
 YANI TSENG: Thank you. It feels very special for me to win the British Open because it was a very difficult course, and I really feel like scared getting another major for me. 
 Katherine Hull played awesome today. She really pushed me a lot, and I was so nervous and trying to just stay patient all the time. Even last night I made it, and I was asking my caddie, the score was so close, I really don't know in which position we are right now. She just played awesome today.

 Q. Was it the pressure she put you under that made it far more difficult for you today?
 YANI TSENG: I know, last four holes to me feel very tough. It was not like three days ago I can make eagle, I can make birdie. Today was totally different. I just wanted to put it on the green and make a two-putt. It was hard.

 Q. I think I heard you say that Annika Sorenstam contacted you overnight?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, yesterday she left me a message and she said I'm very happy to see you on top; that's where you belong. I was very happy to get her message. And she said, just trust your ability and you will be fine. 

 Q. You said yesterday that you liked to sing as you go around the golf course. Were you singing all the way around today and as you were coming down the final stretch?
 YANI TSENG: Actually I did, but it was really hard for me to sing a song, because my mind was so busy. I was jumping around trying to sing a song, but I was like, stop thinking of winning and stop thinking about the score. But my focus was really I really want to just try to sing this song. It made me feel very relaxed. It was very tough to sing a song in my mind.

 Q. Do you have a favourite song, one that we might know, a western song? 
 YANI TSENG: I kind of feel like -- it's kind of like na-na-na-na-na, na-na-na-na-na, na-na-na-na-na, na-na, na. I don't know which song. 

 Q. Can we go through very quickly your birdies and bogeys before we carry on?
 YANI TSENG: Okay. Not many birdies today. No. 4 --

 Q. You dropped a shot at the 3rd I think, didn't you?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I did. 

 Q. That's the second time this week?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. And then I put it in the bunker on the last one again, it was the same bunker I put it in. And I chipped out, and I didn't hit it on the green. I was short about 20 yards to the green, but I made a good up-and-down. 
 No. 4, I want to say ten-yard putts. It was a 5-iron for me. 
 No. 6, I had 75 yards to the pin. I hit a 52 to three feet. 
 Bogeyed No. 8, I hit it in the bunker again, so you have to lay out from the bunker short, and then I hit a 9-iron to five feet but I missed it, and I missed it from like three feet.
 No. 10, that was the worst bogey made this week. I hit it on the green very good, and then I only have ten yards to the hole, and I tried to make birdie and it went past the hole three or four feet and I missed it. 

 Q. You had a lot of emotion when you, I guess, finally figured out that you won on the 18th green. Can you talk about the tears and what was going through your mind?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I was so tired today because of all the pressure, all the tension. I was just really trying to focus because Katherine was really pushing me, and then I was just trying to stay relaxed, everything. It was a really tough day for me having a four-shot lead going into Sunday. 
 I think it's the toughest win I feel -- I always come from behind; I was never leading and won the tournament, I was always leading and lost. So today was really good. It meant a lot to me that I know I can do it when I really need to do it to win a tournament. I was nervous and tired. 

 Q. Is that the first time you've led from the front and won on the LPGA Tour? 
 YANI TSENG: Yes. 

 Q. How much of a help was the message from Annika? 
 YANI TSENG: She's my big idol, she's my -- so I think it helped a lot, and actually I read all her notes and put in my yardage book, just trust your ability and have fun. Okay, just trust it, trust it. It helps a lot, having a message from Annika. 

 Q. How much do you know about Carnoustie where you'll be defending next year?
 YANI TSENG: I'm so looking forward to playing next year because I know Carnoustie is a hard course. That's what I've heard. I'm really looking forward to playing next year and having a chance to come back here.

 Q. Have you played it before?
 YANI TSENG: No. I did watch actually one time when Sergio was there, and then I watched the Senior Championship there, too. So I kind of have watched it a little. 

 Q. Who were the two friends who drenched you with champagne at the end?
 YANI TSENG: One is Jeri. She caddied for me the last three years, and this year she kind of just takes care of everything outside the ropes, kind of a road manager, and the other one, I think everybody knows her. And the other is Momoko Ueda, she's one of my best friends on Tour. We always have dinner together.

 Q. It must have been very pleasing to have them run on and give you a big hug. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, that's for sure. It feels really good. 

 Q. I know winning a major is very big in Taiwan and now you have three. How big is it going to be in your home country?
 YANI TSENG: I never even think about it. I have three majors already, and this is my third year on Tour. I'm 21 years old, three majors. It's like, nobody can think that way. So I think it's going to be huge in Taiwan, and I'm really looking forward to going back to share this trophy with them, and I hope -- I think lots of people was watching and I got lots of text messages from Taiwan saying it was so exciting, that after the win when I was crying or something. I think it's really great, yeah. 

 Q. When do you think you'll go back to Taiwan next?
 YANI TSENG: Maybe after a month. 

 Q. What is it about your game that you think suits the majors so well? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, that's a good question. I don't know. I only won one normal tournament, so I wish I could win more. I always play so well in majors. I don't know, I like a challenge, and then the majors always make me really focus on everything. I don't know. I can't figure that out. 
 THE MODERATOR: Yani, thank you very much indeed, and congratulations once more. We look forward to seeing you next year at Carnoustie. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT