RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2010
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We have Yani Tseng in here. She just shot her third consecutive 68 for 12-under par, total of 194 and a 4-shot lead going into the last round. There are one or two people on deadline, Yani, so could you please talk about your eagle first?   
 YANI TSENG: I hit an 8-iron on my second shot, about 20 feet for eagle, and it was a right-to-left putt; and before I get into green, my caddy told me, let's see if we can make this.   
 And I was like, you don't think I can make this? So I feel pumped up. I really wanted to make that.   
 THE MODERATOR: You started with 12 consecutive pars today. Was your plan to play conservative golf?   
 YANI TSENG: Today was a strong wind when we got to the greens. So I know I just needed to stay patient all day and just keep trust myself and get a good yardage and I know it will be fine.   
 And I really enjoyed the crowd today. There was lots of people coming to watch, and they clap on every shot. So I feel like I better show my big smile to them.  
 THE MODERATOR: You've only dropped one shot in three rounds. That's fairly impressive around here, isn't it?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I only had one bogey these three rounds, especially on this tough golf course, so I feel I'm very happy what I'm doing right now, be very consistent, and didn't let my mind go down; and be always confident, even when I hit a bad shot into a bunker and or into a rough. Always play one shot at a time and stay very positive.   
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. We have the microphone here if anybody wants to ask questions.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's going to come down tomorrow to those three par-5s on the last four holes?  
 YANI TSENG: I know. I think it's going to be fought on the last four holes, especially the three par-5s. And I think if the wind changes, everybody can reach the last two holes.   
 On No. 15 today I was really nervous. After I hit the second shot, yes, feel like I make birdie there because I was hitting terrible the last two days.   
 But I think it's going to be really fun, like you can make eagle the last two holes. You never know, so you gotta be patient and playing good on the first 14 holes going to the last four holes.   
  
  Q. Did you meet earlier this week with Vision 54?  
 YANI TSENG: Oh, you saw that. Yeah, I did, actually because I feel I was struggling a little bit after the Curtis Cup and Nabisco. And then I feel like that win was like two years ago. So I don't have anything special for me right now.   
 So I'm talking to them, and I say, what do you think about my game? And she remind me a lot of things. She asked me, what do you think when you're playing good and what do you think right now. So like compare it to the best.   
 And then we figure out that's three things she's given to me. So I put a note in my yardage book to look at all the times I hit a bad shot. Or when I walk in she say, I just sing a song when I play, like when I think about if I'm winning, I'm really -- if I want to play and make birdie.   
 If I think any negative things, then I will just sing a song. So I was singing songs all day today in my mind, and then sometimes -- it's hard because I'm singing songs, but I still think it that way. But I know what should I do for this week and I just be strong and happy, but not nervous, and I'm not go like five seconds in play box. I just want to pick a shot and just hit it and not think about where my ball is going.   
 So I think it's really nice that I talk to them before I go to play because I think if I talk to them, it's not going to be worse. It's going to be the same or it's going to be better. So I think I did a good job.   
  
  Q. What's the song?  
 YANI TSENG: The song I sing. I really don't know. I was just jumping around. Kind of like singing old-school songs in Taiwanese.   
  
  Q. Is it all Taiwanese music you listen to or do you listen to other western music?  
 YANI TSENG: No. I listen to a lot of western stuff.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? In that case, thank you very much and good luck tomorrow.  
 YANI TSENG: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT