EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 22, 2010
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: Yani, congratulations on a 4-under par first-round score. Can you talk a little bit about your round.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. Today I play really solid. I hit good driver and good iron, but I didn't fight very well today. So I will just keep working on my putting and just stay patient for the whole weekend.   
 So if I think if I keep hitting the shot I did, I think I will be in great position on Sunday.  
 MODERATOR: You are sponsored by Lacoste. Is it extra special for you to come play in France given your relationship with Lacoste?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, absolutely, yes. It's a big family. With the Lacoste we have dinner last night, two nights ago, and I really enjoy it out here.   
 It's been very special if I can win this tournament. It would be very awesome. Just feels really good to come back here to see all the Lacoste family here.   
 MODERATOR: Can you just take us through your round today?   
 YANI TSENG: Okay. Second hole I hit a pitching wedge to four feet; make birdie.  
 From No. 3, I have a 3-putt from three feet.   
 3-putt on No. 3.  
 No. 7 I had a 3-wood second shot near to green fringe with just little chip into one feet; tap-in for birdie.  
 No. 10, I have pitching wedge for second shot, and eight feet.  
 Number 15, I had driver and 6-iron for layup and 52, 85 yard for third shot into 5 feet and I made it.  
 No. 18 I have a 5-iron for my second shot, landed on the green about 18 feet and then missed it for two-putt.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about the state of your game? You won the Kraft Nabisco Championship earlier in the year. You are in the race for Rolex Rankings No. 1. Can you just talk about your game, and are you ready to win again?  
 YANI TSENG: I'm pretty ready. I'm always ready to win a tournament. After Kraft, I didn't play so well. It's always like top 20, top 20, and then just couldn't get up. I don't know why. Probably, I mean, too much pressure on myself.  
 But I feel really relaxed this week. This is my third year here. I feel things like little different, like more confidence on this golf course. This course is not easy.   
 This is my third time here, so I feel the course and the strategy is a little easier for me to do it. I'm really ready to win. I would love to win this tournament in France. It will be very special to me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT