KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 3, 2010
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Great day out there today. You looked like you were having fun shooting some good scores. Can you talk about your round? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, it was a lot of fun playing with Suzann. Today was like a whole match. We had six birdies. I look at her when she make birdie, she look at me. 
 We just big smile on the course and just lots of fun.
 THE MODERATOR: What was the best part of your game? You obviously reeled off a lot of birdies.
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I hit some good shots today and I'm very close to the pin and I make really good pars. I've been working on my putting and my swing, because I changed my swing coach. So it worked really good this week, and I didn't have a good last week, but it kind of made me feel very relaxed to come out here and just have fun.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. How often do you practice with Suzann and is it that Lake Nona, is that where you're at?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I live in Lake Nona. She practice at Bay Hill. But last time we play we were separate and we had the match. We like to play with each other because our game is very similar, and she hits far. 
 And today we were one hole, and I say this hole feels good, and I say, who hits further and she beat me by one yard and I was like that's terrible. So it was really fun on the course. 

 Q. Did you have some side bets going on with each other?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I gotta say we do have one bet on the golf course. I had a good drive and she hit a good drive and we couldn't see the front. And I would just say, okay. Let's play this hole who hits further, and she just beat me by one yard and she said, I don't care. 

 Q. What whole is that, Yani?
 YANI TSENG: 11. 

 Q. Who's your new swing instructor and putting?
 YANI TSENG: Putting coach is Dave Stockton, and I've been working with him for almost three years, I think. And I just change to a new coach, Gary Gilchrist, and he lived in Orlando. I just moved to Orlando for a year, so it's easier for me to have a coach in Orlando. 

 Q. Did it feel to you like your first major came quickly, and how do you feel like you've changed as a player since then?
 YANI TSENG: You know what, I really changed about my mental. I've been through a lot because after first major win, I put my expectations really, really high, because I feel I can win everywhere. But it doesn't work out very good after majors. And I put lots of pressure on last year like every major. 
 So I think all the majors I didn't play good in last year because it's kind of I want to win. So I feel very confident when I come here, because the majors, the course on the majors is really long and a lot of mistakes. And I like it. I'm very happy with that. 
 I just always putting very high expectations on the majors, but like this year I change a lot of my mental side. I can come out here and I just want to, I enjoy walk on 18, 18 holes, walk on the green. Everybody is clapping, I'm enjoying the crowd. And I just really want to play one shot at a time. I don't care if I win or if I lose. It just doesn't matter about the scores. It's all about am I having fun today or am I really enjoying the game. 
 I just don't want to get mad or get mad at myself. It's not a big deal. I think that's how I changed. It's good. I feel very relaxed right now when I come here.

 Q. So you mentioned that new mental outlook. So would you say for tomorrow are you excited, like maybe as before you would have been nervous or is there a change in outlook for tomorrow?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. Very nervous actually, and I think it will be very exciting more than nervous tomorrow, and maybe I'm going to play with Suzann tomorrow again and we have another match. So that'll be fun. 
 And the key points for tomorrow is I want to show my big smile to everybody, and that'll make me relaxed. Sometimes when I'm nervous, I smile. That makes me more relaxed, and I just want to smile and show on the TV everybody my patience.

 Q. Yesterday's round was kind of a little up-and-down. Did you see you were playing Suzann yesterday and did you kind of get excited and that kind of relax you a little bit at all?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think a little bit, because we kind of haven't played for a long time, especially last year we didn't play any tournament last year. But it's still different. 

 Q. You hit that short putt on 16 after the -- and you came back with two birdies after that. Was that important for you to turn it around really quickly or were you able to put that shot behind you pretty quickly?
 YANI TSENG: I think I just put that shot behind, and I think the point is on 17, that was a very good pin placement and I could be very aggressive. 
 It's not way left. So I just hit it very aggressive, and I put it five feet on 17 and make that putt, and I feel I got a chance to make birdies on the next two. 
 So I don't like to play ahead. I just want to play one shot at a time right now. Last hole is last hole. I didn't think about it, too.

 Q. What did you guys talk about when you were walking off 18?
 YANI TSENG: What were we talking about when we were finished? She make birdie on the last hole. If she makes par, I will win the bet today. 
 So I tell her I 100 percent wish she make birdie, because I want you to make birdie because that's more exciting for us. I like to see her playing good. And she is a great golfer, and I just said it was a great match today, and maybe it's another match tomorrow. That's all we were talking about.

 Q. So who ended up winning money wise today for all the bets?
 YANI TSENG: Oh, we tied. We tied with three days. So maybe it was even. 

 Q. I might have missed this. What were the stakes of the bet?
 YANI TSENG: What? The money? I don't know. We just play for the best score and we play for birdie. We play for eagles. So yeah, that's how we play. 
 So she missed the eagle on 11, and I was laughing because I was really happy for her. Maybe she can tell you that. You ask her and she can tell you, I think. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any more questions? Thanks, Yani. 
 YANI TSENG: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT