HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 23, 2010
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Yani, thanks for coming in. I know you just literally walked off 18, it's the 2010 HSBC Women's Champions, tell us a little bit about what you saw out there.
 YANI TSENG: I just played nine holes, and the course is in great shape and I really like this course. You really need all 14 clubs in the bag. It's not just hitting a straight ball. You have to hit so much shots. I love this course and just trying to get the speed on the greens. 
 I feel good after last week, so I feel very confident and looking forward to this week and always very happy to come back here in Singapore and see the fans.
 MIKE SCANLAN: I know you had a busy off-season, went back to Taiwan, back to Florida, new coach, and then you had a very nice finish last week in Thailand. How is everything working out in your game right now? 
 YANI TSENG: I think it's pretty good. I like my new coach, Gary Gilchrist, and I only work with him twice. So I think he helped me a lot with my swing. The last couple of months, my swing has been a little bit off, so my distance control was really bad. But now it's kind of back to normal. So now I feel that I can control my shots, I know that if I do this, I know where the ball is going to go, not like before. 

 Q. What goals do you have this year?
 YANI TSENG: It's very simple, my goal is enjoy the golf. I always say I want to enjoy it, but it's so much easier to say it, and I feel that I can do it, especially last year, I felt pressure by myself. Last year, really like two tournaments I played really, really bad and I feel very disappointed. So I feel like I don't know how to enjoy it, or I don't have fun, and then my style is not real. 
 But now this year, I just feel, okay, I don't want to think about this goal or I don't want to think how many tournaments I want to one or what I have to do this year. So I just want to have fun and then just make sure my green in regulation, my putting average is better than last year. 
 So I just want to improve just the stats, because that's how you win tournaments, like I have to improve all of these things and then I can win the tournament. That's my goal this year. 

 Q. What did you do --
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, we went out to dinner. Then I went -- I know him pretty well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT