NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MONACO R.V.
October 2, 2009
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you very much for joining us. I don't know if you realize or not, Yani, but your bogey-free 9-under par 63 is a tournament record. So you're the fifth...   
 YANI TSENG: I really didn't think of the record. I just play one shot at a time, even though I had eight birdies. I just played really good today and made a lot of putts.   
 I still miss, but happy I shot 9-under and back in this position. Haven't been like last two group for a while, so I'm very happy and very exciting and looking forward for next two days.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: That's great. Do we have questions for Yani?   
  
  Q. How did you approach tomorrow? Tonight do you act any different since you're so close?   
 YANI TSENG: Not really. I think the strategy is gonna be the same. I just gotta work on my putter and driver a little bit. I change a new driver this week, so hit it straighter and further. So that's nice, because last few weekend my driver was a little off. This week I just put on the fairway, and I able to hit a good shot. Second shot I hit it on the green.  
 No, my plan is just have fun. I play a little Sudoku this morning. Maybe I do the same thing tomorrow.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: What kind of driver do you have and how far were you hitting it?   
 YANI TSENG: Adams Speedline, so it hits really straight. If I come in the shot and hit it, if I clear my mind, I hit it really good.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: How far are you hitting it?   
 YANI TSENG: I don't know how far. I feel far because maybe it's straighter. I think it's still 270.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Still pretty far.   
  
  Q. How did you feel this morning knowing there might be some bad weather? And how relieved were you that it's blue sky outside?  
 YANI TSENG: Oh, yeah, it's beautiful day today. Windy, and it was nice. It's cool and not really hot.   
 But I see the scoreboard this morning, and like everybody gets like lots of birdies. My friend is telling me, If you play in the morning you get five birdies for free or whatever. (Laughter.)  
Everybody just make lots of birdies. I was like, Oh, maybe we should go out and make some more birdies. Then we can be on top. Yeah.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: When did you realize you were kind of moving up towards the top? I mean, obviously you had six birdies in the final eight holes.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I don't know. I'm like keep moving up. I know like around 13, 14 hole I feel like, Oh, maybe I keep going up. So 14 and 15 I come a little bit thinking too much and a little bit struggle.   
 But after that it was just don't worry about everything. And even I miss or just hit it, I don't care if I make bogey or eagle or whatever.   
 I hit lots of good shots today. Like last hole it was almost in the hole. And on No.4, I thought, you know, because I was like maybe this much in front of hole. My ball maybe go like this. So it's like, Oh, your ball is knowing how to find the hole. It can go around to the hole. (Laughter.)  
 But I'm so happy I tap-in for birdie.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: That's great. Doesn't hurt to do that, right?   
  YANI TSENG: No, not at all.    
  Q. Did you finish the Sudoku puzzle, and how long did it take you?  
 YANI TSENG: Oh, I'm not finish yet, because I didn't take that much time to do it. I was stretch my body and then just work on my back. So maybe I'll finish it tomorrow.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT