U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2009
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RHONDA GLENN: Ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased to introduce Yani Tseng, who is one of our USGA National Champions. She won the U.S. Women's Amateur Public Links Championship in 2004, defeating Michelle Wie in the final, I think it was 2-up or 1-up?   
 YANI TSENG: 1-up.  
 RHONDA GLENN: 36 holes. That was her first big victory and the first time we heard of her in this country. You are the longest hitter on the LPGA Tour, No. 1 in driving, averaging more than 270 yards per drive. Is that an advantage on this very long golf course?   
 YANI TSENG: Oh, that's for sure. This course is plays very long, because I been here last month. This week when I got here, the course has been drying out, in great shape. My drive is getting longer, and second shot I can be like short iron and so it's really big advantage for me to play this course. It fits my game.  
 RHONDA GLENN: You were here last month.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, after LPGA Blue Rock.   
 RHONDA GLENN: Did you come in here to try to play some additional practice rounds, get a look at the course to be ready, or...   
 YANI TSENG: No, I just come in here, just play like, not like practice rounds, just like playing a little golf, to see how is the course and enjoy, just play like normal course and see where the green is, how is the grass, everything.   
 RHONDA GLENN: Who did you play with when you were here?   
 YANI TSENG: I played with Na Choi and Song-Hee Kim.  
 RHONDA GLENN: Okay. So other members of the LPGA?   
 YANI TSENG: Yes, yes.   
 RHONDA GLENN: Let's take some questions.   
  
  Q. What about this golf course fits your game besides the length of it?  
 YANI TSENG: Because I been hitting my irons very well last two weeks, and, you know, my iron in this golf course, you just need to play smart and be aggressive.   
 You just want to put it on the fairway and greens. My driver has been pretty consistent, and I've been working very hard with my driver and 3-wood, and I hit far. So it's a big advantage for me to play the driver and hit in fairway to be very consistent.   
  
  Q. You won the McDonald's last year, correct?  
 YANI TSENG: Yes.  
  
  Q. How does winning a Major change your approach toward other Majors?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I just feel after I win a Major, I feel I can win a lot of Majors. I know I can do it, and I trust myself.   
 And last year I been learning from mistakes last year, getting lots of experience for this year. And this year I play very consistent. So, you know, looking forward for this tournament. I feel very confidence now to play in this golf course.  
  
  Q. Does the knowledge of getting over that hump, is that a big thing to get over?  
 RHONDA GLENN: The knowledge of getting over that hump to win a major, is that a big deal?   
 YANI TSENG: Oh, yeah, that's for sure. That's a big deal, because winning Major has always been my dream. My dream is I want to be first Chinese to win a Major, and I don't last year.   
 So I just feel like I can do better than I thought. I can do much better. So I know what I'm doing. I know -- it's long way to go, and how good is my future will be there.   
  
  Q. A golfer earlier had said you're kind of like the Se Ri Pak of Taiwan in that you influence a lot of young Taiwanese golfers to get into golf. Is that something you aspire to do, to influence young Taiwanese girls to play?  
 YANI TSENG: Oh, yeah, that's for sure. Now I'm trying to help the Taiwan juniors, because I hope one day in LPGA, USGA is going to be lots of Taiwan players out here to play in world class of golf. I'm trying help a lot of Taiwan golf and the juniors, because I love -- because all the professional been helping me, so I hope I can help a lot of people. Wish I can be like Se Ri Pak, win a tournament in Taiwan and see all the world.  
 RHONDA GLENN: Who was your hero in golf?   
 YANI TSENG: Annika Sorenstam.  
 RHONDA GLENN: Annika? What about Dr. Ernie Wang, is that his name?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.  
 RHONDA GLENN: Tell the people about Ernie and what role he played in your career and other players from where you live.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, he been helping us when we was 12, when I first came here. I played Callaway Junior Golf.   
 Next year when I was 13, he took me to watch U.S. Open. That time Julie Inkster won the tournament and that time is my first time to see how is the USGA.   
 I tell Ernie, because that time I was only 13. I tell Ernie, I want to play this tournament. I feel I can beat lots of people. So that's why Ernie just search on the Internet for the USGA. That's how I get in all the U.S. amateur. It's pretty cool.   
 RHONDA GLENN: He's not a professional, but didn't he find places for you to live in the United States, places where you could stay so you could compete over here?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, since when I was 12 to I think 17, I would stay in a house, and --  
 RHONDA GLENN: Stayed at Ernie's house.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, stayed at his house, and practice. He always try to find a coach for me. He's really nice, and I been practicing in States every summer since I was 12.   
  
  Q. How big is golf in Taiwan now? What is the state of the game in Taiwan? And does it -- I don't know what your No. 1 sport is there, but can you sort of tell us how popular golf is?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, actually, Taiwan is being like long time ago we have lots of famous player in Taiwan to play the USGA like T.C. Chen and then old players like Chu Wa Yi, she play in Japan, and she won like over 100 tournaments. Long time golf is really popular, but now seems likes last 10 years nobody to play on LPGA Tour, like 20 years ago, so it's been long time, like big jump, and now me, candy and Amy Hung, all four of us from Taiwan, we been coming out to say lots of things for Taiwan golf, and helping out, hope Taiwan golf is getting popular.  
 But I think it's getting better.  
 RHONDA GLENN: How often do you go home to Taiwan?   
 YANI TSENG: Not much. I just moved to Florida. But I will go back after British Open.  
 RHONDA GLENN: Do you go back once a year, twice a year?   
 YANI TSENG: Twice a year.  
 RHONDA GLENN: How are you treated when you go home?   
 YANI TSENG: You know, I just want to relax. I want to relax, because every time when I go back, I been so busy.   
 So I just tell my family, I only give you three days, so when we come back, I always got to do a lot of press conference and clinic for junior golf and tell them about my experience in USGA and LPGA, and how is my experience playing golf in America.   
 So just teaching, all kinds of things.   
  
  Q. Just to follow up with the last question, there has been a push for golf to become an Olympic sport. Would that help countries like Taiwan if it were an Olympic sport? Would that get more people? Because Olympics are big in your country.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think that's for sure. Because in Taiwan, most of people watch Olympics but they don't watch golf. But if golf in Olympics, then they know how to support Olympics, so they would support in golf, too. I think that's big jump if golf be in Olympics, that would be everybody knows in Taiwan. But not now. But I think after golf in Olympics, everybody would know how is golf.   
 RHONDA GLENN: You've had 8 out of 14 top 10s this year. You had a fabulous rookie year. Is this better than you ever expected, so fast? I mean, be a great player so fast, be a big personality so fast?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I feel like I grow up too fast. Everything, I didn't expect. I going to be Top 3 in the world. I don't expect I win Majors, but, you know, I just doing what I'm doing, and my hard work pay off. I very enjoy it out here and everything. If I do the job, then this work will just come out.  
 RHONDA GLENN: All right, Yani. Thank you very much for being with us. We wish you good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT