LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 23, 2009
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Yani. We were all watching you all day. You went out, and 28, 8-under par which ties an LPGA record. You ended up shooting 10-under par which is an LPGA Corning Classic. It ties the record for lowest score on 18 holes. If you would, just talk about your day and how much fun you had out there.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I played awesome today, and I had so much fun playing with Natalie, and we enjoyed our talk.   
 And I don't feel like I shot 10-under. I was just going to go out and having fun, and I make a bunch of putts. And actually last two weeks I've been very frustrated, and a little bit the last two weeks and now I'm very happy.   
 I've come back and play this week, and everything felt good and the course is in good conditions. And it's just been great, and I'm looking forward for tomorrow. I can't wait to go out and make birdies.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?   
  
  Q. Looks like you worked with the putter pretty well. What was the key to your round today?  
 YANI TSENG: I changed a little bit my pre-shot routine in these last two weeks. I just figured out on the putting green which way is better for me. So I just changed my routine, same as the putting green. So I just feel like I'm practiced and don't try too hard, and my key point is reading the ball well, and that's it.   
  
  Q. When you start the day kind of buried in the pack, does that kind of help you relax and to get a day like this?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. You know, we had like 15-under after two. You know, it's unbelievable. I had two eagles on the front nine and a lot of circles on my scorecard. And it feels like I'm playing a four-man scramble. It's birdie and eagles. It was so much fun on the front nine.   
  
  Q. What does it mean to you to get a couple records, not only for the best-ever front nine, but you matched the course record here. Just what does that mean to you personally?  
 YANI TSENG: This is my second time I shot a 62, too. So I remember that. I'm very happy I tied the record, and it's just a record, so I just feel I'm playing good today. I'm very happy with this.   
  
  Q. Were you thinking about shooting 59?  
 YANI TSENG: Oh, I did. I did. Yeah. On the Back 9, I just couldn't hit a ball. My body just didn't match with my brain. I said, okay, be patient. Slow down. And my body just goes so fast. I'm very happy I birdied the last hole.   
  
  Q. I know Natalie shot a 29 on the front nine, too. Did you ever imagine two people in the same group could both shoot under 30 on the front nine like that?  
 YANI TSENG: No, I never think that. Especially I think there's only nine birdies, was me and Morgan, and it was all the birdies on the front nine. She hit a 7-under. I seen her after one shot was 8-under. That was incredible.   
  
  Q. Yani, how does that set you up for tomorrow as far as your mindset?  
 YANI TSENG: I think I'm just going to still have fun and enjoy tomorrow and don't try too hard, and just keep relax, be patient.   
  
  Q. Do you feel relaxed right now?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I'm real relaxed, and it's easy to say, but it's hard to do. So tomorrow last group or last couple girls.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? All right, Yani. We had fun watching today.   
 YANI TSENG: Thank you. Thanks. I had fun, too.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT