HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 4, 2009
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Yani, welcome to the HSBC Women's Champions. Do you find it kind of different or kind of funny that you are the number two-ranked player in the world and this is your first time playing in a Champions event like this?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I thought it was funny because I tried to get in last year but I was a rookie. I'm very excited to play in this tournament. It's like a home major, playing in Asia. I played in Singapore quite a bit when I was a junior, so I'm looking forward to this tournament.   
  
  Q. What are your goals for your second year on the LPGA?  
 YANI TSENG: After McDonald's, my expectations were too high and I put a lot of pressure on myself. Just feel like this year, I want to try my best and be happy and enjoy the LPGA, enjoy the crowds and try to make as many birdies as I can.   
  
  Q. With Lorena in front of you in the Rolex Rankings, what do you think you can learn from her?  
 YANI TSENG: I really like her attitude. I never see her get upset on the golf course, always mentally strong, like Tiger Woods. I just know what I'm doing now and work hard and hope one day I can be like her.   
  
  Q. Do you think the course suits your game?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, this is a great course - narrow fairways and very far, this course. The big greens and elevation and up-and-down, so you have to be very patient on this golf course and play smart. You cannot be aggressive on every hole.  
  
  Q. Do you think you'll have crowds supporting you?  
 YANI TSENG: I hope so. I hope I have big crowds in my group. I have a few friends here and hope a few people will cheer for me.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: HSBC has a lot of programs for junior golfers. Did you ever play any of those tournaments when you were younger?  
 YANI TSENG: No, when I was young, we didn't have that. Now, I am very lucky and I appreciate everything for HSBC for helping them.   
  
  Q. You had a lot of top-10 finishes last year. What were you lacking that kept you from winning?  
 YANI TSENG: I don't know, I feel like I didn't get into a rhythm on the first day. I feel a little rusty for the first three tournaments.   
 So the last couple of days I was doing good here and getting into the tournament and ready for this week. Now this week, I feel like I want to be ready for tournament for the first day and be ready for three or four days.   
  
  Q. Do you expect a low ?  
 YANI TSENG: A low score? I didn't expect it. Hopefully I can just make birdies and make as many as I can.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT