SBS OPEN AT TURTLE BAY
February 12, 2009
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Yani, thanks for coming in. Great round out there. You're right on top of the leaderboard after the morning wave. If you would, just tell us a little bit about your round and how you played today. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I played very solid. My putting is pretty good. I had seven birdies and one bogey. I'm very happy to come back here. It feels like family for me, the LPGA. So I feel very comfortable. I'm very happy to come back and have a nice day today.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Do you feel any pressure this year, because you were the Rookie of the Year, last year to play really well?
 YANI TSENG: Actually, not really. I just feel really relaxed, and I don't want to put too much expectation, so I just feel really relaxed and happy for it.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions for Yani.

 Q. How were the conditions today?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. This morning, it was huge raining. It was like summer today, big rain, and after two minutes, it was sunny, so actually it was really tough the first three holes, and after that, they were very good and very good condition now. 
 The first three holes, it was a little bit wet, but it was all perfect. 

 Q. It's hard to be No. 1 in the world. Is that something you're looking at at this point?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. No. 1 in the world has always been my dream, my goal when I was very young. But I think I have a long way to go. Just do what I'm doing now and just see the results.

 Q. Are you trying to be No. 1 in the world or just take it one week at a time?
 YANI TSENG: I was surprised because I didn't play that good, and to be No. 3 in the world. But after winning, I knew I could play. I trust myself and be more confident. 

 Q. Were you surprised by how you played last year?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. I think that's why after the second, I really wanted to win a tournament after the McDonald's. I know I can win. After that I tried pretty hard to win. 
 I want to have fun. I know I can play well. But that's last year. Now is another new year, and I'm looking forward to this year.

 Q. You had five runner-up finishes last year. Why do you think you weren't able to get wins at those events?
 YANI TSENG: This year I've made more birdies, and if I just keep making birdies, it will be the perfect end of the year. I want to be a birdie machine. (Laughs).

 Q. Do you like the conditions to be really hard, like windy, or would you prefer calm?
 YANI TSENG: No. I really like hard, to give more challenge. And you can play, it's very good for a ball-striking player, and you can play any combination of shot. So if you're very calm, everybody has a chance, but it's very hard to know which one is better. So I like the challenge. 

 Q. How do you stay so mature and focused at only 20 years old?
 YANI TSENG: When I was young, I didn't stay home. I stayed in a little club in Taiwan. So I stayed there like 4 or 5 years. I think that's why I'm mature. I have to meet new people almost every day, so I really met a lot of people. So I think that's why I matured and feel like -- I stayed by myself. I didn't live with my family. So I've been able to handle very well. But I still have a lot of things to learn in the future. 

 Q. Living at a golf academy growing up, do you think you missed any teenage things?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. A lot. I always told them I don't have teenager times. I don't know what they're doing. Every time I go to school, I don't know what they're talking about. 
 But I really enjoy the golf. This is my job, and I like my job. I like what I'm doing. 
 After that, I could play a lot.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? Yani, thanks for coming in. Oh, let's do your scorecard. All right. Birdie on three.

YANI TSENG: 58.
 MIKE SCANLAN: 58-degree?
 YANI TSENG: 50 yards, tap in. Number four, 9-iron, 130 yards, tap in. And number 9, 3-wood, 25 feet for eagle and tap in for birdie. And number 10, 8-iron, 140 yards, slice in. And number 12, 30 yards, 58, 6 feet. Number 14, 90 yards, 52, tap in. And number 17, do I need to tell you? 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Yeah.
 YANI TSENG: I had a 3-wood I pushed through right in the bunker and about 20 yards short of pin, and I chipped in and I missed from four feet. And number 18, had 230 to the pin, hit a 3-wood over the bunker, and tap in for birdie.
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT