LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 14, 2008
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's go through your card.
 YANI TSENG: First hole pitching wedge, second shot 110, 25 feet. 
 Birdied 7. 52 (wedge) to 90 yards, seven feet. 
 No. 9, 5-iron for third shot and six-feet putt for bogey. 
 11, 90 yards, 52 (wedge) to eight feet.
 14, pitching wedge from 110, two feet. 
 Then 9-iron, 145 to 15 feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks for coming in. Nice round. Your second consecutive 68, and now you're just two shots behind Angela Stanford entering tomorrow's round. If you would, just talk about how you played today.
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I hit it really solid and my putting was really good today. I made a lot of putts some small and some just go in. I feel very relaxed and comfortable and looking forward to the next two days. 

 Q. The ninth hole, were you a little bit upset, because was that because of the noise or you missed the putt?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, it's a little bit of noise, but I kind of am not 100% concentrating, with the noise and everything, I feel like I'm not reading it and I just hit.

 Q. How do you feel coming into the third round with such a good score and having the opportunity to win this event where all of the best in the world are here?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, actually I feel really comfortable and next two days just keep going for me like these two days and just be relaxed. 

 Q. What do you need tomorrow to get in the outright lead, be more aggressive or just keep playing the same?
 YANI TSENG: I think I just have to play smart. Yesterday I really played smart but before, I always go for the pins, and on this course, you don't have to. Actually some holes, you just need to save par and then go. So you have to really save par. 

 Q. The greens, are they hard and fast, or not?
 YANI TSENG: I think today is a bit firm, not soft not like yesterday. But the greens, they are all pretty fast and downhill. I think they got a very good speed. 

 Q. In this club, we turn the 18 to 9 and 9 to 18, so in those tournaments the mariachi music plays when the players are putting, so our people never will be in silence. So just for advice to you, hole No. 9. On this hole, people never stop speaking and laughing. 
 YANI TSENG: Thank you. 

 Q. So be careful. 
 YANI TSENG: Okay. Thank you, I will. (Laughter).

 Q. Your key of today's game, can you tell us a little bit about it, your key for today?
 YANI TSENG: I think I really played smart today. Just pick some holes I have to make birdie and some holes I just need to save par. Some holes I play aggressive and some holes I play safe. So I think just keep walking through with my caddie, because this course, you really have to really have a good strategy for this golf course.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT