LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 12, 2008
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you for coming in. If you would, just talk about being in Guadalajara and how you like it so far.
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I'm very happy to come back to México again, and everybody was so friendly, very nice here, and I'm enjoying this week. 

 Q. What have you changed from your play from when you came here in Mexico City; what has been going on in your play? What have you been practicing on? 
 YANI TSENG: I think I'm working more with my short game and with my mental, just last time I came close, and I've got some more experience. So I just work more with my short game and putting. 

 Q. You're very young, but you have a lot of success this year. What is your plan for the next years? Is your plan to become No. 1? 
 YANI TSENG: I didn't plan actually to be No. 1 and I didn't plant actually to be No. 2 in the world, too. I still feel I have a long way to go, and I'm just working on my game. 
 Next year my goal is to win more tournaments, and I hope I can be a Player of the Year. That's my goal for next year. 

 Q. What do you think about Annika and your relationship with her? 
 YANI TSENG: She was always my goal and my idol. I feel very sad that she's going to retire and I hope that she's going to be back in the future. I'm very happy I knew her this year and I've had a very good time with her. 
 I have a present for her when she's going to retire. 

 Q. Would you like to talk about that? 
 YANI TSENG: I don't know, it's a surprise. Maybe. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: What is the present or do you not want to say? 
 YANI TSENG: It's kind of a personal, like a little bit with Chinese culture. It a new world, and she's going to have a new family, and it will mean a lot for her. 

 Q. Do you think that the Tour will have a huge change next year without Annika? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think it will change a lot, but I still think everything is still going on very well. Actually, this is my first year here, so maybe it will feel a little bit different. I always try to find her: "Where is Annika?" But next year I won't find her on the golf course.

 Q. Earlier this year Annika said that you had a lot of chances to be the next No. 1 player in the world. What do you think about that? Do you think you can do it? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think I can do it. I don't want her to be disappointed, so I will work very hard for No. 1. I'm very happy and surprised that she would say that. 

 Q. Can you tell us your feelings about being a major champion in your first year on Tour? A lot of players have been around for a while and have never been able to win one of those tournaments. Can you tell us a little bit about it? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, to win a major, it's my dream, it's not my goal. 
 So first time I come to the LPGA, that's really just my dream, to be the first Chinese to win a major. I got it so soon this year, I won a major, I didn't expect that I would win a major. 
 So everything, I feel very good, and I'm getting more famous and I'm learning a lot of experience from that tournament. 

 Q. Can you just talk about your learning experience, out of that win at McDonald's, which was the nicest experience or most valued experience that you learned after winning McDonald's? 
 YANI TSENG: The first two days, I was trying so hard to bring everything, and my coach is telling me, just like play practice round and enjoy your whole game. But I will try to do like that every week, but you know, every week is different. Sometimes I want to relax and I don't want to try too hard. But always it's very hard to keep like every week. 

 Q. At 19 years old, who else is coming after you, how many kids are playing golf right now in your country? Can you give me some numbers, or is it too early to talk about that? 
 YANI TSENG: Oh, my country, Taiwan? Actually golf is not really popular in Taiwan. Most popular is basketball, but I hope I can be a Lorena or a Se Ri Pak and be more popular with golf in Taiwan. There are more juniors to play but I don't really know how much, just a little I think. 

 Q. How many golf courses do you have? 
 YANI TSENG: How many, I think 70 golf courses, and it's like 12 golf courses near my home, within 30 minutes. 

 Q. You've finished in the Top-10 and only one victory, a major. What do you think is the thing that you have to make to have more victories in tournaments? What do you have to do to win more tournaments? 
 YANI TSENG: I think what I have to do is just try to be -- some days, I so hard to win the tournament. A couple tournaments I was leading on Sunday and I was trying too hard. But I'm ready now. I'm ready to win the next few tournaments and just be like on Sunday that it's Monday, every day is the same. 

 Q. From what you have seen so far on this golf course, how low can the scores go on Sunday, the final score? 
 YANI TSENG: I think 15-under. Because this course is really tough, you have to hit all kind of good shots, so it's a very tough course, it's like a major course. So I think 15-under would be a very good score. Actually the putting is always important in tournaments. This is a really great course. 

 Q. How much would you like to beat Lorena on her home course? 
 YANI TSENG: I don't want to say -- I don't know. (Giggling) Everybody will be cheering for Lorena, but I'll just play my own game and just feel like this is my home, too. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Gracias. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT