LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
July 19, 2008
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Yani, thanks for coming in once again. Great round out there. Currently tied for the lead at this point in the clubhouse. Talk about how it went today.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, today I'm really happy I did second shot, and hit it very solid with my irons, too. And I feel very comfortable with that.   
  
  Q. On number 9, you hit your driver to the water?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I hit a 5-wood to the water.  
  
  Q. When you're able to save par like that, you seemed like that kind of pumped you up at that point in the round?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, really feel so confident with that. I know I can hit really close and make a par. And then feeling like you can make a par, that's so cool. I had 155, I had an 8-iron like 7 feet or so.   
  
  Q. What happens when you make a putt like that? Is that even better than making a birdie?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I feel better to make birdie though. Yeah.   
  
  Q. For tomorrow's round, you're going to play with Michelle. Have you ever played with her? What kind of atmosphere do you expect tomorrow?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I played with her in 2004 Women's Amateur Public Links. Yeah, and I feel so happy I play with her again. A lot of people will be following us, so I'm looking forward.   
  
  Q. On number 9, you told me a little bit about it, but your drive. Did you hit driver on that hole?   
 YANI TSENG: No, I hit a 5-wood. I just push out. I don't know. I was so scared because the left was not over, but I was so scared to hit to the left. It's my mental game, so.   
  
  Q. Like you said, that was a heck of a par?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Does it kind of feel like a birdie to get out of there with a par?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, for sure. Seriously, really good turning point was there.   
  
  Q. Health-wise with your elbow, is it not giving you any problems this week? How has that held up?   
 YANI TSENG: I went to see a doctor the last two weeks. When I was in Taiwan, I saw a doctor every day. It's getting better and better.   
 I don't feel any hurt. I put ice on it after I hurt it. So everything's going pretty good.  
  
  Q. The tape or whatever that you keep on your elbow, is that for pain, or what does the tape do?   
 YANI TSENG: It's like no temperature. It's just like ties the muscle to hold it and not twist it. They've got a lot of different colors, see, I matched my shirt (laughing).   
  
  Q. Is the weather a factor earlier in the day?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, today the wind was so strong today. It's still there though, it's not hot.  
  
  Q. What do you remember about that public links when you and Michelle played each other? What were your thoughts about that when you think about it now?   
 YANI TSENG: Actually, before we didn't talk a lot. It's 36 holes. You say, hey, I'm Yani. And she says, hey, I'm Michelle. And we say thank you, good shot. That's it. We didn't talk.   
 After that, a couple of years we talked a lot. Every time when I would see her I would say hi to her. So I think tomorrow will be a lot of fun. I hope so.   
  
  Q. I guess this tournament has shown because obviously someone shooting 61 today, it's not a match play format by any means tomorrow, is it, with you and Michelle?   
 YANI TSENG: I don't think so. Tomorrow is another day, so, yeah.   
  
  Q. I mean, people can come in this tournament, people can come from behind and really kind of catch everybody in the leaders, can't they?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, this tour is like a lot of people can reach for it. If your putting is good, you can make anything. Putting can cover anything, so.   
  
  Q. Regarding playing with Michelle, you know, people -- she's very famous and she draws a lot of people. Do you think you'll have a few fans out there tomorrow though?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think. I hope that more people will be cheering for me, too. But that's all right. I have felt like that before when I was in public links. Nobody was cheering for me. So doesn't matter. I just play my game, and everybody's watching. If I playing they're cheering for me, so.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Yani.   
 YANI TSENG: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT