LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
July 18, 2008
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Yani, thanks for coming in and joining us. Great round out there for you. One stroke off the lead. Talk about your round today and your eight birdies.
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I play very solid today and my second shot was great. I almost tap-in every hole. I feel it's very good. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: We have Yani's scorecard available and it'll be in the transcript.

 Q. I know you bogeyed your last hole. What happened there exactly? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think I just too aggressive on that putt. Yesterday I didn't feel my long putts. I couldn't control speed because maybe I didn't practice the long putt a lot. 
 I just couldn't control the speed and I passed the hole like four, five feet for second putt. I feel very disappointed, but I feel like my (indiscernible.) 

 Q. You're one shot behind. Playing in the afternoon we always hear that maybe the conditions are maybe sometimes a little more difficult with greens or whatever. Obviously you had a very good round. Were the conditions fine as far as you were concerned? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think everything is perfect, it's in good shape. I think -- because everybody is saying, so I didn't feel any change. I just play my game.

 Q. After winning the LPGA, after going though that and kind of figuring out how to win so to speak at least one time, do you feel just more confidence now if you're in contention like this after doing it once and winning? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, for sure. I feel very confidence. Every tournament I was feel I gonna go in top 10 or last group or playing for the champion. 
 I feel it was really comfortable with that, and I know I can do it. I know I can win, so...

 Q. Just generally I'm sure you're happy as you go to the weekend and you're right at the top of the leaderboard. Are you happy that you're right at the top?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I'm happy. I like my position now and I'm looking forward to next two days.

 Q. What do you think has gone well the last couple days to allow to you get to the top? 
 YANI TSENG: I think my second shot and my putting, my stroke is very good. I worked with my coach. The stroke, everything, I feel very confidence.

 Q. What's your goal for the weekend? 
 YANI TSENG: My goal is win the money prize. I don't want to say I win the champion, but I just keep going. 

 Q. The bogey on 18, do you chalk that up at all to nerves? Were you nervous? 
 YANI TSENG: I don't feel nervous, but I just didn't feel confidence with that very long putt.

 Q. How long was it again?
 YANI TSENG: 35 feet. 

 Q. As far as tomorrow goes, everybody gets regrouped. I guess you'll be playing in the morning. Just excited about the weekend? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I'm very exciting for this week and just playing the tournament. 

 Q. I know you went through your card, but of the birdies you had today, were there any one or two that really got you going?
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: She had three straight tap-ins on 13, 14, and 15, so her ball-striking went to tap-in range on the back side. 

 Q. You're saying your second shots today were... 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.

 Q. So three in a row just... 
 YANI TSENG: Tap-in. Just almost went in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT