LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
July 16, 2008
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Yani, thanks for joining us today. You've got a spectacular rookie season going on. You won your first tournament, the McDonald's LPGA Championship, and it was also a major. And you're also leading the Rookie of the Year race. Tell everyone about your season so far and how you've been playing.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I been playing very good for this year and I been work very hard. I went back to Taiwan last week. I have a lot of fun, but it's very busy. But I looking forward to play this tournament.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: You played in the Pro-Am this morning. Tell everyone what your first impression of the golf course is.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, the golf course is in very good shape, and I feel a lot confidence with this golf course. I just need to work hard.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Especially since you just took a vacation, right?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions.   
  
  Q. Candie Kung won this tournament. I know she's originally from Taiwan. Do you know her very well at all?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I know her very well. I'm rookie so they all take care of me very good. We are friends, very good. Yeah.   
  
  Q. The fact that not only did you get your first win this year but it was a major tournament, did it feel like you thought it would feel once you did win it and they said you were the champion?   
 YANI TSENG: You mean I won the major?   
  
  Q. Yeah. Once you won the major. Everybody dreams of getting their first victory. Did it sink in right away that, I'm the LPGA champion?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I know I gonna win a tournament this year but I just really don't know it's a major.   
 I'm so exciting I even couldn't believe that I make that putt and I won the playoff. I won the major, so....  
  
  Q. This week, at this particular tournament - I don't know if you've looked at the list - but some of the big-name players are maybe taking the week off. When you look that, do you think to yourself, Well, this gives me even a better opportunity to finish at the top or near the top, or do you worry about who else is here this week?  
 YANI TSENG: That's why I'm here. No, I just kidding. I take two weeks off so I need my rookie point. Actually, in the tour you don't know who going to won this week. Is all the good players, so...  
  
  Q. So you look at it as they're all good?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Even if they're not in the top 10?   
 YANI TSENG: You never know because every week is change.  
  
  Q. As far as this being your rookie year, what's been maybe the toughest part of just getting used to playing out here on the tour? Is it the travel?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Staying in different cities?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, staying in different city I think is a lot of fun, but the traveling was so tired. I didn't know like maybe we can just drive one hour in car and we still take a flight. So that's why I'm rookie. I still learning a lot, uh-huh.   
  
  Q. After winning one tournament, and especially a major, did you reassess your goals for the rest of the season after that?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I hope I can won a couple more. I hope next few years I still can be won a major, too.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 YANI TSENG: It was very busy and I have no time to try to rest. I take photo, sign autograph, and go on TV show. Everything is coming very fast, but it's so busy.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: So it almost wasn't a vacation. You were working the whole time.  
 YANI TSENG: I have no time to go shopping. It's not vacation.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Did you get a chance to play golf at all back in Taiwan?   
 YANI TSENG: No. Because I hurt my elbow and I went to see a doctor every day.  
  
  Q. Tell us but elbow and how did you get it treated?   
 YANI TSENG: Since last Q-School in September, maybe I work very hard in Q-School that's why I getting hurt. But be long time I didn't hurt my elbow. In U.S. Open it's getting sore and very hurt with my elbow.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: So just kind of a tendonitis?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, the triceps tendonitis.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Be careful of the British Open.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. The course very hard.   
  
  Q. Are you playing in France next week?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. That's difficult travel going from here all the way over there. Like you said, you've been of the last two weeks, so you really felt like even though the travel is tough you really felt like you needed to play this week, with your rookie points and a lot of things you needed to play?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I think some of the -- yeah, I think I still need to get point and play this week get used to still stay in the tournament and still just stay fresh. Yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT