SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 9, 2015
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty good sign for you out there?  You bogeyed two of the first three, I think and really steadied yourself and turned it around.
YANI TSENG: Yeah, when I start tempo was a little off.  But after the three hole I tell myself to get the tempo back.
Everything is good.  Putting is getting better, and then I finish with birdie out of like last four hole.  So it's always good sign to making lots of birdies out there.
So just feel very comfortable.  Just very happy to be back in position, see my name on the first page of the leaderboard.
Q. When it's going a bit awry out there, two bogeys in the first three holes, how did you know what it is?  Do you know it's just tempo now?  Is there a specific swing thought you're focused on now?
YANI TSENG: No, I mean, I wasn't feel any different.  I think was just the tempo was just really fast.  My caddie is kind of telling me like taking my backswing a little slower, so I kind of pay attention for that a little bit.
But nothing else different.  I hit two bad drives on my second shot -- second hole or third hole -- but I hitting good second shot and third shot.  I just didn't make a putt.
Especially on this course you need to put it on the fairway to get it in play.
Q. How are you driving to this week?
YANI TSENG: Pretty good.  So far so good.  Two more days, and I will keep it the same and just be patient out there.
Q. Pretty comforting to be in this position again?
YANI TSENG: Yeah, pretty comfortable.  Just feels confidence, too.  Just like I said, very happy to be back in this position again.  Very looking forward for next two days.
Q. Xi You said you all were speaking Mandarin out there.  It was the first time you'd ever played together.  What did you see from her?
YANI TSENG: Yeah, I mean, she is one of my good friends on the tour.  I know she start -- I mean, this last year was her rookie year, so kind of getting to know her this year more.
She's a great kid.  Very sweet.  She played some great golf out there, too.  It's great to see the Chinese girl coming out more on the tour.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT