GINN OPEN
April 20, 2008
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's do your card to start. The second to 24 feet.  
 YANI TSENG: 9-iron to 24 feet.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: 9-iron to 24 feet.  
 YANI TSENG: Number 5, is 5-iron to 40 feet.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: 5-iron to 40.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, and number 10, is 5-wood to 22 feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: 5-wood, 22 feet. Can we do the bogey on 6, too? What happened there?   
 YANI TSENG: Pitching second shot and hit it short, and three-putt.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: How far was your three-putt from.  
 YANI TSENG: Three-putt from 35 feet.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Three-putt from 35.  
 YANI TSENG: On the fringe.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: On the fringe, okay. And bogey on 13?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, three-putting 13 feet.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Three-putt from 30 or 13?   
 YANI TSENG: 30 feet, yeah, 30 feet.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: What club did you hit into the green there?   
 YANI TSENG: 7.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: 15?   
 YANI TSENG: 15, was second shot, and I pushed to the right and chipped from like 12 feet and missed it. And on 17 on the fringe, I'm using the putter and I three-putt.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: How far would you say you were?   
 YANI TSENG: Oh, it was one putt, it was like 45 feet, maybe more than that. Then number 17, I did 48.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. And what club did you hit into the green there?   
 YANI TSENG: 58.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: 58-degree?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I hit that and then two feet.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay, Yani, thanks for coming in. This is your second runner-up finish of the year.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: First time was in Mexico. This time playing with Lorena, can you just talk a little about your day and any pressures that you felt?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I didn't feel any pressure today, because I just like yesterday, I say I've got a little something for her. I just want to win and beat her. I was really, really confident.   
 I didn't have a lot of experience, (indiscernible). And she told me after, she say, like, we will play a lot of final group together or something. So I say, yeah. And I need to keep up and work hard.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: What does it mean to have the number one player in the world, Lorena, say something like that to you? She must realize you're a pretty good golfer.  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, she said I'm a good golfer. And I feel good. I feel very good, and I feel very confident. And she's a very nice person. She just be patient for whole day. Yeah, she's really number one.   
  
  Q. Do you remember what hole when she told you about playing in final groups together?   
 YANI TSENG: Oh, number 18. Because I say I'm going to enjoy to play with you, and she said that to me.   
  
  Q. And you switched putters earlier in the week. Did you take it from Dave Stockton? Did he recommend it for you? Why did you make the change?   
 YANI TSENG: Because he say I should choose the putter, and I just trust him to do that. And I think it gave me confidence, because this putter is heavier. So I can make a good stroke for that, yeah.   
  
  Q. What kind of emotions are you feeling right now? Are you proud of the way you played, or are you a little sad? Because, obviously, you wanted to win?  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I was almost catch-up. But on the last couple holes, I just make some bad putts. And, then, but I'm not really disappointed for that, because I think it's very good experience. I still have a long way to go, and I just keep learning and learning. So I feel good. I'm upset, yeah, but it was very good.   
  
  Q. It seemed like you were watching her very closely, everything she did trying to learn. Was that your idea, somebody else's idea, was it specifically you were watching to learn?   
 YANI TSENG: Say that again?   
  
  Q. Everything she did you were looking at her very closely it seemed to see if you could learn how she acts on Sunday. Was that your idea or someone else's idea?   
 YANI TSENG: No, that's just my idea. Because I knew if I keep learning a lot of things when you go on the golf course, I would be very, I would be like still very fast to like go up, so.   
  
  Q. You said when you first started today that you didn't feel any pressure going into the round. Someone so young, how are you so mentally tough?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I really don't feel pressure today. Because to me, I just when we were in Mexico, just keep me relaxed, talking to my caddie and just have fun and enjoying the course. Enjoying the final group, enjoy everybody's clapping, yeah. That was this today.   
  
  Q. You were watching that oh so closely. Is there anything that you learned specifically from Lorena? Anything that you saw that surprised you?   
 YANI TSENG: There was no surprise. I think it's just she's very patient. When she missed the putt or makes the putt, she's still going next hole, she has very good attitude and very good body language. Yeah, I think that's the rule number one. She has good body language, yeah.   
  
  Q. You're off to such a good start right now. What are your goals for the rest of the this year? Do you have anything set in mind that you want to accomplish now?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I want to have a good year, and I want to win one tournament for this year. So that's my goal, and to keep making birdies.   
  
  Q. You talked about Lorena's body language being good after she missed putts.   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.  
  
  Q. It looked like your second bogey on the back nine, you might have slumped a little. Were you a little down at that point?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I was a little bit down. I didn't like number 12, the birdie chance was like turning point for me, and I didn't make it. Number 11 and number 12, and I missed the putt, I missed 13. It was kind of like go down and down, so.   
  
  Q. You seemed like you were struggling with your swing on the back nine. What specifically was going wrong with your swing and what caused it?   
 YANI TSENG: Oh, I think just try too hard. I mean, just try too hard, and it's a lot of things going through my mind. I was thinking so much. I don't know what I'm thinking, you know.   
 I should just okay, make a swing, make a stroke, and don't thinking anything. But I don't know why, the back nine, I just couldn't do that.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 YANI TSENG: A little bit. Maybe not just a little bit, more than that.   
  
  Q. Are you playing next week?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I'm going next week.  
  
  Q. They said you may be going back to Taiwan, and you told them you're not going back this week?   
 YANI TSENG: No, I'm not going back yet.   
  
  Q. All right, Yani, thanks for coming in, and good luck next week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT