GINN OPEN
April 19, 2008
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: We have Yani's scorecard. Her birdie on the 4th hole, 9-iron to four feet. 
 The bogey on the 5th hole, it was a 3-putt. The first putt was from 25 feet. 
 Hole 7 was a birdie. 58-degree wedge to three feet. 
 Birdie on 16. 6-iron to 25 feet and made that putt. 
 On 18, that birdie was an 8-iron to five feet, and everyone saw her make that putt as well.
 Yani, thanks for coming in and joining us today. You're one stroke off the lead, and you said yesterday that it was your dream to play with Lorena Ochoa, and tomorrow you get to do it. Talk about how you played and what you're looking forward to tomorrow.
 YANI TSENG: Dreams come true. I saw Ochoa make the birdie on last hole, too. So I say, Okay, I should make birdie, and I was one shot behind. I think I just don't want to put too much pressure. 
 I thinking, Okay, I want to learn something from her. I think that's my attitude for tomorrow. I feel very confidence for tomorrow, too. Yeah.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: We've also talked the past couple days about the connection between and you Teresa Lu. You're both from Taiwan. You know each other pretty well. It's you, Teresa, and Lorena. Does that make it more special to play with a friend like that? 
 YANI TSENG: Well, yeah. Like two to beat Ochoa if we can. Yeah, I don't think we're playing tomorrow, is it? Oh, really. That will be very funny. Yeah. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for Yani. 

 Q. Lorena said she had breakfast and lunch with you today. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. 

 Q. Did you learn anything at that point? 
 YANI TSENG: You mean in breakfast? 

 Q. Did you pick her brain at all?
 YANI TSENG: No, I don't think so. Just have a little bit talk. Yeah, I don't think I learn something from there. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Was that the first time you two had spoken? 
 YANI TSENG: No. After yesterday she was introduce herself to me, so I was really exciting for that. She's a very nice person.

 Q. You talk about how you don't feel any pressure right now. But how is that possible when there's so much at stake here? How can you not feel pressure at this point?
 YANI TSENG: In Mexico I was -- lost the No. 1. So on that time I was trying too hard and put so much pressure on me. I said, Okay, I need to won, but I don't think that work. 
 So this time I just stay relax and just keep doing my job. I just try -- just say, Okay, I want to try to be aggressive tomorrow, because today I think I was a little bit pretty safe. So I just be aggressive tomorrow. 
 If I don't win, still very good experience for me. I just stay relax for that. Yeah. 

 Q. If you should win, what would happen in Taiwan? Would this be big news in Taiwan if you win? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. It will be very big news for that. And I think they want me to go back to Taiwan after I win. That's what I think. But I think just now in Taiwan they have television for like life and LPGA too, so everybody watch. So maybe I will say hi to Taiwan tomorrow. 

 Q. Do you think you'll go back? If you should win the tournament, will you jump on a plane and go back to Taiwan?
 YANI TSENG: I don't think so. That's too hard. Yeah, I still have long way to go. Just one tournament, so I still have a long way. 

 Q. Did you even notice the leaderboard when Lorena passed you? Did you have any reaction at all when her name was up there?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I saw that. I say, Oh, I going to keep up for me. I just really say, Okay, I going to play good. I don't want to be aggressive. 
 Yeah, because it was pretty -- like so safe. So after, I see, Oh, Ochoa is over me. I say, Okay, I need to just keep up. 

 Q. Are you saying you started the round playing safe?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. But I don't want play safe, but I just cannot open to play like aggressive. Yeah.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Are you intimidated tomorrow going up against Lorena? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. Confidence and waiting for tomorrow.

 Q. Do you train by running? Because you're in wonderful condition. Do you run a lot?
 YANI TSENG: No, I didn't workout. I should workout. After this tournament I'm going -- no, after Stanford I'm going back California and workout with the TPI. So I need to start a workout. That's why I can play more tournaments in a row. Yeah. 

 Q. When you say you have to stay more relaxed, what do you do to make yourself relax? 
 YANI TSENG: Maybe I just make some fun with my caddie. I hope she can make fun for me. Because today I had my head a little bit down, and my caddie said, What are you looking for? Are you looking for something that was on the ground? I said, Oh, no. Yeah. 

 Q. Wondering what your caddie's name is and how you know her and how long you've known her. 
 YANI TSENG: I know her about seven and eight years. She's like big sister. She name's Sherry Lin.

 Q. Is she a player?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, she's a pro in Taiwan. But she want to be like a coach or something. She don't want to be a pro. She say it's too tough. She's lost money more than she make, so she just don't want to play. 
 I say, oh, yeah that is true. Just caddie for me. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 YANI TSENG: This course is very tough and windy. The green was so fast. But in Taiwan the green is kind of a little bit slow and bumpy. Yeah, it's not really soft. Yeah. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: You're just a rookie on and you're on this incredible season. You've made just short of $200,000 in five starts. What's something we don't know about you? What can you tell us about yourself that no one knows? 
 YANI TSENG: You mean just with golf? 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: About anything.
 YANI TSENG: I like to play pool. I always say pool just like putting. I went to a tournament for pool in Taiwan, top 16. So I tell my friend, Maybe off-season I going to play pool tournament. It was a lot of fun. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: That's a good fact. Any other questions for Yani? 

 Q. Any other family or friends here?
 YANI TSENG: No. My family is not here. My family was in home, because my dad still business and my mom just stay home. 
 But I think they were back like next couple weeks for the majors. Yeah. But it's good to have family for support, but I still have a lot of friends, so it's good. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 YANI TSENG: Oh, yeah. I think I understand half. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: It's a compliment, right? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 YANI TSENG: All right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT