U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR PUBLIC LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2004
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHONDA GLENN:  Ya Ni, that was a wonderful victory, by far the greatest championship you've ever won.  How do you feel about being the champion?
 YA NI TSENG:   I was very surprised because I was 4 down in the middle of the tournament, but then I'm happy to end up catching up through 18 holes.
RHONDA GLENN:  Yesterday you said you were very nervous about playing today.  Did you feel nervous on the first hole?
 YA NI TSENG:   The first hole, I was very nervous before the driving     the first driver, after hitting the driver, and then also, seeing how Michelle hit the ball.  I feel I'm comfortable, and then after a couple of holes, especially after I birdied that hole, I feel much more comfortable.
Q.  You had such a good start going 2 up, when you fell 4 down, what did you think your chances of winning actually were?
 YA NI TSENG:   Of course, after the turnaround, within six holes, to go 4 down, I became a little bit anxious.  But then I tried to calm down and said there are still a lot of holes to play and I'll do my best, try my best to put on a good performance.
Q.  You're 4 down and then you went up a couple holes at the end of the morning round, how much confidence did you take to the second 18?
 YA NI TSENG:   Yeah, definitely after the 18th hole, I made two birdies, and then after the lunch, I went to the driving range and told myself, I birdied many times on the front, like two, three, four.  And so I kept telling myself I needed to get some birdies and to get some holes back.
Q.  Earlier Michelle talked about how important it was to have honors on the tee box and kind of set the tone.  Did you think it was important to be hitting first and putting the pressure back on Michelle?
 YA NI TSENG:   It doesn't really matter.  In fact, I prefer to tee off second.  The reason is because I tend to be rushed.  The way I hit the ball, I step up and I hit it.  So it really doesn't matter.  If it's my choice, I don't have to have the honors.
Q.  What do you think the key was?  What was the turning point in the match?
 YA NI TSENG:   No. 12 hole, when Michelle bogeyed that hole, and then I birdied on the 13th hole     14th, that's when I felt I had a chance.
Q.  Given Michelle's reputation, she can be a very intimidating player.  How did she handle that during the match?
 YA NI TSENG:  I'm really not intimidated by Michelle.  There's a couple of reasons.  One is I look at myself as a long hitter, too.  And second is my friends who happen also to play in this tournament watched Michelle play and they told me, "You're going to do fine and you're just as good."  Some of my fellow competitors told me that I've been doing well, and if I keep up with that     so I start to build up my confidence by not being intimidated.

I've always wanted to play with Michelle.  So it ended up to be a wonderful opportunity.  I always wanted to play with Michelle.
Q.  What did you think when you realized, you got into the semis, that you were going to play?
 YA NI TSENG:   Once the match play tree came out, I was excited because I would have an opportunity to play with Michelle because I know Michelle probably most likely is going to go into the finals, so I was very excited that we were not on the same bracket, so no chance being eliminated early on.
Q.  Can you take us through the putt on 18, how long was it?  The shot into the green, you had an iron and then you went back and you used a wood, what made you switch?
 YA NI TSENG:   I saw Michelle put it in the bunker, so I putt on that green many times during this tournament.  Even though the distance is 225 , but even if I didn't carry it, I'm comfortable with the sand.  So that's why I did it, right into the bunker .
Q.  How long was the putt?
YA NI TSENG:   Four paces, so that's 12 feet.
Q.  Your caddie was talking to you a lot throughout the day, how much did she help you throughout the week, since you had never met?
 YA NI TSENG:   Since Cindy doesn't really play golf, and she just kept me more like at one hole at a time, helped me calm down and just basic psychologically calmed me down.
RHONDA GLENN:  Did that help?
YA NI TSENG:   Okay.  (Laughter.)
 THE INTERPRETER:  I would just note, because this is also the first time Cindy carried a bag.  She never carried a bag in any tournament.  So we have to tell her what to do, and after the match play, after the stroke play, we actually     Ya Ni sort of said, you know, she doesn't even tend the flag.  So, I had to sit down with her.
Q.  You had gotten it back to all square, and then on the 15th hole, had the poor drive.  What happened there, and what did that do to your mindset?
 YA NI TSENG:   I did not panic because it's not the last hole.  I still had three holes to make that.
Q.  After the drive,  you had been fairly accurate all day, and then that one was     inaudible?
 YA NI TSENG:   Just too much in a rush.
RHONDA GLENN:  Ya Ni, congratulations and see you next year.  You're not planning on turning professional or anything any time soon, are you?
 YA NI TSENG:   When I turn 18 or eligible.
RHONDA GLENN:  Congratulations.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT