KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2015
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Take us through that shot on 18.   Pretty awesome.  
YANI TSENG:   I never thought it was going to be that close, and I was a little like unbalanced, so I kind of tied my shoes a little bit.  
   
 Q.   You untied them?  
YANI TSENG:   No.   Tighter.   So make sure I'm still good and not slipping.   So I don't know, actually there was one second in my mind I was like, how about if I hit it in the water.   I was like, oh, if I hit it in the water, I just go drop another ball.   And I got like a few birdies in my pocket and should be okay.   So I was like, if I make bogey, it's no big deal.   So I mean it give me good confidence on that shot, but I never thought it was going to be that good.   I told you that's shot of the day.   No, that's shot of life.   (Laughs).   
So no, I think I hit some better shots than that.  
   
 Q.   What was the yardage in?  
YANI TSENG:   Oh, my God, what is it?   I can't remember.  
   
 Q.   What club?  
YANI TSENG:   7‑iron.   It was 140.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   And so‑‑  
YANI TSENG:   I picture where I wanted, just a little short and rolled left.   Ball striking, everything was the same as in my picture.   Yeah, it's the best shot of the day.  
   
 Q.   When you got to the ball, Yani, are you thinking, oh, man?  
YANI TSENG:   I am.   I probably shooting like hybrid or something, like it goes downhill and wind up in the bunker and just not good luck, and I was like, oh, I feel good about that.   I know it's just another challenge, and I stay positive, and I stay patient the whole day, and there's no reason I'm not staying patient for that last shot.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, yeah.   You left the putt short at 17.   Were you pretty bummed at that?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I mean today I putted well.   I had so many that lipped out and so many that were just barely.   And I saw Inbee just bam, bam, bam.   I was like, okay.   (Laughs).  
It just feels very different.   So I was very happy to play with those two players.   They're playing great, so it kind of keep me try to keep making birdies on every hole.   I stay really patient out there because I know I putt well, so I didn't change anything, like others.   On the par‑3 I make three‑putt there.   
I always tell myself, if I don't desperate putt, I probably don't make birdie on the next three holes.  
   
 Q.   What were the longer putts today, the birdie putts?  
YANI TSENG:   I think everything was pretty short.   This birdie putt probably would be like the longest.   
   
 Q.   So you were hitting your irons really well?  
YANI TSENG:   I was hitting irons, and I made one eagle.   That's the longest putt I have.   That would be like almost 30 feet.  
   
 Q.   On the eagle on 10?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, like 10 yards.   Yeah, eagle on 10.   That would be the longest putt I made today for birdie.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit in there?  
YANI TSENG:   I hit a 3‑wood on the drive and 3‑wood on the second drive.  
   
 Q.   So pretty happy with where it ended up?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, for sure.  
   
 Q.   You must have really hit the second shot pretty well?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   So I mean yeah, everything was pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Do you hit the 3‑wood much farther off the tee than, like in the fairway how much less do you hit it?  
YANI TSENG:   I don't think they are very different.  
   
 Q.   So they're pretty close, the two shots are pretty close distance wise?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, just maybe 10 more on the tee.  
   
 Q.   Where is your confidence right now?   A lot of people watching you over the last couple of years have said you really lost confidence.  
YANI TSENG:   I have lost confidence.  
   
 Q.   So how have you gained it back and where is it right now?  
YANI TSENG:   I don't know.   It just‑‑ I feel like everything is kind of getting together right now, like I changed a new coach.   I have a new trainer, and last couple years I've been really struggling and it's kind of for me it's time that I figured out better, and kind of knowing myself better, like what's the best way for me.   And I feel like it's time to go out and kick some butt, you know.   
You know, I want to enjoy the golf again.   Last two years I don't really enjoy it as much, and I always tell people, no, I'm enjoying it, I'm happy, but actually, I'm not.   In my mind I'm just really, really disappointed in what I do, very upset.   
But now I feel the confidence is coming from the inside.   I tell myself, let's be confident, Yani, like be confident, you're good.   But now this thing is coming from the inside.   So it feels very different.   Even I say I really enjoy the golf right now, it's really coming from the inside.   It's not just, you know, always tell people, enjoy it, play golf.   It's easy to say, but now it's really, I'm doing it.   So it feels very, very different.   Even better than when I played my best.   It feels different, because I mean everything was coming very quickly.   And it's‑‑ I probably don't know how this comes and how it goes.   Now I know how everything comes from.  
   
 Q.   I was telling Meghan, I am just amazed that La Costa was your last win.   I mean that is‑‑  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Is that kind of‑‑ I know, but I mean that is like when you finished there that day, remember, it was raining and all that stuff.   I mean everybody was talking about, wow, this is‑‑ it could be a five‑year run; right?   You know, but that's golf?  
YANI TSENG:   You just don't know, too.   Like Annika, star, be No. 1 after 25 years and 26 years old.  
   
 Q.   Well, it's golf, isn't it?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   And I learned a lot.   I mean I'm really happy what I have.   I know it sounds weird, but I'm really happy that I actually struggling because that's how I learning, because before I don't know‑‑ like I know, but I didn't really know what's going on.   But like now I really knows, and I've become more mature on the course, too.   So I'm very happy I've actually been struggling and now if I can coming back, I'd be happy again.   Like right now, I don't really have to do so well.   I think everything comes a bonus.   You are happy, the golf will come.  
In that way I feel like I am inspire more people.   And I never give up.   It's tough.   Like it just‑‑ but those things, like play golf, like now I feel I love golf so much even more than when I was a kid, so I want to play my best.   So I'm just really appreciate what I have like the last two years.  
   
 Q.   I know you said new coach, new trainer.   How hard were those decisions?   When were those done?   I know you're with David Donatucci; right?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I don't like to change things.   It's always very hard to say good‑bye with the one before, but in the U.S., I think I'm really lucky to have all the teams, all the people around me that always give good support.   
Even I tell my coach before, Kevin, even I tell her‑‑ tell him I want to find another coach, and he say, yeah, we still good friends and I'm always supporting you.   Even Gary Gilchrist is the same.   
So they don't really give me pressure that I have to stay with them.   Even now we always keep in touch, so I'm just lucky enough to have good team around me, like Claude and Dave, and they're awesome.   They make me laugh and give me good confidence and always tell me don't forget how good I am.   Even last week I didn't play good, and they text me, they said they still believe in it.   Like they're not even worried about it.   So always feeling good I got their text like from Orlando.   And it's very happy.   I'm just very appreciate.  
   
 Q.   Who is your new swing coach?  
YANI TSENG:   Claude Harmon.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   Awesome.   And you played super well in Asia.   Was there certain things that were just clicking that you were like, ah, this is what I've been working on and it finally clicked or was it just overall?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, the things I worked with Dave and worked with Claude, I think it's very good.   It kept me very simple, and they worked together, too.   So I think Claude teach me very simple, more like body movement.   So I think that's how I am, like more feel player, so I'm not as technique.   Like before first day I see Claude, I'm like, do you think this grip is better or this grip is better?   He's like, just grip.   Whatever feels good, just grip.   Don't worry about it.   
   
 Q.   A little different, huh?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   And he asked me, did you know when you play your best how you grip.   I was like, no, I don't know.   I just grip it.   So now, they're like why you ask.   As long as you don't grip it upside down.   So yeah, just try to get me back as not as mechanic.   Keep me very simple and not down on myself as much, too.  
   
 Q.   The Yani Tseng Invitational, where is the Yani Invitational going to be this year?  
YANI TSENG:   Rancho Santa Fe.   It's going to be the end of June and I think first of July.   
   
 Q.   Okay.   That's the second one or the third one, because I know it was at the Farms.  
YANI TSENG:   The first year was at the Farms.   This year will be there.   So I'll be here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT