HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2015
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, you showed us what was happening last week when you tied for second, but we're going to get that smile off your face after today? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I'm very happy about my round today.   I played very confident out there.   But I think it really takes time because some of the holes are really tough out there and it's good to finish with par. 
I feel like there's a couple decisions I back out and make a change, and I feel it was great.   I really started trusting myself and enjoy to play golf again and enjoy it again.

Q.   How does it feel to be sitting atop a leaderboard again?
YANI TSENG:   Oh, it's fun.   It's so much fun.   Like I tell my friends, my parents on the website, they don't have to scroll down to see my name.   They can just see right on top the first page (laughter).
I was very happy the way I change, and like you said, back to smile again and really play golf out there.

Q.   Watching you over the last three weeks, you're back to the Yani where you're getting on with it and not thinking all the time and overthinking and nervous.   You're just out there and you're ready to go and you're back to what you were?
YANI TSENG:   Actually I was pretty nervous out there.   I turned and it was a good motivation.   I feel like I missed the excitement and I'm hitting longer‑‑ it's just so much more fun, golf.
And like you said, I'm not thinking about anything out there, or I'm thinking it's very positive.   I kind of avoid myself to what pulls me off, so it's easier for me to self‑talk and stay positive. 

Q.   This must really, really excite you for this season.   You must be really looking forward to going into it now?
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, it's a marathon.   It's not a sprint.   So I want to play one shot at a time, like today, I finished with 6‑under.   I don't know how many birdies I made, so that's how I need to feel out there.   And today and tomorrow is another new day and very exciting out there and try to not think too much on Sunday. 

Q.   Tell us about your round, eight birdies, one bogey.   Do you feel like you could have done better? 
YANI TSENG:   Actually there was seven birdies out there and I missed one hole.   But I played with really confidence out there.   There's some shots that really takes time to think about because the wind is kind of swirling a little bit.   Actually I'm very happy to not rush and focus on one shot at a time and play confidence golf and play not scary golf.   I really enjoy out there, really enjoy.

Q.   Last week I asked you what was the one thing you needed to do out there in order to play good golf, and you said, patience, that word, patience, has come up again today. 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, it is.   I had lots of birdie chance out there and I tried to stay patient and there's some shots that there's tough holes out there and I just tried to save par and I don't worry about play smart out there and be patient.   If I make birdie I'm happy.   If not, I go to the next hole and still focus on my one shot at a time. 

Q.   Confidence has played a big part in the great start you've had to the season.   Compared to this time last year, where would you rate confidence at the moment? 
YANI TSENG:   I don't remember.   I don't think it was high.   This year, I guess I change new trainer, new coach and I start working on mental more and more, and I feel like awareness myself, how I'm positioned right now, it actually helps me a lot, too.
And self‑talk is one of the biggest things out there, because like I say, I tried to be patient and if I don't tell myself to be patient, it's hard to be patient.   I'm very, very happy.   I'm happy that I'm playing the golf again.   It's not thinking or I'm working out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT