SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2018
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about being back and playing here in your home country.
YANI TSENG: It's amazing.  It feels like once a year I come back to see all the fans and friends and family, and it's amazing how it feels.  Like it's just always very exciting to be here and to play in front of all the fans and sponsors.  I just feel like I really want to enjoy this week.  Just try to enjoy as much as I can and I know this week, it's always a little busier than other weeks, but I enjoy that, too.
This is a new course for us, even for me, first time I've played a tournament here.  So it's very exciting to see how this course is going to be.
Q. How do you like the course?
YANI TSENG: It's good.  I think this course is very good for long hitters.  It's not too narrow.  Like today was a bit windy, but I think it's great for me.  I've practiced here a few times before this tournament came and I feel really good about it.
Q. You have a bunch of friends and family coming out this week?
YANI TSENG: Yes, a lot.  I have so many people asking me for the tickets and I'm just very happy.  I can't wait to see them come out and watch me play golf.
Q. So how are you feeling about your game, your first LPGA event in a couple months?
YANI TSENG: I feel really good.  My game is in great shape.  I feel really good my mental.  My putting is getting better and I feel like everything is on the right track.
You know, if I didn't win this week or perform well this week, I'm still excited for next year.
Q. Have you been able to work on anything recently that you felt good about?
YANI TSENG: You know, I changed my coach last year to Chris Mason, and I really feel like he's been helping me out a lot.  Right now, I just really need to work on my mental, like not trying to do anything.  Just relax and be myself.  Try to be myself, I think that's a big point for me.  Play the way I play.  Do the things I really love to do and just not thinking too much.  Not try to be someone else.  Just try to be myself and then really enjoy by myself.  I think that's very important for me right now.
Q. Have people been asking you for recommendations on what to do this week?
YANI TSENG: Actually, there is like a really famous street like 15 minutes away.  That's probably the only famous thing around here.  There's a chocolate museum around here, too, so that will be exciting to go.  And I've never been, too.  The one 15 minutes is like Daxi Old Street and there's a lot of traditional stuff over there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT