HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 28, 2015
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Good rounds.   Solid.   2‑under.   You must be happier than you were yesterday.   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, much better.   I am hitting the shot much solid, and I kind of come into every shot I played today.   Almost made eagle on the last hole.   I hit lots of great shot out there.   
Just still need to work on my putting a little bit, but I'm happy the round I played today?  
   
 Q.   What happened on the 17?  
YANI TSENG:   I just hit too good, too long.   Maybe a little miscommunication with my caddie.   We do same yardage but don't have same pitcher.   Could have played a little save out there.   
I hit a perfect shot and wind just took it and goes too long.   It was a great save bogey, and happy to finish with bogey out there.  
   
 Q.   Your hitting it so long.   What's happening?   You have a new fitness coach.   
YANI TSENG:   You want to be long on the tee but not on the second shot.   Yeah, I do you have a new trainer, David Donatucci.   He works with Michelle, Stacy, and, I mean, I feel great.   I been work with him couple months now and I feel my body, the way I swing, it matches my body and just get my body and my core stronger so I'm able to hold the shot better and a bit more consistently, too.  
   
 Q.   You're 8‑under and at the moment four shots off the lead.   Do you feel like you're in contention?  
YANI TSENG:   6 shots.   I just saw Stacey make birdie out there, make eagle out there.   Still one more day.   You never know on this golf course.   Now wind picks up and actually they have tough pin position out there for few holes.   
I just need to stay patient and maybe try to make birdie out there as much as possible tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How much of a factor was the wind today?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, back nine kind of pick up a little bit.   Like they got only tough pins, so you actually couldn't go for the pin.   You kind of play safe.   Par is good.   Even have chance to make birdie.  
It's hard to be aggressive sometimes when wind picks up and they don't have good pin placement out there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT