HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 26, 2015
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Yani, congratulations on a very solid round.   I know the bogey on the 18 took the gloss off a little bit, but a lot to be encouraged about.   
YANI TSENG:   It is.   I played good today.   I was very patient and I hit lots of good shots.   Could be better, could be worse.   I miss couple short puts, but I just tell time myself, Smile and let it go.   Next shot I focus back.  
I feel I just kind of aware myself more today.   If I have something like positive or negative, I just aware more.   So that kind of keep me in focus like every shot and every time.  
   
 Q.   It's wonderful to see you playing well again.   What do you put it down to?   
YANI TSENG:   I don't know.   I mean, I just work so hard in off‑season.   I got new coach, Carl Harmon, and new trainer, Dave Donatucci, so I'm very, very happy to work with them.   They tell me if I don't win I don't go back, because that's how good the off‑ seven.   So I just try to‑‑ you know, I feel I'm so happy to work with them.   They just keep me so relax and believe in myself.   I know I can do it.   I just need my swing good.   
I swing good, but I just need to be mental very tough.   So I'm working on my mental and try to be tougher and tougher out there.  
   
 Q.   Playing with Ariya, you got a similar style of golf:   quite explosive, very aggressive out there.   
YANI TSENG:   I know.   I feel like when I watch her play I feel like that's how I play when I was young.   Just grip and hit it.   Don't really worry about it.   I give my 100% every shot.   If I pitch it right, I go there to save my shot.   
I think that's how golf should be.   I feel I just worry too much out there.   I might actually learn something from her.   Very happy to play with her.   She kind of give me good motivation.   She hits great shot out there and makes good putt, and that makes me feel like I want to catch her.   
   
 Q.   Really tough closing hole.   Tell us about the 18th.   
YANI TSENG:   It's tough.   I mean, they move tee about 30 yard back these couple years, so it makes really tough on 18 hole.   For the first day they put pin there, that is our Sunday last year.   So it was really tough.   
I hit good shot, but you need a good perfect shot to get on this area.   It's okay to finish with bogey.   I'm still take my round.   I'm very happy the way I played today.   I been really patient out there, hung in there, and do my best.   I feel I'm able to focus, play like one shot at time, so I'm very happy what I did today.  
   
 Q.   You've been here a few times.   Won here twice; never finished outside of T7 at this tournament.   What is it about Thailand that you love?  
YANI TSENG:   Thanks for reminding me that.   I don't know.   I always love here.   I have so many friends out here and the fans out here always give me great support.   I feel like coming back here always start of the season and I feel fresh and give me good energy.   We play on this great golf course.   I think it kind of suits my game.   It's good for the long hitter out here.   
I always go to the parade like right where downtown is.   I don't know, it so just give me lots of luck in Thailand.  
   
 Q.   What will you do today before round two tomorrow?  
YANI TSENG:   Go for massage as always.   Just working on my putting a little bit.   Nothing change.   I am still looking forward for tomorrow and just have a rest.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT