INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 24, 2014
Candie Kung
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I'm now joined by both members of the victorious Chinese Taipei team, Yani Tseng and Candie Kung. 
Great job today.   Candie, I'll start with you.   Let's talk about that first tee experience when they played your guys National Anthem.   It had to be just one of the most cool experiences for you.   What was running through your emotions there on first tee? 
CANDIE KUNG:   It was awesome.   Seeing that many people out there, playing our National Anthem, I never got to experience that.   I had goose bumps on the first tee.   But after that, we calmed down and we just were trying to play our game along the way. 

Q.   You and Teresa, a thumping of Paula Creamer and Cristie Kerr, 4 & 3.   You guys were quite the underdogs coming in, but you guys showed up.   Talk about the match and how much emotion was going into it back and forth, back and forth.   Take us through it. 
CANDIE KUNG:   Yeah, we were both able to play each other up.   When I was making mistakes, Teresa was able to save me.   And then when she was making mistakes, I was able to save her.   So that's kind of a good match we have out there.

Q.   Yani, I got to ask you, I could not just stop watching you on that first tee, you couldn't stop smiling.   You had the biggest smile on your face that I've seen in a long time.   Tell us about that first tee and just how happy were you to get on there and represent your country?
YANI TSENG:   I was so happy to play for my country.   I never had that feeling before and I got goose bumps, too.   And then I just felt amazing.   And then when I smile more, actually I feel more nervous at the same time, too.

Q.   A lot of emotions right here on this 18, the green.   Just sunk a 13‑footer for the win.   Came down to the final putt.   What was going through your mind on that putt? 
YANI TSENG:   I haven't had that feeling for a long time.   It's been a couple years.   And actually last three holes, I was freaking out.   I was nervous.   I know that we have to win this or either we tie.   We played so good today, and especially Phoebe, we both had a good match.   We were good partners. 
On that last putt, I just saw my line and my mind was so calm, I feel like I can make this.   So it's a wonderful feeling that I had for a long time.   So I'm just so happy to be back in the circle again and I love this feeling.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT