KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 18, 2014
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Trying to make up too much too fast?
YANI TSENG:   No, just very disappointed on the last hole.   Didn't pick the right club for the second shot.   Could be much better, closer to the hole.
Finish this hole like four putts is really bad.   Just screw up my whole day.   I been hitting well.   It was very good day for me.
I'm not really happy.

Q.   The putt on 15, was that kind of...
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I try my best.   That's all I can do.   Maybe it was a little uphill.   One more roll it will be in.   So that was really close one. 
I know if I make that I have a good chance.   But when I stretched out I have like three more holes well, but I didn't hold out well and make a double on the last week.
It's a good week compared to others because I know my game is‑‑ I can have a chance to win a tournament now.   So still very looking forward for another tournament.

Q.   Regardless of what happened on 18, did you have more fun in this tournament than you have in a while? 
YANI TSENG:   Yes, I think so.   I don't know, I have a lots of friend coming out to watch me this week, so I'm pretty happy about that.
When you ask me it's hard forget about that.   So I really have no idea.   But I know I have fun maybe when I sleep tonight.   Right now I just really disappointed about that putt.

Q.   When you got to 11, did you start to think, This is doable? 
YANI TSENG:   No, I never really start thinking about win the tournament.   I know Lizette play well and I have to play well to be on top.   I know number 15 is very important hole, and I give myself the best out there.   Then I try my best and come back next year.

Q.   Lizette is on her way to a victory here.   Was it only a matter of time with her talent?
YANI TSENG:   I think so.   She's a great player.   I think she's going to win a tournament sooner or later.   She hit the ball very solid and she is very consistent.
Very happy for her to win a tournament.

Q.   What did you hit into 18?
YANI TSENG:   6; I should have hit 5.   Just wrong club choice.

Q.   Into the wind a little bit, wasn't it?
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   It was into the wind.   And when I play it was even gust wind.
When I thinking it was almost like three yards wind, but when I hit it was like ten yards.   But still, wrong club to hit from the rough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT