MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 12, 2018
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yani, it's been four-and-a-half years of sort of golfing wilderness for you.  What has the journey been like for you to get back to what you played today?  
YANI TSENG: Oh, it's very tough.  But I still enjoy the game, still love golf.  Every year I feel like just keep grinding, and I want to be here so bad.  I want to win a tournament really bad.  I've been playing good these couple years, I've just not been able to score.  So my putting has been (indiscernible), but now I just want to stay positive every day.  It's just so tough.  But like I say, I just try to be happy out there and really enjoy the game.  I had a great round today, and I still left some out there.  But still very happy to see under par 5-under and in a good position now.   
 Q.  In 2011, you were such a dominant world number one.  Do you see yourself getting back to that spot again?  
YANI TSENG: I see myself better.  I feel like it's been six, seven years now, and I feel like everything's better.  My game is better.  I'm more mature.  I know how to handle the situation of the game.  But I never thought I would have this putting problem.  I've been through everything, but now I feel like I could write a book about the recipe to success.   
So I want to keep doing what I'm doing now, and I think I'm doing the good things.  So I just want to stay patient, and one day I can still win a tournament.   
 Q.  We're here with Yani Tseng who had a nice 5-under round, you said it could have been 6-under because you just missed Eagle on the final hole.  How satisfying is it to see your name at the top of the leaderboard right now?  
YANI TSENG: Yeah, I feel very happy.  I stayed patient all day.  I've been playing good golf for a couple years, but I just wasn't able to score.  Just need to get that putting going a little bit.  So today I dropped a few, I missed a few, and this is how golf is.  I feel like this is the way I should play.  I feel very happy and enjoy it out there, and try to stay patient as much as I can.   
 Q.  You mentioned the struggles over the last few years.  What has it been like for you, and how have you grown as you've worked your way through that?  
YANI TSENG: Oh, it's so tough.  I don't even know where I am now.  It's just -- it goes up-and-down.  It's been a long time I haven't won a tournament.  And I know it's still in there.  I know I can still win a tournament.  I just need to keep grinding and stay positive.  Just feel like I've still got this.  Sometimes I kind of forget about that and I try too hard.  But now I just want to really enjoy the game.   
Like my rookie year, I don't know anything.  It's hard because I'm 30 now, but I feel like I'm much more mature.  My game's better, my skill's better, my swing is better than when I was playing my best, so there's no way I can do better.   
But I feel like it's more about the process now.  I know if I stay patient, the results will come.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT