KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 17, 2014
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Got it going there late, didn't you?  
YANI TSENG:   I know.   It's okay.   But it's never too late to make some birdie.   
On the last few hole I say to myself, Let's make some birdies to move up a little bit.  
I didn't hit much iron that's getting close today.   I been really patient all day.   Trying to put my ball on the fairway, hit it close to the pin, and try to make a putt.  
It's been like this all day.   I'm very happy the way I play, and I feel like I know what I'm doing on my now.  
So it's good.   I'm exciting for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Only two or three back probably.   You like your position?  
YANI TSENG:   I like my position.   I'm very happy about this.   I don't worry about anything.   I just want to go out there and have fun and try to improve like little part of my swing and then my mental.   
I think enjoy tomorrow is most important thing for me.   
   
 Q.   How important was the birdie on 18?  
YANI TSENG:   It's always cool to finish birdie on 18, especially in front of the big crowds.   
I mean, for the score‑wise I don't feel‑‑ it's just another birdie.   Just very happy to finish with birdie.  
Tomorrow is another new day, so just work on my game and just try to have fun tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Was it a good day to score in general?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, it's good day.   I had three birdie on the last four holes.  
   
 Q.   Three in the last four?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, so it's pretty good.   First 14 holes was a little bit up and down, try to make par.   I saved some good pars out there, too.   
I been really patient all day, so I'm really happy about my game today.   
   
 Q.   Were the birdie putts relatively close?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, few birdie putt that was pretty close.   About 15 feet, like 15 to 12 feet.   I need to get my iron a little closer to the pin.  
Like I say, I been really patient today and try to figure out what's wrong out there.   Just enjoy it.   Especially today with good like big crowd following us.   I was very happy and makes me more exciting about it.   
   
 Q.   How is your game going this year?   
YANI TSENG:   It's pretty good.   I work really hard, but only thing I can do is be patient and try to play the tournament and feel how I feel in the tournament.   
I wasn't thinking much.   Still have half year, half season to go, so still very exciting.   Still got lots of patient on my golf.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT