SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 24, 2013
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ALI KICKLIGHTER:   I'd like to welcome Yani Tseng to the interview room.   Yani, thanks for coming in.   First off, let's just start out talking about how it is to be at home and how your first round was back.   
YANI TSENG:   I felt good about coming back home, and I'm surprised that so many people turned out today on the golf course even though the weather is not that good.  
In the beginning I was a little bit distracted by the cameras taking pictures, so I got a little bit distracted and I didn't play very well with the short shots.   I struggled with a little bit from a hundred yards in, and then I had four 3‑putts‑‑ well, I'm not really happy with the score, but I will keep trying.   
ALI KICKLIGHTER:   On the LPGA's Facebook yesterday, we posted a story about you, and I can't even tell you the amount of Taiwanese fans that commented on it.   It seems like no matter how you play, they always still stand behind you.   What does that mean to you.  
YANI TSENG:   I felt very warm and I have my own Facebook and many fans will come on and encourage me and cheer for me, I'm very appreciative of fans caring for me and encouraging me.   
Today I'm really grateful for that fans are following me throughout 18 holes even though I'm not playing very well today.   
   
 Q.   What is the reason you cannot hit it close to the pin today?   
YANI TSENG:   I didn't do very well on distance‑control‑wise.   The winds came up‑and‑down and sometimes it was big and sometimes not as strong.   I need to believe in myself and trust my clubs.   
   
 Q.   Do you have problems reading the greens with the green speed?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I putted short today on the first hole, and on the following 17 holes, my putts all went very long.   I didn't do very well with my iron shots.   I struggled a little bit on the greens today.   
   
 Q.   What part of the game are you most happy about today?   
YANI TSENG:   Of course, the fans, even though today's weather is not that good and it's a little bit chilly.   I'm very impressed with the fans' enthusiasm and passion, and makes me feel very warm and the fans always keep me very motivated.   I will try to keep a smile on my face and try to do better for the fans.   
   
 Q.   Will you make any adjustment after today?  
YANI TSENG:   I need to be more confident and I need to believe in myself a little bit more.   Even in practice it went well, but I went out and it didn't go as well as planned.   The wind wasn't very strong today and this is a course I'm very familiar with, so I'm not very happy with my score today.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your birdie on 12?   
YANI TSENG:   After nine holes into the back nine, I need to, I was out of sync with my yardage control, so I need to commit to my shots a little bit more, and the final four holes, I missed some iron shots within a hundred yards.   
ALI KICKLIGHTER:   All right, Yani, thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT