SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 31, 2013
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know we were joking coming up here a little bit, but how does it feel to be back in the media center?  
YANI TSENG:   I know, I don't know what is the media center now.   It's been a long time.   I came in here for a while, and it's great to be back in position again, and I just haven't been on this position for a really long time.   I was really happy out there and really enjoyed, and the gallery here are awesome and they give us very big support, and I just love every part of the golf out there and really enjoyed every shot.  
   
 Q.   What was really working for you out there?   What were the strengths?  
YANI TSENG:   I just feel good about my swing.   I went back to Taiwan the last two weeks to play golf with some young LPGA players in Taiwan, and they're really helping me to be back in this position, to be more excited to make birdie, to try to beat everybody out here, and I just‑‑ and today I feel I played a little more aggressively the last two days.   Just feels like I tried to go for the pin every shot and tried to make birdie every hole.  
My coach from Taiwan, he's here with me this week, and I think that helps a little bit and keeps me very relaxed, and we had a great talk every round, and it's good.   
   
 Q.   Who is your coach?  
YANI TSENG:   My coach from Taiwan.   His name is Tony Kao, and he teach me since I play golf, ever since I was five, six, until 18 years old when I turned pro, and he didn't teach me anymore.   I've been struggling for a while, and I just feel like to have him to be around me helps a little bit, and I changed coaches‑‑ I had a new coach, Kevin, and he's helping me with my swing very well, too.   
   
 Q.   This kind of comes a little bit out of nowhere, doesn't it?   You haven't had a good year, you haven't played particularly well in Portland.   Did something just click today?   
YANI TSENG:   No, I mean, I prepared for this.   I mean, I've been working really hard.   I really want to get back in this position, so I don't feel any surprise because this is what I'm working for.   I want to be in this position and play good.   I know it's very hard to follow with a great round tomorrow, but I will still be playing aggressive just like I always did.  
   
 Q.   It's been 36 starts since your last victory.   Can you talk about how that whole process has kind of been?  
YANI TSENG:   It's a really long story, but really, I go through lots of things, and my life has been really tough, and it's not just about golf and outside of golf.   But I feel like everything‑‑ I've become more mature.   I know I didn't have a great result, but as a person I feel like I learned so much with my family and friends and for my life and not just about golf.   I learned from this two years.   So I've been really appreciating everything I got, and for now I really want to just go out there and try to enjoy every shot and try to be like art is.   When you're playing a golf course, you feel like every swing you make, it means for your life, not just you're working or something.   Now I feel like really appreciative to be out there and to play this sport I really love.   
   
 Q.   When you were No.1 in the world, and every tournament you went into you were like the favorite and everybody would talk about you, did you enjoy that position, or was that a lot of pressure?   
YANI TSENG:   I was really enjoy it, but after that I wasn't too enjoy it because lots of pressure, because I mean, everybody expects you to win every week, but it's impossible.   But I felt like I would be winning every week.   I try, but it's really hard.   That pressure, you might didn't know, but it's really just right there for you.   You just need to find a balance to get that pressure as motivation to become a better player.   
But I mean, right now I wasn't think too much.   It's good to have attention again, but now I just try to focus on myself and enjoy it out there.  
   
 Q.   Any particular hole today get you going early in the round?  
YANI TSENG:   I mean, I hit my irons very good today, and I think there's one hole‑‑ I made bogey on No.12.   It was a reachable par‑5 for me, and I snap‑hooked my 3‑wood and I made bogey there.   But next hole, par‑3, I made birdie, so I come back right away.   I think that's a very important putt for me, like 12 feet for birdie, and I think that's kind of a little turning point on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   On No.12 you hit the second shot near that bathroom thing?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I hit it by the bathroom there.   I guess it was unlucky, but I wasn't thinking about that much.   I just tried to save par there and tried to think how can I hit my next shot.   I hit a terrible chip for my fourth shot, but I made birdie the next hole, so I wasn't thinking that much.  
   
 Q.   You say you're more mature now.   Do you almost think your mindset is better now than it was when you were No.1?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I think much better.   Even my swing was much better, my attitude on the course is much better, and I think if one day I come back on the top, I think I'll be much better than what I used to.  
   
 Q.   You think this is just the beginning of it?  
YANI TSENG:   I think this is just the beginning of it.   I always tell myself, my goal is I want to retire when I'm on top, and I'm not going to retire yet, so there's lots more years to come, just step by step.   
   
 Q.   You think tomorrow you'll need another really low round to win?   
YANI TSENG:   I think you need a low round to win at this course.   You can see how strong the LPGA is right now.   You don't know who's going to shoot 10‑under tomorrow to win the tournament.   You never know.   But I wasn't thinking that much, and I just want to play as I did today and the last two days and play one shot at a time and not thinking about winning.   
   
 Q.   When you started to struggle this year, was it more of a swing kind of thing or was it more your approach or your mental thing?  
YANI TSENG:   I think both.   Swing affect mental, mental affect the swing.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT