HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 28, 2013
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What a lovely way to finish, how good was your 3‑wood into 18?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I played very aggressive, this morning I told my manager‑‑ I need some motivation, a little energy.   So I tell her if 69 would be tied and 68 I win, and her bet is I want a Louis Vuitton bag and if I win, she will go skydiving with me in Hawai'i, and she is not scared to go on the roller coaster.   
And when that putt drop in, I was so happy.   I was looking for her, I saw her face, I think she's going to cry, so I think that's very good motivation.   You don't play for anything, you have a bet with your friend, it feels so good.   Today that really keep me very patient and relaxed all day.  
   
 Q.   The front nine, particularly difficult, isn't it, that stretch of holes?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, the tough nine is a little tougher, you just need to drive on the fairway and strategy is a little bit different and sometimes you can go for it and sometimes you can play smart.   
I think today I kind of played a little more aggressive, but I was very happy‑‑ back nine was easier but I didn't play as good the front nine.   But I stayed patient all day, I was very happy and I'm playing good with my rescue today so I hope it keeps going tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I think you nailed it on the head that you didn't drop any shots on the back nine, couldn't quite manufacture the birdies you were after until the last, and it's so important just to keep putting pars on the board?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, par is your friend, it's pretty good you don't drop a shot, even when you try to be aggressive, you try to make birdie every hole.   
But this type of golf course, you need to be patient, and I was very happy what I done today.   I was a little up‑and‑down in the middle of the round, because my swing kind of a little too quick and I didn't drop any putts.   But I'm very happy to stay patient and through the whole round make eagle the last hole.  
   
 Q.   You pulled drive out a few times, will you use it over the next three days?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, depends how aggressive into the wind, so you can hit driver more.   
   
 Q.   Can you just go through the eagle?   
YANI TSENG:   That driver was pretty aggressive.   I mean, I hit a great driver and second shot, I had 235 into the wind, so I played 245 and I hit a 3‑wood, full shot.   I mean, I hit it perfectly.   I thought we were much closer, because I really want to make eagle.   At least I know I make birdie so I will be tied.   
So I mean, that last putt give me motivation.   I think it feels good, because I haven't had that feeling for a long time.   You always make‑‑ to win the tournament, but today I make to have my math manager go sky driving with me.   I'm relaxed the whole day and the last two weeks helped me to stay patient and stay relaxed all day because it only the first day.   
And the last two weeks, kind of a little rushed, try to play well on the first day and today I've been patient because I know it's only the first day, I still have three days left, and keep good strategy on this course‑‑ I mean, it's not that easy to make birdie.     But you don't want to drop too many shots, and some of the shots, it's easy to go in the water.   There's so much water on the course, so you really need to drive on the fairway.   
So I was very happy that I drive pretty good today and I keep lots of fairways so I'm able to hit it good on my second shots.  
   
 Q.   Is that your new approach for 2013, just take it one day at a time, not worry about what's going on?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I just try to be patient is a big key, because I was a little rough in the middle of the round because my body was a little too‑‑ and I didn't drop any shot and I couldn't hit it closer, too.   
So it's really tough out there.   I just keep to myself, that's okay, it's only first day, you try to make birdie, and if not, you're going to save par; instead of try to make birdie, and if not you make bogey, so that's even worse.   I'm just very happy about today and it feels good, hopefully I can keep that feel for next three days, too.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT