SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 28, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Yani Tseng into the interview room.   Congratulations.   Another solid performance this week.   Third place finish.   I know, sure you wanted to defend your title here at home, but just take me through your week, and how happy are you with how you were able to play this week?   
YANI TSENG:   I mean first of all, I feel sorry about Inbee today out there.   I mean we had a little tough day, but everything else, I really enjoyed this week to coming back home and play the LPGA tournament here.   So many fans out here to cheer for me and to give me 100 percent support, so I really, really appreciate that.   So I can't wait to come back next year to play well.   
I know I didn't finish where I wanted to, but it's getting better and I think it's getting better slowly, so I'm very happy what I play right now.   I always have something that I can improve on like every day, so I'm very happy to see my game right now and feel very confident and going to play Japan next week, so hopefully I'll have a good week, too.  
THE MODERATOR:   The conditions today definitely were different than what we've seen all week, and you've seen pretty windy here, but how would you rate the conditions and how tough it was out there on the golf course today?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   Of course it's tougher than last three days, but it's not as tough like when we played in the pro am.   It was wind, but it was kind of playable.   
So it's very tough to make birdie out there, but Suzann played so good today.   She make lots of like important putts to hung in there.   So I think it's good to see her play well again.  
For me, I kind of didn't have many birdie chances out there today, but I did my best every shot, every hole, so I'm still really happy to finish third.  
THE MODERATOR:   What have the last two weeks really done for your confidence level?   I mean you kept feeling like the game was almost there and it was just a matter of time before things all fell into place, but back‑to‑back third place finishes, it's gotta feel pretty good.   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, it feels pretty good.   Actually, I mean I really forgot how I play last three, four months.   I know it's not well, but all I see is right now or in the future, so I feel great about my game and feel confidence about my game.   So last three, four months, just lots of great experience for me and I'm learning a lot from that.   So hopefully I can bring those and keep continuing.  
THE MODERATOR:   And I know you and Suzann have practiced together a lot, you've played together a lot.   How impressed have you been by watching her play over the last few weeks and how great her game is coming together right now?   
YANI TSENG:   I was very happy for her, especially today under this wind and she's hitting the ball so consistently, so I was very happy to see her start hitting well, and to win back to back, I was very impressed.   And her putting is getting so much better.   And I think the important thing is she's showing more smiles on the face.   So I think that's how she can handle this pressure better.   So I'm happy for her.  
THE MODERATOR:   One last question.   This is the second year of this event in your home country.   We all saw the crowds and how great they've been all week, but how proud are you to see the support that the LPGA gets here in Taiwan?   
YANI TSENG:   I'm very proud of all the fans out here because that really shows how big a sport golf is in Taiwan and it's getting so much better and they've been incredible and amazing and they are really, really nice out there.  
Every day is getting better and better.   First day we were saying no cameras a lot.   But last day I think it's all getting better, and I really appreciate those people are coming out and supporting us, and hopefully this LPGA can continue for a long time.   
THE MODERATOR:   Wonderful.   All right.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT