SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 27, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Yani Tseng into the interview room.   Thank you for joining us today.   I know not quite the finish that you wanted to that round, but another solid round for you today.   Take me through the day and what was working well for you.   
YANI TSENG:   I don't know.   It's been a long time.   I don't feel like 66 was a bad round for me.   I feel like I left lots of birdie chances out there today.   And I didn't putt well again today, and I just feel very struggling out there.   
But it was still good.   Had a bogey‑free round and 6‑under, but it's still very hard to catch Inbee and Suzann, but hopefully tomorrow can be aggressive and hopefully my putting is getting better tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   When you look at the scores today, I think there was a number of eagles out there, a number of birdies.   It just seemed like everybody was going low.   Were you surprised at all by how low the scores were today?   
YANI TSENG:   No.   Actually I wasn't surprised at all because I mean the course kind of played very easy today.   It was no wind.   Even yesterday, too.   And No. 6, 13 they moved the tee up and No. 9, too.   So most of the people if long drive can get there pretty close, too.   
But today, all of the shots we're hitting it's like at least 120 yards, so that's why I say there are so many birdie chances out there, you almost can make birdie every hole if you can.  
THE MODERATOR:   You talked a little bit about how well Inbee was playing.   How impressive has her play been recently when you look at what she's been able to do the second half of the season, all these Top 10 finishes in a row and you look out and she shoots a tournament‑record 8‑under today?   
YANI TSENG:   I mean for her, her putting is very ‑‑ it's the point.   If she hits on the green she just have chance to make birdie there.   So she just have to hit on the green to make birdie.   
Her putting, when you watch her putting she seems very relaxed and she don't care whether she misses or goes in.   Shelf inside 12 feet is like giving putts for her and then for us we're like trying to make that.   So it's very different.   So for the last hole she had like six feet, and I think that's giving a putt for her.   
Hopefully tomorrow I play with her and I can learn something from that to use on the golf course and try to play better.  
THE MODERATOR:   You'll enter tomorrow's final round four shots back.   What's your game plan heading into the final round and how nice is it once again to be seeing yourself in contention with a chance to win back here at home?   
YANI TSENG:   I know.   I think the important thing is try to not think about too much tonight because last three holes I missed like four feet for birdie the last three holes.   But hopefully tonight I can have a happy and good sleep tomorrow, come in and I'll be aggressive because trying to make birdie every hole I think is very important on this golf course.  
But I don't know the weather tomorrow.   If the wind picks up, I think that's where the challenge is going on.   So hopefully tomorrow the wind will pick up a little bit, and this is where I practice.   So I think if wind picks up and it's going to help me a lot.  
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions for Yani in English?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT