SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 26, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Solid day out there.   I know probably not as low as you would have wanted your round to be, but just take me through the day.
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I played pretty good.   Just a couple of shots the distance second shot is not as good as yesterday, and just I think I need to be more committing on the shot and hitting the ball, and today my iron is not as good as yesterday, so I think it's more like wind and the distance.   So tomorrow I'll stay the same strategy, maybe be a little aggressive.
And I'm very happy to finish with birdie on the last hole and big save on the number 17, so it makes my day, so I'm very happy right now and hopefully real good sleep tonight and tomorrow really looking forward to tomorrow.   Have all the big crowds.
THE MODERATOR:   It's nice to be saying a 3‑under par round is probably not a deal. 
YANI TSENG:   I know.
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through I was talking to Inbee about 18.   You guys both hit those amazing shots.   What was the crowd reaction like and what was the atmosphere like.
YANI TSENG:   The crowd goes like crazy.   It was like ‑‑ it just make me goose bumps, and I thought my ball was in, but it's not, because it just sounds like my ball was in. 
But after Inbee hit that shot, I tell myself I gotta hit Inbee's ball, and Inbee's ball goes in and the crowd goes like crazy.   So I was pretty close.   I almost hit her ball, but I thought maybe I would hit her ball and my ball goes in.   You never know.
But it's just fun.   I mean the crowd give me so much support today and because every time I make a putt, I mean the crowd just goes crazy.   So I mean they let me keep my smile always going on, and they're always telling me to keep it up, keep up the good work and always giving me great support.   So I'm very appreciative.
THE MODERATOR:   Overall we've been talking about how calm the wind has been and how beautiful this weather is.   How surprised have you been by these conditions? 
YANI TSENG:   I was totally very surprised.   I probably never been playing in this kind of wind for a long time on this golf course because it's always very windy here.   I mean you never know.   Hopefully the wind picks up a little bit because I think it will make more challenge. 
THE MODERATOR:   We've seen how well Inbee has been playing and Suzann, Catriona.   Is it not a surprise to see all those names up there at the top of the leaderboard right now? 
YANI TSENG:   No.   It's no surprise at all.   Probably they are surprised to see my name on there.   (Laughs).   So they better watch out now.   So I'm just really happy to see my name on the board and hopefully on the weekend I'll enjoy and I'll enjoy to play with the best player.   So I mean I just want to go out there and have fun and enjoy all the crowd.

Q.   Yani, you know this course very well.   You practiced here for like six or seven years as an amateur.   Has there been any change in terms of your game, like improvement on your game?
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I recognize because sometimes I know what tee I play and I feel the fairway was much wider when I played an amateur.   But it's no change.   It must be my skills getting better and better, and some of the par‑5s I can go for, but before I always lay up.   So it just change a lot to see on this golf course and just feel ‑‑ like right now I turn pro and my skills getting better, my confidence level was better.   So when I see this golf course, it just feel very comfortable for me because I practice here.   I know where I going to hit and I just know the course very well.

Q.   I was following you a couple of holes today, and actually I was admiring the spectators' reactions.   What did the crowd, spectators reaction to your bad and your good shots?
YANI TSENG:   I know sometimes it's a little tough because like yesterday or today when I missed three or four‑feet putt they were like don't scare.   Just putt it.   I know.   In my mind I was like, I want to putt it in.   I want to make it, too.   Someone was like just keep relaxed, don't worry.   And come on, you just missed a four‑foot putt.   It's very easy to hear that, but most of the people always give me very, very big support.   So I mean I very, very appreciate.

Q.   That was the question when you asked in the interview before, how she felt when she played with you because of pressure that was on you. 
YANI TSENG:   You mean Inbee? 

Q.   Oh, sorry.   Yeah.   And how was her feeling about how she felt when they follow you in the same flight with so much pressure and so much demand from the public, from the spectators. 
YANI TSENG:   So you're asking me ‑‑

Q.   How you feel. 
YANI TSENG:   How I look?   I mean sometime I feel ‑‑ I won't say feel bad.   Maybe a little bit because sometime when she playing and people are taking cameras, but when I'm playing the people take cameras, too, but I just want they to show the respect for the player that no cameras when they're playing or when they putt or when they make birdie give them the big crowd.   And I think they did. 
I know golf has become more popular here and I think the people here are learning, too.   So at the end it's getting so much better, so I think we just need to teach them more when we play, no camera.   When we go back swing, no camera.   We just really need to teach them how to watch the golf, because every time we go to like Europe or the States, everybody is very polite, but in Asia it's always different.   So all the players we all expect in Asia it's going to be camera everywhere.   Asia, Korea, Taiwan, everybody.   (Laughs).   So we all expect that. 
But we are very happy because we don't get this crowd in America, like Malaysia, Korea, Taiwan.   We never get this crowd.   Expect maybe U. S. Open or Solheim Cup.   So all the player are happy to be here.

Q.   And there are about, what, eight other Taiwanese players playing in this field?   Nine?   Do you have any advice you can give to them?
YANI TSENG:   This is a great experience.   When I was amateur I don't have this experience to play on the LPGA Tour because it's my dream.   So they should feel the dream come true.   I mean Paula standing right next to you.   Michelle Wie is right there.   So I never have that feel when I was amateur.   This is a great experience for them to compete, too, to show them how far away they are from the best golfer. 
And from those dreams they know what they should work on to get better in the LPGA, and I think this is a wonderful experience.   So after this I think they will have a better clear goal to know what they're going to do in the future. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT