SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AUDI
October 25, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1, Yani Tseng into the interview room.   First off, welcome home.   I'm sure it's always good to be home.   Congratulations.   A great round today.   5‑under par.   Can you take me through your day and what was working well for you out there? 
YANI TSENG:   You know, I feel very good to be back in Taiwan and play the LPGA tournament here, especially I practice in Sunrise Golf Club here, like four, five years, so I know the course very well. 
This morning I see so many fans out here, it make me so happy and relaxed.   I know everybody is talking about the pressure this week, but I just try to ‑‑ when I see all the fans, I think that pressure is gone because I know doesn't matter how I play, they're still going to be there to give me 100 percent support.   And I just want to show my big smile and show my best effort on every shot and do my best all the time.
I think I played great today.   I feel really good.   I hit good on my driving and my iron shot and I give myself lots of birdie opportunities out there.
THE MODERATOR:   Take me through that stretch on the back.   You had four birdies in a stretch of five holes.   Did you just get hot at the right moment and everything seemed to be dropping for you? 
YANI TSENG:   Must be the bogey on No. 10 make me a little mad out there, because I've been really consistently and like all Front 9, and the Back 9 I make bogey on No. 10, and it was kind of ‑‑ I hit it good on every shot, but I still make bogey.   But after that I feel let's make birdie chance, let's make a few birdies, and I did on No. 11, that was a great putt because I didn't putt well on the Front 9.   Almost every hole I had a birdie chance and I only made two.   So No. 11 hole I think is my turning point today to give myself making lots of birdies.
After 12 I see my niece.   My mom just calling my name, and she brought the niece, and I saw her and just make me real happy.   That must give me little different power to make three birdies in a row.
THE MODERATOR:   And last week you finished third in Korea.   It was your first Top 10 since back in May, I think it was.   What did that do for your confidence level coming into this week.
YANI TSENG:   I know it's been a long time.   I didn't know it was that long.   But I didn't think much because last month I've been playing very well.   It doesn't matter it's Korea, because mean Malaysia I feel playing good too.   So I know in Korea it gives you lots of confidence.   I haven't been that close to winning a long time.   Last week every drive, every shot I feel like I played like before.   But now I just want to always looking forward.   It doesn't matter how I play before, but now is the start every shot and I want to do my best and focus on every shot. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any other questions for Yani in English? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT