SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 19, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know not quite the finish you were hoping for, but right now currently in 11th.   Best finish for you in a little bit of time.   
YANI TSENG:   Thank you.   It's so much better.   I fought hard.   I mean, I made birdie on 15, 16, and I had a little weird on number 9, and number 12 and 13, I hit into the water.   
This course goes straight, so I hit it in there like three or four times this week.   So hopefully next year I'll come back and I can play better.   
I feel good.   I feel like I can really start next week.   My golf game was right there.   It's incredible.   I'm really appreciative finishing 11th.   I've never had that feeling of how much I was excited shooting 5‑under yesterday.   It's been a long time, so I really appreciate it, and I'm back.   I mean, next week I can go there and win the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Early on in the day you found yourself near the top of the leaderboard and back in contention.   What was that feeling like?   
YANI TSENG:   I was nervous.   I was like, geez, I haven't been here for a long time.   Like yesterday, my tee time was 1:40.   I was like wow, that's late.   How should I organize my time?   
It's been a long time.   So I feel really excited.   It's good to be on top and see your name on the leaderboard again.   It's so difficult.   I feel like in these two months all the things have paid off.   I'm learning a lot from the mistakes and learn as you go, keep having fun and enjoy golf.   I feel like I hit so many good shots this week.   I just feel like I'm really enjoying every shot I hit.  
   
 Q.   You talked about that stretch from 9 to 12 where you hit into some creeks and had some trouble.   What do you think was the cause of that?   Was it mental?   
YANI TSENG:   It was just one shot.   On number 11, I hit one bad shot and hit it in the creek.   I saved a good chip there.   I just missed a four‑footer and misread it.   I hit so many good shots.   It just didn't come out the way I wanted it.   
On number 12, I hit a good drive, a good second shot.   The ball was just right over the bunker.   I made a good chip.   It just didn't go in.   It's just something that happens.   Hit a good shot, but just didn't score.   
I'm happy that I fought back with two birdies in a row.   It was a long way on number 17, but I'm happy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT