U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   So a rough Back 9, huh?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   It was like some amateur was playing on the Back 9.   
But I mean these four days I played nine holes good, played good nine holes every day.   It was like switch on and off.   It was like perfect front 9 and Back 9 was just way off.   It was like a totally different person playing golf.  
Even yesterday, too, I had a bad front 9 and a good Back 9.   So it was like every day I been nine hole perfect.   So I just need to figure out just continue to play 18 holes, good holes instead of just nine.   
I feel my game is there.   I mean today the front 9 I was very confident at 3‑under front 9.   Shot like 9‑over the Back 9.   
But I still feel confidence.   I only play three tournaments.   I know it's three in a row, but it's not the end of the world.   So still have lots of tournaments left, and I have two weeks off the next two weeks, and hopefully I can come back to play well in the Evian.  
   
 Q.   It's not even the same nine, that the front 9 is tough and the back 9 is easy.   It's just different 9s for you each day?  
YANI TSENG:   It's about a mental game.   When you get everything going and it's very easy to make a putt, hit shots, but when you have a couple bad holes, couple bad shots, it's really hard to continue playing well.  
So I mean on the Back 9 I feel confidence when I stand there, but just couldn't hit it straight, couldn't hit it close to the pin, and got a bad luck with a bounce, and everything kind of just goes pretty bad.  
   
 Q.   Was there a consistent miss?   Like did you all of a sudden start missing everything left or was it just kind of both ways?  
YANI TSENG:   Both ways.   Pretty consistently both ways.   Like one left, one right.   But sometimes I think it was a little luck, too, and I just need to be more committed to play really one shot at a time, because on the front nine I make ‑‑ I had bogey on No. 8, but when I step on the No. 9, I even don't know I make bogey on No. 8.   That's how I play before, but like on the Back 9 I know exactly I had a double also, and try to make birdie this hole and then getting worse every hole.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to stick around to see if Na Yeon can finish this out?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I'm going to stay here.   I booked my flight tomorrow because I thought I would be here tonight.   But it just didn't go the way I wanted, but yeah, I will look around and watch a little golf on this great golf course and see how they play.  
   
 Q.   If she can finish it out, what do you think that would mean, at least for you as a friend of hers?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I'm very happy for her because it means a lot for her because a Korean won 14 years ago and Se Ri and now it's Na Yeon.   So I hear her coach is coming down to watch, too.   So it's going to be good for her.  
   
 Q.   Are you surprised it's taken her this long to win a major if she does it today?  
YANI TSENG:   Not really.   A major you need to play well but sometimes you need a little luck, too.   There is always major pressure.   All the major you don't know who is going to win.   There is also come up a special name like you never heard about it.   So you need to play one week perfectly to win in this week, and hang in there and be patient is the most important things.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT