U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Hi, Yani.   Take us through your round today.  
YANI TSENG:   I played very well for like 12 holes, and then after that I kind of made some 3‑putts, and didn't hit my irons well and just dropped like three bogeys on the Back 9.   Just otherwise could have finished much better today.   
But there is something I always can improve.   I even feel yesterday I played better.   Only two bad holes, but today it could be much better, but still two more days to go, and I wish to make some more birdies.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday you felt like you played really well.   You just didn't score well?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   And today you seemed to score a little better, but didn't play well.   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I didn't play quite well on the back nine.  
   
 Q.   So 2‑over heading into the weekend, how do you kind of look at yourself where you stand?  
YANI TSENG:   Still not far back.   When you see the score today, there is so many under par, so tomorrow, I believe on the weekend they're going to be much tougher.   But I think this course I still can make lots of birdies out there.   Just need to be patient and see tomorrow if I can shoot 4‑, 5‑under, get back to 2‑, 3‑under, that would be great.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the difficulty of the golf course and playing it for the second time in competition.   Do you learn something each time you play?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, just found out the course is not as hard as we thought.   The fairways quite firm and the ball rolls a lot.   So we don't hit many like long irons today.   So it was easier than I expect, but maybe ‑‑ I don't know.   There always can make some more birdies out there.  
   
 Q.   Did the heat feel any different today than yesterday?  
YANI TSENG:   I feel much better than yesterday, but tomorrow is going to be good, so I'm excited about that.  
   
 Q.   I think we're all looking forward to it.   Thank you.  
YANI TSENG:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT