U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Kind of an up‑and‑down day for you.   Is that a good way to describe it?  
YANI TSENG:   You know, I played my best today.   I only had two bad holes.   I had one 6 and one 7.   But I hung in there and didn't give up any shots and I fight to the end and make up a couple birdies on the back.   And 2‑over is not far back, and there is lots of golf we will play for the next three days.   
So I'm very excited for tomorrow to see I can make more birdies and I feel pretty good with my game right now.  
   
 Q.   Take us through how you made the high numbers on those two holes.   Was it just bad break?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   On No. 4 or something I hit it to the rough on the right, and the second shot I just pulled it and hit a cart path and go into the very long grass; and it was really hard to make up‑and‑down there.   
And I hit another one, didn't get on the green and didn't make up‑and‑down.   And on the back nine on No. 11 I didn't hit a good drive so go into the long rough, but I chip out, try to make bogey there.   But the second shot I hit with my 4‑iron, hit a hook, go all the way back to the long rough again.   And then hit it again, didn't come out and hit it again and make a two‑putt there.   I thought it was going to be better, but I didn't give up any shots.   I still try to make it in the hole and try to play safe and try to make bogey there.  
   
 Q.   You came up with a birdie after that and then played steady the rest of the way in.   How do you think that'll factor in going forward that you were able to right the ship and come in with a pretty decent round today?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   Like I say, I feel I played very good.   I feel I can make lots of birdies there.   I know the course better today and just needed to drop more putts, and I hung in there, and there's nothing ‑‑ I think there is nothing I can improve today because it was only two bad holes, so I'm very looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT