SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 2, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Yani Tseng into the interview room.   Congratulations.   A nice solid round out there for you today.   Can you take me through the day and what was different today than your round out there yesterday?   
YANI TSENG:   I make more putts today.   Yesterday I didn't make any, but I still played a really good solid round yesterday, but finished even.   
But today I hit the shots better also and I just make a lots of putts, and I had one three‑putt like hitting the second shot in from 50 yards, so that was kind of a disappointing hole for me.   
But everything I'm very happy today.   Like hitting 4‑under, get back in Top 10 again and back in the room again.   So I was very happy.  
THE MODERATOR:   We were talking about earlier this week about how you finished, even though you lost in the Sybase, you still managed in the Top 10 and finished in the Top 10 in every event you've played in so far this year.   Is that a goal that you set at the beginning of every week?   I mean we know how much you want to compete for a win.   But is that important for you to keep that streak going?   
YANI TSENG:   Yes.   Last year even I had 12 wins, but my score was still very up and down.   I had a lot of finished 30, 40, 50, so this year our team and me set a goal let's try to make the Top 10 every week, but I expect to win every week, but I just kind of give my best, give my 100 percent effort to do every week.   
If I don't win, then hopefully just finish Top 10.   So that's kind of our goal to make sure everything, my skill, my mental, my physical, everything ready for the tournament.  
THE MODERATOR:   I just got done talking to Stacy about her round again today and she's now leading by six shots over the field.   How impressed have you been by her play with her win a few weeks ago in Mobile and how she's playing out there so far this week?   
YANI TSENG:   She must be playing a different golf course.   A six‑shot lead, that's a lot, and she even make double today.   I saw the leaderboard on 18.   So it's great.   She's a very, very good player.   She can make putts, and she hits the ball very solid, and I think she's very aggressive, too.   And it's always fun to play with her.   
And I mean I didn't play Mobile, but I was watching it on TV.   I was very happy for her, and hopefully tomorrow I still have a little chance, but hopefully tomorrow I can still be competitive tomorrow, but I'm very impressed with how much she's done.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Yani.  
   
 Q.   With the way the course has played, does that lead, though, feel insurmountable?   Does it feel so far away with how far Stacy is above everybody?  
YANI TSENG:   I mean everybody is trying to win the tournament, but I just try to not think about Stacy with a six‑shot lead and maybe try to think about she's just a couple‑shot lead ahead of us and still get some motivation going, still try to win the tournament.   If I don't win, I want to still play good on Sunday tomorrow.   
She's a good player and she can hold the pressure pretty well, but you never know, this course has got some par‑5s reachable for me and maybe a couple of putts tomorrow and maybe a 65 round, I maybe have a chance.  
   
 Q.   You have the U.S. Women's Open coming up in a few weeks.   We know that that's the one that you really, really want.   Can you tell us a little bit about how you feel going into that event?   And I know you've got another major before it, but just since we know that that's the one that you focus on a lot, how do you feel mentally and game wise going into the U.S. Women's Open?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, that's one of our goals, to win a U. S. Open.   But now I feel very excited.   I don't know.   Just excited to be there.   I want to go there as soon as I can, but I heard the golf course is very tough, so I'm very excited to play the tough golf course and enjoy that place and play with all the best players around the world, but I wasn't thinking too much.   
It wasn't like last year.   I think last year I had more pressure to go in there, even a couple months before, but now I know my game's ready, and my trainer is here with me for these two weeks, after these two months, and Gary is with me a lot and we're kind of working on my swing and we will get ready in next month for the U.S. Open coming up.  
   
 Q.   I know this is strange to ask of someone your age, but what do you think is the reason for why that's the one that has slipped away from you in the past?   What is it about that event that makes it the only major you don't have?  
YANI TSENG:   I think because it's my first ladies golf tournament I watch is U. S. Open when I was 13.   So at that time Ernie brought me there and Juli Inkster won that tournament.   And I was 13, and I'm still holding the flag to get all the players sign.   I had Se Ri Pak, Karrie Webb.   I even had Jill McGill's signature because she was leading after Saturday.   
So I was just like a little junior there to give me an autograph to sign my ticket to sign.   And I tell Ernie, I think I can be that kind of player, but I didn't know how big this tournament is.   I know it's the U. S. Open, but I didn't know it was like the toughest tournament in the world to win, so I mean I have no idea.   I want to play.   
So that's why we go to play some USGA event and try to qualify the U. S. Open.   So first couple years when I turned pro, I was thinking it's like a dream come true, even I'm playing U. S. Open.   So I still feel very nervous.   I mean even I'm going to the driving range.   Like first tee, I'm so nervous the morning of the tournament.   
But after a couple years on tour and now it's getting much, much better.   Last couple years I finished Top 10 in Oakmont.   So that's the best score I have.   So I was very, very happy.   
So every year I'm getting better, so this year seems more calm and more relaxed than other years, so hopefully I'll really more enjoy this year.  
   
 Q.   Well, good luck.   
YANI TSENG:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   So Sybase, I know you weren't exactly happy with every part of your game after Sybase.   What did you work in the off week with Gary?   What did you guys concentrate on?  
YANI TSENG:   My swing and my club distance.   My club distance wasn't quite consistent and I don't think I trust myself more.   And we talk a lot, and we didn't work on the swing very much because he said my swing is good.   I just putting too much and try to be perfect every shot, every tournament.   So after we have a good talk and we work on the swing a couple hours and things goes very well.   We didn't change any swing.   
We do some little drill just like before, but it's nothing major.   So after that he went to BMW in Europe.   So I kind of spend a week off with myself and my trainer, we practice a lot for the distance and I go on the golf course to practice a lot, and we're hitting from 80 to 50, and my trainer using a baseball glove to catch my ball from like every five yards.   So it's kind of work pretty hard.   So I'm expecting to play well.   
   
 Q.   So the distance control is mostly your wedges, then, when you were having issues with?  
YANI TSENG:   Yes, because like I said at the beginning of this year, my distance was like seven, eight yards longer, so my wedge and my pitching wedge and 9‑iron kind of still need a bit more practice to feel how much it's going to go.   
   
 Q.   Yani, you seemed to be going really well there when you hit the front nine for your second nine and then a couple of bogeys kind of threw you off track.   Did you feel you left some shots out there and was it kind of disappointing that the 67 wasn't a little lower?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   Every day you're going to feel you left some shots there.   But I mean one hole, No. 4, that's the one I was very disappointed.   I hit a driver and I was only 50 yards to the pin.   So that's not good strategy.   I mean we should have hit 3‑wood off the tee and had a full shot into the second shot.   But I hit driver and hit it too hard.   It was like 20 yards past the hole and I make three‑putt there.   Missed the four‑footer short putt.   
So that's the one I really feel I left out there and there's nothing else I feel I was missing today.   I played well.   I stroked good, and even if I didn't make it, I feel when I stroke good and I'm still happy with it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Yani?   All right.   Thank you very much and best of luck tomorrow.  
YANI TSENG:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT