LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 20, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. So 6‑under overall, right?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   So you're a few shots back.   Talk about your day, how you played.   
YANI TSENG:   I played really solid round today.   I make a lot of putts.   I had one three‑putt on No. 12.   Missed a few feet for par.  
But everything else I played pretty well.   I save a lot of par putt today and make a few birdie, but I still hit it into the water on No. 5.   I mean, I did it twice in a row.   Same as No. 10, I did it twice in a row the last two days.  
But was happy I hit on the fairway on No. 10.   Hopefully tomorrow on No. 5, because that's kind of a birdie chance, kind of a reachable birdie chance, so hopefully tomorrow I can get lower on this hole.  
Everything else I'm pretty happy for the day.   Three shot back, and looking forward for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   At some point today ‑‑ not right now ‑‑ but you Cristie, Ai, and Jiyai, all who have been No. 1 in the world, are the top four.   
YANI TSENG:   Oh, that's cool.  
   
 Q.   Is there something about this golf course that you think the top players are doing better?   
YANI TSENG:   I think just the wind.   I mean, you have to hit a solid shot.   If you hit it too high, in this wind is not going to work.   
Be patient is another important things.   Just be patient and do your tempo and doesn't care the other players playing.   Just play your game on this golf course.   
   
 Q.   Last one.   Looking forward to tomorrow, probably be four or five shots back, nothing you haven't done before.   Talk about your mindset.   
YANI TSENG:   I'm still thinking to win.   Four or five shot is not really nothing on this golf course.   Because, I mean, it was really windy.   Get a couple more birdies back and then try to make birdie on par‑5s and be patient tomorrow, and you never know.  
I mean, I can maybe play like ‑‑ tomorrow play like Ai on Friday, you know; on Thursday shot 8‑under, who knows.   
But, I mean, you just go out there and have another fun day tomorrow and enjoy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT