LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 18, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So 3‑under par right now; tied for the lead.   Just talk about how you played today. 
YANI TSENG:   I finished up pretty solid.   I hit it in the water on No. 10, so made bogey there.   I made another bogey on No. 11 hole, kind of a short hole.
But overall I stay patient and I make lots of good putts.   I still miss some, but I hung in there.   It's only first day of the tournament, so I'm pretty happy today.   Still on the leaderboard, still can see my name up there, so very happy. 

Q.   You had three straight birdies, you turned at 4‑under, and then you had two bogeys.   What were you thinking about after that? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I think‑‑ I wasn't think about much.   I was just thinking I don't want to make another bogey on the next hole, you know.
So on No. 12 I had a tough ‑‑ I make 12‑footer for par, so I think that's a big turning point for today.   If I make another bogey, I don't know what's going to happen.   But I save par there and make birdie next hole, so it's a good turn for me.

Q.   18 you had the chance to take the lead by yourself.   Just talk about that putt.   Did you misread it or misshit it? 
YANI TSENG:   I misread it.   Thought it was going to break to the right but it broke to the left.   Just totally misread. 
But it's okay.   It's only first day.   One shot doesn't make any difference.   If you finish on Sunday maybe it will makes difference.

Q.   You're pretty used to being in this position here at the top of the leaderboard.   We've talked about this before, but do you think it affects people seeing your name up there knowing you've won three of the first six events and had six top 10 finishes so far this year?   People see that tonight and...
YANI TSENG:   I don't know.   Actually I was asking some people or asking my coach if they really feel that way.   They say yes, a lot of people will feel that way.
I wasn't think about much.   After Kraft I learn something, and I feel I'm more comfortable and more relaxed to be on top. 

Q.   Perfect.   Thanks you, Yani. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT