KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You had a chance there at the end.   What were you thinking? 
YANI TSENG:   I know.   I was so shocked that she missed that.   I think it was just a fluke.   And after she missed that, my caddie, Jason, was like, let's focus on this one.   Let's focus, because if I make birdie, I still have a chance to get in playoff. 
But I just feel sad about she missed that putt because I was trying to hole the third shot if I have a chance, and I gave a good try.   I finished strong.   Even the tournament is not finished the way I want it, but sometimes it's going to happen like this.   But I'm learning something this week and just can't wait to come back here again and try to win this.

Q.   How did you feel at the beginning?   Were you uncomfortable at all?   It's hard for us to tell, but it looked like you weren't quite comfortable there?
YANI TSENG:   No.   I feel comfortable.   I think I was just trying too hard.   I hit lots of good shots.   Just didn't go where I want it, but I made lots of good putts and didn't drop this in.   I think I just needed a little more luck to win in this tournament because like those putts on the front nine, Back 9, just drop in a couple of putts, I could be out there holding the trophy now.

Q.   How did this ‑‑ obviously a close call last year, too, but how did this year feel different emotionally for you?   Did you feel like you were more composed?
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I feel I'm improving.   Last year when I finished I was playing so hard, but this year I was happy, smiling, enjoy the crowd, enjoy walking on the 18 holes, and I think it's because I do my best every shot.   I didn't give up every shot, and I just give 100 percent effort out there, and sometimes like I said, in a tournament you're not going to finish the way you want.   And I said maybe God just wanted another player to win and give me something to learning more and improving myself.

Q.   You said Thursday you did not have your A game that day.   What level was it today?
YANI TSENG:   I think today it was pretty ‑‑ I think the wind is not as consistent like yesterday.   Yesterday the wind was very consistent, like 20, 30 miles, but today it was like on and off, on and off, and I was hitting so many good shots and some just go really long and some just go short. 
But I think I still did pretty well.   I still missed some out there, but I think my attitude, I didn't give out anything.   My attitude, I smiled the whole way and chin up and still have a chance on the last hole, and I was very happy about that and hopefully come back next year.
Every year I'm getting closer.   This year I was closer, so hopefully next year I can win. 

Q.   Did you feel ‑‑ a player came in and said that we had kind of written the story before the tournament started and handed you the trophy before, and that put a lot of pressure on you and et cetera, you know, kind of blaming the media for writing the story before.   How do you feel about that?
YANI TSENG:   It is pressure, but I just try to turn that pressure into motivation.   I don't want to think too much, because after two wins everybody is trying to look at you to win the third week because your A game is there, you're still hot.   I know that, but you know, the things I can focus on is I just play my own game, but it's hard.   It's hard to not worry about what other players are doing, but I keep to myself, just focus on myself, and you're sometimes still thinking too much.   You're still trying, but even though your game is there. 
But today I was really sad, but it wasn't like last year, not even close like last year.   So I'm just happy and go back to just relax. 

Q.   What did you hit into 18?
YANI TSENG:   9‑iron, and it was 122.   But we thought it was wind, and the wind didn't blow, so we just passed like 10 yards.   So that was like 30 feet for birdie.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT