KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No.1 Yani Tseng into the interview room.   Congratulations, a solid round today, 4‑under par.   I know with your standards lately, this round probably wasn't up to where you would like it to be, but can you take me through the day and what was working for you out there? 
YANI TSENG:   You know, I was really disappointed today because I don't hit many good shots and I don't leave myself lots of birdie chances out there.   Kind of a little upset I don't have good distance‑‑ my second shots I don't have good distance control, so that's why I don't have many birdie chances today out there. 
4‑under, I'm still pretty happy.   You can still see‑‑ you can still see my name on the first page of the leaderboard, so I'm happy that it's only the first day of the tournament.   I love this golf course, and the golf course is in great condition.   Greens were so smooth.   The next three days I'm really looking forward to making as many birdies as I can. 
THE MODERATOR:   All the players I've talked to today have talked about those greens and how nice it is to putt on those greens and the difference it makes.   Did you feel like you were able to take advantage of them today or is that something you want to work on for tomorrow? 
YANI TSENG:   I think I putt pretty well today, but some of them I just misread it.   Everybody is going to make that mistake.   I just didn't hit many good shots, so I'll just go the driving range and work with my coach Gary.   He's here, so that's going to help me a lot.
THE MODERATOR:   Are you at a point with your game right now where you shoot 4‑under and you're very displeased?   Are you getting to a point where if you're not playing how you want to be if your swing is not feeling as good as it should be that you're just not happy with those low rounds? 
YANI TSENG:   I think I'm learning.   I always keep telling myself you don't have to play perfect, so don't try too hard to be perfect.   That's going to be very hard on myself.   Last few years I've been learning even when you didn't feel your A game was there but you still can shoot a couple under, a few under, to put yourself in a good position, but that's how I'm learning.   So it was really good to see that improve.   Today I wasn't hitting it very good but I still finished 4‑under, and I know my game was there and I'm still very confident and just don't try too hard.   I think today I was just trying too hard to play well. 

Q.   It almost feels funny to ask this, but you've been leading so often in so many rounds this year, does it feel funny to be behind, to not walk in as No.1 right now? 
YANI TSENG:   No.   I mean, like I said, it's only the first day of a tournament.   You're not winning a tournament on the first day, and that's why golf is always four rounds of golf and you have to be very patient and play four days of golf. 
It was okay.   At least I have someone there to motivate myself.   I want to try to catch up and try to make more birdies. 

Q.   Do you know Amy very well?   Have you played with her much, and can you tell us anything about her? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, we do, we play a lot together, and like last time we kind of compete together was in Arkansas, and we played in the final round, and she's very consistent.   She's strong, and her ball‑striking was really good, and she's very nice, and we talked a lot on the golf course, too.

Q.   What language do you speak when you talk?
YANI TSENG:   English. 

Q.   What impresses you most about Amy's game?   She's a very consistent ball striker, but is that the most impressive thing when you've watched her play?
YANI TSENG:   I think so.   I mean, it's like you have to play well to beat her.   You cannot wait until she misses because she's not going to miss.   She's always so straight, and she hits the ball with a little draw, and when she misses she won't miss like a crazy shot.   You need to push yourself harder to beat her. 

Q.   You say your distance control was off a little bit today.   You did have like 30 and 40 feet on some of your birdie putts.   You made one of them, though. 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I did.   That was pretty lucky, though.   I tried to make a two‑putt because it was downhill, and I remembered a few years ago I had a straight putt there, so I practiced a couple times during a practice round, and I just want to make two‑putt, and it went in. 

Q.   You say you're disappointed, but you're 4‑under.   Is it disappointed not just in the scoring but in the way you hit the ball, struck the ball today? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I was pretty happy like finishing at 4‑under, but I just wasn't happy that I lose confidence out there, I lose focus.   I'm losing focus out there a couple shots, and my distance control wasn't that good.   Like I said, I left myself a lot 30, 40 feet, and you're not going to try to make every putt like that.   I just want to make closer and give myself more birdie chances next three days. 

Q.   Paula Creamer said on TV that she thought the greens would be faster.   Were they‑‑ they still looked pretty fast, but not as fast as you expected?
YANI TSENG:   No, not as fast.   I saw it was slow out there because on our putting green it was kind of very fast, and we thought when the tournament comes it's going to be more fast.   That's why I always practice with a little downhill to try to get the pace of a green, and it was not fast at all today.   I left putts like very short, four, five feet short, and I think tomorrow will be fine.   I kind of got used to it today. 

Q.   You've just won twice in a row.   That must be a little bit taxing.   Can you just talk about what it's like to come out and try to win a third week in a row, and how do you get a little rest and keep fresh? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I just figured it was kind of very tough.   Normally when I play three weeks in a row, I don't feel tired.   My mental is always fresh, especially I get to a major I always have lots of energy, ready to go and ready to play well and excited on the golf course.   But seems like the last two wins give me lots‑‑ I'm losing lots of energy to come here.   Last couple days when I practiced it's kind of easy to get tired and my mental kind of wasn't set up as fresh like last two weeks. 
But once the tournament start today, I feel more focused the last few days, and I just don't try to practice too much and run off my energy.   But I think tomorrow when I stand on the first tee I'm still going to feel fresh and ready to go.

Q.   In discussing your successes you've often made reference to your team.   Who do you consider in that circle and what are their roles? 
YANI TSENG:   Ernie Huang, he was here, he lives in San Diego, he kind of takes care of lots of things.   And my manager and I, she's always one traveling with me and taking care of lots of my stuff when I'm traveling on the Tour.   And my coach Gary Gilchrist, he's coming out a few times this year.   He was here last week in San Diego, and he came here, too, so it's kind of helping me game a little bit.   We've been changing my swing and improving a lot on my swing.   And my trainer Power Huang, he's in Taiwan, but he's going to come out the next couple months to make sure my fitness is good and to make sure I'm recovering from the tournament.
And like this year I just work one‑on‑one with a physio and I think that's going to help a lot because my elbow and my back sometimes gets sore.   He's one that's going to help me a lot, too. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much, and best of luck the rest of the week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT