KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome the winner of the 2012 Kia Classic, Yani Tseng.   Congratulations, what a remarkable day.   It's been quite a run for you over the past year and today was no different.   You captured your 15th career victory, becoming the second youngest LPGA player to reach that mark.   Only Nancy Lopez reached that mark at a younger age.   
It's your third win in five events this year, and your sixth win in 12 dating back to the Wal‑Mart Northwest Arkansas Championship last year.   As I keep reading these accomplishments, they just keep going on and on.   But I guess just take me through your day and what this victory overall means to you? 
YANI TSENG:   That sounds pretty good.   I was really happy making all the records.   I mean, today I've been really patient.   As patient as I could.   I didn't hit many good shots and I didn't have many birdie chances, but I hit in a chip‑in at the right time.   I made some putts at the right time on the back nine, and that gave me a lot of confidence and put me in a good position today. 
Because Jiyai was playing very well on the front nine, and she missed a couple short putts on the back.   But it was a very good match today. 
Until the last few holes, I had a six‑shot lead, and I knew I was going to win this tournament, so I kind of got too relaxed a little bit.   Still trying to make birdie, but it was hard to stay focused. 
I'm just really happy for what I've done for the day and just being patient and playing smart today.   I'm having so much fun today. 
THE MODERATOR:   This win marks the seventh time in your career that you've captured a victory after holding a lead heading into the final round.   Has it become any different for you at all coming into the final round with a lead like you did today? 
YANI TSENG:   I feel much more comfortable than the first time, of course.   Learning from my mistakes and learning from all the tournaments and the experiences, this has given me a lot of thought for going into Sunday today. 
Today the first hole I just kind of felt like every day is the same.   I didn't feel like today was Sunday.   I didn't feel like I had a three‑shot lead.   I just focused on playing one shot at a time.   I think I did a good job to just kind of focus on myself instead of look at what Sun Young is doing or Jiyai is doing.   Just really focused on what I can do and try to improve and make birdies.   So that's very good.   That's how I learned over the past few years.

Q.   We've been building up all season now to the first major of the year next week at the Kraft Nabisco Championship.   You've now won two consecutive events leading up to Kraft.   How excited are you to get back there where you'll have a chance at your sixth career major victory, having already become the youngest winner to win five career majors?   How do you feel when you head into that?   Do those things that you've been able to accomplish in the majors at such a young age cross your mind at all? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, it's my honor.   I just really enjoy playing on the Tour.   I enjoy learning all the things from other players.   Next week is going to be our first major in the year, and I mean, I feel great.   I'm very confident and very comfortable too. 
I was very, very close last year.   But when I look back, I was very happy that I didn't win because that's why I'm learning.   If you keep winning, you don't know what you're going to learn. 
Last year was a huge experience for me, and I'm just heading into next week and I'm look forward to it.   I know what I'm going to do and still play one shot at a time, be patient, and I love that golf course.   The golf course suits me pretty well and suits my game.   I can't wait to start on Thursday. 
THE MODERATOR:   With your victory today, you earned your 23rd point towards qualifying toward the Hall of Fame.   There are two points on the line next week which would put you two points away from the 27 points that are needed to qualify.   Is that something at all that crosses your mind as you continue to win, that the Hall of Fame is getting closer? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, of course.   But I don't know how many points I have.   Just sometimes I read a report or in the media, and I know, oh, I'm this close.   I can be very young to be in the Hall of Fame.   I feel like I'm old. 
But the Hall of Fame is my dream since I was young.   The first year on the Tour, I mean, that really is my big dream.   So I always keep that in my mind, and I try to win every tournament, focus on every tournament to see how can I improve that. 

Q.   It looks like Tiger is going to win today, and it's probably not fair to compare.   But do you ever look at what Tiger did at a certain age and see what you've done at a certain age and how you've won almost as fast as he did?   Is that something you look at at all? 
YANI TSENG:   I feel it's kind of my honor to be compared with him.   It's a big honor for me, and I'm happy that the media can put me as part of this.   That means I need to pay attention to this.   I just kind of focus on what I can do, and I don't think about all the records and all the numbers. 
But it seems if he's going to win today, he's probably going to be on the cover.   I'm very happy for him, and he's coming back, and I'm looking forward to see him play well again.

Q.   What was your off‑season preparation like?   Do you have to do anything in particular for your elbow?   They were talking on TV a little bit about sometimes you have trouble with your elbow.   What do you do to try to help it? 
YANI TSENG:   My physio is in Orlando with me this off‑season, and that helps a lot for me.   Because every day I do ice, I do ultrasound, and I do some soft tissue to try to keep my elbow in good shape.   That really helps. 
My trainer was there with me for a whole month, so that kind of built my muscles a little bit, and I feel like I'm getting fit.   My cardio improved a lot, so I was very happy about that. 
My coach was there and, actually, my whole team was there with me.   So they've done a very, very good job, and that way I can focus on the golf course and I don't have to worry about too much.   I'm really appreciative of that.

Q.   Have you ever met Tiger?   You're in Florida and kind of near him sometimes. 
YANI TSENG:   No, I've never met him.   I really want to.   I heard like Suzann was practicing with him, and some of the players practice together sometimes.   I said, Can you bring me next time?   So I wish I could meet him, and maybe in the future.

Q.   What does it mean to you to win in San Diego?   This has been a special place for you in your career and in your life, really.   I think you're eight miles from Ernie's house.   What does it mean to win here? 
YANI TSENG:   It's very special.   Like I said, the first time I came here is when I was 12.   I came to San Diego.   So there must be something here.   I didn't play well the last two years at La Costa, but heading into this week I felt good.   I like the golf course, and I played one shot at a time and that really helps a lot for me. 
To win this week is just very special,   especially with all the fans from everywhere coming out and supporting me today.   That was so much fun to play in front of the crowd and winning this tournament.

Q.   You're talking about the fans, and you mentioned it yesterday a very high percentage of Asian fans.   Does that feel good to know that you've got all these fans on the other side of the world, but there are so many here this week? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, of course, because sometimes when we play in other states and we don't have that many Asian players.   But I know that they're always watching on the TV.   So I know someone is supporting you in the back, and that way they always give me a lot of motivation to improve myself to play better.   I want to show them and win the tournament.   I'm really happy that I didn't disappoint them today.

Q.   The lead was down to two strokes when you stepped on the 5th tee.   You bomb a drive.   Tell me about the shot, the approach shot, because you were quite a bit over and I know there was some wind there.   It looked like a really tough lie that you could do a lot of whacky things with.   Just talk about the shot and how much do you practice those? 
YANI TSENG:   I practice a lot, but I practice in Orlando on Bermuda grass, so it's totally different grass.   But I practice a lot of shots like that so I know how to do it.   But I was very surprised I flew that far on the second shot, because I kind of hit an easy wedge, and the wind was probably just gusting over there. 
When I got there, it was about ten yards to the hole, and I didn't have a good lie.   But I no knew where I'm going to pitch and hoping to finish good.   I just did my routine, and I made a good swing and it ends up pretty good.

Q.   That's a big birdie, obviously, with the situation the way it was, because Jiyai missed the short putt. 
YANI TSENG:   I think that was the turning point for today, because I didn't make any birdies before that.   And both of them seemed like they had a good rhythm to play well today, so that was a turning point for me.   Hitting at the right time and chipping at the right time and the important time.

Q.   Do you play differently when you're coming into the final round in the lead as opposed to coming from behind?   Do you prefer either one?   Would you rather start the final round ahead or behind or does it matter? 
YANI TSENG:   Before I always came from behind.   But after two years when I'm leading, I was learning how to win when I'm leading.   So I don't know.   It's better to be in the lead of course.

Q.   Do you play differently when you're in front?   Are you more cautious or do you try to play the same? 
YANI TSENG:   No, I just play the same.   But when you have a six‑shot lead, I play a little different.   But if you have a one‑shot, two‑shot or three‑shot, I always play the same.   I'm aggressive in the winds like that.   I just kind of focus on what I can do.   I pretty much play about the same.

Q.   Do you think players look at you any differently this year than they did last year?   Do you think you're intimidating out there? 
YANI TSENG:   I don't know.   I don't know what they think, but I feel I'm the same.   I don't feel like I've changed.   But on the golf course I still have so much fun to play with all the players and play with other top players. 
So I really don't know if they look at me differently.   But for me I look at everybody all the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT