KIA CLASSIC
March 22, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome one of our current leaders, Yani Tseng, into the interview room.   Congratulations, 5‑under 67.   Can you take me through the round and how it went out there today for you? 
YANI TSENG:   Today I've just been really patient because I don't hit lots of fairways.   I think I only hit six fairways today.   This golf course is very narrow, and the rough is really long.   If you don't hit on the fairways, it's kind of very hard to get close to the pin. 
But I got pretty lucky.   I got some good bounces, and even if I hit into a rough, I still had a good lie.   So I'm just pretty lucky for today.   I've just been really patient all day, and made a few good putts and good save putt.   On number 17 I missed about a six‑foot putt, but I hit a good stroke and finished with a birdie on the 18th hole.   It was a pretty happy day.
THE MODERATOR:   I was going to say that blip, because you started on ten, on the 8th hole was really the only trouble you had today.   What happened on that hole, and can you just take me through that hole? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I hit a 7 out of a tee shot, and I hit a little push and hit it into the bunker and it plugged in the bunker, so I don't have a good lie there. 
I chipped out pretty good with six feet, and just missed it a little bit to the right. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coming off what was kind of a wild and crazy week last week in Phoenix and finishing so late, how were you able to kind of make sure that you kept that momentum this week? 
YANI TSENG:   You know, like last week, I had so much fun.   Even we finished in the dark, but I was happy that I won.   Last week was a great week, but this week is a new week.   I'm always really looking forward to playing the next tournament. 
Last week is already passed, and I just enjoyed it.   And I just keep saying to myself, just keep enjoying what I'm doing right now and having fun on the course and smile more on the golf course. 
THE MODERATOR:   Quite an impressive group you had out there today with you and Suzann and Paula.   How much fun was it to see those crowds and play with two competitors like Suzann and Paula? 
YANI TSENG:   It's fun playing with Suzann and Paula.   They both push me harder.   We both push each other and try to make more birdies.   Everybody's hitting so close.   If you hit it one way right, it's like, oh, I'm the worse on this team. 
It was great.   It was so much fun.   We're all good friends and we talk a lot.   It's always very good to play with a good friend and good competitor, and you can always have fun on the golf course.

Q.   How was it today playing the two nines?   They seemed very different.   Which nine holes do you like better and which do you think fit your game better? 
YANI TSENG:   I think the two nines are very different.   I don't know which one fit me better, but I just focused on one shot at a time.   But the front nine, the greens were very, very small, and it was much narrower fairway, but the course is shorter. 
Like we played the back nine as the front nine today.   Because we started the back nine, so for me the back nine was the front nine today.   So when it gets more towards the afternoon, the greens are a little more bumpy because everybody was stepping on it.   So today I felt like the back nine green was a little harder for us to try to Milwaukee a putt. 
But this week you're going to miss some.   I mean, you just need to focus on your stroke and do the best can you do.

Q.   Suzann said you got lucky on the 18th hole, your 18th, the 9th hole.   What was the luck?   We didn't see it. 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, it's lucky.   I hit it and pulled a drive to the left and it ends up not being a bad lie.   And I hit it on the green with my second shot.   I hit a good second shot, I just didn't fade.   Then it hit the fringe, and the slope was like this, so it kicked to the pin.   So it was like three feet, two feet.   It got very close to the pin.

Q.   Was that lucky or a good shot? 
YANI TSENG:   I think I hit a good shot.   Sometimes you hit a good shot, you get a good luck and a good bounce.   Sometimes you hit a good shot and get a bad bounce.   You never know. 
But I would say it's pretty lucky, yeah.

Q.   Do you feel as focused or as engaged in your game as you have ever really?   I mean, you're on this incredible streak.   How does it feel to be doing what you're doing right now? 
YANI TSENG:   Enjoying it.   I'm enjoying it.   I'm always excited for every week, every week that's coming up and trying to win every tournament.   Try to do the best I can do.   Now I feel I can organize better my balance.   I don't feel as much pressure at the beginning of this year.   As soon as I'm learning from mistakes and every tournament I'm learning something, so that's pretty good for me because it's very exciting to see this year what can I improve on my game?   What can I improve on my fitness, my mental, and to see how far I can go. 
THE MODERATOR:   We talk so much about how focused you are on the golf course, but you like to have a lot of fun off of it too.   This week we did some Golf Channel shoots and you got to have a little fun and show off a little bit of the entertaining side of your personality.   Can you talk a little about that and your dancing ability? 
YANI TSENG:   I like to dance, but I don't have a very good tempo, but I just love dancing around and having fun.   But when I know that the LPGA is doing that, I told them I'm going to dance like Party Rock.   And I was practicing last week after I played. 
So it was just so much fun doing something outside the golf course and you can always feel relaxed and not think about golf.

Q.   Ji Young Oh you lost to her in a playoff, right? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, three or four years ago.

Q.   Yeah, it was '08, so almost four years ago.   And that's kind of before your big run here.   I can't remember how many wins did you have going into that playoff loss?   Did that hurt a lot when that happened?   Was it tough to take? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, of course.   I just needed to make par to win the tournament.   So it hurts, but when you look back, you're learning a lot.   That's the tournament I remember because that's the tournament I'm learning that when I'm under pressure I hit the ball longer.   That's how I learned, oh, I've got some adrenaline juice up when I'm under pressure. 
So you always need to learn from your mistakes.   So the first couple of years I have a lot of chances that I can win, but I lost on Sunday.   I was pretty terrible.   But after that I've been learning every week, and then finally at the British Open two years ago, that's the first time I've been leading and still winning the tournament. 
So you just need to keep learning and keep learning from your mistakes, and see what can you improve every day, every tournament.

Q.   Do you know Ji Young very well? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I know her.   We played in the amateur together when we were in juniors.   So we are both ‑‑ I as on the Taiwan National Team and she was she was on the Korean National Team.   So we played a lot of tournaments together, like Na Yeon and Jiyai. 
fa


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT