RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome another one of our co‑leaders, Yani Tseng into the interview room.   Nice round out there today, 5‑under 67.   Take me through the day and how pleased were you with how you were able to shoot‑out there today?  
YANI TSENG:   Actually I was a little disappointed out there today.   And I played so good; I hit lots of good drives, and hit lots of good shots, and I missed like birdie three short putts, like two feet.   One is like three feet, and last hole was like four, five feet.   
So it always could be a better day today.   I know it's a little wind out there, but I've been really patient, but after nine holes I think our time is a little back.   So I mean the officials asked us to pick up a little bit, and I think myself in my mind just got a little too rushed, like 10 to 14 holes.   I think otherwise I could be better today.   Just a little disappointed with myself.   I should still take time when I play, take the time with my swing instead of try to rush everything.   
I mean I'm still in very good position, play with Ai and Na Yeon tomorrow.   I'm very happy.   We are good friends, so I'm very looking forward to tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   You did get off to such a hot start, birdied the first three to get going.   Did you think early on you had something pretty special going on today?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   Today when I go out there I feel like I can play really good today.   I feel good about it because I mean Saturday and Sunday I always get more excited more than Thursday, so it was very cool.  
And I think tomorrow ‑‑ today I did a pretty good job today and start pretty good, and kind of a little cool down on the back, but I still played great.   I think my game is still there, and hopefully I can drop more putts tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   I talked to Ai a little bit about how much you two enjoy playing with each other, and this is going back to Thailand when you both went into the final round playing against each other.   What is it you enjoy so much about playing with Ai?   You two have totally different styles of games.   So what do you take from that?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, like I said, we're great friends and always appreciate to play with her.   She's such a nice great people, great player and you can always learn something from her when you play with her.  
And she always smiles when she plays.   Doesn't matter.   She hit a bad shots, it's like, oh, it's not a big deal.   She always plays so well, and when you play with her, I mean we talk a lot.   We just talk everything, not on the golf course, outside of golf course.   And it's just so much fun to play with her.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Yani?   
   
 Q.   You said that you got behind and the officials asked you to pick up.   Did someone have a bad hole or was just your pace slow?  
YANI TSENG:   No.   We got two times ruling.   I.K. on the front nine so that's why we were in a little back position, like 60 minutes or something, and we got warning on No. 10 and we tried to catch up in two holes, and we didn't.   So then the next one, on the 12 hole we got timed.   So when you get timed and you go over time, you get penalty.   So in my mind I'm like I don't want to get penalty.   Just tried to rush, and I kept telling myself to relax because I don't play slow.   
The three of us, we don't play slow.   We just got some couple rulings there and tried to catch up, but I mean I just too rushed in my mind and told my caddie to talk to me more and like asking more information and that's going to help me to think more.  
   
 Q.   So that's what you would do in the future?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I mean during the future I probably would just try not to think too much, still play one shot at a time and maybe just play faster at the beginning instead of trying to get some warning or get some timing later.  
   
 Q.   It's this whole idea of being behind and knowing that you have the official there with the stop watch?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I know.  
   
 Q.   How do you stay in the moment and hit your shots knowing that the meter is running back there?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I'm lucky because I hit it a little further, so I can always get there first and just see the yardage, everything and get ready after they hit.   
And if I have a closer to the pin or I have further to the pin and I just take a look at my mine first instead of waiting for them and take a look at my line.   
THE MODERATOR:   The weather conditions tomorrow are expected to be a little different.   We're expecting some stronger winds, a little bit more rain.   How much do you think that's going to change how this golf course plays, and could it affect ‑‑ could it bring more people into the mix a little bit do you think tomorrow?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I mean tomorrow ‑‑ if it's windy on this golf course, it's not easy.   I mean the greens were pretty firm and the course is very narrow, so I mean it's very windy tomorrow, you just want to keep it on the fairway, be patient all day and play smart.  
But I love the wind.   Raining, it's okay, so it'll cool down a little bit, and I don't try to think much.   There's water there, and we just want to try to play the best I can.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Yani?   All right.   Well, thank you very much.   And best of luck tomorrow.  
YANI TSENG:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT