RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome our current leader, Yani Tseng, into the interview room.   Congratulations, another solid round for you today, 2‑under par 70, 9‑under overall now for the tournament.   Take me through the day out there.   I know it wasn't quite as great as yesterday where you shot that impressive 29 on the back, but you've gotta be pretty pleased with how you played out there today.   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I played really well today.   I made lots of good shots, good drives, but I just didn't make enough putts to get under, more birdies, but had a good stroke, some of it was really hard to read, but it's good I make good stroke instead of bad stroke.   So I enjoy out there.   It's good to play in the morning.   It's not too hot.   
The course is in great shape and really looking forward to tomorrow and the next two days.   
THE MODERATOR:   You had said yesterday about how much you were looking forward to playing in the morning and how conditions the greens aren't as dry and the fairways aren't as hard.   Do you feel maybe that you didn't take as much advantage as you could have, didn't go as low or are you still pretty pleased with being able to shoot 70 out there?   
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I thought the greens are going to be a little softer, but it's not.   The green was still really ‑‑ you still get a first big bounce, and we're hitting lots of good shots today, but I just didn't make enough putt.   I had solid chances and I didn't make it.   I didn't hold the chance, so hopefully tomorrow I will.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Yani.  
   
 Q.   Yani, I noticed that you made nine straight pars on the Back 9 to start out today after you ripped it apart for 29 yesterday.   Was it kind of frustrating going across the same holes and not getting any birdies this time?  
YANI TSENG:   Oh, it's very frustrating.   I mean I had a whole ‑‑ I didn't make any bogeys today.   No, I didn't make any bogeys today.   And front nine ‑‑ it's very sorry.   I was like, oh, yesterday I make birdie here.   How could I make par, and it was not even close.   
A couple holes I was trying to make safe par, but yesterday it was so easy and after nine holes I told my caddie, I think this course is not easy.   He's like, how did you play yesterday?   And I'm like, yeah, it must be something there.   
So I think just the confidence.   I mean when you play well, you think the course everywhere is easy, every putt was easy, but when you didn't make ‑‑ like when you miss a couple putts and you start asking yourself.   
But I mean today I still feel pretty good.   On the Back 9 my caddie was asking me like how many under are you going to shoot?   I'm like eight.   I'll try to go 8‑under, and I made birdie on No. 10 hole, and I missed really short putt, like three feet putt for birdie next hole.   Otherwise I think the score could be lower.  
   
 Q.   It says you had a bogey on 7 today.   
YANI TSENG:   Oh, the par‑3.   Yeah.   That's right.   I forgot about that.  
   
 Q.   Just positive thinking.   You just pushed it out of your mind?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I forgot about that.   That's true.   I just forgot about that.  
   
 Q.   Why not?  
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, why not.  
THE MODERATOR:   That's what happens when you're No. 1 in the world.   You can forget those bogeys.  
YANI TSENG:   Just forget about the bad ones and think about the good ones.   
   
 Q.   When you look at who's chasing you on the scoreboard, what kind of challenge are you seeing the next two days?  
YANI TSENG:   You know, I didn't think that much.   You know, this is a four‑day tournament, you know, winning the tournament on the first two days.   So next two days are very important, but I will keep the same strategy, be aggressive and try to make more birdies as I can and play smart, and two more days to come.  
And I love this golf course.   And by hitting good driver, I think I have a lot of chances to win.   
   
 Q.   Yani, I'm not sure if you're familiar with this, but the golf course is actually made up of two different golf courses here at Wild Fire.   So the front nine is the Arnold Palmer design and the Back 9 is the Nick Faldo design.   Which nine do you think is more difficult, and do they play like two different golf courses or do you see it as just one hole after another?  
YANI TSENG:   No.   I think it plays a little different.   I think front nine is harder, because I mean we're hitting ‑‑ I'm hitting rescue, hitting 3‑wood, hitting driver, like hitting all kinds of different shots on the front nine.  
But the Back 9 I mostly hit driver.   I only hit a couple of rescue, but everything is just kind of driver pull all the way down there.   So Back 9 the fairway was a little wider and didn't have that much bunker attack you on the fairway.   
But front nine is kind of real narrow.   You have to good it in good position to be on the fairway.   
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions?   All right.   Thank you very much.  
YANI TSENG:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT