RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome one of our current leaders, Yani Tseng into the interview room.   Congratulations.   Quite a round out there for you today, 7‑under par, 7‑under in your last eight holes.   Can you just take me through your day and how impressive that Back 9 stretch was? 
YANI TSENG:   I know.   You know, like first nine I was missing a few putts out there, but I know I kept to myself, just be patient today because I know I hit it well.   The ball just didn't go in.   But on the Back 9 I feel like I need to get some birdies, but I wasn't expecting to make seven birdies.
It was fun.   I was patient out there, hung in there and tried to make as many birdies as possible, but last hole I barely made it and tried too hard on the last hole.
THE MODERATOR:   In the last stretch you had five birdies, one eagle.
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   Five birdies.
THE MODERATOR:   Can you take me through that eagle and how you got to that? 
YANI TSENG:   I hit a good drive.   It was a par 5.   I hit a good drive, second shot, 21 to the pin, I hit a rescue, 19‑degree and hit it pretty close, and I wasn't expecting to be that close because the crowd ‑‑ it was just a little crowd, so I didn't know if my ball was close or not, but I had a good shot, and it was like nine feet, nine feet for birdie, and a pretty straight putt, and I made it.
THE MODERATOR:   When you get on a roll like that like you were on the Back 9, does it come easy?   Is it seeming easy?   You keep seeing these birdie putts drop and you're going low in that stretch of holes, what is that feeling like? 
YANI TSENG:   I think it's harder at the end because you are trying ‑‑ you're saying, oh, I have three, I have four, and you want to go five, six, seven; and every hole is harder, you're just trying harder and harder.
But I hit a good shot.   Just I played good, and I don't think about it too much and I just hit it one shot at a time because I even don't know what hole I am.   I just really focus on one shot at a time, try to hit a good drive, get a good second shot and make good putt.
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Yani.

Q.   Yani, any advantage to playing late in the day like you did today?
YANI TSENG:   No, because I think the green is harder.   I mean every even I had wedge, my ball still bounced pretty like five to seven yards, and the other clubs, sometimes the first bounce is like huge, like seven yards. 
I think tomorrow morning is going to be a little easier than today, but it just depends on where they put the pins.   Today we got some different, like some tough pins out there, but of course, in the afternoon it allow us to hit the driver longer, so I think you kind of have a little both ways, like both different ways. 

Q.   Yani, so when you are playing one shot at a time and you're really deep inside the zone, do you know how many under you are?   Do you know what hole you're on?   Are you that deep into it?
YANI TSENG:   I don't know what hole I'm on, but I know how many ‑‑ I kind of know how many under, like four, five and six seven, and I was telling my caddie, yesterday I was reading the player guide and I look at all the records and I see lowest nine holes was me.   I was 8‑under.   And I told my caddie, keep making a couple birdies, and I didn't pay attention about that until after I missed the putt the last hole, my caddie tell me you make that you can tie your record.   I'm like, yeah, forget about it because I missed it.   It was just fun.

Q.   Where did your drive go on 18?   We weren't able to see it on TV. 
YANI TSENG:   I hit it, missed a little bit, I pushed a little bit to the right, but it was still on the fairway.   Second shot I had 168 to the pin and 7‑iron.

Q.   What's the story with the bandage on your arm now?
YANI TSENG:   It's a kinesio tape, and it's going to help protect the muscle, and it helps a lot when I tape to hit the ball, but it's still a little painful, but it's not as pain when I have no tape.

Q.   The rescue on 15, did that ball draw?   Did you hit a draw there?
YANI TSENG:   No, actually I hit a little top.   Yeah, it was a little fade, a little cut there. 

Q.   So yesterday when I was talking to you, you were a little concerned that the course looked really tight to you. 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.

Q.   Obviously that didn't matter today.   Did it look wider to you or did it look tight and you just played really well?
YANI TSENG:   No, I mean I just played really well.   I've been working really hard with my strategy, my driver, my tee‑off, because like first couple year when I was on Tour my driving accuracy was low in the rank.   So after that I tell myself I want to get my driving accuracy at least top 50 because that way if I hit it more on the fairway I can have better chance to make birdie to hit it on the green. 
So this Tour year I've been improving a lot of my driving accuracy today.   Some of the holes I just choked down the three‑quarter shot.   Some of it was wide hole, I just bumped in there and tried as hard.   When you feel that rhythm there, you just hit a good shot, and I didn't worry about too much.   So I didn't worry about if I hit it in the rough or I just think about where my ball is going to go.   So it's kind of very positive thinking.

Q.   So the course looked the same to you?
YANI TSENG:   Yeah.   I think it looks the same.   I just feel more comfortable on the Back 9 because I think I'm more relaxed.   On the front nine I was just trying too hard to make birdies. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Yani?   Thank you very much.   Best of luck tomorrow.
YANI TSENG:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT