HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 23, 2012
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We know what you did last week in the last three rounds after a bit of a poor start but you're a little bit better today in your first rounds?
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, two shots better than last week.   Today I had lots of birdie chances, missed a couple of putts, but that's okay, I finished 1‑under, still not bad.   Still three days to go and looking forward to make more birdies.

Q.   Just watching you on those closing holes, probably in the last six or seven holes, you did miss a lot of opportunities, didn't you?
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I did.   I had a good stroke and my speed just a little off, and just work on it a bit and trust myself and more confidence.

Q.   You hit a lot of very close iron shots, just the putting that was missing? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, that's why I just tell myself it's okay.   Just keep building confidence every hole.   My skills are in good shape and I'm hitting it good.   So sometimes the ball is going to miss. 

Q.   This course is playing a little bit longer and you need a little more carry this year, as opposed to other years, which probably suits you a lot more, because you can carry the ball a long way.   You must be feeling especially after last week's win, pretty confident?
YANI TSENG:   I do feel pretty confident.   This golf course every year I feel like I'm getting closer and closer to winning the tournament.   I know the course pretty well and my iron shots are good, too, which is good on this golf course. 

Q.   How do you compare the front nine to the back nine?
YANI TSENG:   Back nine was much better, hit shots closer to the pin.   The front nine, I just didn't hit a good drive.   My driving accuracy was bad.   But I just stayed patient and tried to make birdies. 
I missed slots of opportunities on the back nine but sometimes you're going to miss some putts, and sometimes you're going to make it.   So just be patient and keep building confidence every hole, every shot and hopefully fighting back tomorrow. 

Q.   How is the course different compared to last year?
YANI TSENG:   I think it's a little bit longer because it's raining, but everything's good.   Your 14 clubs in the bag, it's a tough golf course to play.   You just need to play smart on this golf course, and some of the par 5s, the par 4s, you're just happy if you make pars.   So just need to play smart on this golf course.

Q.   What happened on 16?
YANI TSENG:   I missed a 3‑foot putt.   That one I didn't make a good stroke.   But it's okay.   I mean, sometimes you're going to miss.   I just try to make it the next hole.   But the next hole I still miss.   It's okay.   If I don't make it today, I'll make tomorrow.

Q.   How is your elbow?
YANI TSENG:   Still a little sore but it was okay.   I mean, today it wasn't hurt, just sore.   I feel I'm in pretty good shape and just ice later. 
Yesterday, when hitting driver and hitting shots out of the rough, it's very painful.   But I did some ultrasound and ice and physio work on my arms a little bit.   So it's getting much better. 

Q.   What is the actual injury? 
YANI TSENG:   Triceps tendonitis. 

Q.   Did it affect your driving distance today? 
YANI TSENG:   Probably not.   If I'm hitting straight, I don't worry about my driving distance.

Q.   So much attentionon you here; is it affecting your may in any way?
YANI TSENG:   No, sometimesthe attention it's fun.   I enjoy it.   But like two weeks ago, I really get so much more pressure than the last year.   But after the win, I feel more comfortable and that gives me more confidence coming into this week.

Q.   You looked very gorgeous last night; did you enjoy dressing up? 
YANI TSENG:   Yeah, I enjoyed it.   I walking with Tiffany jewelry and everything, catwalk, it's my first time to do it.   So it's lots of fun, fun more than I think. 

Q.   So you were nervous before but enjoyed it?
YANI TSENG:   I was very nervous.   I was afraid I fall down, but everything was good.   I was having fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT