CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 20, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   YANI TSENG: Some disappointment today. I had three bogeys on the front nine and I didn't make any putts and then just kind of thinking too much, trying too hard to make putts. I really, really wanted to win this tournament and just didn't go the way I wanted. Kind of disappointed. But it's the last day of the last tournament of the year, so it's -- I'm happy and just nice to have something that I know I can work on in the off-season and just -- that's it. Today I was hurting my knees a little bit on No. 5 or No. 6 when I squat down and feel like something was crooked there and it was sore a little bit down here and I couldn't squat much, and I was changing my position a little bit, but I don't think that's the reason why. But it was a little painful. 

 Q. Has it bothered you before? 
 YANI TSENG: No. It's just only left knee. That's why when I squat I always -- my right knee is my control -- I don't know how to say that, but now today I kind of switch a little bit. But it's not hurting too much, maybe I just ice and a couple days it'll be fine.

 Q. It was the right knee you hurt today a little bit?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.

 Q. You said you know there are some things to work on for next year. What might those be?
 YANI TSENG: Well, I think this year -- before I was pretty good to hitting kind of those different shots, and I feel like now this year I don't -- I'm kind of back out a little bit to not really get to hitting those different shots like I did before. If I say, okay, let's fade five yards, I can do that, but now I don't think I can, because lots of golf courses are pretty straightforward, and this course you have to -- like this course and last course, like last week in Mexico, you have to hit kind of different shots, hitting draws to the pin, hitting fades to the pin, and I feel like these two weeks I couldn't do that as much as I'm thinking, so that's something I want to work on. 
 I mean, like off-season I say I'm going to hit some shots, just hit into the woods and then try to punch out kind of hitting those imagination shots, and I need to work on something like that, because before I've been working on that every day, starting to hit all different shots, but not much this year. I was always on the road and don't have much time to practice that, like different shots. That's why I think if I'm good with all the different shots and I've got more feel with my clubs. This year most of the time shots, but for me I want to hit more imagination shots and some crazy shots, and I need to practice it. 

 Q. How long do you figure you'll take off before you actually start working on some of this? 
 YANI TSENG: How much time am I going to take off? Two weeks say, and I have a whole month of January and I can work on this. And I think Gary, my coach, he knows what I need to work on, too, with my swing. I think we have a pretty good goal for next year. 

 Q. You're going to play Swinging Skirts, right?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, that's the last event of the year.

 Q. What will be your first event next year?
 YANI TSENG: I think the Australian Open.

 Q. It will be?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I was watching The Presidents Cup and it looks so much fun, and I wish they can put a speed like that for us, too. That would be fun.

 Q. Be careful what you ask for. 
 YANI TSENG: I know, I told my caddie, even when you play bad you're probably still happy because that's why you're working hard, you want to challenge yourself. It looks so much fun, and it was great to watch the Presidents Cup. 

 Q. Did you find the difficulty of the greens and the wind harder to attack the pins today? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, today they have some -- a couple pin was pretty tough, but today I was kind of thinking too much, didn't commit to shots. I got a pretty good feeling before I go out, and after when I'm hitting, like five, six holes, I told my caddie, I start worrying about something, and that's not good for being three shots back because you have nothing to worry about, you should just go for it and enjoy it.

 Q. When do you go to Vegas?
 YANI TSENG: I don't know yet, maybe end of the year for the new year.

 Q. Have you been before?
 YANI TSENG: No, never, first time. So I'm pretty excited about that. 

 Q. You're a gambler, too. This is could be dangerous. 
 YANI TSENG: A little bit, yeah (laughing). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT