RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2016
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess your first day and state of your game?
YANI TSENG: I feel really comfortable out there.  I think the green is very tricky out there.  The greens, where you land it, where you're going -- finish on the green.  I missed a few putts out there, and I hit one in the tree but overall, 3-under for the first round of a major, I'm very happy about it.  So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Do you feel in recent memory that your game has been trending in the right direction?
YANI TSENG: Yeah, I know like my game -- it's just my confidence, I didn't think well.  All I need is get confidence out there and really trusting myself and have fun out there playing golf, instead of try to score and try to show what I can do.  Just really play your game and play the golf I love, it's very important for me right now.
Q. You mentioned that confidence; you're a player that's won a lot of big tournaments in your career.  How close do you feel like you are to that point again?
YANI TSENG: Sometimes I almost forgot how many tournaments I win, and I won five majors before.  Everything's right there.  Just everybody believe in me, but I don't believe in myself that I'm good.
But I think that right now, I feel everything, my game, was ready.  Like I know if I get my mental right, I get comfortable on the golf course, I think I can win.
Q. Are you still working with Claude?
YANI TSENG: I'm still working with Claude.
Q. What do you guys work at most?
YANI TSENG: A little bit the backswing.  Sometimes I'm taking a little too long.  Mostly just the rotation.  We didn't talk much.  Every time I listen, I hit great.  So it's like we mostly just have fun and really go out to play like nine holes, 18 holes together.  It's just really nothing he can say when I'm practising.  It's just some older problems just coming up on the golf course.  Sometimes my mental affects my swing.  The swing might affect the mental a little bit.  But right now the mental affect the swing the most.
Q. You're won two British Women's Opens.  How does that help you when you come fore, what effect does that have being a two-time winner?
YANI TSENG: It helps a lot.  Every time I came here, it brings me a lot of great memories, especially I all love to come here to the British.  I always love to play the course, like links course.  I know this year is a little different but still brings me a lot of good memories.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT