CME GROUP TITLEHOLDERS
November 19, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I guess just take us through. I know the first two days didn't go exactly how you were hoping, but a great day out there today. What was working for you?  
 YANI TSENG: When I got out today I told my caddie, how about let's have a bet today. I've been playing terrible the first two days, how about we play 100 if I make 3-under, and he's like, come on, world No. 1, you should play better than that. I said, I played bad on the first two days. So today I won, it was really nice, and today I just enjoyed there and tried to make more birdies as I can, and the greens were really tough, and I holed a couple of long putts to make birdie to save par. I'm really happy and proud of myself. I mean, 6-under on this golf course with these conditions is not that easy, so I played really good today.  
  
  Q. Did you pay attention to the leaderboard and the fact that your round has put you right back up there?  
 YANI TSENG: I did on the back nine. I was really happy, the first two days I didn't see anything, but now I see my name is on the leaderboard after nine holes. It gave me more motivation to try to make more birdies and try to go on top more.  
  
  Q. Was it just the putter? Did you hit the ball better or was it mostly putter?  
 YANI TSENG: I think I hit the ball better, too. I concentrate on the shot I want to hit, I trust my swing more, instead of thinking negative thing. Today I was thinking very positive. Everything if you think positive, you're just going to play better and have better.   
  
  Q. With the wind, it looks like it's starting to pick up now. How close do you think you can be by the end of the day?   
 YANI TSENG: I don't know. I mean, Na Yeon and Sandra are so consistent, and Paula was there, too. I'm trying not to think too much and go back to my home, have fun with my family and enjoy watching Golf Channel. Tomorrow is a new day. I'm happy I'm back again and back on the leaderboard and maybe will be last group tomorrow and try to win another tournament.  
  
  Q. Still noisy at your house with all the people, though? You said it was awfully noisy.   
 YANI TSENG: No, it was fun, because my family only comes a couple times a year, and my brother's first time to Orlando, so they were so excited.   
  
  Q. How much money have you taken off of Jason this year do you think with your little side bets?   
 YANI TSENG: No, actually not because sometimes I win, sometimes I lose. One time I was winning $200 but I said just have a nice dinner with your fiancé.   
  
  Q. Do you think one of your strengths is the ability to put a couple of bad days behind you and move on the next day?   
 YANI TSENG: I think so. I mean, every day is a new day. Yesterday was past. I'm still happy because I'm enjoying. I still don't feel I played really bad, but the scores were just really bad, I don't know why. But today I just told myself focus on every shot, don't worry about yesterday, today is a new day. When I'm standing on the first tee I'm thinking I'm going to shoot lots of birdies today.  
  
  Q. Na Yeon said when you walk up to the ball it's kind of scary the way you smile, that you're trying to get yourself in a positive frame of mind, how you do that. Are you consciously aware of that still or now is it just something that's a habit?   
 YANI TSENG: Just something that just happened because when I was too serious I was too much attention, and I just want to work on always a smile, maybe keep -- try to give it a good shot and have it be a positive thing, and smiles always keep me very relaxed. Sometimes, I mean, probably not too much because I smile even when I'm sitting on the ball there (laughter). But I kind of get used to it.  
  
  Q. Was it easy to smile yesterday, considering...  
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I'm still smiling, because like I said, I'm enjoying this week, enjoying the people, enjoying the crowd here. I do my best every shot, and sometimes it just doesn't work.   
  
  Q. A lot easier to smile on a day like today, though?  
 YANI TSENG: Oh, yeah, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. Have you generally been pretty comfortable in this No. 1 position? Have you found it fun by and large?  
 YANI TSENG: I'm getting more comfortable now. I become world No. 1 at the beginning of this year, and now it's the end of the year, and every month I've been learning something and try to balance my schedule and with all the media and the fans. I think everything is getting better. I think I feel like I can be more control now and try not putting too much pressure on myself and enjoy it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT