LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX & JALISCO IT HAPPENS WITH YOU
November 9, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Yani Tseng into the interview room. First off, thank you for joining us today. What a year it has been for you. It just seems to getting better. Eleven worldwide wins; seven on the LPGA Tour. You'll be going for your 12th and 8th this week. Just can you tell me a little bit about the year and what this kind of whirlwind year has been like for you?   
 YANI TSENG: I have been really enjoying this year. I had a great year. This is my fourth year on the Tour, and I'm really happy how much I feel I improve my mental and my attitude on the golf course. I really appreciate how many people are supporting me and helping me out this year. It's been a great year. I feel like this is just the beginning. I still feel I have a long way to go. I need to keep working hard, keep practicing and become better and better.   
 THE MODERATOR: The last time we saw you on the LPGA Tour, it was in Taiwan where you won at home. Kind of explain to me what that experience was like and overwhelming -- you knew you were going to have a lot of pressure on you going in, but to be able to come out with that win and in front of so many people.   
 YANI TSENG: It's one of my best memories in my life. I was really surprised that so many people come out to watch us on the golf course. The golf is not real really popular like Japan and Korea. Now it seems like it's changed a lot. I feel like I can win in this tournament this year, this trophy for all the fans in Taiwan. Just really a lot of good memories.   
 THE MODERATOR: Back in Mexico here, I know you got to see Lorena outside. First of all, how nice is it to be back here? How exciting -- everyone that seems to see Lorena is so excited to see her pregnant.  
 YANI TSENG: It's huge. I guess it's a boy. I was really happy to see her. I wish she could play, but I'm very happy to see her going to have a baby soon. It's always happy to have her back in Mexico to see all her friends here. Everybody is very friendly, always get a very big crowd. The media here are really, really nice.   
 Every time I come here, I just really enjoy it. This week I'm just going to enjoy it again and have lots of fun.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Yani?   
  
  Q. You haven't played too well the last three times at this tournament. Do you feel that maybe you're the favorite this year?   
 YANI TSENG: I just want to try my best. This is a really tough golf course. You are hitting all different shots on this golf course. Hitting 14 clubs. You need a different kind of shot. You know, I feel I can get used to it on this golf course and get used to the attitudes. Need to trust more, trust my instincts and trust the club I pick. I think this year I will be fine. I feel very comfortable and confident right now to play well this week.   
  
  Q. Being World No. 1, sure there is a lot of things that have changed, especially your English. I find it very fluent, very nice. What about the responsibility of being No. 1? You are the first Taiwan player that has been at No. 1. Do you feel any extra responsibility for your country?   
 YANI TSENG: Yes, I did at the beginning but I've become No. 1 since February. And after that time, I feel I was getting so much pressure, but after that I feel everything was enjoy. I enjoyed the pressure, enjoyed to get the attention, enjoy having a press conference every week after I play. That's something that's really lots of fun.   
 When you're on the golf course, you watch so many people come out to watch you play and supporting you. It's always really nice to play in front of those people. I just feel very enjoy right now. I don't feel any responsibility. I just do my best and I think people will understand golf is not easy. You are not going to win every week, but I will always try my best to win.   
  
  Q. After Lorena Ochoa's retirement, Annika Sorenstam said that you were going to become No. 1 in the world. She was right. Do you see yourself as good as Lorena and Annika?   
 YANI TSENG: No, not yet. I feel like it's a long way to go. Like I say, this is just the beginning. I mean it's my big idle, my superstar. I feel there's still a long way. There's still a lot of things I can learn, I can improve. Two of them, it is my goal to become with. So I will do my best and just keep working hard to be like them.   
  
  Q. Annika is your biggest idle. We know that. How does it feel to hear those kind of things from her and all the advice that she has given? How do you feel?   
 YANI TSENG: The first time I heard she said I was going to be world No. 1 in four years, I was very shocked. I was like maybe not. Maybe it will take forever. I was really shocked because she's my big idle. It was very surprising to hear from her.   
 After that I feel like maybe I can do this. So after that I just feel like I do the things and I work on. I work very hard. I don't want to get her disappointed. And then after that we've become getting close friend and then she give me lots of advice. Now I live near her house and a hundred yards away to her new house. We talk maybe three, four times this two years. It's helped me a lot on the golf course, outside the golf course, everything. I feel like I've improved a lot.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT