SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2011
Azahara Munoz
Anna Nordqvist
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: All right, everyone. We have a little special treat. We have Anna Nordqvist sitting next to me, Yani Tseng, as I'm sure you all know, in the center, and then Azahara Munoz on the end. First off I want to kind of change it up. Anna and Aza, you two played together in college and then you played together today. Can you just talk about the day? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I think it was fun. Obviously I know Aza very well playing Solheim Cup, playing college, so it's been a great day. It's been a long day, but I really enjoyed it out there. 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah. Same for me. It's always nice to play with someone that you like and you can talk to. And obviously today was extremely tough out there. It was so windy. It was nice just to go on the fairways today with Anna.
 THE MODERATOR: Yani, great round today. You've had the round of the day. Can you just talk a little bit about the day, what you did well? 
 YANI TSENG: I putt very well today. Even I missed a couple of short putts, but I still make a lot. I've been really, really patient, and before I go out, the first tee, I told my caddie, this wind like this, even par is really good score, and I shot five under. So I was really proud of myself and very happy what I did today and be patient all day. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions? 

 Q. I'd like to ask Aza, how do you characterize the difference between today and yesterday in terms of how you played? 
 YANI TSENG: You know, today is past. I just woke up yesterday. And today my new goal is just be patient all day because especially when you see the wind like this, and I mean I really prepare you're going to miss a couple shots today. You're going to miss a couple putts because the wind like this it's hard to shoot a low score, so I just try to do my best every shot the best I can. 
 And I had so much fun playing with Amy. Amy played very well today, putted very well. So they kind of pushed me harder and pushed me to get more birdies, too. 

 Q. Anna and Aza, it seemed like it was a lot more windy today. Can you just talk about the difference between today and yesterday?
 AZA MUNOZ: Yeah. I think windy all week, but today I think it was more like the practice rounds. And as Yani said, this morning, I was thinking that even par, if I shot even par it was going to be a really good round, and it is. 
 So you just have to be patient. As Yani said, you're going to miss shots and you're going to miss putts because it's really tough. You're moving like that the whole time. But you know, you just have to get through it and hit fairways and greens and that's it. 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, you know it's going to be a grind out there and you know you're going to hit good shots and they're not going to be even close to the hole. But it is what it is and it's the same for everyone, so anything I think under par is a really good score today.

 Q. Yani, this one is for you. It wasn't easy for Lorena Ochoa when she first hosted a tournament in Mexico, and I know your name's not on this event, but it might as well be. Can you just talk about the difficulty of trying to balance the responsibility and all the pressure in your home country for the first time?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. Actually last week before I come in this tournament I was feeling a lot of pressure because all the fans, everybody was talking about say, oh, you're playing in Taiwan, you have to win in Taiwan. There's all the people are supporting. But I would say, you know, golf is not easy. It's not easy to win a tournament, but I would say I always try my best, but after the first day I saw that many people on the golf course supporting this tournament, supporting us, my pressure just got so much lower because I feel really appreciative them coming to support me. So it doesn't matter how good or bad I play and they will always be there supporting us, and I was really, really happy and now I feel like I played good. I'm proud of myself and hopefully tomorrow I'm going to be very enjoy tomorrow, enjoy the crowd. 

 Q. Aza, with a win this week it would be the first win of your career, and Anna, with a win this week it would be your first one this year. Can you just tell me about your game plan going into tomorrow?
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: It's like every day. I've been playing really well. Today besides one stupid mistake hitting it in the water on 16. But you know, I'm just going to try to keep playing like I have, give myself a lot of chances, and probably the wind is going to be blowing hard, so you never know what's going to happen. And just keep patient, one shot at a time and try to do it. 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I'm really excited about tomorrow, obviously playing the last group with Aza and Yani, get a little more people. It's really exciting. 
 Just every time you put yourself in a position to win, this is what I dream of and practice for, so I really look forward to tomorrow. 

 Q. This is the first time you come to Taiwan. How does it feel to play in Yani's hometown?
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I didn't know what to expect, you know, but it was amazing to see so many people on Thursday already. Obviously it's a small country and Yani is No. 1 in the world, so I knew a lot of people were going to come, but I was actually surprised, and I mean we really appreciate when we go to a place and there are so many of you here supporting us. Sometimes you get to a press conference, and there are -- I'm embarrassed to be sitting there because there are three people, and here we see so many, I think we all really appreciate that. 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I think I didn't even know what to expect, but just teeing up on Thursday in Yani's group and you see so many people out there and even like on the first green I'm like, where am I? It's Thursday. (Laughs). 
 But it's great to see so much support, and obviously Yani, everyone supports her, too, so it's been a really exciting week, and I look forward to come back. 

 Q. I have one more for the other two contestants. Just going back to a question that was asked earlier, tomorrow is the last day, make or break. So what are you going to do tonight? What are you going to think about, eat, drink or whatever it takes to actually win this thing tomorrow?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, it's been a long day. I just got done, so I can't wait to go to bed and get some sleep. 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I'm going to do nothing. I'm just going to eat, I'm pretty hungry, and try to get some rest, probably watch a movie with my friends and just try to relax. I mean I don't do anything the day before, just try to get my mind off golf. 

 Q. Yani, you've had a lot of special moments in your career already. Can you just kind of looking ahead to tomorrow, what would a win here in this atmosphere and this crowd mean to you? How would it rank?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah. It would be very, very special to win in this tournament tomorrow, because this is the first time and first time so many people is coming to watch us, and I think it just -- you know, it is my honor. I can share this honor to all the fans there, and I don't get any people disappointed because I win, and just really happy. Still one more day to go, so I just still keep relaxed and try not to think too much about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT