SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 21, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: Yani, thank you for coming in.
 YANI TSENG: Thank you.
 MODERATOR: Tell me a little bit about the day. 
 YANI TSENG: You know, I feel, I mean, I just couldn't make my putt drop in the hole. I had so many putts getting very close. I try my best shot, did my best shot every hole every shot, and I just a little disappointed the putt didn't drop. 
 Hopefully tomorrow will be better.
 MODERATOR: It seemed like the crowds were almost bigger today than yesterday. How does it feel?
 YANI TSENG: Oh, I feel very, very exciting to see all the people here and just very appreciative to coming here to supporting this tournament. Just very, very happy. 
 But, you know, some time I want to tell them to - because they want to be safety because everybody was trying to push each other. I know sometimes very dangerous, so hopefully they can stay better instead of pushing each other.
 MODERATOR: Do you think the crowds here compare to any other tournament you've played in? 
 YANI TSENG: No, I mean, this is the first time in my life I see so many people on the golf course and like all over the fairways and tee and green. It was really exciting and so much fun to play under the crowd.
 MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. How did the autograph session go today? Any better?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, it is getting better, but still a little dangerous because they were trying to go over the line. Because I prepared like stickers, yeah, like 20-30 stickers, and I sign before I played and I gave them to all the kids, all the crowd. 
 Because if I sign one, maybe everybody is trying to -- so I just give maybe 20, 30 of them. So I will do that tomorrow and day after tomorrow, too. 

 Q. I think you were talking earlier in Chinese about educating the crowd about cameras. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah.

 Q. Do you feel like that's something you need to do?
 YANI TSENG: I know feel bad for me to tell them, No cameras, anything, because everybody is trying to tell them that. But sometimes just they're taking the camera at the wrong time. So on No. 6, I just say, Please take your camera before I play or after I play. We already play, so just let me hit this shot and you can take camera. 
 Because, I mean, I know everybody is very excited because some of the people, like this is first time watch us to play from all the different countries, all the player play on this golf course. So they're very exciting to take camera. So I understand that.
 But, you know, just sometimes not at the ball or backswing or downswing.

 Q. Was that on the tee that you said that?
 YANI TSENG: Yes, yeah. 

 Q. What do you guys do the rest of the afternoon? 
 YANI TSENG: Just relax, go work out. I might go do my booth there to say hi to everybody and maybe have fun with them. 
 MODERATOR: Thank you, Yani.
 YANI TSENG: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT