SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 20, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: All right, Yani, thanks for coming in. Good round today, 4-under par, 68. You're tied for the lead. Can you just talk a little bit about the day? 
 YANI TSENG: I feel very exciting today, because I mean, this is first time in my life see so many fans out here today with us and supporting this tournament, supporting all will player from different country and all the Taiwanese players.
 The crowd today is really amazing. It was so much fun to play in front of all the Taiwanese fans.
 MODERATOR: How did it make you feel to look out and see everyone cheering for you and the fairways lined? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I mean, like I say, I'm enjoy. I mean, every shot I got big crowd. Every putt, even I don't make it, they always say, It's okay; you can do it; next hole will be fine. 
 You know, you have always so many support, doesn't matter how good or bad you play.
 MODERATOR: Did you have any extra nerves heading in to today? 
 YANI TSENG: I do, I mean, especially when I see so many fans on the first hole. I mean, that was incredible. And then I was a little nervous and I tell my caddie, I'm nervous. What can I do? So I just try to focus on my shot and ignore all the cameras and pictures.
 So just try to play like one shot at a time.
 MODERATOR: You were announced Rolex Player of the Year the other day for the second consecutive year. Tell me a little bit about how that makes you feel. 
 YANI TSENG: I'm feel really good. And especially thanks for LPGA announce in Taiwan and i can share this honor with all the fans in Taiwan. Say thanks they're all supporting when I play in the States. I don't feel that I'm alone. I have so many fans out here watching on the TV for me. 
 I mean, thanks all the player from the LPGA. They're always very good competitive and give me the motivation to get better and better player.
 MODERATOR: It's really windy out here, do you think, playing in it has been...
 YANI TSENG: I mean, this is calmer. This is quite nice today. I was surprised the wind, how much calm down instead of the last two days. Hopefully stay like this it would be great.
 MODERATOR: Any questions? 

 Q. Can you talk about at the end after you signed your scorecard and then just the craziness that followed, everyone trying to get your autograph?
 YANI TSENG: I know I just hit my head and go like this. People was like very crazy. Because I trying to sign as many as I can, but looks like I couldn't do it because everybody was like look in my eye. I don't even know where I'm signing.
 So hopefully tomorrow will be better, because try to find something I want to sign for them. Maybe we're thinking to maybe sign my own hats or my own things and to give them. 

 Q. Have you experienced anything like that before? 
 YANI TSENG: Probably a little bit, but not as crazy like this. (Laughter.) It was so many fans out here. I just really, really happy. I mean, thanks to all the fans coming out here to supporting us. 

 Q. The opening hole started out with a bogey. Just talk about how you mentally kind of blocked that out or how you recovered. Was that nerves?
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, that was a little nerves there. But I tell myself, This is a four-day tournament. Everybody is going to make bogey. I just make bogey on first hole instead of maybe tomorrow or 18 hole or 10. 
 So it's just like we play every hole, focus on every hole. So doesn't matter if it's my first hole in the LPGA Taiwan or the last hole. So, you know, I just tell myself to relax. It's okay. You will have lots more to go. 

 Q. Just talking about first hole compared to the 18th, tell us why the bogey on the first hole and how did you come back? What happened at the 18th hole?
 YANI TSENG: First hole I can say just a little nerves. But the last hole, because I didn't make any birdie on the back nine. I was a little disappointed because I have lots of chance. I made a good stroke and just didn't go in. 
 Last hole I told my caddie, Let's make birdie this hole. I want to get me on top of the leaderboard. I really want to make birdie, and I had a great shot on the third and tap-in for birdie. 

 Q. You've played in Taiwan a lot. Can you just compare the number of people here today compared to any other time you played?
 YANI TSENG: So much different. I play here many times, but I never seen that many fans in Taiwan here. I mean, because like I say, golf is not as popular like in Japan and Korea. But I think now we do. Golf is really popular.
 I mean, I feel really appreciative of how it is. Just it's incredible. Amazing crowd today.

 Q. Do you think what happened with the popularity of what Se Ri accomplished 10 or 12 years ago, do you think you can do that?
 YANI TSENG: I mean, I try my best. It's not just for the golf. I mean, I would like to all the sports in Taiwan, you know, because I think we have so many great players, so many talent in Taiwan. It's not just golf. I wish I can help all kind of sports and wish that one day could be like Se Ri and bring all the kids, all the juniors to the LPGA. 
 MODERATOR: All right, Yani, thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT