SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 16, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY THESIER: We welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Yani Tseng into the interview room. First off, great playing today. I know it's not another win in what seems to be a season full of wins, but right up near the end, yet again. Can you just take me through the day and how you felt out there? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, I played great today. I hit a lot of great shots. Hit into the water but I hit it so good today. I don't know, I got into -- I played great and I was like making a couple birdies on the back nine. 
 You know, it's fun and I enjoy it, and I finished second this week, I still have space to improve. 
 KELLY THESIER: When you start a final round four shots out of the lead, what is your mind-set and what are you thinking in your head and into that final day? 
 YANI TSENG: Actually today before I'm going to play, I feel myself, finish 14-under. So this is my goal today, and I achieved my goal and didn't win. That's all that happened. I do my best and then I played my best today.
 KELLY THESIER: Second straight week it's come down to the final hole between you and Na Yeon. Last week you had to make the tricky par putt and this week it was hers. What were your emotions last week, and how impressed are you by the way that she played? 
 YANI TSENG: She did really good. I thought today she is going to win easy. I know I'm going to play good to have a chance. But she just plays very well and holed the putts and she hits shots very straight and made lots of chances for her to make putts and make birdies.
 KELLY THESIER: I know you two have been friends, did you talk about what happened last week when you were both right in it at the end? 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, we still good friends and looking forward for another week to compete with like this week, and we just switch, last week I won and this week I'm second. So it was fun; fun to have a player like this that you can always compete with and be good friends with, too. 
 KELLY THESIER: Now we are getting ready to head to a big event for you next week and going to Taiwan for the first-ever LPGA Tour event next week; your feelings on that? 
 YANI TSENG: I think after these last few weeks I'm ready for it, I'm excited for it and looking forward to do my best. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 YANI TSENG: I would say I played so good. I made lots of good putts. I would say probably the first three days I should have played more consistently. I should have played aggressive, shooting every day like the last day instead of, oh, today is the first day, it's okay. 
 I don't know, like time, you can always learn something from a tournament because every time is different, or first day, or final day, sometimes you feel different way. So you never know. That's why golf is so much fun. There's so many ways you can play good golf. 

 Q. Your results --
 YANI TSENG: You know, I hit it, I thought it was downhill -- I hit a good stroke. I had a great shot second shot, I was pretty aggressive there. I had a super shot, like shot of the day, and I made a good stroke. Didn't go in. 

 Q. How many feet?
 YANI TSENG: My putt was about a 12-footer. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 YANI TSENG: I felt like lots of putts today. The putts I missed, I made a good stroke. I hit it too hard a couple of times. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, for sure a little bit. I think this is normal, with the pressure, we don't feel nervous. 

 Q. It takes a very long time --
 YANI TSENG: I think today I'm kind of focused very well. Big crowd on the golf course -- and after I make the putt, I always get good reaction from the crowd so very exciting. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, actually especially after this week, I think how many tournaments -- but after this I play good and I feel good right now and we still have three tournaments left. I think that hopefully will make in the top more. 

 Q. In Korea --
 YANI TSENG: In Korea it's different because last time I played head-to-head with Na Yeon Choi and this week I totally came from behind, four shots back and finished very close and do my best. Last week, like one back and forth. It's tough. 
 This week, I played so much better than last year. I was really happy. You know, I feel my game has improved and I feel my mental and my physical, everything is getting improved. Even on this tough golf course, I shot 14-under. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 YANI TSENG: A few times -- we have been friends a long time and play together. Probably three times. 
 KELLY THESIER: Thank you very much, Yani. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT