SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 14, 2011
Yani Tseng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   YANI TSENG: The throw straight birdies on the back nine.  
 I played very consistent on the front nine, and I didn't make much birdies like last week. But this course is very tough. They have water every hole, and if you concentrate and miss one shot -- it's not that easy to play on this golf course. And I've been really patient today and try to make birdie every hole and try to play smart.   
 After three birdies in a row, after that, I had a par 5 and I go for the green and I hit it to the water on No. 16 hole. So that was a great save. I saved par on that hole so that made me really happy to play like this. [ ]So I'm back in position again and looking forward for the next two days.  
 KELLY THESIER: We are in a weather delay right now but you were able to putt out on 18, make a birdie there and get done before you have to get through this weather delay. How fortunate do you feel to be able to finish your round before that?   
 YANI TSENG: I feel really happy that I can go home, have a massage, instead of waiting here for a long time. And that was a good birdie on 18 to give me 4-under today. I was happy to go home.   
 KELLY THESIER: You were talking about the par 5, that save for par. Can you take me through the hole a little bit? I know that second shot in the water, but what was going on there.  
 YANI TSENG: I hit a good drive, I had 243 to the front of the green and it was a little downwind but that second shot to the green -- I still tried to go for 2 and I pulled it just a little bit, going into the water, if I'm three or four yards to the right, it would be perfect. But I go into the water and I take a job from like 117 to the pin, and hit it pretty good, inside 12-footer and make par there.   
  
  Q. Has to feel pretty good when you make par.   
 YANI TSENG: I wish I could make birdie there, too.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 YANI TSENG: You know, I tried to focus on every shot, every tournament, every day, too, instead of thinking ahead. I mean, everybody tries to win the tournament every week, too, so just the most important thing you can do is do the best every day you can and try your best and hopefully just play one shot at a time.   
  
  Q. Next week, playing in Taiwan --  
 YANI TSENG: Too early, I think it's going to be pressure. It's the first time for everybody, it's so exciting. I'm very excited, too. My friend, my family, everybody is coming to support my. Like I say I will try to do my best and I want to win next week. So try not to put too much pressure on myself, too, and enjoy all the crowd in Taiwan.  
  
  Q. Are you familiar with the course?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, it's like my home course because I practise there for three or four years.  
 KELLY THESIER: I know we have talked about how much more recognizable you have become in the U.S. this year with all of your wins. How much more attention are you now getting in Taiwan when you go home?   
 YANI TSENG: Yeah, it's a lot. When I walk on the street or when I go to restaurants, the people can recognize me and cheer for me, support me and say, oh, you did a good job and we always are rooting for you. That made me feel really good. I feel like I'm not alone in the States and I have so many people in Taiwan and watch me play golf on TV.   
  
  Q. What will your mind-set be for tomorrow?   
 YANI TSENG: Just like today, try to make birdie every hole and if not, save par and then try to play smart. It's a tough golf course. And I think that's it.   
 KELLY THESIER: Thank you very much, Yani, and best of luck this weekend.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT