NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 17, 2018
Cody Bellinger
Manny Machado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 2, Milwaukee - 1 (13)   
 Q.  The catch you made, I know you haven't played a lot of right field, what are the challenges of doing that, especially in the middle of a playoff game?  And also was that a play that you felt like you were going to make from the time it left the bat?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, I knew I had a shot at it.  I played right field in Minor Leagues a lot before I started playing centerfield.  I haven't been there much lately.  But it's kind of like riding a bike.  I saw it hanging up there, and ran as fast as I could and dove for it.   
 Q.  A couple of Brewers were asked about your play with Aguilar at first place.  Travis Shaw said it was a dirty play.  Yelich said it was a dirty play by a dirty player.  What would be your response?  
MANNY MACHADO: I play baseball, I try to go out there and win for my team.  If that's their comments, that's their comments, I can't do nothing about that.   
 Q.  Cody and Manny, what are the biggest challenges that you have to face or adjustments that you have to make facing Milwaukee's bullpen?  
MANNY MACHADO: Keeping doing what we're doing.  They're a great ballclub on the other side.  They've got good pitchers, they've got a good team over there.  We've just got to hit better, plain and simple, hit better with runners in scoring position.  We're leaving too many guys on base.  There's one thing we've got to do better when we're in scoring position, a hundred percent.   
 Q.  Cody, what was your approach there against Guerra, and what is it like to be in a mob like that in the outfield afterwards?  
CODY BELLINGER: It's probably a feeling you won't forget, seeing your guys chase after you.  Honestly, I was surprised that they were throwing me, I thought they would pitch around me and get me to swing.  Once I saw they were attacking me, it was just kind of grind mode and do what you can to put the ball in play and try to end this game.   
 Q.  An awful lot of those back foot sliders from the right-handers that you've seen a lot of, what's the game plan here just in terms of how you have adjusted to that pitch, how you get after that one in particular?  
CODY BELLINGER: Yeah, I think I've just been seeing it so much now that if you keep seeing it you're going to get used to it.  And I'm a different hitter than I was last year.  I've learned a lot.  Like I said, I was just trying to grind out that bat and do what I could to put the ball in play.   
 Q.  Cody, after having some scuffles so far in the postseason, how big was that first hit making their defense work?  
CODY BELLINGER: It's nice seeing results.  I'm sticking with the process, but feeling good for those most of the series, if I stick to the process they're all going to fall in and they kind of showed today.   
 Q.  Manny, from your vantage, what happened on the play with Aguilar?  Why did you collide with Aguilar out there?  
MANNY MACHADO: Why?  You saw the replay, probably, I was trying to get over him and hit his foot.  If that's dirty, that's dirty, I don't know, call it what you want.   
 Q.  As you're coming home from third there at the end, how aware are you or how much did you see some of your teammates screaming out of the dugout even before you got home there?  
MANNY MACHADO: Honestly I didn't even see them.  I was just trying to score.  Any ball hitting in the outfield I was trying to score.  I know they got good arms out there.  I was trying to get a good secondary, as soon as the ball was hit I put my head down, trying to pick up the ball at the end and try to sneak in there.   
 Q.  Do you feel this win has kind of tilted the series back your way?  
CODY BELLINGER: Definitely.  We've got Kershaw on the mound tomorrow, we like our chances.  Got to show up in a few hours and compete tomorrow.  It's going to be another fun game.   
 Q.  In all the time you've been playing the game have you ever had a manager run out to the outfield to congratulate you on a walk-off?  
CODY BELLINGER: That was the first person that I realized was in front of me other than the guys.  I think we gave each other a big hug.  And I think it was the first time I ever got mobbed out in the outfield.  I saw Kemp do it earlier and I kind of wanted to do that when I hit my walk-off.   
 Q.  You and Aggie were pretty heated when it first happened.  Afterwards what did you say?  Did you patch things up?  
MANNY MACHADO: What stays on the field, stays on the field, between the lines.   
 Q.  Was he still angry with you?  
MANNY MACHADO: We go way back.  Whatever happens on the field happens in the field, stays between the lines.   
 Q.  How difficult is the reaction time, how critical did that wind up being to let you score?  
MANNY MACHADO: We know the pitcher was obviously -- he's going to throw some curveballs, he wasn't going to give me some meatballs to hit.  You try to be aggressive and anticipate the ball in the dirt.  I saw right out of the hand, saw it hit the dirt, I was able to anticipate and go ahead.  That's a do or die play.  Sometimes the catcher comes up with a clean, get you out at second.  But at that point you're just trying to get on second base for Belli to do his job, what he did today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT