NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 5, 2018
Manny Machado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Los Angeles - 3, Atlanta -0   
 Q.  Manny, when you hit that home run the stadium got pretty loud there.  What are you thinking?  What are you feeling as you're kind of rounding the bases there?  
MANNY MACHADO: Just excited we got the lead right away.  You know, got the lead for one of the best pitchers in the game in the first inning definitely gives us a boost, gives us the energy moving forward.  So we're just excited that we got the lead early on and we're able to feed off of that.   
 Q.  Manny, you saw Anibal a fair amount in the American League and you always hit him pretty well.  Why do you think that is?  
MANNY MACHADO: I mean, that's a million dollar question.  I don't know how to answer that.  I mean, obviously I have an approach, and I'm just patient enough and just trying to see a good pitch to drive.  Does help a little bit that I've seen him quite a bit.  But at the end of the day, you know, he has great stuff, and I'm just able to get that one good swing always off of him.   
 Q.  What was it like tonight just kind of playing behind Clayton Kershaw?  What were you seeing there in terms of how he was able to get guys out?  
MANNY MACHADO: I mean, he was commanding all three of his pitches.  He was commanding inside, outside, keeping them off balance.  I mean, it was pretty special to watch.  It was pretty special to play behind of definitely.  You know, like I say, he's the best pitcher in the game.  Give him a lead early on, he can go out there, pound the zone, keep them off balance and that's what he showed today.   
 Q.  Manny, at 3-0, are you curious with a new team, do you want me to swing, is it okay if I swing, is there a sign, is there a hello?  Is there anything like that in terms of --  
MANNY MACHADO: No.  To play baseball.  You're a baseball player.  It's kind of baseball mentality.  I mean, obviously you don't want to swing at a bad pitch.  You kind of want to drive the ball.  If you're going to swing 3-0, you definitely want to hit it like I did, for sure.  But it's just knowing the situation of the game and knowing who's behind you.  It's just a baseball player mentality.   
 Q.  So there's no conversation with the team like how do you feel about me swinging 3-0, it's just you go be you?  
MANNY MACHADO: I mean, the situation of the game speaks for itself.  First inning, you want to get on the board first.  Obviously I got to the right count, 3-0, to get myself into that position.  So I was confident in myself that I was hitting the ball pretty well, and I was able to look for a good pitch to drive, and I was lucky -- that was a great pitch by him.  I mean, it was, honestly.  And I was just lucky to get it up in the air.   
 Q.  Manny, you saw Clayton from afar all those years in the American League.  What have you learned the most about Clayton being a teammate of his?  
MANNY MACHADO: You know, how hard he works.  He's definitely a work horse.  So he's never going to give in.  He's going to go out there and pound it.  And that's why he is who he is in the game, one of the best pitchers of all time to play our game in our generation.  And I'm actually pretty excited and lucky to be part of this this year and see him firsthand, not only of how hard he works off the field, but the way he goes about his business on the field.   
 Q.  Could you describe just kind of your time with the Dodgers so far and at what point you really started to feel at home as a Dodger?  
MANNY MACHADO: Honestly, I mean it's still sinking in.  I mean, it's been a crazy year.  Now being here in the postseason with this ball club, I mean, it's been unbelievable.  I'm still kind of saying the wrong names around the clubhouse.  But I mean everyone's been so, so amazing, I mean the organization, the front office, owners.  I mean, it's been -- they've been beyond kind.  They've been beyond awesome.  And they've definitely made me feel like I'm at home.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT