WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 1ST ROUND POOL C
March 9, 2017
Robinson Cano
Jose Reyes
Manny Machado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We want to start by asking the players, what does it mean for you to represent the Dominican Republic and how is the enthusiasm for this Classic in 2017?
JOSE REYES: I think it is an honor always to represent our homeland, our country and I think that harmony, I see that we are much more on fire than the last time.  A lot of young people in the Classic with a lot of hunger to participate for the first time and to play this first game waving our flag.
ROBINSON CANO: In addition to an honor, it is a privilege to wear this uniform again to represent my country because it is a country with so many superstars, so many players.  So the team is going to be good and anxious to be able to repeat again.  I'm proud to be here and I'm anxious to see the fans out there.
MANNY MACHADO: It is an honor to wear this uniform for the first time and to represent our republic in a way that will do her proud.  We only have one team to do the job, and it is -- I'm proud to be with these good players and our family there in the clubhouse.
And to tell you the truth, we will have fun here to see what we can do, win the game, and to bring back the championship again to the Dominican Republic.
Q. How do you manage a team with so much talent put together?  How do you manage the egos?  How do you control the egos?  How do you control those situations in the team?  And how is there harmony in that clubhouse when everybody's a star?
ROBINSON CANO: I would say that I think nobody has egos.  This is not something for us, but for the whole country, to represent our country.  So everybody that is there has to help this team win.  And we have good chemistry and great harmony, which is important.  Manny is here for the first time in the Classic, but he has great energy, great harmony.  So we all agree that when we start that day, we have to support him 110% in the dugout.
JOSE REYES: I don't think it's a matter of ego.  We are all united here for a reason, to win the championship for the Dominican Republic.  We understand that there are many stars here on this team, but as I said before it's not a matter of ego but to go out there 100%, because we know we are doing it for our country.
MANNY MACHADO: Well, you said everything.  We are here to play as a team, as the family that we are.  And as Cano said, this is something that we have to simply play for the team for the Dominican Republic, for our country.
Q. Santiago Casilla is not here.  He was the person that spiritually kept you together.
ROBINSON CANO: Don't leave us out.
Q. Who is that person that has acted as to be a spiritual leader to give you that support, as he did in 2013 like Casilla, who was always there to start the players.
ROBINSON CANO: Last year between him and you see how God works because we have (indiscernible) who was a Christian as a child, so God is there inside anyway.
Q. For the three of you, but Manny, I want to start with you.  What does it represent for you to play here in Miami, for you, Manny, you grew up here and for the three of you, with this euphoric environment?
MANNY MACHADO: I know that I was born here but my heart and my blood will be always Dominican.  So to keep both of them together, to start for the first time, to wear this uniform, it is very special for me.  I couldn't even tell you how I feel today.  But I can tell you that it's going to be something very special.
ROBINSON CANO: I was not born here, but no, really, this brings good memories because last year we played here the second round and we were able to go to the third round in San Francisco.  It's good memories.  As I said before, let's go out to the field, and we have to give 100% and do our best.
JOSE REYES: The Dominican fans have always supported us no matter where we play.  Last year the finals were in San Francisco -- no, four years ago, but you know.  You understand.  It was quite far away from the Dominican Republic and the fans were there supporting us 100%.
Q. For Robinson and Jose, you come here undefeated.  Do you think of the record and you have to defend the crown?
ROBINSON CANO: Well, what better record than 8-0?  So we have to go there and win.  Everybody has to go and give their best effort, the team can't be surprised.  Look how Israel surprised.  So you cannot think of what happened in the past, we won and we are starting out from scratch.  The past is past.  That Classic is in the past.  Now we are here in 2017 with a new Classic, with new perspectives.  That business of 8-0, it's in the past.  Now we are concentrating now on the game against Canada and that.
Q. Manny, to be here where you started in high school, how many family members and friends will come see you here and how special is it for you to have them here?
MANNY MACHADO: A lot of people.  Not only the people in Miami, but also in the Dominican Republic.  We are here playing baseball, trying to win the game, to win the title, and nothing else.  At the end of the day, we have to play as a team and do what we have to do.
Q. The World Baseball Classic always seems to cut right into Spring Training, do you guys like that gearing up for a season, all of a sudden you have to switch it on to a new gear, right as you're getting ready for a new season?
ROBINSON CANO: It doesn't change anything for me.  I like to get away from Spring Training for a little bit.  But it's always fun.  To be able to come and represent your country.  I think it's going to be hard if you do it middle of season, late in the season or after.  So I think the best way to do it is now.
We love our country and we would love to do it, no matter when they do it.
Q. Question for Jose:  Jose, you are the most experienced in the World Baseball Classic games, what type of advice and motivation can you tell the new boys, Marte and Machado, how important is it to defend the flag and the fatherland?
JOSE REYES: I always said in my mind that this tournament takes place every four years and me as a player from the Dominican Republic, I feel the responsibility to represent my country every four years.  I will always do it.  I think it's a beautiful opportunity to represent the country, to have your whole country doing this, with your whole heart, that's the most valuable thing for you, to be always at the disposal of your country and your people.
Q. (Inaudible).
MANNY MACHADO: It's awesome.  It's going to be a great experience.  I'm here representing the Dominican Republic.  It couldn't get any better than this and I'm very lucky that we're starting it off in Miami, and I'm happy to put on this uniform and represent it in a great way.
Q. Manny, what does it represent to you to play for the Dominican Republic?  And whether you can establish a difference when you work in the junior camp for the United States?
MANNY MACHADO: Always when you wear this uniform it's something different.  I had the chance to wear the U.S. uniform; it was a beautiful experience.  You play baseball at the end of the day and you are trying to win and to do everything you can.  But at this level, to represent for our family, for the place you were born -- well, I was born here in Miami, but where your family was born, I think that's the most important thing when you can give that to your family and to all your fans that are supporting us and that give us the power to play this game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT