TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 8, 2003
Filippo Volandri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  The emotions that you had out there today, how vibrant were you, how passionate were you out there?
 
FILIPPO VOLANDRI:  It was the biggest emotion I have felt since I've been playing tennis.  Because I had already reached quarterfinals in Monte-Carlo, but it's obvious being in a quarterfinal here in Rome, in front of your public, it's something very special.  
 
Q.  Did you get the feeling that near the end of the second set Stepanek got very tight and it was kind of who contained their emotions best?  His legs got tight. 
 
FILIPPO VOLANDRI:  Yes, it was very hot for both of us because on center court it's very, very hot and you don't have wind, you don't have anything.  So if it's 30 outside, inside it must be 37.  So we were both very, very tired.  That's why I think he broke me in the second set, because I was feeling that it was too hot.  And then I started to, well, try to cool down with some water because I was getting tired, too.  But, well, luckily, it was me who got better in the end.  
 
Q.  Pardon a rude question, but has there ever been another tennis player from Livorno? 
 
FILIPPO VOLANDRI:  No, we had another one, Martelli, but he was 98, 99.  So I am the highest ranked. 
 
Q.  What is it like to be the last Italian in the Italian Open?  How hard is it to be the last one? 
 
FILIPPO VOLANDRI:  Well, I say that I prefer if there were more Italians because it's some kind of competition among us.  But it's clear that it's good as well to be the only Italian, because everybody is looking at me.  And I get a little pressure, but it's fine for the moment.  It's a wonderful feeling anyhow.  
 
Q.  You're playing Federer, of course, who's playing exceptionally well at the moment.  How do you think that game is going to go? 
 
FILIPPO VOLANDRI:  Well, I've seen him today and I was really, really impressed by the way he's playing.  He's really a huge player.  I feel that if he plays like that tomorrow, it's gonna be a really tough match.  But tennis is strange, you never know what happens.  Tomorrow he might play differently, so you never know.  I'll try to set the pace and to be strong, then who knows...  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT