U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2016
Taylor Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had a great day today, ended up at 4-under.  How do you feel coming off the course?
TAYLOR FUNK: I feel good.  The game was solid.  I knew I wanted to get a good round in today, this morning on the North Course, which is the easier side, obviously.  I know tomorrow we're expecting some weather, so it felt good to get a few under and hit a few good shots under there.
Q. You had the opportunity to spend the week, a couple days so far with a lot of your teammates.  What's it like spending this together, an individual event but here with a bunch of good friends?
TAYLOR FUNK: Yeah, it's great.  Any time I get to play golf with those guys, I'm having fun, smiling, joking around, and that's what you love to do is compete with your friends and try to beat them as much as you can but also enjoy their company.  Getting a chance to compete in a USGA event with some of your closest friends is awesome.
Q. Looking to the North Course today, tell me your thoughts on this golf course.
TAYLOR FUNK: It's a beautiful track.  It's just in great shape.  It's obviously soft from all the rain we've got, but it's still a good test.  You have to hit the ball in the right spot and be under the hole on the greens.  The greens are just a little more subtle than South, and that's really the main difference besides the length.  It's still a great test of golf, and it's beautiful.
Q. Are you guys staying separately?
TAYLOR FUNK: Yeah, we're all separate.
Q. Do you guys still talk about what happened in Oregon at all?
TAYLOR FUNK: We really haven't talked about it much.  We've had some thoughts here or there go by, and we all gave it our all, and we all knew that.  We lost, but it was still a great experience.  We learned a lot, and we'll talk about it here or there but never in a negative way.  It's always been positive.
Q. When do you guys report back to school?
TAYLOR FUNK: As soon as we can after this.  Hopefully we stay until the end, but school doesn't start until the 24th, but they want us back there when we can.
Q. When did you get here?
TAYLOR FUNK: I got here Friday, Friday afternoon, had a little experience on Friday, and then Saturday and Sunday we played, so got a good practice round in.
Q. Did you go to Columbus beforehand?
TAYLOR FUNK: No, I didn't go up there with my dad, no.  We were back at home in Florida just practicing, getting ready for this, playing the Valley Course a lot since TPC's Stadium is shut down and the range is shut down, so we were playing as much as we could.
Q. I saw he WD's today.  Does he have any plans to come and watch you?
TAYLOR FUNK: Yeah, he's coming up tomorrow.  He had to get to the pro-am in Baltimore, so he had to withdraw.  He's had a little back that he's fighting, back troubles, but he'll be here tomorrow.
Q. The North today, playing perhaps a little easier than the South.  Did you have any thoughts about trying to go low today?
TAYLOR FUNK: Yeah, obviously your goal is to win, but really your main goal is to be in the top 64.  When you can put a score in the 60s over here, you give yourself a little cushion, and that's nice to have, but it's still a great test, and you'll have to be on all cylinders to just even break par over there.  It's a great test of golf.  But shooting 66-over here and giving yourself the cushion, that's huge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT