PNC FATHER/SON CHALLENGE
December 15, 2012
Taylor Funk
Fred Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVE SENKO:   Get us started, Fred.   Talk about the day.  
FRED FUNK:   Number one is that I really wanted to play in the event.   The fact that we're in here is because of a death of the family, in the Stockton family.   
It's sad that's the way we got in.   I know I would rather them be in the field than happily merrily go along with the round and everything, whatever I'm trying to say.  
And after we got in it, it was just a dream come true for me to play with my son in this thing.   I've really wanted to be in this thing.   When they changed the exemption status for PLAYERS champions to get in, that allowed me an avenue to get in.   It used to be just the four majors.  
So for me to have that eligibility and knowing that I was eligible and not getting in was pretty tough.   I was hoping they were going to expand the field next year so I had more options or chances to get in.   
Getting in this year is great now that we're in there.   And we played great today.   We ham and egged it really well.   I'm real pleased with 11‑under and way we scored.   We did good.   I had some good shots when I needed to and he had some great shots.  
Probably only like two opportunities out there that we let go.   That's pretty efficient golf, I think.  
DAVE SENKO:   Taylor, have you played in a tournament with your dad before?   Is this the first time?   
TAYLOR FUNK:   No, I've never played in a father‑son tournament.   It was good to be inside the ropes with him while I'm hitting shots, too.  
FRED FUNK:   He's caddied for me so he's been inside the ropes.   It's great.   Mike's caddie is on his bag and he's my partner when we're on the road.   Mike takes Taylor and I take his caddie and we usually get thumped all the time.  
But it's great that he came in.   I had my wife on the bag today.   Tomorrow I'll have my instructor on the bag.   It was nice.   Fun little family atmosphere out there.   Brack (ph) is really close to us and really made it a really fun day.  
   
 Q.   How old are you, Taylor, and what year of school are you in?  
TAYLOR FUNK:   17 and a junior.   
   
 Q.   What are your plans as far as junior events this coming year?  
TAYLOR FUNK:   I have two more in December, one on this next week and then the 28th, 29th.   So two more this year and just whenever I can next year when I'm not caddying.   
   
 Q.   Are you the youngest one out here playing?  
TAYLOR FUNK:   Elkington's son is 15.   
   
 Q.   Fred, you mentioned the Stocktons not getting in and getting in because of something that was unfortunate.   When did you find out?   How easy was it to get fired up and prepare?  
FRED FUNK:   It was Wednesday we found out, Wednesday morning.   I had a lot of things I had to switch around and make things happen.   One was I had a photo shoot that we're doing.   We're doing a new set of commercials for Mitsubishi, one of my sponsors all day Thursday and Friday here in Orlando.   
He let me out of the morning pro‑ams and Scott allowed me to be out of the Friday Pro‑Am.   So I played Thursday, did the commercial yesterday with Mitsubishi, and Dave played.   
So we had to juggle a lot of balls to get this thing to work.   Dave stayed, and that was really nice of him to do that.   He flew out last night.  
I was so psyched up.   We're in, but we may not be able to make it work.   So it was tough to get it all worked out, but it's great.   
   
 Q.   Was there a strategy that you talked about coming in?   Were you able to follow the strategy?  
FRED FUNK:   No.   The only advantage we had was him going first.   I was just trying to let him freewheel it.   If he hits a bad one, then I should be able to suck it up with all my years of experience and hit some good shots.  
That's kind of what we did all day, let him freewheel it and go and try relax and just play.   Really worked great, so that's the only thing.   
We hit it the same distance so we can't overpower anything.   It's not like Josh Nelson.   He reached that 15th‑‑ 14th hole.   It's 585 a little into the wind and he hit it on the green.   He can really hit it.   
You got a lot of guys that like that with Dru love and Qass.   I mean, a lot of guys in this format, that's a huge advantage.  
So I don't know how far Christie hits it from these up tees, Langer, but that's a big advantage.   She has a really good golf swing, so could be a really big advantage for her from a the ladies piece.   
Just got to do what we normally do:   A to B, B to C, and play efficient and hope you make some putts.   You know my game after all these years.   You just don't know his yet.  
   
 Q.   You live in Florida?  
FRED FUNK:   Ponte Vedra, yeah.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
FRED FUNK:   Yeah, I didn't see it until Thursday and it played different.   He saw it two days in a row.  
   
 Q.   Resort‑typecourse.   How do you find it and the greens?  
FRED FUNK:   Greens are ridiculous how good they are.   Really, really good for this time of year.   They're rolling pretty fast.   They're really, really good.   Obviously the fairways are wet, but it's in great shape.   
The layout is beautiful.   I think Norman did a great job with this golf course the way it just goes out through the marshland and trees and stuff.   It's really pretty.   It's a great piece of property with the two huge hotels on it.   It's pretty neat.   I heard about it but never knew about it, so it's pretty cool.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT