NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 1996
Eric Rasmussen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
No problem. 
 
I had no idea that Buffalo -- just from the meeting they just said they were interested in me and they didn't say they wanted to pick me or anything like that so I had no idea they were going to pick me. 
 
I'm very excited.  I'm happy to be with the Sabres.  It is a great organization.  I'm happy to be with them. 
 
Yes, I do.  
 
I've gotten to know him better in the last couple of years.  The more I've gotten up in the league and playing with the Governors now and I think my father knows his father pretty well. 
 
I have never talked to him but Buffalo about Buffalo. 
 
I will. 
 
No, not until this weekend.  I never met anybody from the Sabres organization at all. 
 
I don't know, I think -- I don't know if I'm ready right now.  I think that's something we'll have to discuss with the organization and the management.  I couldn't tell you.  Just if I'm ready or not.  If they think I am -- we'll see what happens.  I don't know.  I'm not leaning either way. 
 
Exactly. 
 
I got -- my mom and my father and my two brothers and I've got -- I've got -- my best friend from high school and a couple more.  I've got coaches, my coaches from high school and another good friend of the family's with us.  Not really.  Well, woke up and I was up ever since then. 
 
I had no idea.  I was just new.  I was going to go from seven to ten, so, that's what I was told, so, that's what I thought was going to happen. 
 
It was the first one of my weekend  when I came down here on Thursday and I walked in the room about 20 some guys I satted in the middle of them, so, I was kind of shocked about that.  I had never done anything like that, but it was actually, really relaxed atmosphere in there. They were really calm with me and it was a really good interview I thought. 
 
No, not really, they just wanted to have know my faults about myself and how I could help them out and what they thought.  How long I'd be in college for, questions like that. 
 
I played wing all last year. 
 
I thought think more and more than it's going to become my position, but in high school, I played center all the way up. 
 
Don Rasmussen and Mert Rasmussen. 
 
He was. 
 
He played for the U for a little bit. 
 
Oh, like 1960 or something like that, a while ago. 
 
He knows Jack, I don't know if that's from the U or no, but I know he knows Jack pretty well. 
 
At first, I think it was more of a relief you just wanted to get it over with and you're not nervous about who is going to pick you, you're not nervous about being taken, but I got more excited as I realized what  had just happened. 
 
I looked at my mom and I hugged my mom is the first thing I did. 
 
Mert Rasmussen. 
 
Both older, my brother Brian is 23 or 22.  I don't know for sure, the other one is 25. 
 
My brother Brian plays at St. Thomas University in Minnesota and my brother Scott doesn't play at all, doesn't play. 
 
I don't know yet, I mean we're not - either both options open to go back or go right out this year so I don't know what's going to happen right now. I think we're going to have have to wait to see what the management and organization says. 
 
Yes, I would. 
 
Yes.  No, I -- NCAL permits me to have an agent so Brian Lotten is my advisor. 
 
If I have a question on some rulings or something I can go to Brian and he'll answer it for me 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT