SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2020
Stewart Cink
Reagan Cink
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Looks like it was a great day out there.  Are you changing your mind or are you sticking with the Top 5 plan?
STEWART CINK:   No, I mean, it was a Top 5 thing.  I don't want Reagan to -- he's a great caddie.  He's doing a great job, but I don't think I want him to become a caddie.  He's just a little bit too good at doing this to where I think if he keeps going he might find a home out here.  He's already had offers from other players -- I'm joking.  He hasn't.
Q. Are you going to go back to Delta now?
REAGAN CINK:   Yeah, that's the plan.  It's been so fun out here.  I really do enjoy it.  But I don't know.  I've got a life to go get home and live.  It's kind of cut me off from being away from home and all that.  I've got a fiancé at home.  I like to be home.  It was fun.  I mean, if you had done it today, Top 5, I would have been super excited about getting out for next week --
STEWART CINK:   And same here.
REAGAN CINK:   It was fun.
STEWART CINK:   The traveling and living in a circus out here like I've done for my whole adult life is made tolerable by being a player.  If you're playing, you're kind of the top level of the wedding cake out here.  I just don't envy a lot of the caddies and especially the ones that have families traveling out here.  Media, you guys do understand that it's not easy.  I wouldn't wish most of this life on any person that I love as much as I love Reagan.
Q. Did you just have some bad reads yesterday?  What happened?
REAGAN CINK:   Actually kind of.  I concluded after yesterday that I kind of struggle on Bermuda greens a little bit.  But I don't think it was solely my fault.  I think we started off yesterday with some -- a lot of almost putts, and it kind of got into our heads a little bit, so we started to be a little bit too precise, and that was what we talked about yesterday was let's just free ourselves up, give ourselves the instinctive reads right off the bad, just putt freely, and we weren't overanalyzing, weren't overthinking.
Q. Now you're a scratch player?
REAGAN CINK:   Just about.  I don't play enough to really keep up a scratch game.
Q. Do you have the itch to go play now?
REAGAN CINK:   Yes.  I joke with him a lot while we're out there about wanting to hit shots and stuff like that.  On 16 I think you hit a driver that was good but a little bit lower than --
STEWART CINK:   It wasn't perfect but it was in the fairway, and that's a hard drive.  I said, it's not perfect, but I don't really want to hit it over again, and Reagan says, I do.  I want to hit it.
REAGAN CINK:   I want to hit it.  It's tough watching all this golf and not being able to play.
Q. You might get Connor out here at some point?
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, I'll probably give Connor another shot at it.  He's caddied, what, two or three times.  He's caddied.  He's not into golf quite as much as Reagan, so he's probably not sitting at home going, I can't wait to caddie, I can't wait to caddie.
Q. You caddied in 2015 at the Travelers?
REAGAN CINK:   Yeah, Travelers --
STEWART CINK:   '13 at Canadian was your first one, and then '15 Travelers, and John Deere '16, that was when mom was still going through chemo.
REAGAN CINK:   And then Safeway and then here.  Took a little hiatus.  Had to mature a little bit.
Q. Can you tell him, all right, you're safe, was he sweating ow the Top 5 thing?
STEWART CINK:   I'm sure he was sweating it out, and when we walked off the 18th hole I saw that we were tied for fifth.  I'm sure Kip is sweating it out because I told him T5 or higher Reagan stays.
REAGAN CINK:   You almost said top 10, too, remember?  And you were like, hmm, Top 5.  So that's going to be close.
STEWART CINK:   I felt my golf game was in pretty good shape coming in here, and battling expectations being too high.  That's actually what I think happened to me and Reagan yesterday is that we had high expectations and we saw a couple putts not going in and then we tried to narrow down the focus and tried to be too precise, but that just doesn't happen in golf.  I didn't really want to just say top 10 and we'll keep going because I just felt like Reagan needs to go back to his world.  I love having Reagan caddie, believe me.  If it was up to me, in a vacuum, I would just have Reagan and Connor switch out and caddie for me, and maybe throw Lisa in there every now and then.  But it's not the right thing to do for them.
Q. How long has Kip been on the bag?
STEWART CINK:   He's been on the bag since last year here, so a year.  Kip is a great caddie, and I look forward to him caddying, too.  I have a great time with Kip.  It's just different when it's your son.  And Reagan knows the game.  He caddied unbelievably these two tournaments.  He did some things that really, really helped me and just -- we know each other so well.  He's like a chunk out of my side that grew into a person, that grew out of the same person.  We see shots the same way, feel the same things, and it was good to have him caddying for me.  We had a good couple weeks.
Q. Who ended up with the wine barrel from Safeway?
STEWART CINK:   The wine barrel I heard was being shipped Friday, so it's coming do our house.  We'll have to figure out something to do with that wine barrel.  Maybe put something in it, have some fun.
Q. The last week did I see you went on a family trip to the Grand Canyon or something like that?
STEWART CINK:   Yeah, it wasn't Reagan, it was my wife and her parents and my sister and brother-in-law.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT