NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 11, 2014
Norris Cole
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What has been the issue with the point guard play last year?   What has been the biggest problem you guys haven't been able to do? 
NORRIS COLE:   We have to cut down on turnovers.   I think it's a team thing.   Obviously we take responsibility for ourselves individually, but it's a team thing.   We have to be reliable to each other and move the ball.   If we don't have the play, don't force the play.   Get off of it. 
I think it will get better.   We just got done watching film.   We've seen some mistakes that we were making on both ends, and not getting too caught up on one end of the court and making sure we're playing both ends of the court.

Q.   It seems like Mario's losing some confidence (Indiscernible). 
NORRIS COLE:   He's struggling right now, but he'll come through.   He always does.   We're confident in him.   I'm always there ready to play.   I'm always encouraging him, so he's struggling, but he'll have a breakthrough.   I'm confident that he'll come through for us like he always does.

Q.   What do you think about stopping that offensive avalanche yesterday? 
NORRIS COLE:   Oh, man.   They were making shots and we were also making mistakes.   When you're playing at the highest level of competition, you can't have both.   You can't have a team that's hot making every shot, and then you're also having breakdowns on both ends.   It seems overwhelming. 
It's never as bad as it really is when you're watching on film.   We had some good things.   The game wasn't out of hand at first like how we thought it was.   But because you're having turnovers and breakdowns and they're making shots, it can seem overwhelming at times.   But we've seen some good things, and we'll be ready for the next game.

Q.   What are some of those good things that you want to impact immediately? 
NORRIS COLE:   Well, our energy in the third quarter.   I mean, we stepped it up defensively, physically, offensively we were able to do some good things.   Rashard had some great looks, LeBron was able to get into the paint, even though we didn't finish as much as we wanted to, he was still able to get in there, and our attackers were still able to get in there.   So we've seen a lot of good things.   We just have to correct those details.

Q.   What do you think about, just a few words about Manu? 
NORRIS COLE:   Manu is a good player.   He's a champion.   He's one of the keys to their team.

Q.   As a point guard, what is the worst thing to attack the San Antonio's defense? 
NORRIS COLE:   What is the what? 

Q.   The worst thing to attack as a point, guard San Antonio's defense, if you can describe something about that. 
NORRIS COLE:   The best way to attack them?   What is the worst thing of their defense? 

Q.   You attacking San Antonio's defense, what is the worst thing that can happen?   The traps? 
NORRIS COLE:   Turn the ball over, that is the worst thing that can happen on offense is turn the ball over.

Q.   Do they play different from the other teams? 
NORRIS COLE:   They have San Antonio style defense.   Every team is different.   They create challenges with Tim Duncan back at the rim, they do a lot of reaching and slapping for the ball, and that's the challenge that they have.   But that's their defense. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT