MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ROYALS
October 24, 2014
Ryan Vogelsong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Ryan, for you, not the first experience.   Can you talk about how much your experience in the last World Series is going to help you for this outing.   
RYAN VOGELSONG:   The answer hasn't changed from all the rounds.   I think the biggest thing is just the experience of curbing the emotions.   It's definitely a situation where you have to be locked into the game and your thoughts need to be on the game, but you have to take a quick second to look around and take it all in.   Just look at Huddy's situation, first time being here, you never know when you're going to get here or get back.   
But I think the experience factor is just knowing how to deal with the emotions, slowing the game down, like you do every game.   Other than that, each game brings its own emotions.   But the big thing is just knowing how to curb them.  
   
 Q.   You throw a little bit harder in the postseason.   Is that related to these emotions you're having or is there anything you do mechanically just to harness that and get the command back?   
RYAN VOGELSONG:   Well, I talked earlier about I was trying to make some adjustments mechanically, and I think that had something to do with the velocity.   But at the same time there is adrenaline, no question.   There is extra adrenaline.   It's going to make you throw harder and do some things that you probably don't do on a normal Sunday afternoon in Milwaukee or Colorado.   No offense to those cities, they just came to mind.   
But it's definitely a different adrenaline when you're in this stadium in a postseason game.   It's different than an everyday regular season game.  
   
 Q.   Just following up on that, if you're a golfer or something, maybe you take one less club.   But when you're a pitcher and you're going to have that little extra gas, what do you have to do to try to keep it in the zone and not have the pitches straighten out?   What do you try to do?   
RYAN VOGELSONG:   I think that's where the first question comes in, knowing how to curb it and make it work to your advantage.   I think that's just from being there before.   To me, I try to use it to my advantage.   I try to just let it go.   
I'm a command pitcher.   There is no doubt about that.   So I feel like if I can throw it on the corner at 92, then if I'm throwing 94, I should still be able to hit the same corner.   You just have to know when to let it go and when to try to back yourself down, and I think that's where the experience factor comes in.  
   
 Q.   One thing about the Royals lineup, in particular, is they put the ball in play a lot.   How do you, in preparing to face them, do you use your stuff to get them out when they don't strike out a lot and put it in play?   
RYAN VOGELSONG:   I'm not a big strikeout guy anyway.   I'm a guy that tries to command the zone, change speeds, use my location to my advantage and make guys put the ball in play.   We have a great defense, and let them work.   The fact they put the ball in play a lot doesn't really change the way I'm going to pitch.   There are times in a game where you need to strike somebody out or the situation calls for it.   But I'm not that guy anyway.   So it's not going to change how I do things.  
   
 Q.   How does their speed and base‑stealing ability affect what you do when they have guys on base?   How aware do you have to be of that?   And do you alter anything?   
RYAN VOGELSONG:   Well, you have to be aware of it.   Guy on first‑‑ a guy on second is a lot different than a guy on first.   He's a hit away from scoring.   So if there's a guy on first, you have to do everything in your capability to keep him there.   You do everything that you've been taught to do through your career on how to hold runners on.   The best thing you can do is give your catcher a chance to make a good throw.   That being said, it's all about executing pitches.   
So you have to find a way to hold a guy on, do your job that way, but still execute a good pitch and not make a mistake on the plate.   
So it's something you have to pay attention to.   We all know it's there.   So it's not something you can just say, "All right, I'm going to let this guy just do whatever he wants over there."   The game hasn't changed from that standpoint.   So you have to pay attention to it, do your job, but at the same time, make a good pitch.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned Hudson and how you just never know in your career if you're ever going to get to this point.   Here's a guy that's accomplished so much in his career, and now he's finally starting in the World Series.   How special is that for him and for the club to be a part of it?   
RYAN VOGELSONG:   Well, it's got to be special.   It's been a long time coming for him.   The guy has obviously put up great numbers, and his reputation precedes him with the amount of wins he has.   So the fact that he's finally on this big stage and gets to experience everything that comes with being in the World Series, it's great for him.   I know everybody in that room couldn't be happier for him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT