MLB WORLD SERIES: TIGERS v GIANTS
October 27, 2012
Tim Lincecum
Ryan Vogelsong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 San Francisco Giants - 2
  Detroit Tigers - 0 
   
 Q.   Ryan, I would imagine facing Cabrera at any point is difficult, how difficult is it knowing tight game, 2‑0, bases loaded against that guy?  
RYAN VOGELSONG:   Yeah, right now he's the best hitter in the game.   I just tried to make pitches there.   It's a lot easier to face him in that situation when there's two outs.   I was just trying to make a pitch, and the way we were playing defense, really just trying to get him to put a ball in play somewhere, because I had a good feeling we were going to catch it if he did, with the way these guys were all over the field tonight.   I was just trying to make a pitch, and I was able to do that, and he popped it up.   
   
 Q.   Tim, this is your second incredible relief appearance in this series, and you've faced 16 guys, retired them, eight strikeouts.   How much fun is this?   And what's going on that you're enjoying so much success?   
TIM LINCECUM:   I think just being able to contribute is the biggest thing for me.   I know this season I didn't do exactly what I wanted to do, so to go out there and just to be able to do something for the team, whether that's for two innings or an inning or four innings, that's really my goal.   
   
 Q.   Ryan, how much of what you did tonight was your stuff and how much of it was just your competitive spirit?   
RYAN VOGELSONG:   It was a little of both.   I didn't think my stuff was as good as it was in the NLCS, but I really just tried to hit Buster's glove as many times as I could.   I didn't think I was as sharp as I wanted to be, but when the guys are playing deep like that behind you, it encourages you to try and get the guys to hit the ball in play.   I definitely wasn't happy with walking‑‑ I think I walked four.   But I wasn't happy about that.   
You know, it's my first World Series.   I've been waiting for this since I was five years old, and I wasn't going to go down without a fight, that's for sure.   
   
 Q.   I know the arithmetic, three does not equal four, but you're up three games to none, you know the history of teams being behind three to nothing and coming back.   Can you talk about the confidence you feel right now, first Ryan and then Tim?   
RYAN VOGELSONG:   I think we're approaching every game the same here.   I don't think the confidence level has changed at all.   You know, we know that we've got to win one more game, and this thing isn't over until we get the last out.   So we've been playing like that in the elimination games and all the games, really.   
I think the confidence level is going to be the same tomorrow.   We've got to go out and win tomorrow, and we've got Cainer on the mound, which is nice to have.   He was definitely our ace this year, and I expect him to go out and throw the ball well, and hopefully we can get one tomorrow.   
TIM LINCECUM:   Yeah, definitely.   I think confidence is the biggest thing.   I think where we were at in the NLDS and the CS and here, it gave us the momentum and the drive to know that we can do anything if our backs are against the wall.   So if we're in the driver's seat and we're up 3‑0, we are looking to make a statement there, so I think that's what we're looking for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You had a pretty good day here last year when Bochy told you you were going to be on the All‑Star team.   Is Comerica now one of your favorite places?  
RYAN VOGELSONG:   Yeah, it crossed my mind.   When we walked in for the workout yesterday, I thought about it when I walked by his office.   But yeah, I mean, what an amazing experience.   I was thrilled to death before the game even started just to have this opportunity.   I'm just glad I was able to have a solid game and come out on the right side of this one.   
   
 Q.   Tim, obviously you heard Bruce say that you're going to be back on the starting rotation next year, which I'm sure you're happy about.   Is there a part of you that kind of wonders if for some reason you did pitch relief next year, what you might be able to do in 70 or 80 appearances?   
TIM LINCECUM:   That thought never really crossed my mind.   Right now the bullpen role is for the World Series, and that's my mindset.   I think that's everybody's mindset is, I'm just going to be out there as a safety net kind of thing, and if I can pick up innings here and there in these games, that's what I'm there to do.   As I said, I'm just fortunate that I've been able to come out on the top side of these, and fortunate to come out on the back side of wins.   
   
 Q.   What is it like just being out in the bullpen, watching a game from there and trying to find a seat with 13 other guys on the bench there?   
TIM LINCECUM:   It's pretty fun.   We've got a great group of guys on this team, so as focused as we are on the game, we still mess around down there.   So that adds a little bit of entertainment.   Outside of that you're just sitting waiting for your name to get called, like I said before, and the second that happens, you're just riding on straight adrenaline.   
   
 Q.   Ryan, you come out of the game and you already mentioned that you were unhappy with the walks.   What was it like for you to watch Lincecum and the relief outing that he delivered after you came out?   
RYAN VOGELSONG:   Not surprising at all.   He's been throwing the ball great.   I thought, like Bruce said earlier, he even threw the ball good in the start in St.Louis.   But what sticks out the most to me, when the lights come on in the biggest stage, he's showed everybody what he's truly about, and he's thrown the ball unbelievable this whole postseason out of the bullpen.   And you've got to tip your hat to him because he could have been upset about going to the bullpen, and not one second did you ever see that from him.   He just went down there and came out firing BBs, and he's been really impressive.   
   
 Q.   Tim, your career has taken a completely different path from Ryan's.   Can you appreciate what he went through to get to where he is now?   
TIM LINCECUM:   Yeah, definitely.   I think we all have an appreciation for what everybody has been through to get to this level.   It's never been easy for anybody, and everybody's grind has been a little bit different.   With that we have a definite appreciation for each other and respect.   
With Ryan we know what he's been through and the kind of person he is, and he's that kind of guy that's just going to leave it out there on the field, give you everything he's got, give you the shirt off his back if he has to.   That just speaks a lot about him and just fortunate I get to be his teammate.   
   
 Q.   Also just playing off of what Vogey said about the big stage, two years ago you were 2‑0 in the World Series in your two starts, and now you're having as good a World Series in the role that you're doing.   What is it about it that getting into this brings out in you?   
TIM LINCECUM:   I think from the 2010 stint obviously I knew my role there, and I was starting.   But the second we got that ring, it's like that taste for that next ring is just sitting right in your mouth the whole time.   That sounds terrible.   (Laughter).  
Let me rephrase that.   It just leaves you wanting it even more, and if that means being a good teammate or being in the bullpen, I really don't care, I just want to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT