PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2019
Kamie Ethridge
Chanelle Molina
Borislava Hristova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Cal - 77, Washington State - 58
COACH ETHRIDGE: Just doesn't seem like she ever settles for anything but her very best effort for as long as she's on the floor.  So I just look at her and go what a great senior.  She's just an example of she doesn't want her season to end.  She plays at an unbelievable level possession after possession.  And you better bring some big, strong bodies that can get into her and affect some of her shots if you ever want to have a chance of beating them.
Q. Coach, what do you take away from your first year at Pullman?
COACH ETHRIDGE: Well, I'm unbelievably optimistic and excited.  I really am.  I think I'm excited about an off-season.  I think we need a great spring.  I think these two players are obviously huge for us, and their commitment level and their talent level, and the fact that they're coming back for next year I just think gives us a great chance.
We clearly know what we need to do to get better and even remotely compete with some of the great teams in this league.  We've got to obviously improve our roster, get more depth, and give these guys a break every once in a while.
But I'm super excited.  I think we're in the right spot.  I think we're moving in the right direction.
I think what we do is really hard to guard.  I just think we've got to put more pieces together for us to be really effective, and like I said, compete at the level that these great teams do in this league.
You know, I knew this was going to be hard.  We had a small roster.  We've made them empty their tanks.  They have nothing left in them because they play so many minutes.  Put them through a lot of torture, probably, so they need some rest and recovery.  But it's great to know that we're coming back with these two players and leaders in the future.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  Any other questions?
Q. For both the players, just to follow up on what Coach said, what do you take away from the season hopefully building for the future at Washington State?
CHANELLE MOLINA: For me personally, I can't wait to get back on the court.  I can't wait to get back on the court and be my best to help lead the team better, and that's exactly what Bobi wants too.  We're going to keep getting better, and trying to lead this team, and steer this team in the right direction.
Q. What do you want to say about your senior, Alexys, all that time she's played, coaching changes?  Any of you?  I'd love to hear from the student-athletes, of course.
BORISLAVA HRISTOVA: I mean, Swed is a great leader.  Those four years with her, having her with us has been great.  She's a great shooter.  She stretches the floor.  She's a great leader.  Her talking to us game after game is just something else, and we're definitely going to miss her.
CHANELLE MOLINA: Yeah, I'm going to miss the energy she brings because when she's hyped up, you'll see it.  It gets all of us hyped up.  And like Coach said, she wears her emotion on her sleeves, and it does show.  It's contagious, her energy and effort.  She's just brought so much to this program.  Not just as a player, but as a person.  She's just very charismatic and friendly and outgoing.  We're going to miss her.
Q. Chanelle, you've taken on a much bigger role with the team where you've put together a lot of commanding stretches like you did tonight where you were able to get to the basket and affect the game.  What moments or games or performances would you point to that let your confidence take off?  And for Bobi, what helped you take over to take some pressure off of you?
BORISLAVA HRISTOVA: I think it's been great.  I think it showed tonight when the basket doesn't go through the net, Chanelle's going to step in.  At this point we need to help her and have as many players to do that.  But she's been great finding teammates, knocking shots down, and it just stretches the defense, and we have more weapons.
CHANELLE MOLINA: And it's been a process for me.  I haven't run this type of offense before, and just every game is different, different reads, different read reactions.  So every game I have to adjust and just learn what I can do better coming off of screens, coming off of step-ups, looking to pass the corner, hitting the pocket pass.  Everything, I've just taken it in and kept learning and trying to get better at it.  I feel like now I know what I need to do, and in the off-season I'm going to just keep getting better at it.  I'm as determined as ever to help this program.
We just have these amazing coaches, and I just want to play super hard for them.  I'd run through a wall for them.  That's how much I respect them and love them.  That's how much I want to get better.
THE MODERATOR: I think we'll close on that.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT