NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 14, 2001
Mike Matheny
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Now that you've got the plate this year, how has the post-season been for you?
 
MIKE MATHENY: It's been exciting.  We've had some good games.  Starting out here, the way it started with Schilling and Morris last time, I think it was exciting for everybody playing and everybody watching.  It just didn't end up too good for us that day.  Overall, the excitement level is amazing and I've had a lot of time to sit and think about it and anticipate it from the way things ended last year and I'm just not ready for it to end yet. 
 
Q.  We keep hearing Matt Morris is a very emotional pitcher.  Can you talk about how that manifests itself during a game?
 
MIKE MATHENY:  Well, I just think it's his personality.  He's an intense player, and he looks forward to that 5th day when it's his turn to get the ball.  Sometimes I think that intensity carries over too much where he gets on the mound and every call he gets a little excited about.  And that's good.  This is an intense game.  He should be excited out there.  I know the rest of us are.  It's just a matter of harnessing that intensity and using it in a positive way.  Matt has done a great job for us all season.  Honestly I think it's a strength.  I think when he goes out there and pitches, he needs to go out and pitch the way he can and use his personality and use it to an advantage. 
 
Q.  Is there one key or approach to explain why your staff has been so successful in this series?
 
MIKE MATHENY:  I think it's just execution.  We've got a good staff.  We've had a solid group of starters who have done a good job all season long, and I think our bullpen has been even more consistent.  These guys have a good game plan.  They've got a clear, concise idea what they're trying to do to get the hitters out.  They're paying attention during the game, they're following patterns, they've got an idea and that's good, but it doesn't mean anything if you don't execute it.  So far these guys have done a great job of executing the pitches they've wanted to.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT