SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 2, 2020
Gavin Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on a final round of 70?
GAVIN GREEN: Playing with one of best in the world and you know he's struggling, it's not easy, but I think we both kind of hung in there really well. I hung in there for the first nine holes. The back nine a couple of putts slipped away, a couple of shots, lost focus. It's something that I learn from and little move on from it. But I think being able to apply it next time I'm in this position will help a lot.
Q. You put yourself in position to win this championship, your thoughts on that front nine?
GAVIN GREEN: Yeah, I knew I was close and I knew I was really close, actually. I just told myself get a good score and have another good back nine, doesn't matter what it is, just keep hitting good shots. After the short putt missed, I just lost focus a little bit. Something I can learn from and maybe I can do it next time.
Overall I had solid day. The finish was strong. I didn't expect that at all. When my caddie said, just hit two good tee shots and see where that leaves us, finish strong. So I'm happy.
Q. How proud are you of that finish and just talk us through 17 and 18.
GAVIN GREEN: It was kind of the same wind as yesterday, so where the pin was -- I hit a cut, and where the pin was, I think I've got to go for it, what are we doing laying up? We have to go for it. Hit a lovely nice cut. I don't know where it pitched and DJ -- said great. It pitched perfect. I got up and I was over the putt and I was like, give me one putt, give me one putt on this back nine, and managed to drain it and that got me going.
Hit it well on 18, just a little left I guess. A cut 60 degree in there, a little checker, finished where Dustin's ball was, and rolled a birdie in to finish even par for the day and the weekend.
It's tough, but it helped, this experience and learning from that. In this game you're always learning, and see what happens next time.
Q. How much did you enjoy playing with DJ? What can you take from his performance?
GAVIN GREEN: I think with DJ, I think we have similar games. We both hit a cut and we both hit it about the same distance. He doesn't slow it down. He just let's it go. Under the gun, letting it go -- on 16, he hit that thing so far, right in the Red Sea, and the wind pulled it all the way back. Wow, this is unbelievable. I think being able to do that under pressure -- not to say high pressure, but he needed to have a good finish, and man, just to be able to do that, I was like, wow, this is cool. I thought about it -- I'm going in the bunker, but I think I just enjoyed the whole day. Really fun for me and see what happens in the coming tournaments.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT