WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 26, 2017
Gavin Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seven birdies today, no bogeys, clean card.  Are you pretty comfortable on this course?  Do you have any experience here?  
GAVIN GREEN: No, it's my first time here and it's obviously my first WGC.  The last couple weeks, playing on the two tours, playing on the PGA TOUR, it's a big difference for me.  It takes a little getting used to.  But I'm just enjoying it, enjoying the moment and enjoying the opportunity, and just trying to play some good golf.   
 Q.  What are some things you've carried over from the last two weeks to this week?  
GAVIN GREEN: I've been trying to maybe step on it a little bit more than I should maybe.  I got out today, and just going and enjoying my golf.  Go and enjoy it; it's a perfect morning, hardly any wind.  We got off to a good start, birdie on two and a couple more before we close on the front.  Crossed over, made birdie on 10 and a couple more on the par 5s.   
You know, it was just when I was out of position, I put it back in play and wedged it close and made a putt.  I made a couple of good putts today, which obviously helped.  I hope to keep that going.   
 Q.  With guys going pretty low today, what parts of your game do you think have to be strong to keep this going?  
GAVIN GREEN: You know, for me, I hit a lot of drivers off the tee, and I wedged it pretty decently good today.  I think that's where the turning point was, and obviously converting it after the approach shot.  Yeah, it was.   
 Q.  Is there anything on this course that fits your game particularly well?  
GAVIN GREEN: There are a couple bunkers where I can fly it over 300 yards, 310.  I can fly that over, no problem.  Obviously it's a big difference than trying to lay it up.  That just helps me go in with a shorter club.  It's a pretty big difference I think, yeah.   
 Q.  Opening round, 65.  First time you've played.  You must be very pleased with that.  
GAVIN GREEN: Definitely.  It was a solid start, I should say.  Obviously the last two weeks I played, and the CIMB in Korea.  It's changed me a little bit.  I've been trying to push for it, obviously, and it's not coming out the way I wanted to.   
So I'm taking a different approach this time.  Just going to try and enjoy my first WGC.  Dad's on the bag, so we're just going to enjoy it and sticking to the game plan.  Things get out of hand, we try to get back in play and we try to wedge it close.  That's all we've been trying to do all day today.   
 Q.  What are the key holes out there for you today?  
GAVIN GREEN: The par 5s.  I hit it out of place a couple times on the par 5s, but I wedged it close and was able to give me a chance it for birdies and I converted it.  So I think it was a huge turnaround for me.  Hope to keep that going for the next three days.   
 Q.  Couldn't think of better weather conditions out there for the round today.  
GAVIN GREEN: Exactly.  The weather's perfect.  When we teed off, there was no wind.  It was perfect.  Just rolling putts and hoping it goes in.   
 Q.  You're leading the Asian Tour Order of Merit, so shows how good your year has been, and form, as well?  
GAVIN GREEN: It's obviously my first WGC and my first couple years on Tour, so I'm still getting used to it.  I'm enjoying it, enjoying every moment of it and travelling to places.  It's different from when we were in the States in college.  Like I said, I'm trying to enjoy it and embrace it and play good golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT