CIMB CLASSIC
October 23, 2016
Gavin Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on your final round?  
GAVIN GREEN: Finally putted better.  I just left myself a couple of tough shots.  But it was a good week overall I think.  I have some things to work on.  It kind of proves that I have something to work on and I have to move it -- gain the experience of what I played the last two weeks.  Definitely opened my mind up a little bit and there's things that I have to do.  I'm going to work on it the next couple weeks.   
 Q.  You described last week as an eye-opening experience, how would you describe this week?  
GAVIN GREEN: Last week, both weeks are pretty good, good experience.  But this week, I did not -- I hit it terrible.  I drove it okay but my short game was a bit out this week.  I think a little bit of it is just coming back to the hot weather and all that.  I'm not trying to say that it's an excuse but it definitely affected me a little bit.   
You know, it's okay.  Today I putted better, hit it better and just didn't score as well this week as -- like I should.  But I'm very happy for all the supporters that came out.  Really, really good crowds and hopefully I'll come back next year.   
 Q.  When you played with these guys this week and last week, how do you compare, see the standard between your game and their game and how far more do you have to go?  
GAVIN GREEN: It's pretty much the same I would say.  I played a practice round in Safeway with Paul Casey and Lucas Glover, and the next tiny played with Hunter Mahan and Kuchar, because my coach is with him.   
But the game is very similar, but their shots are just that more consistent.  Short game obviously is tiptop.  That's something that actually, now that I've seen it, is really important.  I'm going to have to work something this year, at the end of this year, for things to play out better and to just play better overall.   
 Q.  Could you have a better round if you had gotten here early and had a practice round?  
GAVIN GREEN: I assume so.  I wish I had came back earlier but I couldn't get a flight out.  I tried to rest as much as I can but it's tough.  It's tough.   
But I'm still happy that I still -- 1-over through four rounds is not terrible but it's not great, being this is my home course.  This is something that I have to work on for next year, that's all.   
 Q.  You go back to the U.S. for the Web.com qualifier.  How is this two weeks going to help you for that?  
GAVIN GREEN: I think it's going to play a huge part because like I said, experience has been huge and I'm going to have to, I think the practice, I'm going to change my practice a little bit, just because what I've seen and what's out there and what I know I'm capable of doing.   
I'm just going to have to switch it a little bit.  I think it's going to help me a little bit, yeah.   
 Q.  You've played the CIMB Classic and the Olympics; it's been a great year?  
GAVIN GREEN: It's been a great year.  Starting the year I was 500,600 away, spots, from the number.  Playing great these nine months or ten months, whatever it is, I can't complain.  Two big events came up and just helps me move on and tells me what I have to work on.   
You know, it's going to get there soon, but it's a long process.   
 Q.  Looking forward to the future, do you think that maybe in the future like next year when you go on The Asian Tour, any plans on getting a professional caddie?  
GAVIN GREEN: Yeah, definitely.  Fooch is something else.  I've never seen somebody that good before.  It's unbelievable what that guy has in his mind and what he's capable of helping me and moving on.  It's something that I guess -- well, he's been on the PGA TOUR for ten years and he's been with Justin Rose, one Major Champion, one Olympics.  He's got a lot of experience.  And learning from that and being able to use that and have him with me for two days was amazing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT