CIMB CLASSIC
October 22, 2016
Gavin Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on a very tough day today?
GAVIN GREEN: Man it was tough.  I struggled the whole day.  Couldn't get anything going.  I tried hard and I just -- I mean, I tried hard.  I just couldn't get anything going.  When I pulled it in the rough, I had the worst lie.  It was the longest putt of the whole fairway.  One of those days I guess.
Still, 3-over, it's not very good on this course.  I'm not happy with it at all and I'm pretty disappointed.  Putting is a little better but it's nowhere close to what I'm capable of doing.
Q. Is it a case of trying to push yourself a bit too hard?
GAVIN GREEN: Definitely trying to push a little bit too hard but I'm trying to make a charge.  When you overtry it, this is what happens.  It's a learning curve for me.  You know, me and Ernie, we were talking about it, he said, kind of just stay patient.  It's a big word for me to say, patient.  It's a huge word.  But to do it and actually do it under these circumstances is huge.  I think it's a big learning curve and I've just got to move on and see what I can do tomorrow.
Q. You played with probably the smoothest swing in all of golf?
GAVIN GREEN: Oh, man, it's smooth and he hits it pretty long for a smooth guy.  Ernie is always nice.  We still go back to times in Iskandar and all that kind of stuff.  It's nice.  He said, you know, it's just a start.  It's only just a start.  So it's okay.
Q. After three days, how close are you to your goals you set earlier this week?
GAVIN GREEN: Not even close honestly.  But I feel like tomorrow, I'm only 1-over for the tournament.  This course, if my driving is on and my putting is on tomorrow, I can go pretty low, you know, and 8-, 9-, 10-under is not away from me.  I'm capable, four par 5s I can reach, and tomorrow I feel like they are going to push up a couple tee boxes.
14 they are going to push up to be drivable.  16 is going to be drivable.  18 is going to be two on.  10 is going to be another par 5, a couple of par 5s off the front, and I think I've just got to keep it in play and just do the best I can.
Q. Your friends out supporting you?
GAVIN GREEN: Crowds are great.  Crowds are really nice.  Hopefully I can put on a good show tomorrow, yeah.
Q. When someone like Ernie gives you advice to stay patient, what does it tell you?
GAVIN GREEN: It tells me I have to stay patient.  (Laughter) But it's tough under the circumstance.  You know, I know I just started out but it's tough.  When you're playing bad and to stay patient, it is tough.  But it's something that I've got to learn and I've just got to move on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT