CIMB CLASSIC
October 21, 2016
Gavin Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tough day in the office?  
GAVIN GREEN: Surprisingly I played a lot better than yesterday.  I hit 17 greens out of 18 greens.  And I putted horrendous.  Man, I just couldn't get the putts started on line.  Just couldn't get it going, and thankfully I was 2-under my last three.   
Thankfully a couple putts dropped for me.  I was trying hard to stay patient all day.  Man, it was tough out there.  Maybe I won't work this time -- clearly it didn't work.   
So I don't know, it was just tough, but I stayed patient.  I stayed patient.  I was positive, and you know, thankfully some putts dropped for me the last couple holes.   
 Q.  You had that stretch at the turn where you dropped three shots in four holes.  What was going through your mind at that moment?  
GAVIN GREEN: It kind of hit me because on this hole, I had ten, 15 feet for birdie, and missing a 3-putt, I missed a short putt and it kind of shook me a little bit.   
No. 2 I 3-putt again, and I just couldn't get the speed right for the long putts.  I think I was a little bit through the Safeway last week and still trying to get the long putts down.   
Distance control has not been very good this week and I think that's something that I have to work on.  I probably won't do anything today now and just come early tomorrow and kind of do something on it.   
But other than that, I'm pretty pleased.  I'm hitting it good.  So just keep going and keep staying patient, and you know, hopefully just hopefully some putts drop for me.   
 Q.  You had the par 5s figured out --  
GAVIN GREEN: I birdied one, I know that.  I hit the greens and was close enough where I wasn't in the 3-putt range, which was good.  I think, yeah, I'm getting a little better.  The jet-lag is getting over me, so it's good.   
 Q.  Obviously there's no halfway cut this week, so going into the weekend, what's the thought process like?  
GAVIN GREEN: Try to make as much birdies as I can.  Obviously it's a big event and obviously I really want to do well.  It's a really big event for just Malaysia, and it's for everybody, and I'm just going to attack, attack and make as much birdies as I can, but smart.  Obviously don't make, not smart mistakes.  I'll be good.   
 Q.  Playing in a big event like this, feeling any nerves at all?  
GAVIN GREEN: Not anymore.  Not after last week.  It's a lot better.  It helped me with my composure, with just maintaining my -- just my level and keeping kind of calm, which is good.  So I'm good, yeah.  I'll be good tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT