SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 1, 2020
Gavin Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your reflections on a level par 70 and what the tough conditions were this afternoon.
GAVIN GREEN: Oh, man, it was brutal out there. A couple of pins, man, they were tucked so far in corners. All we did was play to the middle of the greens and just try and take our 2-putt and make par. Because par is a good score today. And obviously I was 2-under most of the day and then bogeyed 14, three-jack. I just had troubles on the greens, I just couldn't make up my mind with the speed or line, I just couldn't make up my mind for some reason. I struggled there and I 3-putted there which is very disappointing, another 3-putt, it's been already five 3-putts. So I think we're going to go hit some putts and try to work something out.
On 15 we hit a great drive, good second shot, just the wind didn't really hit it as much as we thought. But it is what it is. Finished strong on 16 and then gave myself looks on 17 and 18. It's been a fun day, but, man, it's been brutal out there.
Q. How well did you have to play on that front nine?
GAVIN GREEN: I think we played solid. We made some important putts to keep the round going and some holes we were just like, just lay up back, keep it in the fairway, give yourself a look at birdie and go from there and that's what we did. That's what we did the second nine too, just a couple of bogeys that slipped out.
Q. Talk us through the highlights on 1 and 9 there.
GAVIN GREEN: I hit a great drive on 1, I wedged it pretty much to tap-in distance and I almost made it, actually, I didn't realize that until I got there. It was funny because me and Victor putted first and we were like, oh, we're exactly where we were, we didn't leave each other. But I mean it was fun.
No. 9 we both hit pretty much the same shot, the same kind of drive, same second shot, and then he just missed his putt and I made mine.
Q. You're three off the lead going into tomorrow how much are you looking forward to that challenge?
GAVIN GREEN: I think it will be fun. I think just go and do what we did today and hopefully more putts drop. No 3-putts tomorrow, that's going to be my goal, and just going to enjoy it and have fun and we'll see what happens. If it's time, it's time. If it's not, just keep grinding and wait for the next week for it.
Q. Do you feel it's just around the corner?
GAVIN GREEN: It's I think not far away, but the more I force it, the worst it gets. Especially in these conditions you just cannot force it in these conditions. You just got to be patient, you got to respect the course, so I think we just need to hit some putts after this and get a good night dinner.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT