SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
January 31, 2020
Gavin Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  In the tough conditions this afternoon, how pleased are you with 67?  
GAVIN GREEN: Yeah, I'm pleased with it for sure. A bit like yesterday, I had two three-putts, and hit 18 greens, really can't complain. Obviously a few putts slipped away here and there, but I played solid overall. I can't really complain. Wind picked up and obviously conditions were a lot harder. Really picked up towards the last few holes. We could tell because a few holes were like, whoa, it's just like almost a three-club wind almost.   
But no, just hung in there and really just stuck with hitting my own shots.   
 Q.  In terms of the draw, how do you feel you fared?  
GAVIN GREEN: I think I've done pretty well so far. I'm really not complaining. I've got no complaints. I've been hitting it solid and putting the balls in the right position. Some holes, we just didn't even go for the pins. We just played 30, 40 feet left and just take 2-putts. A couple times I had 3-putts, which I was like, well, it's a bit of a hit-and-miss, because the greens are so tricky out here, especially with the wind. It doesn't make it any easier.   
 Q.  When you've played so well tee-to-green, how frustrating is that?  
GAVIN GREEN: It's very frustrating. But like I say, I mean, the thing is, once you get on a run, you've just got to keep going. Keep hitting good shots and hopefully drops at some point, and I think we'll be pretty close. Playing with Victor tomorrow, I think it will be fun. It's just like college days again. We've been friends since college and it will be great fun.   
 Q.  Will you be bouncing off each other on the golf course?  
GAVIN GREEN: I'm sure we will, talk about some stuff. It's been a couple years. I think played with him probably early this year, or actually last year, so it's been a while. I know he's been playing really good. Just have fun with him tomorrow.   
 Q.  Today, your highlights, birdies on 4 and 6.  
GAVIN GREEN: Yeah, I hit a great drive on 4, and it was like 225 metres, crosswind. Solid 3-iron to about 35, 40 feet and 2-putted and made birdie there.   
6, did not expect that birdie. I hit a good drive a little bit right, and we had 190 metres. Just trying to play it right into the upslope so it creeps over and runs down, and it just came out hot. I hit a 5-iron straight in the fan and it came out hot. I was like, man, that thing's got to sit down. We got up there and somehow it worked out for us. Not sure what happened. But very pleased with today.   
 Q.  How excited are you about the weekend?  
GAVIN GREEN: I'm excited just to be in the mix. I've been there a couple times and just try to put myself in the position a couple more times and see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT