THE 147TH OPEN
July 21, 2018
Gavin Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was it out there today?  
GAVIN GREEN: It was good.  You know, I hit it good again.  Kept a lot of iron plays in play.  Just had a couple -- not really a couple.  Just one bad hole and one three-putt.  It happens, but it was quite painful doing it on a par 5.  I hit a bogey.  But I saved bogey and par 15, 16, 17, 18.  I gave myself looks, but this is a solid finish.   
 Q.  Anything to talk about today?  
GAVIN GREEN: A lot of birdies, a lot of pars.  There was a lot of good chances, but nothing really dropped.  I'm hitting good.  I'm okay with even par.  I wish it was under par, but it is what it is.  That's okay.   
 Q.  Talk about the par on 18.  
GAVIN GREEN: Yeah, it was a good drive.  18 is just a tough hole.  You have to get the ball in the fairway, and I was in between a 2 iron and a driver.  I thought, you know what, let's just hit the driver.  I hit the driver in the fairway and had like 190 meters maybe, and then I hit like a little 6 iron.  Just misread it a little bit, but I gave myself looks.  So it was a lot of positives.   
 Q.  You have a few family members here this week.  How many of them?  
GAVIN GREEN: Mom, dad, grandmothers are here, aunties are here.  So there's probably like seven, eight.   
 Q.  How do you feel about that?  
GAVIN GREEN: It's nice.  It's a major.  We have some family members around.  They just came out.  Thank you to them.  So looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Second Malaysian to make the cut.  What does it mean to you?  
GAVIN GREEN: It's huge because you're playing for yourself and also for your country in a way.  So, yeah, it's great, but I'm trying to hopefully go a couple more under par tomorrow, hopefully to push up my position and improve as much as I can.   
 Q.  What lies ahead for you tomorrow?  
GAVIN GREEN: It's the same thing.  Hoping to fly back on Monday.   
 Q.  When you finished last night and you found out you were going to play all by yourself, what was the feeling?  What did you think?  
GAVIN GREEN: I was like okay.  It's just going to be me and my dad the whole 18 holes.  But when I saw the marker, I thought, okay, it makes it more fun than by yourself, lonely man out there, and you're miserable.  I like when they do this.  At least you don't feel so miserable out there.   
 Q.  If you're in a major and play with a marker?  
GAVIN GREEN: It's okay.  It's better to play with somebody than not play with anybody.  It's just so that, okay, he's there.  There's a playing partner at least.  You play alone, you just feel so lonely, you know.  It's like you're dead out there.   
 Q.  Have you played alone before?  
GAVIN GREEN: I have.  I have.  Always miserable.  It was miserable.  But this was fun.  I like it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT