ROSE BOWL GAME: IOWA VS STANFORD
December 28, 2015
Phil Parker
Josey Jewell
Cole Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An Interview With:   
COACH PHIL PARKER   
COLE FISHER   
JOSEY JEWELL   
 Q.  Coach, love to know more about your school of thought on defense.  It seems like what you guys do, you do it so efficiently, you excel.  Everybody talks about the consistency when they watch you on tape from your opponent's standpoint.  Have you always been that way of doing what you do really well, or did you have some sort of change throughout your career as a coordinator?  
COACH PARKER: For the last four years here, basically, I've been there for 17 years at Iowa, when Kirk Ferentz first came, and Norm Parker was the defensive coordinator.  No relationship to me.  But it all started out with fundamentals -- taking on blocks and having good leverage.  We carry that on.  Always like to play two-high safety and make sure everybody's playing fundamentally well.  So it really hasn't changed in the last four years.   
 Q.  For both of the student-athletes, A, what did you know about Stanford heading into this game, and something you were surprised to learn once you started watching them on film?  
JOSEY JEWELL: Coming into this game, you know about Christian McCaffrey and their great offensive line and just they're great as a team.  So there hasn't been too much of a difference coming in.  Looking at their film, they're just a great team, and we've got to do the small detail kind of things to give ourselves a chance to win.   
COLE FISHER: Yeah, I agree with Christian McCaffrey.  I hadn't heard too much about him.  I didn't follow him in the Heisman race too much, and that was probably the first time I heard about him.   
But I know he's a great player.  He can hurt you in a lot of different ways, and just them as a team, they have a really efficient offense.  They know what they want to do.  They don't stray from the plan too much, and they just execute really well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT