BATTLEFROG FIESTA BOWL: NOTRE DAME VS OHIO STATE
December 28, 2015
Vonn Bell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You're getting this question probably a bunch, but how has the focus been with this team?  What's the preparation been like?  
VONN BELL: Preparation been fine.  Steadily strong.  We're here to win a game.  Big-time bowl game, atmosphere.  We're here to win a game.   
Our preparation is still the same.  We're trying to win our 50th game in a four-year span.  We're trying to get that done, send the seniors out on a good note.   
 Q.  Is that something the guys have talked about, sending the seniors out in a good way?  
VONN BELL: I think we'll win the record if we win 50.  The winningest college program.  Good thing to pass Alabama, Florida State, a huge accomplishment.   
 Q.  How have the injuries on the defensive front affected the back?  How do you adjust to the injuries?  
VONN BELL: It really doesn't matter.  It's next man up.  We've been training for this all along.  Since we walked in the door, we've been training for this.  I trust all those guys, Donovan Munger, Mike Hill, Tracy Sprinkle, Joel Hill, really go get the quarterback and hold them gaps up.  I really trust those guys, believe in those guys to get the job done.   
 Q.  How can you guys in the secondary help those guys?  
VONN BELL: Cover our guys.  Cover our guys.  They going to get the quarterback for us.   
 Q.  What has impressed you most about the Notre Dame offense?  
VONN BELL: Kizer is going to control the tempo, get the guys in the right position to make plays.  Will Fuller will get the ball early.  They'll establish the game laterally and downhill.  We have to be on our Ps and Qs, play our keys and tackle well.   
 Q.  You proved against Michigan the way you played.  Does that tell how you bounced back from the one loss?  
VONN BELL: I think it does.  But we have a lot more to show for it.  Getting that bad taste out of our mouth will really help us to win this game.   
We're eager to get on the field and win this game.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
VONN BELL: Awesome guy.  Gives me treatments before the game.  He's always working with me getting my legs right.  He's an awesome guy, knows what he's doing.  I really trust him.   
 Q.  With it being his first year, any changes from the past, what he's been able to do for you?  
VONN BELL: He brought some new formulas for us.  He was working with the Patriots a year ago.  He brought what they was doing to here.  It really helped our performance, enhanced it.   
Proud that he's a part of us.   
 Q.  How aware are you of the prestige of Notre Dame and how big this is?  
VONN BELL: Very huge.  One of the biggest alumni bases in America, across the world.  The game will be phenomenal.   
We're very passionate about that and we're very happy that we're going to be joined together in this bowl game.   
 Q.  DeShone Kizer like J.T. Barrett, similar?  
VONN BELL: Two sides of the face.  You get one face, another face, just put them together.  It give us that work in practice.  We're really competitive in practice.  It helps us very well.   
 Q.  When you look at what they do on offense, what scares you the most?  
VONN BELL: What concerns us the most, the deep shots down the field.  We pride ourselves on that, the secondary, back end.  We'll eliminate those deep shots, explosive plays in the game.  That's what we've got to look for.   
 Q.  Do you think they need to go from four teams to eight teams for the playoff?  
VONN BELL: I don't know about the College Football Playoff, I just came out to perform well and look good on camera.  That's what I do.  I don't know about the rankings, all that stuff.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
VONN BELL: You showcase your talents on the field.  I know there's going to be a lot of NFL scouts there.  You do your job on the field at a high, competitive level.  That's what you do.   
You do what you love, go out and express your passion for the game.   
 Q.  Does missing a couple of defensive tackles affect you at all?  
VONN BELL: It doesn't.  Like I said, I really trust in those guys stepping in, Mike Hill, Donovan Munger, Joel Hill, those guys rotating.  I really trust in those guys, next man up, pick up the next rifle.  Got to go to war with it.   
 Q.  Ezekiel Elliott was in an accident.  Is he all right?  
VONN BELL: He's all right.  I talked to him yesterday.  Hopefully he'll be ready to play in the game.  Big-time game right now.  We got to be ready to go.   
 Q.  Did you know Coach Fickell played in '95, Notre Dame?  
VONN BELL: Yes.   
 Q.  What did he say about it?  
VONN BELL: It was huge for him.  Every game for Luke Fickell is huge.  He really take that to heart.  He's very passionate.  He loves the game.  He's trying to fix every minor mistake.  He's a perfectionist, as you know.   
Hit him deep down in his heart.   
 Q.  It's clear to you?  
VONN BELL: It's clear.  I know him so well.  We on a personal level, have this commitment to each other.  I know him very well.   
 Q.  Talking about the NFL, how do you block that out and stay focused here?  
VONN BELL: Stay focused because the commitment I have for some of the guys on the team, especially for Coach Mick, some of the brothers on the team.  So I got to have one job to do at hand first, just finish the season out strongly, then we'll go out and take care of the rest.   
 Q.  You have a reputation as a play-maker.  Is it possible a defensive play can make a swing in this game?  
VONN BELL: Yes.  I love what you said, defense.  It's going to be two great defenses.   
One play away from a home-run-hitting defense, pick six, scoop and score.  You never know what's going to happen, but you just got to go out there and do your job at a high level.   
 Q.  Ohio State, Notre Dame, who has more sizzle?  Who is bigger on the profile?  Who has more swag?  
VONN BELL: It's us without a doubt.  What you talking about (laughter)?   
We got more swag.  If you see us on the field, dancing, handshakes.  You see the coaches dancing.  I think we have more juice, more swag.  We'll see that when we play January 1st.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
VONN BELL: Not really.  Not too fancy by me.  Go out there on the line, play football.   
 Q.  How important is it to have that sizzle?  
VONN BELL: You got to stay loose because when you stay loose, don't play tight, you go out there and play well with your brothers.  Provides more passion for the stadium.  When your fans see that, they get up, too.  Overwhelming shock and flow in that arena.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
VONN BELL: It's very huge.  Sending these seniors out on the right note, get our 50th win in this four-year span, that's very huge to have that accomplishment in your back pocket.  It's very huge for us to go out on the right note and get this win, in a highly competitive sport, playing against a highly ranked opponent.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT