MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 17, 1998
Greg Vaughn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How disappointing is it to hit two homeruns and then lose the game after that? Do
you have any joy in it, even though you had the homeruns?

GREG VAUGHN: Yeah, it's very disappointing because, you know, you try to give yourself
every opportunity to do something to help your team win. So it's tough. It feels like you
didn't do enough. You know, we battled. We battled. It's a tough one to swallow. We've
been here before. You just have to come out and go get them tomorrow.

Q. Does this game, Greg, give you a greater appreciation for the Yankees firepower?

GREG VAUGHN: Yeah, it does. You know, but we knew that coming in. You know, every
inning we were telling ourselves keep playing the game, you have to keep pushing, try to
get some more runs across the board because they're a great team. Their record proves it.
The game's not over until the last out's made. It's just a situation where they came up
with some big hits.

Q. This actually is the first time you all have been down in the series in the
postseason. This is a little bit of a different situation. You all were up on Houston and
up on the Braves. This is a little bit different.

GREG VAUGHN: Well, you know, like we were talking earlier today, we have nothing to
lose. All you guys picked us to get blown out anyway. So we're just going to come back, go
home, regroup and come out swinging tomorrow. I mean it's not the end of the world. We
proved we could swing the bats also and we're not going to quit. We're going to keep
fighting. You know, it's a little frustrating. Some things didn't go our way today. It's
just a situation where we have to keep battling.

Q. Greg, talking about battling back tomorrow, obviously, given the way you guys lost,
it's not your normal loss. How difficult is it going to be to come right back tomorrow?

GREG VAUGHN: Well, if you watched the Atlanta series, we had a couple of these also. We
bounced back. The whole thing is, you know, we just have to keep fighting. You can't get
too down. That's why it's the best of seven. We're going to keep fighting and just keep
pushing. I mean it's going to be tough. We know they have a great team. But we feel we
have a good team also. And we're still very confident.

Q. Given everything that went on last year with the deal with the Yankees, is this any
sort of indication at all for you?

GREG VAUGHN: No, not really. We lost the game. So, you know, it doesn't mean anything.
You play to win. You know? It's not Greg Vaughn trying to get revenge on the Yankees for
what happened last year; it's about San Diego Padres and the New York Yankees playing the
World Series to see who can get that ring. That's what we're all playing for.

Q. The back-to-back homeruns and the Yankees coming back on you, did you feel --

GREG VAUGHN: Not really. It's nine innings. You try not to get too high, not to get too
low. When Roberto came in, we gave ourselves a chance. No one quit. We kept fighting. We
were one big hit away from tying it up or making it even closer.

Q. You said that things didn't go your way. Do you mean by that the 2-2 pitch to
Martinez?

GREG VAUGHN: No, you know, I know Richie. Richie's a good guy. It's just a situation
where, you know, our guys were battling. It just didn't go our way. I'm not here to talk
about that the umpires. They're just trying. I'm sure if the tables were turned, they
would feel a little disappointed also.

Q. Is the leg muscle completely recovered, Greg, or do you still feel something?

GREG VAUGHN: I still feel it. It was a little cool today, so it was getting tight. But
I mean I have all winter to rest. Coach gave me an opportunity to DH. You get this far,
you want to play. I'm not going to let the leg stop me.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT