AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 3, 2021
Maja Stark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. 69, fantastic round, what was working for you on the course today?
 MAJA STARK:   I think I played pretty steady and my irons were way better today than they were the last couple days.  I think it got a little bit frustrating the first couple days because the greens weren't as receptive as they are here.
 So yeah, kind of had to bounce it on sometimes and I think that just made me a bit frustrated.  So even if I hit a good shot here, it's paid off.  And then I think my putting worked very well today.
 Q. What did you take from playing here in 2019?
 MAJA STARK:   I think it's just to put yourself in a good position off the tee.  Not make any mistakes or take any overly aggressive lines.  I think I did that last time and just with the greens, just if you think you've read it correctly, maybe like get a little bit more up the slope.  So I think that was it.
 Q. Teeing off in the first group this morning, was that better for you, getting the nerves off or did it make you more nervous?
 MAJA STARK:   It was good for the nerves.  I like playing fast and it really helped that we could just keep going the whole way around.  We didn't even see the people behind us a single time.  Actually I wasn't very nervous so that was it.
 Q. You had the playoff at Champions Retreat to get here.  What are your overall thoughts?
 MAJA STARK:   It was so much fun.  I was scared the beginning of the week it was just going to fly by but I felt like I've been able to enjoy it more this time.  I didn't feel like the days were five hours shorter this time because I felt like that before and I was just really sad to leave.
 I'm really sad to leave again but it was worse last time because I didn't feel like I got to enjoy it as much.
 Q. You had six birdies.  Talk about your most exciting today.
 MAJA STARK:   Well, I was just happy that my putting was working.  I was really happy with my game today.  My irons were working.  I feel like everything just kind of clicked.  I had a couple of bogeys that were unnecessary but I feel like it's Augusta, you're going to make a couple bogeys sometimes.  I'm just happy I got to do some bounce-back birdies sometimes.
 Q. Seems like the Swedes are a close group.  Are you going to go follow any of your friends?
 MAJA STARK:   Yeah, I might go to the shop before, but yeah, absolutely.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT