AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 1, 2021
Maja Stark
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Congratulations.
 MAJA STARK:   Thank you.
 Q. Take us through the playoff.  A lot of pressure?
 MAJA STARK:   Yeah, I mean, I was just very excited.  I was very nervous.  I had my brother on the bag, and I asked him to check my pulse when we were standing on the tee.  But, yeah, I was just trying to hit a good tee shot.  I know my tendency is to get a bit fast, so I tried to slow down a little bit on my tee shot, and that worked.
 Then the second shot, I was a bit more calm, but I think I just -- I kind of felt like I had it on the putt because it wasn't a very big break -- like it didn't break very much.  So, yeah, I think it was a pretty standard putt.  I'm just happy I made it.
 Q. Did you get a read off of anybody else who was with you?
 MAJA STARK:   Yeah, I was on almost the same line as Katherine Smith, so I could -- I didn't stand behind her, but I could sort of see that she over read it, and I think I might have done that too if I didn't see that.  But, yeah, I think it just made me more confident in my own line.
 Q. How long do you think that was?  Six paces or something like that?
 MAJA STARK:   It was six meters, so like 20 feet.
 Q. Okay.  Real quick, back to the tee with all the people on there, again, the pressure, you said you tried to feel your pulse.  How did you calm yourself down today?  You played a lot of good golf.
 MAJA STARK:   I don't think I calmed myself down in any way.  I think I enjoyed the adrenaline.  I was running to the tee to get rid of some stress hormones.  Yeah, I think I just tried to embrace it and just feel like it's just an honor and it's a privilege to get to feel that way sometimes.  So I just try to soak it up and just behave like I normally do.
 Q. And now looking forward, now tomorrow, obviously, a practice round, but then a real competitive round.  Talk about the next couple days and thinking to kind of calm yourself down but be excited?
 MAJA STARK:   I think I'm just going to start over now, just take it one shot at a time.  I'm really excited to get back to Augusta.  I've had this whole strategy in my head for two years because I want some revenge.  But, yeah, I think it's just going to get back to normal from now on.
 Q. What was the strategy as far as getting back and making it to the final round?  What do you mean when you say strategy?
 MAJA STARK:   It's just my game strategy.  I know some mistakes that I did two years ago that I might have -- that it might be good to know, like just where I missed and stuff so I don't make the same mistakes this year.
 Q. Again, you're supposed to have a test when?
 MAJA STARK:   In like 45 minutes I have an exam.
 Q. It's in what?
 MAJA STARK:   Developmental psychology.
 Q. Are you prepared for it?
 MAJA STARK:   I think I am.  I don't know if I'll make it.  Hopefully, they'll excuse me from this one.
 Q. The adrenaline from this will help you?
 MAJA STARK:   Yeah, I think it will.
 Q. Talk about celebrating with your fellow Swedes.
 MAJA STARK:   Oh, that was just the best feeling ever, I think.  Being the only one to not make the cut would really suck.  So I was just happy I made it and get to play against them -- or keep playing against them.
 Q. What about your excitement going into Saturday?
 MAJA STARK:   Well, of course I'm very excited.  I mean, I think it would be kind of sad to lose in a playoff to not get the chance to play a competitive round at Augusta.  So I really feel for the other girls in the playoff.  Yeah, I'm very excited.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT