LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2020
Dejan Jakovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Los Angeles Football Club 6, Vancouver 0
 Q. Overall thoughts on the shutout?
 DEJAN JAKOVIC:   Yeah, I thought we did really well to bounce back after a tough loss in Seattle.  We're looking to obviously get two wins at home and I thought it was a very good performance from our team collectively.  You know, started off well, and didn't really take our foot off the pedal.
 Q. Obviously you scored a goal.  It's been a little while since you scored in MLS.  Tell us about the goal and getting the bonus of getting to score tonight?
 DEJAN JAKOVIC:   Yeah, it obviously feels great to score a goal.  I thought Brian played in a great ball and I kind of attacked it.  I saw it as a good ball and I was able to get my head on it, and yeah, we've kind of continued from there.  That wasn't -- didn't really want to finish there.  We decided to continue to play well, keep the ball, keep possession and create more chances from there.
 Q. Obviously things are very subjective this year with everything going on.  Wondering for you, or perhaps if you could say, the chemistry of the team, do you guy the feel a bit more comfortable?  Do you sense it being more comfortable being at home, not fans in the stands, but the travel and schedule have been difficult; do you feel like it's a sense of relief when you're finally back in L.A.?
 DEJAN JAKOVIC:   Of course.  We love playing at home.  Unfortunately we're not able to play in front of our fans, but I know they are back home cheering us on.  It's a special place to play, and you can tell that we've always been a very difficult team to beat at home, and we just need to continue playing well at home and continue to get wins and move up the table.
 Q. Congratulations on the goal.  I know you don't earn your paycheck doing that, but it was a big night.  What was the feeling -- was it an out-of-body experience?  Did you want to jump up into the stands even though nobody is there?  It must feel cool doing something like that when it's something you're not expected to do.
 DEJAN JAKOVIC:   Yeah, I don't score many, so I'm happy to score.  It was certainly a great feeling, but I'm just happy the way we continued to play after that, and obviously the most important part is keeping a clean sheet.
 Q. Do you even score in training?
 DEJAN JAKOVIC:   I mean, it depends.  I don't get many opportunities, you know, so that's only good to get one when it counts.
 Q. Additionally, that goal was the fastest goal in L.A. fc history.
 DEJAN JAKOVIC:   I didn't know that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT