BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 25, 2003
Kieren Fallon
Peter Reynolds
Michael R. Stout
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PETER REYNOLDS:  Peter Reynolds.

KIEREN FALLON:  She broke good.  That was a bonus.  She came across the path well.  Probably would have been a worry.  But she went across really easy.  Filly in front of me actually jumped at Gary.  But she went across it nicely.  That was sort of the position I wanted.  Any worry I had there was that the other horse might stop.  Didn't stop soon enough.  Just got a bit tight coming out of the turn here the first time.  I think just got a drafty inside horse.  Gary's horse, she was very keen with him and she just couldn't get him balanced.  During that we got a bit worried.  It was down the back where Frankie moved up the outside.  Luckily when he moved, he kept going.  He didn't bolt.  My filly was very relaxed all the way.  From the time she left the gate she was totally switched.  Everything happened before we got home. 

SIR MICHAEL STOUTE:  Well, the other Europeans, with the exception of the French, have not really performed very well in California.  So it's nice that we're finally learning how to do it. 

KIEREN FALLON:  Oh, what happened was actually it was one of our own riders that knocked me over after leaving the gate last year.  He said it was interference with somebody else.  He knocked me over and took me out of the position I wanted.  And I was riding from too far back, which didn't suit.  It wasn't anything that was critical, it was just something that happened. 

KIEREN FALLON:  Well, would have probably if I'd been lucky enough to be out here for a number of years.  I came out in '96.  I was here for six months and following two or three seasons I'd been with Bob Frank coming out here the time I spent here and the timing and everything learning how to really ride these tracks.  And Santa Anita was one of the first tracks I come to in America.  So I've been lucky enough to have been educated like that, which helped me today.

KIEREN FALLON:  I was.  I thought she was by far the best filly in the race.  This is one of the best fillies I think I've ever ridden.  She's much better than the second.  And I was surprised that it took me so long to get by her.  It's been very warm and it's been a long season for our horses as well.  So she's done very well. 

PETER REYNOLDS:  It means one hell of a lot to the owners.  The late Lord Weinstock, he passed away last year.  And the family are keeping the operation going.  For something like this to happen it's just wonderful.  Michael's done a marvelous job.  We have had a very good season.  This filly is a star performer.  She's done everything right.  I came here today with dark hair and I've gone gray.  She worries you at times, but she's so tough.  I had the easy part.  I foaled her.  And these guys did the work. 


Q.   Question for Sir Michael.  Michael, you're renowned for your ability in handling and training fillies.  Has this filly given you a bit for of a challenge, particularly this year, because she's seemed to have take and long time to come to herself?

SIR MICHAEL STOUTE:  Well she had some problems with her feet in the spring time.  And I had to just hurry her a bit to get her season going.  And then I got the wrong vibes.  I felt she came out of the Ascot race well.  Because I was going to lay off her.  We would have to rush the preparation.  And I made a mistake in the Eclipse I wronglegged her.  We gave her a nice break and she won a blinding race in Ireland.  So it was my fault.  I don't want to sound like Aidan Brown, but it was my fault.  And while I'm at it I would like to say a trip like this takes a lot of planning and teamwork.  A hell of a lot of teamwork.  And my team has done a marvelous job of pulling this off. 

Q.   Sir Michael, did you pick up anything on the loss last year that helped you focus on the race this year?

SIR MICHAEL STOUTE:  You try to pick up things every day.  But quite frankly, the loss was no one's fault last year.  As Kieren said it was interference just after the start in Chicago that had us six back further than we wanted to be.  We only got beat by a length and a half. 


Q.   Will she stay in training?

SIR MICHAEL STOUTE:  Don't give him more gray hair.  No.  (Laughter.)

SIR MICHAEL STOUTE:  We'll see how she is.  She has got an invitation to the Japan Cup.  But it will be a little while before we determine that.  Whether she goes to Ballymacoll or Ballymacoll via Japan.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT