NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 27, 2015
Rick Nash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How much fun is it to have a Game 7 at home? 
RICK NASH:   It's a lot of fun.   You obviously want to win the series in four, but when it comes down to a Game 7, I feel like these are things that you dream about and you pretend you're playing hockey on the ice by yourself or road hockey when you were a kid.   It's just one of those experiences that's tough to put into words.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
RICK NASH:   Yeah, it can be stressful.   Reality is the game is coming no matter what, and you might as well turn that stress into energy and controlled emotions.   So it's a tough balance, for sure.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?   What do you expect from a Game 7? 
RICK NASH:   Yeah, hopefully that trend ends and we can keep the momentum from last game, but I would expect a tight game.   It seems like all Game 7s are pretty tight, pretty defensive and tight checking.

Q.   (Indiscernible) how do you generate more (Indiscernible)?
RICK NASH:   Yeah, I think it's a matter of playing better defense and getting their offense from that.   It seems like we know when we're here we're going to get a big push from the other team, and we're going to make sure we're defensively sound. 
I think sometimes at MSG, we're just worried about getting offense, getting opportunities, getting chances and then we get exposed defensively.

Q.   (Indiscernible)? 
RICK NASH:   Yeah, it's a huge sense of confidence, I guess, and his comments, as we talked about last night, kind of carries through our whole team.   We're lucky to have a goalie like that, and he's the leader of our team, so I'm sure he'll step up.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
RICK NASH:   Yeah, I don't think I've seen him score five points before.   He had an impressive night, and seemed like he was possessed right from the start of the game.   You could tell he was around the puck, he was forechecking, and he was finding himself open a lot off the back door.   He's working for his opportunities. 
Since he's come to New York, he's really turned into a premier center.

Q.   (Indiscernible)? 
RICK NASH:   Yeah, there is always.   Always.   I feel pressure all the time.   I think our team has felt pressure since Game 1 of the season to perform, so it's no different in Game 7, even like you said, it's going to be more pressure, and we've got to turn that pressure into a challenge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT