NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 20, 2014
Rick Nash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Is it easier to say the sky looks a little bluer after the last couple of games? 
RICK NASH:   Yeah, it's definitely a good start for us.   But start doesn't mean much if we go home and can't get a win in Game 3.

Q.   The goalie match‑up is pretty favorable.   Going back home, how do you stay grounded? 
RICK NASH:   I think their goalie had a great game.   He made some great saves.   Hank, for us, has been unbelievable all year.   So every goalie in this league is a great goalie.   They play in the NHL, so we'll not get ahead of ourselves on that.

Q.   Henrik in his career has never made a Stanley Cup Final.   Do you see him as being a man on a mission right now? 
RICK NASH:   Yeah, for sure.   Seeing 25 guys as a man on a mission right now.   Everyone wants to do it.   Yes, he's a big part of it, but it's a team, and when you're led by your goalie, special things can happen.

Q.   Guys like Brad and Marty who have been to the Cup before and try to convey the message to some of the younger guys today from back in '04.   Can you talk a little bit about the message that's being conveyed to the younger guys? 
RICK NASH:   Yeah, we're lucky to have guys that have been there before and that have won and know what it takes.   I think the biggest message is they said there are just lots of ups and downs and you've got to stay level headed through it all.

Q.   You've been through the Olympics and everything.   This is your deepest playoff run.   Do you feel like a veteran going through this, or do you feel like a young guy experiencing everything for the first time? 
RICK NASH:   Yeah, it's kind of in between.   I haven't experienced this part of the playoffs, but I've been able to play in big games and games that have been pretty meaningful.   So it's somewhere in between where it's new to me, but I understand the question.

Q.   A.V. said yesterday after you scored that you're smiling a lot more.   Do you feel like things have changed for the way you feel? 
RICK NASH:   I've tried to stay positive through this whole thing.   The team's winning, and that's true, all I care about.   But obviously I want to do what I can to help the team win, but it's frustrating when you can't help offensively and you're supposed to.

Q.   When you are struggling, where do you feel it the most?   Is it at the rink, after the game, do you take it home with you?   Where do you see it manifest? 
RICK NASH:   I think all those places.   I think hockey is our life; hockey is our job.   It's what we do 24/7, so when something's not going right, you feel it in the dressing room, during the games, at home no matter what.

Q.   Going home 2‑0 now, how do you not look ahead and get overexcited going into Thursday? 
RICK NASH:   I think just the way that all these playoff series have been going.   No lead is safe, whether it's in the game or in the series.   We've got to stay on our toes and get ready for the next one. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT