NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 26, 2008
Rick Nash
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Wanted to ask you about the shootout?  How much time, effort, thought do you sort of put into this whole thing and the idea that you've come up with?   
 RICK NASH:  I haven't put much thought into it yet, but, you know, I don't know.  I think it will be fun to watch.  It will be great for the fans.  But, hopefully it will be exciting.   
  
  Q.  Are you willing to just let it rip?  Try anything?  Even sort of take a chance at falling down?  Are you willing to let it hang out there?   
 RICK NASH:  Yeah, I mean that's what the fans are looking for.  That's the idea of the shootout to just kind of try anything and make it exciting.   
  
  Q.  So you honestly don't have anything, you haven't worked on this yet?  Isn't that a little stressful knowing it's tonight and you have to come up with something?   
 RICK NASH:  Maybe I'll think of it after practice.  Try to round something up there after practice.   
  
  Q.  How many times have you been asked about the goal?  I think you know which one I'm talking about.  I hope so, I mean.  Has it just been constant since it happened.  Was your cell phone ringing off the wall or was it texts, all that stuff?  Just take me through that?   
 RICK NASH:  It was nonstop right after the game.  I had tons the next morning, and for days on, buddies, friends and family calling me.   
  
  Q.  Did you check it out?  How many times have you seen it?  I assume you had your own highlights, but did you check it out on YouTube?   
 RICK NASH:  Yeah, I've seen it two or three times.  After the game I didn't see it until the next morning.  Everyone was talking about it on the team and around the organization.   
 But it was just a big goal at a big time.   
  
  Q.  Do you remember it at all?  Or did you totally blackout as they say?   
 RICK NASH:  Yeah, pretty much blacked out.  But it was, as I said, it was amazing how everything just went right.  It was unbelievable.  They missed the puck a couple of times.  It just it came at a huge time.   
  
  Q.  How much has Ken Hitchcock changed helped since he's come to the team?   
 RICK NASH:  It's been great.  Before he came just kind of used scoring goals, playing 13, 14 minutes a game.  Now it's all different.  Playing 20 minutes a game in different situations.  Penalty kill.  Last minutes of games, so he's been a big difference.   
  
  Q.  Were you ever wondering why you weren't playing all of that time before he got there?   
 RICK NASH:  I think you always think about it, but we had players that were put in those situations.  Especially for a young guy coming in the league, you don't expect to get those privileges right away.  Since he's been here, it's been good.   
  
  Q.  Is there a point at which you would want to shoot more of those?  Not just in terms of minutes?   
 RICK NASH:  I don't think so.  I think everyone on the Blue Jackets are buying in.  It's really not being unleashed.  It's playing a tight defensive game.  Getting your offensive chances from that.  So I think the more we buy into that, the more we win.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT