WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Emma Jandel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice way to start, huh?
EMMA JANDEL:   Yeah.   Great.   I couldn't be happier.   I know I bogeyed the last two holes, but I hit good shots and I'm doing a lot of good things, so I'm really happy to be here and excited to play tomorrow.

Q.   Tell us a little bit about yourself.   Obviously a rookie this year. 
EMMA JANDEL:   I am.

Q.   So tell us a little bit about who you are and kind of your story. 
EMMA JANDEL:   Sure.   I'm from Dayton, Ohio.   I grew up playing all the sports.   I played a lot of basketball growing up, and my best offer was to go to Ohio State, and I took it, and I couldn't be prouder to be a Buckeye; and I'm just really excited to be here.

Q.   What's it feel like to be a rookie on tour and kind of get this attention now?   And a nice first round in the championship. 
EMMA JANDEL:   You know, I'm just so excited just to be here, and just every event is so impressive.   Like there's so much that goes into it besides golf, and I think it's just awesome to see how professional the ladies are out here and how well they do with the community and how well they do with all the charities involved and everything else on top of their golf game.   It's really impressive.

Q.   Has this been one of your better rounds of the year so far do you think?   Despite the two bogeys coming in.   I mean you got up to five. 
EMMA JANDEL:   Oh, yeah.   I'm playing solid.   I've had a couple of hot starts.   In Arkansas I was playing well, and you know, I've really been playing well all year.   It's kind of just handling myself in all the different situations. 
And you know, it's a little different, you know, having cameras in your face, so I'm just kind of learning to put it all together; and I know I got the game, so it's just a matter of kind of seeing it all out here.   I guess I'd never been to an LPGA event until the first one I played in this year.   So that was pretty cool.

Q.   Tell us about the process of getting in the field this week.   I know you were one of the last two qualifiers getting into the field on Monday.   How did that process work and how excited were you when you found out you were in?
EMMA JANDEL:   Yeah.   I was lucky to see Michelle Wie withdrew because that got me in the tournament.   I was the last one in the field.   Found out Monday morning.   So that was exciting. 
I came here, my boyfriend is on the bag, so it's nice to have a friendly face on the bag.   And we kind of made the trip either way.   So we're hoping for the best.

Q.   Is it a struggle mentally as a rookie out here you want to make as many fields as you can, and once you make a field, you obviously want to cash. 
EMMA JANDEL:   Right.   Right.

Q.   But then when you do have good rounds and you put a couple more of these together, you're going to be right there on Sunday. 
EMMA JANDEL:   Definitely.   You know, it's really‑‑ I'm just focusing on golf.   It doesn't matter what tour I'm on, where I'm playing.   I'm just focusing on hitting good golf shots and in the end good things will happen, so if you get wrapped in alternates and this and that and travel, it's not really going to get me anywhere, so I just better focus on what I gotta do out there. 


Q.   You said you were never at an LPGA event before this year?
EMMA JANDEL:   I went to a Solheim Cup once, but it wasn't like an actual event.   So I was kind of fish out of water there for a little bit.

Q.   Were you awe struck at all when you first were on the TOUR or was it kind of natural for you?
EMMA JANDEL:   Pretty natural.   I'd say really just growing up seeing everything on TV and then just a little different being here.
You know, I'm the one who always wants to be out there doing it, so I feel very comfortable.

Q.   What's your amateur resume like as far as, I'm sorry, you said you grew up in Ohio, Dayton?
EMMA JANDEL:   Yes.

Q.   So I mean you obviously played a lot of youth golf there and kind of all the amateur circuit around there?
EMMA JANDEL:   Yeah.   I won the Ohio amateur back‑to‑back years, 2006 and 2007, but I really‑‑ I didn't start playing a lot of golf until going into my senior year of high school.   I was playing basketball through to my junior year.   So I mean basketball went through July.   So I picked up the golf clubs in August and played till October and then it was time to put them away again.

Q.   And now here you are, contention in a major. 
EMMA JANDEL:   Yes.

Q.   Even though it's just after a first round, is it a kind of a shake‑your‑head‑open‑your‑eyes moment?
EMMA JANDEL:   You know, I don't want to say like I just picked them up in July.   I have a younger brother and he's also a professional golfer, and we've kind of been going at it forever.   So it was always there.   And it's always been competitive. 
You know, I'd say over the last few years it's really where I can kind of‑‑ I see where I gotta go, and now it's just a matter of doing it, and you know, getting your head on straight.

Q.   What's your brother's name and what tour is he on?
EMMA JANDEL:   My brother's name is Sam Jandel.   And he's just getting started on mini tours and doing the qualifiers here coming up in fall, winter kind of stuff, yeah. 

Q.   What's the age difference?
EMMA JANDEL:   My brother's 23, and he's 6' 10, so he's my bigger little brother.   He's still always my little brother.

Q.   Would you still post him up when you were playing basketball in the driveway?
EMMA JANDEL:   You know, he wasn't that big back then.   It was kind of once I left for school he just kept going and didn't stop.

Q.   Any family here?   You're kind of close enough where it's drivable. 
EMMA JANDEL:   Yeah.   You know, it's tough for my parents to make it right now, so they said if they could come out to Portland, so I've got my boyfriend here, so he's my family.   My housing's been awesome.   My housing dad's been here all day, so I feel like I have family here.   And I know they're watching and they're here with me, so that's really important.

Q.   What's your boyfriend's name?
EMMA JANDEL:   Patrick Miller.

Q.   Couple good Symetra Tour finishes recently.   Did that give you confidence going into this week?
EMMA JANDEL:   Yeah.   Definitely.   You know, just putting myself in contention and being there and doing it and acting on the last day, I'm building on what I got every tournament. 
You know a lot of girls say they can't play more than like three or four weeks and I played like 14 in a row a few weeks ago.   So for me I'm just learning on each situation where that's more valuable than sitting at home for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT