NYC HALF MARATHON
March 15, 2012
Julie Culley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Everything is still going well?  
JULIE CULLEY:   Yeah, really well.   I think like the last time I talked to you I was in a little bit of trouble just in training, but the last few weeks I've gotten like a lot of therapy.   I didn't miss out on anything, I was just getting really stiff and stuff just from doing more than I'm used to.   But I'm right back on it now, so I feel good.   The article was cool.   My family and everybody really liked it.   They were like, I didn't know that about you.   I hope my family did but my friends didn't necessarily.  
   
 Q.   Good, that's the point.   Trying to find some new things.   
JULIE CULLEY:   I know, yeah, I'm not just about running.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, because it isn't just about running.   
JULIE CULLEY:   It never is.  
   
 Q.   But that's all people see when you're out on the road.   
JULIE CULLEY:   I know.  
   
 Q.   It's fun to mix it up a little bit.   
JULIE CULLEY:   Hopefully Sunday.  
   
 Q.   You've had an amazing spring‑‑ well, winter for running.   
JULIE CULLEY:   Oh, my gosh, it was incredible.   And I was away for six weeks so I was in Arizona training in warm weather, in Phoenix, and we're having such a mild winter here.   I wanted to get away and just do something different, kind of motivate myself, but also last year, January and February were terrible here, just terrible, and then the winter before that was when they had‑‑ that's when I was still in D.C., they had those enormous snowstorms.   
So going into this year, I thought, okay, let's just plan ahead, go to warm weather for like the first six weeks of the new year, thinking it would probably be bad here and I'd get ahead, reduce the risk of injury and kind of stay out of harm's way, and then everyone was messages me here, like, oh, it's 55 degrees today.   It's too bad you're out in Arizona.   
And then ironically the day that I came home was one of the coldest days that we had had.   I flew home on a Saturday, and it didn't get above 28 degrees, like Saturday or Sunday, and then it warmed up that week, but it was like‑‑ of course, my coach was just laughing at me, because he was like, see what happens?   
   
 Q.   When were you in Arizona, literally from New Year's the first six weeks?   
JULIE CULLEY:   Yeah, January 2nd through, I guess, the 11th of February.   Yeah, so it was like‑‑ I got there on a Monday and left pretty much six weeks later.  
   
 Q.   And where in Arizona were you?  
JULIE CULLEY:   In Scottsdale, which is really‑‑ it's not like the greatest town for training, but everything is so easy.   ASU is right there, and then they have the canal systems obviously because there's no water in the desert, so they have the canals that bring the water in from Colorado and a bunch of major rivers.   So along the canals they have like gravel paths, which is wonderful, so we'd do most of our‑‑ I would do most of my tempos and long runs on those.   And then the community colleges out there have fantastic tracks, and they're open to the public, which is not something that we necessarily have on the East Coast.   I know our‑‑ the community college track near me has potholes in it, and these are like these beautiful stadiums that you can just jump on.   So it's pretty easy.   
It's easier to motivate yourself when it's 75 degrees versus 33 and raining, which it very often can be out here.   
   
 Q.   These gravel paths along the canals, they just go for miles and miles?  
JULIE CULLEY:   Forever, yeah.   They're pretty long.   They go way out into the reservations, too.   I'm pretty sure it's all state land, but obviously the reservation land is not.  
   
 Q.   Are they pretty flat?  
JULIE CULLEY:   Yeah, very.   It's really flat there.   But there's these parks in the middle, like the Camelback Mountain and then there's a park called Papago, and it's actually pretty hilly.   You look at it from a changing of the earth like historical standpoint, there's just like these flat lands and these enormous mountains jutting out all around.   So it's just interesting.   It's like very volcanic looking, and then you have these huge mountains in the middle of Phoenix, but everything is just so unbelievably flat.   Like the biggest hill you can get is going up the steps.   But then they have like Camelback and stuff which just juts out.   So you can get on some of those trails and get a little bit more of a workout in.   But it was great.   
So I was out there with some friends and got some good training in.   
   
 Q.   You had Gags laughing at you?  
JULIE CULLEY:   Well, he's funny, too, because I don't think he necessarily wanted me going out there.   He'd be mad at me for saying this, but he's turning 75.   I think he likes having everyone kind of right here under his‑‑ can put his big arms around us and we're right here, like his kids.   And traditionally he's used to coaching like 800‑, 1500‑meter runners, which probably need a little bit more one‑on‑one attention than a longer distance athlete, where I'm like I can go off and do my own thing, obviously under his guidance.   So it was kind of like an experiment, so he was‑‑ he was busting on me just because that's his personality, that he didn't want me to go, but then once I came back in good shape, he was like, that's fantastic.   Singing a different tune.   It was pretty cool.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT