FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2002
Mark McCumber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







DAVE SENKO:  Well, Mark, maybe just offer some general thoughts on your round pretty good start 5-under.
MARK McCUMBER:   Grateful to be sitting here being in the tournament, period.
As most of you probably know, I was an alternate until late yesterday afternoon.  I think I played 13 senior events and this tournament's eligibility did not come off of your career, but comes off last year's tournament to this year's tournament.  So that was probably  -- last night I was relaxed and focused.
I think that relaxed me.  The biggest problem I've had this year in the ten tournaments I've played in is that after being out for five years  -- from '96 to end of  '97, I had my shoulder rebuilt; and then I ruptured a disk in January of '97 in my neck; and they found a lesion in my spinal cord which is a long, long story on my medical stuff.  I played token golf for the next four years.  I played two events a year on TOUR.  I played at the Honda because I designed the course, and I played at Disney because when you have kids you've got to go play Disney.  But really I was a non-functioning golfer from '97 to most of 2000. 
Then I had another MRI done in May, the eighth one in 2000.  In September of 2000 and it showed the problem in the cord had dissipated.  The scar tissue is what they think it was.  What they saw in the cord had gone away; so I no longer had that black cloud hanging over my head of some of the diagnosis of aneurysm or AD malformation, rupturing a blood vessel or tumor in there, which would have been crippling.  I had a wonderful doctor that said:  "Mark, we think it's a viral infection that's damaged it.  We think it's run its course.  Go see how strong you can get."
I started working out with a trainer not too vigorously, but I started working out.  What did I play, not ten tournaments on the regular tour last year.  Didn't do well, but I had to go through that to get back in the saddle.  It was not until the summer a year ago last week at Western Open; I missed the cut by a shot, but I played solidly.  I thought, you know, I have a chance to play golf again after being off since '97.
Then this year it's been just a matter of getting comfortable again.  I have not played a high amount because of family responsibilities, oldest daughter got married, next daughter graduated college, little league baseball and other things I didn't want to miss at home and other responsibilities I had at home.  I knew the summer would be a time I could string together some tournaments.  Only time I played three in a row  -- so this is my fourth in a row this summer; so I'm very happy to be in this position. 
DAVE SENKO:  Birdies, starting at No.  2. 
MARK McCUMBER:   No. 2 I hit  -- I don't know the course well.  I'd only played that nine once; so I ripped drive down the middle, a wedge to about four feet and made it. 
Routine par on 3. 
Then No. 4 I missed the green with a 5-iron.  Didn't get it up-and-down out of the bunker. 
Played, parred 5.  Parred 6.  I made a good par on 6.  One of those, I thought, those moments that holds the round together.  I hit a push 3-wood that went through the fairway and went into the water.  Dropped it, hit a wedge to about eight feet and made it for par; then I turned around and birdied 7 and parred 8 and 9. 
DAVE SENKO:  Do remember on 7 what you did? 
MARK McCUMBER:   7 was a 3-wood off the tee, 4-iron lay-up and wedge to about eight feet and made it. 
Routine pars on 8, 9, 10, 11. 
12 is a little scary, a little par 3, but no room for error, and an 8-iron to about eight feet and made it.
13 is the reachable par 5.  I had driver and 7-wood to about 70 feet and 2-putted.
Then 14, par.  2-putted from about 12 feet off the edge of the green. 
The par -3 15, I hit it 20 feet and two putted.
Next two birdies, 16, I hit a 3-wood off the tee and 6-iron to 30 feet and made it.
17, I hit a driver off the tee, a 3-wood 49 yards from the hole that ended up about four feet and made that. 
Was really probably the most gratified with a par on 18.  I always remember on TV seeing that tree that comes into play.  And I drove it down the right edge of the fairway, got it about an inch into the rough and it was right behind the tree.  I hit a little punch-4 onto the green, under the tree on the front of the green and two-putted from 70, 80 feet.
DAVE SENKO:   How far was your putt on 16? 
MARK McCUMBER:   16 was up two tiers.  It was up probably about 30 feet. 

Q.  Do you want to play a lot of senior golf or what are your plans? 
MARK McCUMBER:   I want to play good.  Just like I did on the regular tour.  I don't plan to play in the sense of  -- I don't plan to play 30 events.  I can see playing 20 and under, would probably be my max, just because of the responsibilities I have at home with my family and my business of designing golf courses, and just activities at home that I have grown very accustomed to. 
But it doesn't mean that I don't  -- it's token for me.  If I didn't  -- if this did not start to happen for me  -- I want to be competitive.  That's the fun of playing tour golf.  I know we're over 50 and it's not the regular tour, but I tell you what, I was dumbfounded how good these guys play.  I didn't expect to walk out here and just contend.  That's not what I'm saying.  But from the very first week I'm playing, I was saying, man, these guys really, really do play good.  They shoot it low, they hit it par, they putt good. 
The guys work more than their golf game here than I think the guys do time-wise on the regular tour.  So many guys are on the range until dark; they are chipping and putting all afternoon.  I was very much impressed and a little bit surprised with how high and how deep the caliber of golf was on the SENIOR TOUR. 
So right away, it kind of frustrated me; that I've really got to do some work and step up my game if I expect to contend at all. 

Q.  Earlier today we were talking about low scores being shot on this tour.  Any idea why that is?  Could you give me your input on that?
MARK McCUMBER:   I tell you, for what it's worth, when I got out here, I was under the impression -- and all of the senior players teasing me, "How do you like our short golf courses?" 
I was under the impression these were 6,500 yards, tight, not much rough.  But I tell you, there have been some weeks, not just the PGA at Akron was unbelievable, par-70 over 7,000 yards.  The U.S. Open was long, but a lot of our regular events are longer than I expected.  The holes were located extremely to the edges.  I mean, just as much as the PGA TOUR. 
I do think that guys are comfortable.  You have a guy comes here, starts free-wheeling, there's a little different atmosphere, there's no cut.  The greens, as a rule, are not quite as fast and a little bit softer.  Some weeks, the rough is almost as high as the regular tour, not always.
I honestly believe what the reason would be is that I think the guys are more comfortable, I really do.  I really do.  And the courses are just a little bit shorter.
But with the new technology, go look at the stats, what Gil Morgan and these guys are averaging on driving distance, 280; that's long.  But and it's not fudged, either.   That's true yardages.

Q.  Seem like they are more comfortable because of their station in life?
MARK McCUMBER:   I really do.  I do.  I think most of them, when you're on  -- when you're on the regular, the PGA TOUR, you are proving yourself each week; you're having to make a cut to play the week, that's a giant thing.  If you're 3-over after Friday, you don't like it, but you realize if you don't play the next 33 holes at 5-under, you're gone and that adds a little bit of pressure. 
I think most of these guys, you look at Hale Irwin who is a world-class player, Hall of Famer on the PGA TOUR, he's stayed in good condition.  These guys workout, they train, but they are set in life.  They are not out trying to make a paycheck.  They are not trying to prove themselves, other than to themselves, and I think that takes a little bit of weight off, I really, really do. 
Then you've got guys, like the guy I played with, Walter Hall, who never played the Tour, who feels like a kind in a candy store, who have tremendous talent.  Like a Jim Albus did when he was younger out here, Tom Wargo.  These guys, like probably in any sport, somebody who could have played in the majors, but after college ball didn't play, raised a family.  They get their second chance and I think they are just like  -- they are in ecstasy.  I know Walter is grateful and loving it and playing every week.  That builds a lot of confidence.  That's my guess. 

Q.  Do you think that playing a lot of events this summer, this is your best chance to do well, playing a lot?
MARK McCUMBER:   Well, I hate to admit it, but my brother has always told me that.  Yeah, in my perfect world we could may one week take one off, play two, take three off, but it is hard to build momentum.  The one thing that's hitting me is momentum is a vital part of sports, period.  You can see it.  A guy makes a few shots in basketball, he starts making everything.  You see a guy miss a few and he makes nothing. 
You cannot come out here, tee it up on Friday  -- I've been shooting  -- I've been starting bad almost every week.  And then like Canada last week, I bogeyed the last, then I shoot 1-over,  then I shoot 5-under on the weekend and there you are in the middle of the pack, 3th or 32nd. 
But when you know you are going to play four or five in a row, or play three take one off and play three again, it gives you momentum. 
My little boy, Tyler, came out.  He's been out with me the whole last month.  So I think when you know you are going to be here playing, you don't feel quite that, "I've got to play good this week because I'm going to be off for three more weeks."  So I do think that helps mentally and I've got to get back my golf muscles.  I've got it get back, my caddie and I discussed it  -- inaudible  -- "should I and it here, 8-iron, 9-iron?" 
He says, "Mark, you've played all your life, just what do you think?"  I've tried to take less time lining up putts, less time chipping and just hit, look and react.  And I've got to build confidence to do that.  Confidence comes from playing. 
It's only the first round, and who knows what will happen tomorrow.  I expect to play good, but I know this is a wonderful stepping stone.  I had all the right feelings.  I felt the first two weeks pressure mounting as I played in a round and usually could not wait to get to the first hole.  Today was the first day I could not wait to go.  I wish there were more holes to play, and that's the way I want to feel. 





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT