INDYCAR SERIES: ABC SUPPLY/A.J. FOYT INDY 225
June 1, 2008
Ryan Briscoe
Scott Dixon
Roger Penske
Oriol Servia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we are joined by Oriol Servia, finished sixth today coming in as our story of the day. Great drive out there. Take us back to the start because it wasn't completely clear from the television replays what happened there in the first lap that caused you to come into pit and change the front wing.   
 ORIOL SERVIA: Yeah, well, it's a race and it's an oval and everybody wants to be first on first corner and I wanted to be first, too.   
 The truth is we got to turn one, and you know, it was like a big mess, lots of cars side-by-side and I thought I went in and Brenoldi, probably he couldn't see me because he had cars on either side and he was one on the side of me and I had to really back off.   
 And then I still had a run into him on turn three and I thought for sure he saw me and I'm turning in and he's closing and I'm thinking here we go again, here we go again and I didn't brake but he clipped at the very end my front wing, and from there it was a big mess, because we were trying to change the wing without losing a lap and we almost got it.   
 The crew did a great job but because of the front wing, got stuck, and they couldn't get it out, and they just got it out and Marco just beat me at the lap line and I was one lap behind. From there, I knew he was in the lead and I had to pass him and in case there was a yellow, I would get my lap back and at least I passed him and opened a small gap. And from there it was just one car after the other, just trying to pass them before the leader would pass me, and so it was tough. It was like, it was basically I had to go the same speed as the leader, but the cars in front of me were not letting me by; like they would let the leader go by obviously.   
 It was really tough but the whole race was just keep fighting, keep fighting and every pit stop, we gain spots. After the restart we gain spots and on track, just on top.   
 I was quite happy and also quite tiring. Usually I don't get tired on the ovals but because of the type of the racing I had to do every lap and because when we changed the wing for some reason we lost water; I didn't have the water. I was really struggling there at the end.   
 But again sixth place sounds like a win and I'm really happy especially my last two or three times in this place I had been on the podium, so I was hoping it was going to happen again, but this sixth today coming from last feels like one for sure.   
  
  Q. You've seen a lot of irony in your career, is there irony that the guy who won last week --   
 ORIOL SERVIA: I don't even know who won. Happy for him, he's a fast guy.   
 Honestly I don't know what happened at the front. I don't know what kind of race he had. I saw Dixon leading earlier, is all I knew, so I don't know what happened. I cannot tell you. I don't know.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised there weren't more yellows?   
 ORIOL SERVIA: Yeah, and especially I was hoping for many more, because where I was, I needed as many yellows and as many restarts as possible to make moves. And I tell you, the conditions were not easy. I had so many, so many moments that I saw myself in the wall, you know, in traffic, the car went really loose over marbles and passing cars. I thought, okay, it was tight, it was close, somebody must be close to crashing now. But nobody was, so it was tough and as you say, it was surprising there were not more yellows.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).   
 ORIOL SERVIA: I really believe so. We were contenders. I passed the leader after the start and opened the gap. So for sure the crew did a great job and my car was great and this proves that the racing technology is really stepping forward every oval. We qualified fourth and I was ninth; so it's the first oval we were really close to the front, and in this case we showed we were there.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).   
 ORIOL SERVIA: We are definitely catching up but next weekend unfortunately we go back to the mile-and-a-half where we have the biggest problem.   
 Even here today, I was just telling the guys, we had a great car in the corners but I could see I was shorter on power than the other guys, and as soon as we got on the straight these guys accelerate more. I don't know what they do with their cars, but they go faster on the straits and that's what we see on the mile-and-a-half ovals; we go full throttle all the way around and they go faster than us.   
 I could see today many times I was on top of somebody and just couldn't even pass them. We still have to catch up, which is encouraging because we are getting closer and we still see we have a lot of potential to gain. So, we'll get there.   
  
  Q. I watched you and -- (inaudible).   
 ORIOL SERVIA: Really hard. Sometimes at the beginning of the race, obviously you're trying to make as many moves as possible, but you are not going to go head-to-head against somebody when still you have 150 laps to go.   
 So you think, okay, this guy is faster now. You almost don't let him by but you don't fight him too much, because A, he didn't maybe open the door for to you move forward. At the end of the race, he may not be there, but the last 30 laps, he's fourth position. And especially where we were, sixth, you think if something happened at front, this could be for the podium right and so you're fighting and him and myself; almost I lost everything just trying to hold onto that position.   
 A couple of times I went wide into because he was putting his nose in there and the whole car went sideways. It's one of those cases that probably Mario would just give up the position to finish seventh, but you don't, and he was doing the same. He actually put me on the marbles a couple of times which I didn't think was that nice, but it was because we were fighting really hard for that position.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).  
 ORIOL SERVIA: Oh, yeah, yeah, it was just tough, last 20 laps in an oval in a race, nobody gives up anything.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).   
 ORIOL SERVIA: Oh, yeah, I think as we were saying, I think everyone expected a lot more yellows. Everybody said, oh, 26 cars and so many rookies, last year I think there were 38 laps of yellow. We were thinking there were going to be 70 today and there were not so many.   
 I think everybody behaved, and as I said, the conditions were not easy at all. You know, hence everybody did a good job.   
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations and nice run out there, Oriol.   
  
 THE MODERATOR: Got pretty wild there at the end. Tell us about it.   
 SCOTT DIXON: Yeah, it was a pretty good day for Team Target. We were dominant early on, and the car was really good early on, and the stint where I think we struggled was toward the end and it didn't seem to be a problem, because a lot of the other guys were falling off, as well.   
 Briscoe, you have to give him credit. He drove the wheels off that thing and he took advantage of the high lines where I tried a few times and nearly ended up on the fence.   
 I don't know, it was the most fun I've had in a long time to be honest, the most fun I've had in a long time. It was a hell of a race towards the end. I'm just glad that it didn't come down to the traffic being the deciding factor, and it almost was there with Briscoe getting taken out with those guys crashing.   
 So it was a tough race, a little disappointed that we didn't come up with the win, but still fantastic points for the championship, and we're not really racing for the championship at the moment.   
  
  Q. Did you think you could get him if we had finished under green?   
 SCOTT DIXON: You know, to me, it was going to depend on how the traffic fell at that point. You know, you were going to -- I could run on the bottom line, and some guys were running on the bottom and some were running high, and Briscoe could run on the high line and we almost got him a couple of times just like that.   
 It was tough in that way, you know, and that's what I mean, if there was three or four more laps to go, it could have gone our way, could have gone his way; but just happy it didn't get decided with a crash.  
  
 Q. You said this is the most fun in a long time here; what made it that?   
 SCOTT DIXON: Milwaukee, and a lot of these small places, there's more driver input. You can manipulate the car, you can try to run up high, you can try to setup the car to run on the bottom. There are so many things that you can decide on throughout the race, and that's what you ask for through the pit stops.   
 You know, for me, it was passing a lot of cars. It was almost crashing and saving us, and racing, that's the hardest race I've in a long time for a finish. And the way that we were jostling and going through the lap traffic, it was just a lot of fun.   
  
  Q. The week that Briscoe had, he's been getting beat up as trouble seems to find him, him getting his first win here, how do you feel about that?   
 SCOTT DIXON: Yeah, I'm real happy for the guy. I think Ryan's definitely -- he's a fellow teammate and he's definitely got a lot of talent. You know, it's just been a strange start for him, not so much -- it's just been bad luck. And then other opportunities, I think it's just because it snowballed and he's been getting beaten up a lot by probably the media more than anything, and that might play on the guy.   
 So, you know, if this gives him a bit of inspiration and confidence, he's going to be a tough one for the championship. To me, I think it's fantastic. It's great to see the guy win, he's a good friend and he's very deserving   
  
  Q. Did you have to make a lot of adjustments on the car throughout the race?   
 SCOTT DIXON: We did make a few. I could tell early on that we needed a lot more front end for some reason. The car had a lot of understeer, and that wasn't the case on the prior two days, whether it was just the wind direction or something -- or the prior day to yesterday, especially in turn one. And three and four wasn't a problem; that wind switched, but it's just a lot of understeer for us, and we just kept winding the front wing, and we probably put two or three turns on the car throughout the stops, but that's the only changes we made that I'm aware of.   
  
  Q. Compared to the fun you had last week at Indianapolis, compared to the fun you had this week, you said it was a fun time here at Milwaukee.   
 SCOTT DIXON: It was racing fun. For us, you know, for the driver, what I explained more, demands for from your input than, say, your straight-out speed at some of the bigger circuits and that's something you rely on the car a little bit more.   
 Sure, it's more difficult and Indy is totally different, it's all about momentum. This place is all about muscling the car in there and making guys just try to get through that traffic. I'm talking from a driver's point of view and from an actual racing point of view; for me, that race today, because of the circuit combination and because of there were so many cars out there today and because of how our car was today, it was a lot of fun.   
  
  Q. You mentioned that Ryan ran good high but the move you did make on the front stretch where you got next to him outside, what was the thinking behind that?   
 SCOTT DIXON: He blocked the inside so I had nowhere to go. And when you're on the inside you can just keep driving the thing in there until the guy on the outside gives up. I tried to go to the bottom and he came out and I did it to Helio earlier, so I wasn't going to complain about it.   
  
  Q. By my regards, lap 110, you said you had trouble running up high, but you did have an incident up in turn four. Talk about that.   
 SCOTT DIXON: Yeah, that was going for my most favorite person to past at that point was Danica. I don't know, I couldn't save my life to pass her all day. It seemed to be every time I got to her, I just stopped. And I tried to go to the outside, tried to -- got in the marbles, I think the rear spun and got loose and it took a while to get the rubber off the tires. And I don't think it ever came off because the car was at least a half second slower at that point. So there was definitely lots of moments today, I had a few on turn one, or on Turn 2 actually once you got across that patch.   
 I think at the end when you try to dive in there, you try to go in there as quick as possible down the gears and you have a lock on the car and when you're going over bumps and getting close to the guy in front of you, you use a lot of downforce, and that's just what happens.  
  
  Q. One restart where you checked out, just talk about the conditions there.   
 SCOTT DIXON: I think Helio had a few problems on that restart because then later on, he was pushing us real hard and for some reason, I didn't think the car was that great. It just seemed like the others probably weren't. I still had understeer on the car. You know, we started to back up in the end to try and save fuel because when you're going so much faster, you burn probably a quarter more fuel, so that was the problem there.   
 But you know, it was maybe the time we did the best laps, but I think one of the restarts later we did some more laps, as well. I think just other people had worked on their cars and got them better at that stage to maybe not look like we were so quick out front.   
  
  Q. How did the track hold up; did it get slippery at the end?   
 SCOTT DIXON: It was pretty decent all day. I think it got better at different stages, and through the mid part for me, it felt best. I think later on, the high lines seemed to me it had a little bit more rubber, and I think that's where we started to struggle; a lot of people were running higher than we were and we didn't have much grip on the tires.   
 The track was consistent. There's marbles, but that's the case when you have almost 30 cars out there.   
  
  Q. Did you have anything for Ryan at the end had there not been a caution?   
 SCOTT DIXON: You know, the cars were both quick. I think it was going to many come down how you call the traffic and check heck what the traffic was going to do.  
 Yeah, if we were in front of him at that point, you know, I think we could have maybe won the race but three laps more, who knows what would have happened with the traffic. My car was good on the bottom and he was good on the top; and if he caught someone on the top, we would have got him. It's all speculation to talk.   
  
  Q. A couple years ago here, your weekend was not good here at the Milwaukee Mile.   
 SCOTT DIXON: Thanks.   
  
  Q. Two race cars. What's been the change in those couple of years where you went from that unfortunately weekend to a really good weekend here at the Mile?   
 SCOTT DIXON: Well, it's a lot of things: Chassis, engine, teammate. I think it's probably easier to talk about what's not the same. The team definitely works better together now and the engineers work better together and we have better setups now and we have come a long way from when we started this package and Dan and I finished 9th, 10th here. It's definitely getting better and I think the change was more from having a better engine, better chassis and things like that.   
  
  
  Q. Just a week ago today you will forever be known as an Indianapolis 500 winner. Has it started to sink in   
 SCOTT DIXON: I guess parts of it has. I think after Texas, probably I'm going to get a break away from racing and you can sort of reflect back on the month of May. It's definitely a lot of fun. It's been tremendous. But since last Sunday, I've been home I think one night, and just been on the ball and on the go ever since. It's sinking in, but it's been a lot of hard work. I think after Texas.   
  
  Q. Was it as busy as you expected it to be?   
 SCOTT DIXON: It was busy. I think once you got to the mid pack, it was definitely very hard. There were guys racing just down the lead lap and for me that's always a cautious period because you're racing with guys that haven't got the car to be there. Don't want to go down that lap and get pretty desperate. I think that was the only problem with the traffic. And there was tons of it. That's what made the day so much fun is you had to weed through that stuff.   
  
  Q. Do you realize that the Australians are trying to claim you now?   
 SCOTT DIXON: It's not the first time. This will hopefully put the end to it. They can claim Briscoe now.   
  
 THE MODERATOR: Roger, your 300th win in motorsports.   
 ROGER PENSKE: Yeah, we are getting old here. Won first 30 YEARS ago; shows you how long we've been here. So that's a lot of time and effort.   
  
  Q. If you could talk about Ryan, and of course, he came on board to your team not long ago, talk about what you saw in him and why you brought him aboard.   
 ROGER PENSKE: Today I think first really got the monkey off his back and we knew how good a race driver he was when he ran for us in the Porsche program last year, long race, running consistent. He seems to get better as the race goes on as you saw today, but I think they had a great car.   
 He was patient, he had to start back at 13th I think after the first lap and worked his way up through the field and I think there was no question that he was able to have patience and then you know, being able to pass his teammate and pass Wheldon and then certainly Dixon who has been the class of the field for this part of the field was a big step for him.   
 So I think from the standpoint of his confidence, you know, there's no question that this is exactly what he needed to break the ice, because you know, we know how good he is on the road courses. I think you saw in St. Pete he got into the wall, which was unfortunate, but I think we are going to see a real new race driver come above now as we go forward.   
 We are excited. We saw him as a good driver Chip had him earlier on and he got himself into trouble maybe without the experience and the bad accident. We had him come back, had a good physical with him and he passed everything we needed. There was no issue from his accident and he seemed to be confident and then so we said let's try him at Indy last year with Simon (ph), and of course he finished fifth. That was a first test and then we put him into the ALMS Series last year and they won two or three races in that car with Sasha Maassen.   
 So that was a big day for him, and obviously for us, just to get it off our back, to win that first race at any series is so important, because there's just inches between winning or losing as we saw at Daytona, and we saw here today because one slip up and who knows, if there had not been a yellow, there wouldn't have been the finish.   
  
  Q. Before you tested Ryan, was that a key step in the process?   
 ROGER PENSKE: He was here with Reinbold and got in the fence in practice and got if the fence in race and so he didn't have much confidence running here. We had an opportunity to test him here with the car and he was quick, you know, and they had a pretty good set up. So I would say that was a plus for him and that gave him certainly the confidence he needed today.   
  
  Q. Seemed to be a classic Team Penske win and cars got better as the race went along, pit stops were good. Please comment on that.   
 ROGER PENSKE: Well I think we had a good car all day. We didn't make any adjustment, didn't make tire pressure adjustment at all. He said the car had a little understeer but this traffic it was a little bit free, so I think we were right where we needed to be.   
 I think at the end, what I decided to do, I knew we had to fuel and we were coming up on the 26 car and the 27 and maybe the 7 were coming up into traffic and we had to pit within the next four or five laps. I said, let's roll the dice, come in now, get fresh tires on. So we had five or six or maybe eight laps on fresh tires, as you could see so that gave us the chance to get ahead of those guy when is they came in and pitted. I think 33 got into the wall but they kept going. Thought there was to be to be a yellow. I guess it was pretty much our day.   
 Again, the stops were terrific. Six, seven second stops these days, the stop we beat Wheldon out and came out third was good.   
 And then I was impressed with the courtesy of most of the drivers, in the old days they used to get off the gas and let you go by, but nobody seems to do that anymore.   
  
  Q. Did you have any idea how close Ryan Briscoe came to that mess there in Turn 2 at the end?   
 ROGER PENSKE: Well I knew, I saw the 4 car spinning and knew we were trying to pass the 4 car the lap before so I knew he had to be right there, and he had a chance with two cars ahead of him to wall it up.   
  
  Q. 300 is the magic number in baseball as far as wins go. Can you talk about what 300 wins for your team means?   
 ROGER PENSKE: Must be a big deal because we've got a hat made. (Laughter) I guess they have been carrying these around, they told me today.   
 You know, I think really it shows the amount of work that has been done by so many people on the team, so many good drivers, so many good pit crews, all the way back when we think about done winning the first Trans Am and Indianapolis and you just go on and think of the drivers that have been with us. It's pretty exciting   
 To me, I remember when we were sitting there for a long time trying to get us our 100th win Gil de Ferran gave us on a short track, and he had to beat upon Toyota that day and that was a pretty big challenge in itself. And to see Ryan to be able to race clean with the 9 car with Dixon, it's a great day. And for our people. This is I great thing, not for me, it's about everybody that's committed to us and there's so many people that have been with us for a long time, many people 3525, 30 years with us, and that makes a difference I'm sure.   
  
  Q. Ryan has raced good this year and has had problems crashing the first few races, did you talk to him this week?   
 ROGER PENSKE: No. 1, the accident that he had in Homestead was not his fault. He made a mistake in the race at St. Pete when he got in the wall, as I said earlier, even Dixon, it's so tight racing in there and the track was race   
 Last week, I went through the overhead shots, and this is a racing accident, you could have had either one of the two drivers say, look, what really happened. I take the blame, if anyone gets the blame, it's me for sending him out. Rick talked to him, I talked to him. What we need to do is keep the guys confident, and that's the main thing. When you've got a good race driver, whether it's Andretti or Earnhardt, Senior; you have to get to that point where you get over the hill and you've got the confidence and you realize, I told him once we have 45 laps to go here and if you don't extend yourself; we were four or five seconds ahead of the cars behind us and it was just a matter of time the way he was running that he would be able to get up near the front now. The strategy at the end paid off, but I think that he needed to execute and he needed to execute at the end and that's what he did and I think this is going to go a long way to show how good of a race driver he is.   
  
  Q. It's obviously a team sport, but it starts at the top. What have you instilled in your team and your drivers to breed this success?   
 ROGER PENSKE: I think it's not just the drivers. We have tried to pick the right people and we have a homogenous group of guys working together. From adversity, you think about '95 at Indianapolis when we didn't make the race and we went home as a proud team. We didn't make it, and I think that we pulled together, just like today when Briscoe was faster than Helio.   
 I called Tim and said looks like we are running a little better and he said let Helio go by on the sought side. When you have multiple car teams they both can't win and to me if Penske Racing wins a race, everybody wins in our company. We have got 40,000 employees, so it's pretty important.   
  
  Q. The week Ryan has had after the Indy incident; talk about the redemption.   
 ROGER PENSKE: The good news, when they introduced him, he didn't boo him, so today wasn't as bad as we thought there at Indy. I'm sure he's read about it and been interviewed by many of you and I think he's taken the high road and that's what he's supposed to do. Even when that was going on during the race, I didn't want to see -- I like Danica and I think she's a terrific driver and a great credit to the sport. It was just unfortunate that happened.   
  
  Q. You've had employees work for you 25, 30 years; how do you maintain that?   
 ROGER PENSKE: One fact is that we are ache to attract sponsors that commit to us more than one year at a time so we can make commitments to our team members and go out and really attract younger people who maybe have a career thought to be in racing and we can help them build up through the team. Many of these young people that are with us today are folks that have been with us a long time that started polishing the wheels or driving the trucks. We have a bunch of people from the Mechanics Training School, NASCAR Tech in Charlotte, and we get them across the country and we typically get people from -- matter of fact, the vocational school in Reading, gave us the engineers that won Indy. It's growing, the people within the company they are loyal and we take care of them and we will do anything for them to support them in a time of diversity.   
  
 THE MODERATOR: We now bring in Ryan Briscoe. Ryan, you get that first win, talk about that, talk about the relief that you feel and just the overall day and the enjoyment of a first win.   
 RYAN BRISCOE: It's huge. You know, we struggled coming in in practice and qualifying but we really just made some changes overnight and said, you know, we know what we have brought out of the trailer was a good setup. We played with it a bit yesterday and got lost a little bit and didn't have the best car in qualifying. We said, you know, let just go back to basics and go with something we know.   
 I tell it, you was spot on. It was not the best on new tires but as we got those long stints, the car just got better and better. It feels good to get the first win.   
  
  Q. The accident in Turn 2 that brought out the last caution at the end of the race, you were right behind it, what went through your mind in the split second that you had to make a decision?   
 RYAN BRISCOE: Well, a million things went through my mind, I tell you, because I think just before then, you know, we had a couple laps to go, and I was pretty comfortable. I knew how to keep Dixon behind me, and I was like, you know, let's just bring this home. And then all of a sudden I'm seeing smoke in front of me and I'm seeing cars flying, I'm like, this is not what I need. I'm just the brakes, locked up trying to avoid this thinking this is not good and then wheewww, and huge relief and that was it. It was close, though. I think I would have been in tears if I would have been hit.   
  
  Q. How close?   
 RYAN BRISCOE: I think it was probably less than a foot.   
  
  Q. Talk about the redemption you must feel   
 RYAN BRISCOE: It's been a tough start to the season, and we've been knocking on the door. We've been running on the front, just not getting the results. It definitely feels good to come here -- and definitely win. Even a Top-5 finish here would have been satisfying for me.  
 To win is just amazing. Since Indy and the incident and a lot of media and son, the one thing I always said was I wanted to put it in the past and move forward and move on. There's no better way to do that than win here on the following weekend.   
 The same goes for the win. We'll just have to move on and try to keep this momentum and keep running strong for the rest of the season.   
  
  Q. During your stretch where you had a little bit of a rough go, and then after last week, did your confidence suffer at all?   
 RYAN BRISCOE: Well, you know, it's tough. The problems we had going through the first few rounds were not related to performance or anything. We just couldn't close the deal. So really I was just putting pressure on myself to get to the finish and have a good result.   
 You know, I needed this. And every race this year, we have been running up there, Top-5. Even Indy, I think we had a shot at running Top-5 at the end.   
 For sure, to close here, get this win, it means a lot for many reasons. You know, my history here at Milwaukee hasn't been pleasant, and for sure, I wouldn't have been able to run so strong in the race without the help and advice of Rick Mears and on the anniversary of his first ever IndyCar win, this is definitely extremely special.   
  
  Q. The names of drivers to win for Team Penske, you are the 15th; how do you feel about that?   
 RYAN BRISCOE: It's pretty special. There are some big names on that list, and I guess what's more difficult to live with is not being a winner for Team Penske.   
 It definitely feels good to have that win, and as I said hopefully, from this win we can get some momentum and try to collect a few more this year.   
  
  Q. Scott talked about riding high and the different lines that you were running on the Speedway, if you could talk about that, where your car worked best   
 RYAN BRISCOE: Yeah, actually my car was really good up high on Turns 1 and 2. I could not run high on 3 and 4. I think the wind played a big part today opposite to what it was in qualifying, and pretty much everyone would go in high on 1 and cut it down low and I would always be able to really get on the gas and get a lot of momentum on the outside of them off of Turn 2, and that's where I made most of my moves today. I knew by carrying that speed in front of Scott, and then running low on 3 and 4 was always going to make it tough for him.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about what kind of help Rick Mears has given to you?   
 RYAN BRISCOE: He is the best observer I have ever talked to. He watched me in practice, and you know, a lot of things carried over from Indy. There are a lot of things you do in Indy that are the same here.   
 You know, he just talked about lines and so on in traffic, things I need to keep my eye on and I really put a lot of that to use today, especially in the closing stages with Scott. So you know, anything that Rick Mears says is invaluable, and you know, as I said, this one definitely goes to him.   
  
  Q. With 26 starters and attrition was so low, it seemed like you were always running up on traffic and always in the middle of traffic; if you could comment on that.   
 RYAN BRISCOE: Yeah, it's really exciting coming to Milwaukee with the most numbers of cars on the track since I think '96. I guess I was expecting probably a few more yellows today. And it was great to see how well everyone drove in the traffic and in the difficult condition. I think it just proves the level of experience that is out there in this field at the moment. There are a lot of rookies but guys with immense experience.   
 You know, it was a great day. It was a lot of fun. One of the funnest races I've ever had, and it was great having so many cars out there, and the traffic is a part of the game but everyone behaved pretty good.   
  
  Q. Did you have an incident with Oriol in the second happen?   
 RYAN BRISCOE: Any make contact with anyone but on the second lap there were cars all over the place ask, was it Servia or Brenoldi, one of the car was slowing up big time between 3 and 4 we all got checked up and I guess someone spun behind. It was pretty close quarters there and actually lost a few positions.   
  
  Q. When things happened in front of you like it did there on that last caution, how much of getting through that is skill and how much of it is just luck?   
 RYAN BRISCOE: Definitely luck is going to come into play when cars spin out in front of you, you know, it's timing, but you've got to be looking head at all times as well and I was getting on the breaks as soon as I could, as soon as I saw Marco getting sideways and make contact with someone. All I could do was slow down. One car was going high and looked like Marco was low. I really just tried to slow down ask stay in the middle of the track until I could actually see where I needed to swerve and hope that no one got up the back of me.   
  
  Q. Of the million things that went through your mind, was one of them, "God, why me?"   
 RYAN BRISCOE: Yeah, I mean, absolutely, and as I said if I would have got caught up in that, would I have been under the bus trying right now, that's for sure.  
 THE MODERATOR: Ryan, thank you and congratulations.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT