AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 15, 2015
Michael Lund
Pat Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Let's start with the amateur partner.   What a thrill that had to be for you.   
MICHAEL LUND:   It's the best week of my life, thank you, sir.   I can't even believe it.   Obviously when you come here you want to win, but I guess you just can't believe that it actually happened.   So I'm loss of words.   
   
 Q.   Pat, you were really into the team competition as well.   I could tell by your reaction on the 18th.   
PAT PEREZ:   Michael's a very good friend of mine.   We have known each other a long time now, played a lot of golf and hung out.   I know what this means to him.   
I kind of had a chance to win here but I knew I was going to have to play great to win on the individual.   But I wanted it more for him than anything in the world, because I know what it means to him.   Him being such a dear friend of mine, I just knew that ‑‑ I'm really excited for him.   It's almost like I won.   I really wanted it for him and we had a great time.  
   
 Q.   Michael, you get to come back here forever.   And take a look right below the first tee, there's a plaque that lists all the pro‑am winners.   You'll be right there next to Bill Murray.   
MICHAEL LUND:   I freaking love it.   
   
 Q.   He's a perfect partner for you?  
PAT PEREZ:   You have no idea.   You have no idea.   
   
 Q.   Big week for you, obviously playing today, you had a chance.   You were actually for, I want to say, maybe for 30 seconds to a minute actually tied for the lead.   
PAT PEREZ:   Yeah, I don't know.   We were ‑‑ I was so involved in the amateur part with him that I knew I was going to have to shoot like 62 or 61 to even have a chance at winning because the course is in perfect shape, everyone's playing well.  
Totally different week than any other week I've been here at Pebble.   So, I was worried about him.   I knew he was going to be real nervous, I tried to keep him calm.   
I played all right.   I got off to a good start.   I hit a lot of shots I never hit on this course before.   
I hit it close on 8.   
I hit a great one on 5.   
I mean it just, you know, it was a good week.   It was a fun week.   I've had such a bad run and my new coach, Drew Steckel, we worked hard the last few months.   
After Vegas I was at that point again where I go what am I going to do now?   I'm playing so bad, it's been such a horrendous run these last six months.   He got me straightened around and I couldn't be happier.   It was just a great building week.   
I didn't win, but I felt like I won, because I hit a lot of great shot shots when I needed to on Sunday.   I made some key putts that I needed to, and just I'm pretty happy about it.   I'm looking forward to the year going forward now.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT