ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2021
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Nelly, solid finish to the ANA Inspiration, including a birdie on the 72nd hole.  Just take us through a bogey-free 6-under 66 today.
 NELLY KORDA:   I hit it really solid.  Figured out my putting today, which sucks on the final day.  I put together a good score and I'm happy I kind of climbed the leaderboard today.
 Q. What's it like?  Obviously you like this course.  You had a good finish last year; another solid finish, Top 5 this year, 50th anniversary.  You're playing well here.  I imagine just leaving here is going to do a lot for the rest of the year for you?
 NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, for sure.  I just love coming here.  I stay with like the best host family.  They're like my second set of parents.  I'm just super comfortable, I'm always playing this golf course, and it's just always in amazing shape, too, and the history behind it.  There is no tournament like it.
 So as I said, you definitely want this tournament on your resume, and hopefully one day that will happen.
 Q. Hopefully sooner than later.  The ANA Inspiration, did you draw any inspiration from what your brother was able to accomplish this past week?
 NELLY KORDA:   For sure.  We always want it one-up each other in a way, but it's healthy.  We support each other a lot, but definitely motivates us to play better I think and just have a positive attitude out there.
 Q. Week off and then Hawaii, L.A. Asia, the rest of the west coast swing.  What's the plan for the week off?
 NELLY KORDA:   Not going to look at my golf clubs for at least 48 hours because I've played 14 days in a row, and I'm not playing Asia so just going to go over to Hawaii, L.A., and try to play my best in those two events.
 Q. Masters week.  Kick up and watch.  You got a favorite?
 NELLY KORDA:   Not really, but kind of rooting for Jordan.  But also Rory.  You know, I have a soft spot for Rory.
 Q. Good choices.  Thanks, Nelly.
 NELLY KORDA:   Thanks.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT