CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 23, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. With a woman who certainly has lot of people cheering for you right now. Nelly, we wondered what was going on on 3. That double happened. We thought maybe the pressure was getting to you; then 4 happens. How big was that bounce-back birdie at 4 today?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, definitely my caddie, Jason, helped a lot. He's just so positive on the golf course. But even with that double, I hit a great shot into the green.
Long is dead there I found out, but I was just hitting it really solid today. Even though I made that double, I was still hitting it really good.
Q. You make the turn so you get that double back. Make the turn at 1-under and then you have a fantastic back nine. Was there a point out there that you felt, Okay, we can attack, you felt really comfortable with where your game was?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah. Kind of hit the brakes every single day on the back nine, and I just told myself, Just be really aggressive on the back nine, and it worked out today.
Q. Nice 6-under par, 66 today. Put a little pressure on Sei Young. Was that the goal going into today?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it's moving day, so I try to move up the leaderboard, try to get closer to her. She's playing really solid golf. I'm just trying to take it shot by shot and see where it goes.
Q. Had the double bogey on 3. How much did that motivate you to erase that?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, definitely. All I was thinking was there is this line in a rap song, Last night I took an L but tonight I bounced back. (Laughter.) That was what I was thinking on the next hole.
Q. You bounced back definitely. We talked yesterday about the back nine kind of being a Kryptonite a little bit compared to your start on the front nine. How much was that a factor today in this overall score and getting to where you were?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, definitely. I tried to tell myself to be more aggressive starting on the back nine. That bunker shot I made an 11 was nice. Yeah, just I was rolling it really well and I was definitely a bit more aggressive.
Q. What's the thought process going into tomorrow with the richest winner's share on the line?
NELLY KORDA: I'm not going to think about it too much. Just going to go out, have fun, play golf, and see where it goes.
Q. It doesn't have the feel like a regular tournament. What do you expect Sunday to be like?
NELLY KORDA: I don't know. I mean, the same as it's been every day. It's so nice to have my family out here and to have so many people cheering me on, being in my home state. Just been a nice feeling.
Q. Did you know there was a five-shot gap at one point in the middle of the round? Were you leaderboard watching there?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah. I mean, I didn't know it was five. I thought it was four. But I always leaderboard watch because of my sister. I saw she went from like 7 to 10 really fast. She must've made like three birdies in a row.
But, yeah, I did see there was a pretty big gap. I mean, the goal was to try to minimize that as much as I could.
Q. Do you get an adrenaline boost when see she's doing well?
NELLY KORDA: No, I don't really try to focus on anyone else but my game.
Q. I meant Jess.
NELLY KORDA: Oh, my sister. Maybe a little. (Laughter.)
Q. Do you often sing songs in your head while you're playing?
NELLY KORDA: Oh, yeah. All the time. I have so many songs stuck in my head. Someone could say something in the crowd and I'll pick up a song from that and it's in my head all day. I'm like, Oh, my gosh.
Q. Are you listening to music on the range?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah.
Q. What are you listening to?
NELLY KORDA: Everything except for Blues. Yeah, I don't -- my playlist is all over the place. Rap, R&B, country. There is definitely some interesting stuff there. My sister listens to it as well, my playlist, on the range when she warms up.
Q. Oh. You're the DJ.
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I'm the DJ.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT