CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right, we are here with Nelly Korda. Nelly, you had two wins this year, a huge week at the Solheim Cup, you and your sister and Team USA.
Looking back at 2019, what has been the highlight moment for you? You've had so many, but if you could pick one moment, what was the highlight moment for you?
NELLY KORDA: Gosh, yeah, I've had a lot of moments. I'm really proud of myself how consistent I've been this year. But I think probably playing with my sister at Solheim Cup, that was really special. I'm going to look back to that moment for the rest of my career and life actually.
THE MODERATOR: There is enough of an age gap between you that you that didn't play junior golf together, didn't play a lot of amateur golf. Have you really had opportunities other than that really compete together? Certainly the Dow event this year, but maybe some of the first times you really played together like that?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah. I mean, when we were younger we had play like playing matches against each other. Other than that, my rookie year was really the first year that we actually played together, and the Dow this year was a lot of fun. We actually got to pair up and play together.
THE MODERATOR: What have you learned about yourself as a player this year?
NELLY KORDA: I'm still learning. I mean, that's going to be for the rest of my career. I'm going to learn every year, every tournament about myself. But I think that I've learned that I can compete with a lot of these girls. I can win multiple times.
With the work I've put in, you know, I'm just happy to see that it's finally paying off.
THE MODERATOR: And you talk about winning multiple times. How important to you was that win a couple weeks ago at Swinging Skirts? Not only was it defending, but it's the first tomorrow you won with your sister there, the first time you won twice in a year, the first time you really did it, put it all together again.
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it was really cool. It was, y first time ever defending, so it was definitely a type of pressure that I've never felt before. I really liked it. I mean, the fans in Taiwan were great. I had so much fun that week. It was just a dream of a week, and to have my sister there.
I mean, I did make it a little stressful going down the stretch, but I am happy that I pulled it off.
THE MODERATOR: What do you mean when you say different kind of pressure?
NELLY KORDA: I don't know. It's just when you're defending, obviously I defended at a different golf course as well, so the feeling of actually going through all the holes again as a new tournament wasn't the same.
But seeing my face on all like the billboards, it was just a cool experience. You want to defend. You want to play well because you see all the fans chanting your name and telling you, Again, again. So obviously it's a good type of pressure.
THE MODERATOR: You were the runner-up here last year; finished 8th in 2017, so two good results here. What are your thoughts on Tiburon? Is it a course that particularly seems to suit you? You have two good results here.
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, I grew up in Florida so bermuda grass, I like it. I don't know. I guess having my whole family out here too is really nice and just feels really homey.
THE MODERATOR: You come here No. 3 in the Rolex Women's World Golf Ranking, the top American in the world. No pressure there, sorry.
Do you pay attention to that? Do you know where you sit in those rankings?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, I know where I sit, but I try not to pay attention to it too much, go into detail about it too much.
I just try to take every week as a new opportunity. Every week I'm playing against the same girls, and I'm just trying to make my way up that leaderboard.
THE MODERATOR: Open up for any questions.
Q. Did you take anything in particular away from the final round pairing with Lexi last year here?
NELLY KORDA: To be honest, I don't really remember it that much. (Smiling.) I know I remember that her brother caddied for her and it was a lot of fun. It was kind of like my first time ever being like really in contention in a really big event, tour championship.
But I don't really remember it to detail. Yeah, I mean, sorry. I can't.
Q. We got a new format here this year where everybody comes into this thing with a clean slate and you can go out and win it. If you're 53rd on the list you're really happy about that; if you're third, maybe not so much. What do you think about it, and how have you thought about it throughout the year?
NELLY KORDA: I like it. I mean, you know, it's just like a regular event really. Doesn't really matter. I'm happy where I am at CME. I'm not really too bummed that only the Top 5, let's say, can win, because if I'm high up on the rankings that means I've had a good year and I've had good results.
To me, I'm not really too bummed about that. To win this tournament you have to play good golf. At the end of the day, whoever wins deserves it.
THE MODERATOR: Further questions for Nelly? What would a big win here this week mean to you? It's not only $1.5 million, but it's the Race to the CME Globe title; it's the big one of the year.
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, it's kind of like our sixth major, to be honest. Yeah, it would mean a lot to me, especially with it being kind of at home and having my family around. It would mean a lot.
But I'm not really concentrating on that too much. I'm just concentrating on that first tee shot so far and see how it goes.
THE MODERATOR: Will you have family around this week, mom and dad?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah. Everyone is here actually already.
THE MODERATOR: Korda family reunion, huh?
NELLY KORDA: Oh, yeah. Korda clan back in action.
THE MODERATOR: Are you going to get them in the red, white, and blue hat like you did at...
NELLY KORDA: I don't think so, no. I hope not.
THE MODERATOR: There are boundaries, Doug.
Q. Nelly, do you take any pride in being the highest ranked American or is your thinking more trying to get to highest ranking player?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it's a cool accomplishment to be the highest ranked American, but definitely my No. 1 goal as a professional golfer is to be No. 1 golfer in the world.
I've been getting a lot messages from little girls saying that I inspire them to take up the game of golf, so that's really something that, you know, makes me happy.
Q. Curious if your sister would be the answer then I need a different answer. When you were starting to play as a young kid, who did you look up to?
NELLY KORDA: Who did I look up to? As a little kid, Tiger Woods. I didn't really start -- to be honest, I really didn't start watching women's golf until my sister got on tour until 2011. I was always a really big Tiger Woods fan growing up.
Q. So who was the first LPGA player you looked up to?
NELLY KORDA: Probably Annika or Lorena. It was still -- yeah, still during the time when they were both playing. I remember when Jess played I think it was at Inverness. I think it was 2008. Not 100% sure.
But, yeah, actually I was outside the clubhouse and I saw Annika make an eagle I think on 18. That was kind of like the first LPGA golfer I kind of looked up to. Actually Paula Creamer too, as well.
THE MODERATOR: Any further questions for Nelly? Right up here in front.
Q. Have you played much with Jin Young Ko? Just what do you think of her game?
NELLY KORDA: With Jin Young? Yeah, I've played quite a bit with her the past two years, especially this year. She's a really solid player. Amazing on the putting green. I'm always at awe with her short game.
She's also such a nice person. She's great to play with. Every single time I'm paired with her, we always have lot of fun on the golf course.
THE MODERATOR: Further questions for Nelly?
Q. I was wondering if you could explain kind of how different you feel this year compared to your rookie year. Feels like you've kind of grown up very quickly on tour.
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I definitely feel a bit more grown up, more mature. Kind of learned from my mistakes as a golfer, anything really.
But, yeah, I would say I'm a bit more mature. I'm a bit more mature as a person for sure. Being out here you definitely have to mature to succeed.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Nelly? Right now you're at No. 3 in the world. That would put you on the Olympic team next year. Is that a goal, something you keep in mind, of getting to play for the red, white, and blue in a different arena?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, it would be an amazing honor. I think I'm not going to think about it too much. Good golf will get me there. We'll see how next year goes.
THE MODERATOR: With that, we'll wrap it um. Thanks so much Nelly, have a good week.
NELLY KORDA: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT