CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 24, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about struggling when your ball striking is not there and just trying to stay in it.  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, I was hitting it really bad today actually, especially with my driver. I think I had three penalty strokes. I hit it twice in the water, and then I took an unplayable on one of the other holes.   
It's like such -- it's unfortunate. I mean, I think the one on the par-5 on the back nine I was just so frustrated there already. I mean, I kind of kept my head in it. I didn't get over par even though I was really struggling. I kept trying to be aggressive. Sometimes I did make a mistake because I was too aggressive.   
But to make a long birdie on the last hole to cap off my season felt really good.   
 Q.  You talked a lot to yourself out there. What do you say to yourself?  
NELLY KORDA: You don't want to know. (Laughter.) Especially not on a bad day. Yeah, no.   
 Q.  Are you motivating yourself?  
NELLY KORDA: Oh, no. That's Jason doing the motivating. (Laughter.) I'm just more like, Wow, like why are you hitting it like this? More like that, along the lines.   
 Q.  Was the shot on 11, was that just being aggressive at that flag, the one you hit in the water?  
NELLY KORDA: I don't know what was going on today. I was like fading the ball and I never fade my ball. I always draw. I hit it good and it just started out right, and it just started fading more and more. Even if the wind was right to left it just started fading.   
I didn't even know what to do. I just turned to my caddie and said, Do you see anything in my swing? I just don't understand why I'm fading it all of a sudden.   
 Q.  Thoughts on Sei Young and the way she won making that putt?  
NELLY KORDA: I mean, to win one point five by making that putt is quite amazing. Hats off to her. She's had an amazing season and she played amazing golf this week.   
We all kind of struggled out there a little today, but for all of us to make a birdie on 18 and for her to cap off the win, she had to make that birdie to win, it was amazing cap off to the season.   
 Q.  You had a pretty amazing season too to put it in perspective just looking at it.  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I'm really happy with it definitely. I checked a couple things off of my goals. But now it's time to get ready for 2020 season. I'm going to rest for a couple days, maybe two weeks, and get together with my team. Hopefully I can build from this season going into the next.   
 Q.  What would you say is the biggest area of growth this year?  
NELLY KORDA: I think the teamwork between my caddie and I, Jason McDede. Also, I think I really raised my greens in reg this year as well. Gave myself more opportunities.   
I would still like to minimize my mistakes. I still think that's a part of my game that I need to improve. I think every part of my game I need to improve on, but as long as I'm taking steps in the right direction, I'll be happy every year. Little improvements.   
 Q.  Did you do anything specific to help the greens in regulation?  
NELLY KORDA: No. I just kind of got stronger in the gym, made sure my swing -- when you're on the road for three to five -- yeah, three to five weeks without a coach, you get tired and your swing kind of falls apart. So making sure my body was strong was definitely a key.   
 Q.  The big picture, how important was a day like Terry Duffy gave you guys today?  
NELLY KORDA: Sorry, what?   
 Q.  In the big picture, how important was a day like today that Terry Duffy gave you guys?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, amazing. I mean, he's growing women's golf and it's just an amazing feeling that he believes in us so much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT