SOLHEIM CUP
September 15, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you sum up your emotions?
NELLY KORDA: My heart rate is still pretty high up there, but I'm so happy to have fought my way back.
Q. You did exceptionally well. You've entered the record books with your sister. Obviously that must have been special. But being out here on your own two feet, only 21, securing that individual point, how special has this Solheim Cup been for you?
NELLY KORDA: It's been amazing. To play alongside my sister alternate shot, and then to come out and secure a point today, it's what I really wanted to do and that's what we're trying to do for Captain Juli. We're just trying to get points on the board.
Q. Fantastic securing the point for U.S.A. How did you feel?
NELLY KORDA: Amazing. I was 3-down after, I think, nine holes. I got a birdie putt to go in on No. 10, and I think that changed my whole demeanor throughout the whole day.
Q. Having a chat with your mum. Did she give you any words of encouragement?
NELLY KORDA: No, (laughter) she just tells me to keep my head up usually. I don't even remember it to be honest.
Q. What made the difference do you think?
NELLY KORDA: That birdie putt, rolling it in and -- that kind of gave me a bit of confidence that I can make birdies. I think that was my first birdie of the day.
Q. She's such a veteran player. You knew she would come back at you, didn't you?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, she started off hot today, and obviously she made that really long putt on 16 to keep the match going. And it was a tough match. She played really well.
Q. This has been some Solheim Cup for you, hasn't it?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it's been an amazing experience.
Q. That front nine, you made the turn and fought back to victory. What did you tell yourself to come up and get it?
NELLY KORDA: That birdie on No. 10 really helped. It kind of got me going a bit on the back nine. And I told myself not to quit, there's a lot of holes out there and a lot of golf, and we're just going to both make mistakes. And I just kept my head down and kept chugging along.
Q. This is your first Solheim Cup. You've had a fantastic time. Has the experience lived up to everything you expected?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, and more. I had so much fun this week alongside my sister and my teammates. And I don't think I could have dreamt of anything better. And hopefully (indiscernible), I'm going to go out and support the team.
Q. Your sister in particular?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I think I'm heading out that way right away.
Q. What about today's match, though, how proud are you, the way you fought back?
NELLY KORDA: Really proud. I think on No. 10 that birdie putt really got me going today. And I just kept my head down and kept going on the back nine and I turned it around quite well. And she fought back, too. She made that massive birdie putt on 16. And, yeah, I mean going to 18 definitely a bit of adrenaline boost, too.
Q. It certainly showed in the way you attacked 18. But overall, your entire experience at the Solheim Cup must be a dream for you?
NELLY KORDA: It's amazing, truly amazing.
Q. When you consider all the expectations and the pressures and the fact that it's your first one and you get here, how would you sum it up?
NELLY KORDA: I just enjoyed myself so much. It was so easy alongside all my teammates. We all get along so well and playing alternate shot with my sister, I just had a blast this week. And I couldn't have dreamt of anything better, really. It was amazing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT