THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VOLVIK
March 4, 2021
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Nelly, five birdies today.  Just kind of pick up right where you left off last week.  What did you do in the couple days after the win to get prepared and maybe enjoy it a little bit?
 NELLY KORDA:   I took Monday off, did laundry, drove up here, got tested.  But I was actually really tired.  I just played nine and nine.  I just tried to keep it pretty simple and easy.
 I worked on my swing a little yesterday just because I wasn't hitting it good.  I think just being tired your swing is all over the place, so I tried to tighten up my swing.  I hit it pretty solid today, so hopefully I can keep improving on that the next couple days.
 Q. You get all the questions about your sister, but after a win I would imagine that takes a little bit out of you obviously.  Was there maybe a little bit of extra shot of adrenaline when you saw the pairings?
 NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, I thought it was going to be fun.  This is the first time we've been paired together the first two days of an event.  I think last time was lake Blue Bay in 2018 maybe, '19, so it's been a while.
 But, yeah, I mean, I told my caddie, I was like, The people that win back-to-back events, props to them.  It's exhausting mentally.
 Q. Obviously been the year of the Kordas so far.  I think it's almost crazy that you have the No. 1 right there playing with you guys.  What did you learn from someone who was at the top of the rankings playing right there with you as well?
 NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, I mean, I think Jin Young struggled a little today, but Jess and I played really solid.  I mean, when you play with Jin Young her putting is amazing.  She is always so calm.  She can shoot 3-under or 3-over, I feel like she stays the same all day.
 Q. You talked about streaks.  Would you consider yourself a player who gets on a hot streak and rolls with it for a long period of time?
 NELLY KORDA:   I would like to, yeah.  No, I'm more of like consistency.  I know there are going to be bad rounds and you can't play perfect every single round, but the more you minimize your mistakes and more consistent you get with your swing and figuring out what works for you, I think the better.
 Q. Are you a player who sets year-long goals or are you someone who takes it a week at a time.
 NELLY KORDA:   I just take to a week at a time.  Small goals eventually build to your big goals.
 Q. Clearly if you had set large goals you might have already reached them.  What would you do then?
 NELLY KORDA:   Sit down with my team after every year and I make new ones.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT