SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
November 2, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nelly, you are simply awesome.  
NELLY KORDA: Thank you.   
 Q.  How much fun -- you're in the zone today. You had so many short putts. You left a few out there, but how much fun is it when you know you've got it on a string?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, a couple were definitely frustrating. I think I had a couple inside ten feet that I missed. I just gave myself so many opportunities today and I got to capitalize on a lot of them.   
 Q.  Wondered what you were going to do on 16. You left yourself a way away when you came up shy.  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I was very disappointed with that pitch shot. But all three of us kind of came up short. I think it was very grainy in the fairway, so my club got caught there.   
 Q.  Your ball-striking is nearly flawless. Where is the improvement going to come? Is there any improvement? You look like you're playing at such a level at the moment. It's just extraordinary to watch?  
NELLY KORDA: I think just consistency throughout the year is definitely something that I've improved on from last year. But I think I can continuously improve on every part of my game and that's what my coach and I are striving to do.   
 Q.  Going into tomorrow, you have a little bit of an issue, because you're playing with Caroline Masson, who is the fiancée of your caddie. You might have to control that a little bit.  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I'm going to tell him that at the end of the day, I'm signing his paycheck -- no, I'm kidding. We are all good friends. It's going to be fun.   
 Q.  Today, bogey-free?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I think I've gone over 36 holes without a bogey, which is something that I always strive to do. I don't remember the last time I did that. I don't think I've ever actually done that. But I'm just playing really solid golf, and there's still so much golf to be played.   
I mean, there's two girls pretty close to me, so there's still 18 more holes and anything can happen during those 18 holes.   
 Q.  Seems as though you're comfortable on this golf course?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, it's a bermuda-style golf course, it's something that I grew up on. I definitely have a lot of comfort.   
 Q.  For tomorrow, you won an international tournament this year, and maybe it's coming tomorrow?  
NELLY KORDA: Hopefully. Fingers crossed. We'll see. There's still so much golf to be played. I put myself into a good position, but you know, there's still 18 more holes to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT