AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SARAH GWYNN: It's been a very strong season for you so far, missing one cut through 14.  You must be coming here filled with confidence.
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I've been playing pretty solid this year.  I'm really happy with my play.  I haven't really performed that well in majors as I wanted to this year, but it's been a pretty solid year and I'm happy with it so far.
SARAH GWYNN: First impressions of Woburn, apart from the rain.
NELLY KORDA: Really nice.  The conditions on the golf course are I think one of the best we've played this year.  I think it's going to be a really solid week.  I've heard from multiple players -- I've never played out here -- but I've heard from multiple players that it's playing a lot longer than it's played in the past.  I think it's going to be a good, challenging week.
SARAH GWYNN: From your round this morning, are you feeling like it's going to suit your game, the course?  Are you feeling good about that.
NELLY KORDA: I mean, hopefully, yeah.  I like the golf course a lot.  It's playing quite soft.  The greens are not firm at all.  From what I've heard, they used to be really firm from what my sister has told me.
Yeah, it's playing long.  I'm one of the longer players, so I guess right now it's suiting a longer player, but you never know, and all I'm hoping for is to play as well as I can.
SARAH GWYNN: You touched on it now about that major championship victory that's alluded you so far, but you're getting so much closer.  Is it something that plays on your mind when you get to weeks like this.
NELLY KORDA: I mean, obviously I started kind of playing golf because I wanted to win major championships.  I feel like the more experience I get and the more I'm in contention, the more under pressure I am in these situations, the more I learn; the more I grow as a player.
So I just feel like, you know, I just kind of need to experience it more, and for some people, it may come quickly, and for others, it may not.
Actually, I played well at KPMG, but I'm just trying to get as much experience as I can.
Q. You and your sister were scrambling to get out of Evian.  Can you take us through the travel plans of that evening and then yesterday?
NELLY KORDA: So we originally had our flight for 7.00pm, with a two-hour delay, we would have missed it.  Thankfully our agent's assistant got us on another flight during our round, we sent her all of our confirmation numbers.  We got on a flight to London City and we actually got in before a lot of the other players, because I heard they were all delayed.  So getting into London was no issue.
Yesterday, I just took the day off and relaxed, because I mean, back-to-back majors, it's quite hard.  Mentally, you're fatigued.
I just played 12 holes today and I have an 18-hole Pro-Am tomorrow, and I'm trying to get as prepped as I can be but I'm also trying to rest.
Q. Were your clubs on the truck that didn't come?
NELLY KORDA: Yes.
Q. Were you planning on practising yesterday?
NELLY KORDA: Not really, no.  I was just going to relax pretty much.  I was going to play it by ear and see how I felt when I woke up.
Q. Did you get to celebrate at all?
NELLY KORDA: No.
Q. What have you learned about playing in majors, and do you approach them any differently now than you did a couple of years ago?
NELLY KORDA: I guess I'm still trying to figure it out.  I feel like, you know, everybody puts more pressure on themselves when they do enter a major week.  I guess I'm just trying to figure out how and what suits me best, how to prepare, and not to putt as much pressure on myself, just approach it as it is another week.
Because I mean, at the end of the day, I'm playing against the same girls I've played against every week, and obviously the golf courses are usually playing tougher.  I think just mentally, you know, I'm still trying to figure it out, and I am.  I mean, I'm just trying to approach every week as it is like the same, like a normal tournament, and that's all I'm trying to do.
Q. You referenced the potential fatigue between the two back-to-back majors.  Has that been discussed by the players much?
NELLY KORDA: No, not really, because I mean, it's the same for everyone.  So there's not much we can do.  It's definitely -- no, I don't think it's ever happened, back-to-back majors.  I mean, you are pretty tired the second week, but at the end of the day, everyone is doing the same thing.
Q. Would you anticipate that anybody who is in contention last week would be facing a bigger battle this week?
NELLY KORDA: I'm not sure.  I mean, everyone recovers differently, so I can't answer that.
Q. When you played at the U.S. Open a couple months ago, you and your sister were trying a new technique?
NELLY KORDA: Ten-finger grip.
Q. Was that just around the greens you were doing that?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah.
Q. Are you going to try that this week and if you can share with us if you are using that this week?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it depends on the lie in the rough and where the pin is, but pretty much the ten-finger grip is just to release it faster and get it in the air and for it to land softer.  I've used it throughout the year.
Q. Flop shots?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it's more of like flop shots and maybe sometimes even bunker shots if I need the ball to land a little softer.
Q. Just something new you've worked on with Dave Whelan?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, with David Whelan, my coach.
SARAH GWYNN: Thank you and good luck this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT