LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 19, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Has it just gotten progressively tougher out here since Wednesday?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, definitely.  Was a bit of a frustrating day on the front nine.  Was not hitting it well.  I was not putting well at all.  Kind of got it back on the back nine.
Yeah, no, it was pretty frustrating today.  Wasn't the happiest camper out there.
Q. And yet you go into tomorrow tied for the lead.  Comfortable in that spot?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, I'm happy to be in that spot.  Brooke is play well.  Everyone is playing well out here.  It's going to be hard, so I am just going to take it shot by shot.  We're all going to be fighting really hard for it.
Q. You mentioned you had a couple of putts that got away from you on the front side, 8 and 9.  You had a long one on the par 3, on 12.  About, what, 20 feet?
NELLY KORDA: No, that was probably about -- 15 to 20, yeah.
Q. And did that kind of get you locked back in there?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, I think I was tied for the lead for a little there.  Maybe not.  I don't know where Brooke was.
But, yeah, gave me a little boost of confidence rolling one in.
Q. How about the one on 16?
NELLY KORDA: 16 was just like a six-footer downhill.
Q. You were saying yesterday you played junior golf with Brooke and you guys are in final groups a lot.  Will this be a little bit of a nice memory?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, obviously it's pretty cool.  We played -- gosh, I think we were both like 13 when we first started playing together.
Yeah, it'll be a cool flashback, final pairing, final day.
Q. So you scoreboard watch?
NELLY KORDA: I do a lot when my sister is playing.  I mean, it's not on every hole, so when I do get a chance to see the scoreboard I do peek.
Q. On a day like today when it's going back and forth, is that when you kind of keep track of that more so?
NELLY KORDA: No.  I think there are only like five scoreboards out here.  Just trying to play my game.  If I sneak into the stop spot, great.  There are still 18 more holes left and a lot can happen.
The weather is unpredictable.  The wind swirls and gusts, so it'll be an interesting day.  We're all going to be fighting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT