LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 18, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good round.  How tough was it out there where the wind?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it was completely different to yesterday.  I actually experienced Hawaii weather today.  It was tough.  I didn't hit every shot perfect.  I had a couple bogeys.
But I ended up playing pretty solid today.
Q. (Regarding strategy in the wind.)
NELLY KORDA: Well, it was really windy when we were playing our practice round, so we kind of knew that coming in.  It was more of a shock yesterday.  I mean, my strategy was the same.
Q. The wind is a little different at each hole.  Take us through your round.
NELLY KORDA: The wind completely switched on us yesterday. Some girls were saying they have never seen the wind we had yesterday.  I think 1 was into the wind and usually that's always downwind.
But, yeah, played pretty solid all day.  Made a few bogeys, but my caddie and I really made sure to not rush and take our time and really check the wind and make our decisions properly.
Q. What's the goal for tomorrow?
NELLY KORDA: Just same thing every single day.  Taking it shot by shot.
Q. First time in this tournament.  How many practice rounds did you get out here?
NELLY KORDA: I played Sunday, Monday, and then the pro-am Tuesday.
Q. Give you enough time to get a feel for it?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I did.  I played nine, nine, nine.  That's all I really needed.  Kind of reminds me of home.  Not as windy, but same type of grass.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I been playing well.  I didn't really play that well at ANA which I was a little disappointed about my ball striking; wasn't so good.
I practiced a lot last week trying to get back to it.
Q. Feel like it's coming together?  (Wind interference.)
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, that win really boosted my confidence.  I've just been playing really solid.  Been practicing a lot and working out, so, I mean, everything came together.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, of course.  It was every move.
Q. You guys text back and forth?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, we do.  We're all very sport oriented and we're all very close.
Q. (Regarding her dad.)
NELLY KORDA: Yeah.  He's actually -- my brother is playing in Sarasota right now.  Actually I don't even know.  Should be done by now, but they're out watching him right now.
Q. When you grow up in a sports family, is that focus kind of engrained into you from a young age?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I guess it is.  As I said, we're very sports oriented.  We talk about sports all the time.  Growing up we played multiple sports.
We were really centered around it.
Q. When did you key in on golf?
NELLY KORDA: When my dad retired he picked up golf and then Jess got into it and then I started playing golf when I started walking.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
NELLY KORDA: Yeah.  I was the annoying little sister.
Q. What other sports did you play?
NELLY KORDA: Bit of tennis, did a lot of ice skating, gymnastics.  We skied a lot, too.  Yeah, then I did a couple -- a lot of running in school, soccer.  I love sports.  I was a bit of a tomboy.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
NELLY KORDA: No.  That's only in Australia.
Q. (Regarding playing partner for tomorrow.)
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, we played junior golf together as well.  She's a really nice girl.  I like playing with her.  Brings back a lot of memories.  Yeah, if we play together, great.  I love playing with her.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
NELLY KORDA: Just video.  I wasn't even born yet.
Q. Going back to today's round, kind of steady and then three straight birdies, 5, 6, 7.  Take us through the birdies.
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, well, first one was the par-5.  I hit my 5-iron just right side of the green; chipped up; tap-in for birdie.
Then hit a really good wedge shot into the next hole and then the next hole -- I think it was 6 -- yes, 6, I hooked my drive almost into OB and I had a clear shot through the trees and I hit a 9-iron, controlled nine, and got it to about like 12 feet and made it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT