KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you sum up your round this morning?  
 A
Solid.  I had two bogies on the front, shot 37 on the back, but my front and got it going on the back, started hitting more greens and hitting it closer.   
 Q.  How did the conditions differ this morning compared do yesterday?  
NELLY KORDA: I mean yesterday was tough.  I don't think I've played in that much rain in a really long time.  But it was windy today and it was not as windy yesterday.  Just cold and rainy.  So both days are really tough.  I think I had to think about it a bit more today because of the wind.   
 Q.  When did the wind start to pick up today for you?  
NELLY KORDA: I think around the 16th hole, 16th hole, my 7th hole.   
 Q.  You got to be happy with where you are on the leaderboard, 2-under today heading into the weekend.  
NELLY KORDA: I'm really happy with where I am going into the weekend.  Still a lot of golf to be played.  I'm sure the conditions won't get easier, just going to get harder and the pins will be more tucked.  I'm going to keep going into the weekend and see how it goes.   
 Q.  Do you keep an eye on leaderboards when you're playing usually?  
NELLY KORDA: The only time I really keep an eye on the leaderboard is when my sister is playing, really.  I just try to check and see.  I mean like --   
 Q.  Like to see how she's doing?  
NELLY KORDA: I do check it, my eyes do wander.   
 Q.  I'm curious, some people talk about how they try and completely detach themselves from results or like thinking about something so specific, like finishing the Top-5, whatever.  
 Are you someone who is like that or explicitly think about I want to win?   
NELLY KORDA: I mean obviously I go into every week wanting to win.  Yeah, I don't mind looking at the leaderboard.  Just kind of tells me where you're at.  But I just hit it shot by shot.  That's my game plan everyday, every week.   
 Q.  Did you see what Hannah Green has been able to do, 7-under today.  You mentioned seeing the leader.  What did you think when you saw her score?  
NELLY KORDA: I was like pretty much my jaw dropped.  Holy-moly, she must be playing really good golf.  She's a solid player and I wish her the best this weekend.  We're all trying to catch her.   
 Q.  Have you played with her before?  
NELLY KORDA: No.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT