U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good playing today.  Assess your round.  
NELLY KORDA: Made seven birdies, five bogeys, kind of up and down day.  It was pretty windy out there.  So just tried to stay calm, collected.  I mean, it was pretty hot as well.  So, you know, just tried to take it shot by shot, really.   
 Q.  Couple of players said that it was a little windier than they expected.  Is that the case?  True?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah.  I think it was windy on Monday, and then it really calmed down Tuesday, Wednesday, so we really didn't have that much wind during the practice round.  When I got on the range today, it was a shock it was this windy.   
 Q.  How much does your length help you on this golf course?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it definitely does.  I mean, I've had a lot of wedges into the greens this week.  You know, it's really hot as well so I'm flying it a bit further than I usually would be.   
But I'm also, because I'm hitting it so far, I've actually mis-clubbed a couple of times and gone long.  So we need to get that a little under control.  I don't know what it was, if it was the adrenaline or something.  But I was hitting it so far today.   
 Q.  You talked earlier in the week with someone about the grip you're working on right now.  Did you incorporate that, the ten-finger grip?  Did you incorporate that today into your round?  
NELLY KORDA: I did, yeah.  I ten-fingered it today twice.  Yeah.   
 Q.  How do you feel about this golf course hosting the U.S. Open?  Do you feel like it's a good layout a good track for this tournament?  
NELLY KORDA: I like it.  Personally, I really like it.  It's Bermuda grass.  It's what I grew up on.  I mean, I even like the weather.  I'm used to this.  I'm from Florida.  I like the track.  The greens are tricky this week so that will be a good test as the week goes on because they're definitely going to get firmer.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT