HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
February 27, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KRISTEN YOON: Thank you, everyone for joining us here in the media center at the HSBC Women's World Championship at Sentosa golf course.  I have here Nelly Korda, No. 8 in the world, two-time winner on the LPGA Tour.
Nelly, welcome back to Singapore.
NELLY KORDA: Thank you.
KRISTEN YOON: Last year you finished in a four-way tie for runner-up.  What do you remember about that final round?
NELLY KORDA: Actually, not much, but I'm seeing it right here.  Yeah, I'm really excited to be back.  I've played 18 today in the Pro-Am, and I'm actually really shocked to see how different the course plays this year compared to last, so I think it's going to be a real test this week.
KRISTEN YOON: Can you talk about how the course is set up different for you.
NELLY KORDA: Last year, I think majority of the par 5s were reachable in two, and I don't know, maybe because it was a newer golf course and kind of settled; the fairways aren't running out as much, and obviously the wind is up, as well.  You know, it's playing a lot longer this year.
KRISTEN YOON: Fantastic way to start the season last year, and you've also won twice in the last four months.  What we expect from you in the next four.
NELLY KORDA: Hopefully a lot of consistency.  That's something that was a huge goal of mine this year, and just going to take it tournament by tournament.  Do my fundamentals, get ready and try to play my best.
KRISTEN YOON: Do you focus on mental training, that aspect of your game and what do you do.
NELLY KORDA: Not really.  I was pretty lucky with it.  My parents always refer to me as the lion because I just, you know, I see something and I go after it.  I'm always pretty determined.
So I've always kind of had that aspect, but I think just playing so much competitive golf, even at a young age, it kind of builds it.
KRISTEN YOON: It's fitting because we're in the Lion City.
Q. Last year -- was it a tough result with your form, when it was neck and neck?
NELLY KORDA: It was a little disappointing but I finished second and I had a good run.  I realized that, you know, I can compete with all these top girls out here, so really, I took a lot of positives away from it, as well.
Q. We often talk in commentary about how hard it is to back up when you've had a win because of all the things that you have to do and the mental energy; did you find that in Thailand, that it was tough to back you have everything that happened in Australia?
NELLY KORDA: Not really.  My energy levels were definitely higher than this week.  I feel that my energy levels are really low this week.  All I have planned tonight is just to stay in bed and nap, so I definitely feel it a lot more this week than last week.
Q. Is that because of the hilly nature of the course last week and the heat and everything combined that you feel a bit drained?
NELLY KORDA: And also, just my second week on Tour, like on the road, really.  This is my third week and usually by the third and fourth week, traveling internationally kind of gets to you and obviously the weather, it's really humid, and last week it was hilly.  I flew out right after my round and I haven't been sleeping the greatest, so just going to try to get a good quality sleep tonight.
Q. Just going back to last year, you had a fantastic tournament debut.  You've obviously got the experience of last year and came very close.  How do you approach the tournament differently this year having played the course, knowing the course, etc.?  Do you have to approach it differently?  Do you feel much more confident having experienced that?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I definitely feel more confident.  I kind of know the ins and outs of this golf course after playing it once.
But I'm just going to approach it like I do every week.  It's a new week.  The course is playing completely different than it was last year, so pretty much it is -- to me, in my eyes, it's like playing a completely different golf course, so I'm just going to approach it like I approach every week.
Q. And just different question on the rule changes, particularly regarding the flagstick issue.  Did that affect your game, how you set up your putts and so on?
NELLY KORDA: Not really.  All I have to think about is when I'm dropping, I just have to be aware that I have to do it from knee length.
But for longer putts, actually the pin in is much easier that way, but I do not leave it in for short putts.  I can't do it.  I get really anxious and I have like anxiety when I have that pin in for short putts.
Q. Any thoughts on being back here in Singapore, outside the Gulf, things that you'll be looking to do, get around town or anything?
NELLY KORDA: I went shopping on Monday.  That was about it.  No, I love it here.  It's a cool city and I'm really grateful to be traveling to all these new countries.  Even though I'm back here this year, there's so much that I want to do, and it's just a really cool city.  We all love being back here.
Q. How specifically is it playing different, the course?
NELLY KORDA: Well, it's longer.  It's a lot windier this year.  The greens are pretty firm, so because it's longer, you're coming in with longer clubs into firmer greens, so you're going to have longer putts for birdies.
I don't think it's -- right now, from what I see, I don't think the scores are going to be so low.  It's definitely going to be a good test of golf but I could be completely wrong.  Tomorrow someone could shoot 7-under and I'll be like, what the heck, I did not see that yesterday.
KRISTEN YOON: That we don't talk a lot about, the nature of being on a global tour and traveling overseas for many, many weeks of the season, how do you manage to stay in top form but also having to deal with jet lag and checking the airports and different hotels?  How have you been able to manage that.
NELLY KORDA: I think it's really your rookie year, you kind of figure out what's best for yourself.  You know, people tell you what they do, but really you know that won't work for you.
Really over time you just have to figure out if you need a rest.  Like I didn't even touch a golf club on Monday.  I didn't want to even see the golf course.  It was kind of like a recovery day.  Got a massage.
Yeah, I just started practicing light practice Tuesday.  Everyone's different.  You'll see some girls here already on Monday grinding, but everyone approaches it differently and it works differently for everyone.
KRISTEN YOON: Thanks, Nelly, for your time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT