DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 20, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nelly, what was your overall experience here this week?
NELLY KORDA: I loved it.  That's all I have to say.  All these people are so down to earth.  I had a blast.  I mean, I wasn't sure how it was going to be going into this week.  I knew I was probably going to have fun and it was going to be super light, but I didn't expect everyone to be so kind and so outgoing.
Q. Who were some of the better golfers you played with this week?
NELLY KORDA: Mardy Fish, Derek Lowe, Mark Mulder.  They were all really good.  I mean, they were striping it.
Q. What did you talk with the celebrities about?
NELLY KORDA: Everything.  I don't think I can like pinpoint one thing, but everything.
Q. Did you pick any of their brains for any advice?
NELLY KORDA: Not really.  We talked about just traveling and how many times a week they practice.  I mean, when you're a pitcher, you barely practice because you take so much time and you don't want to overdo it with your shoulder.  I'm like, oh, yeah, I practice six days a week, and I'm in the gym six days a week as well.
It's a little different, but it's really cool to see how well they play golf and how like they can do anything pretty much that they put their mind to.
Q. How big is it for you personally to start the year off with such a good finish as well?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it's really good.  I had such a good finish last year.  So just kind of -- it's good to know that what I worked on in the off-season with my coach has kind of paid off this week.  And still we have the whole year to go.  So you never know what's going to happen, but I'm just going to take it shot by shot and try to work on consistency this year.
Q. Was there anything you worked on this off-season that you saw really come to fruition this week?
NELLY KORDA: No.  I just worked on my body a lot, just to make sure that I can last a full week, full couple weeks in a row, try to strengthen some areas where I was weak in last year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT