LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 17, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good round.  
NELLY KORDA: Thank you.   
 Q.  9-under.  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah.   
 Q.  What the heck?  What was working out there well for you?  
NELLY KORDA: Everything really.  I mean, I made some good putts.  I had a really solid front nine; shot 6-under.   
When I got an opportunity I took it.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Were you looking at the leaderboard before you shot to kind of give yourself a number?  
NELLY KORDA: I mean, I like glimpsed at it this morning.  I saw the scores were low.   
But, no, not really.  I mean, I just really take it shot by shot.  Worked out well for me today.   
 Q.  There have been other players that have played this course eight years.  This is your first time.  First impressions?  
NELLY KORDA: Windy.  I like it.  Yeah, I mean, I got here Saturday and I swear I couldn't even walk because it was so windy.  But I like the place.  Everyone is really friendly and just feels good to be here.   
 Q.  This is your third year on tour?  
NELLY KORDA: Correct.   
 Q.  First time playing here?  
NELLY KORDA: Correct.   
 Q.  What made you want to add this to your schedule?  
NELLY KORDA: It just fit my schedule well.  This is my fifth week on the road, so going to play L.A. and go back home for three weeks and kind of take a break just before the US Open.   
I've always wanted to come to Hawaii.  This is actually my first time to Hawaii.  Yeah, it's been an exciting week so far.   
 Q.  What have you enjoyed most about being on the island?  
NELLY KORDA: It kind of reminds me of Florida.  I don't know, just being by the water.  Obviously the breeze, too.  Same type of grass.  I don't know.  Just reminds me of home.   
 Q.  You got here on the weekend and the wind was a lot stronger than it was...  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah.  It was pumping on Saturday.  I was like, Oh, my gosh.  If this is what we're playing in, holy heck.   
 Q.  Were you kind of surprised when you got here today and it was relatively still?  
NELLY KORDA: It wasn't so windy yesterday, so we and kind of played the pro-am in kind of like this wind.  I heard it's going to get windy throughout the week, so...   
 Q.  You had the six birdies on the front nine.  Long putt on 9.  How long was that putt?  
NELLY KORDA: Probably 30 feet.  Yeah, it was a solid putt.   
 Q.  Just come into the week feeling really good with the putter?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I felt pretty good.  I didn't finish too well at ANA, so I kind of made sure I got back to my routines and really try to stay hole by hole.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I just practiced really a lot and played out in Palm Springs.  Stayed with a couple friends out there.   
 Q.  Did you draw any inspiration from Tiger's win at the Masters?  
NELLY KORDA: Oh, yeah.  I think I posted something on my story that I had like no motivation and I needed to go work out, and then I just thought of Tiger.   
I wonder if he would be in this position?  Probably not.  I'm going to go work out.   
 Q.  What Would Tiger Do?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, What Would Tiger Do.  Yeah, WWTD.   
 Q.  We see that you're wearing the Marilynn Smith pin in remembrance of her and her impact on the legacy.  Can you talk about what she did for the game?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, we wouldn't be here without her.  She had such a huge role and why women's golf is where it is today.  When we saw her she had such a smile on her face.  I'm really going to miss that.  Her hugs especially.  She always had such a positive energy around her.  You know, what can you do?   
But without her we wouldn't be here.   
 Q.  Any change in the strategy for tomorrow?  
NELLY KORDA: Just going to take it shot by shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT