SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2018
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We welcome Nelly Korda, the co-leader after 54 holes here.
You shot 69 today, so that's three rounds under par so far for you this week.  What's been the key to your consistency this week?
NELLY KORDA: I think I've been just really hitting it solid off the tee, hitting greens.  If I don't hit greens, I don't leave myself in really awful positions.
And also, the greens are really slopey out here, so I've managed my distance control quite well on the greens.
The MODERATOR: There were a couple bogeys on the card today, but you were able to bounce right back with birdies.  How much of a confidence boost is it to get those shots back right away?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, one of the bogeys today was a 3-putt, so I definitely walked off the green a little mad.  But I always tell myself, the next hole, every hole is a birdie hole, so just keep on hitting good shots and see where it goes.
THE MODERATOR: You've been close to winning in your career already.  How do you think you'll be feeling tomorrow in the final group tied for the lead.
NELLY KORDA: I think I'll definitely be a little nervous.  Anyone who is in contention on a Sunday will obviously feel those types of feelings.  But I'll also be excited and just happy to be in that position.
I mean, everyone is going to want to win tomorrow, and there's a lot of girls stacked up on the leaderboard.  So you know, I'm just going to be one of those girls that's fighting for it.
Q. How did you feel about the gallery today?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, they were amazing.  Wei-Ling was playing right behind me, but you heard a couple roars.  I think it's awesome to see how much they support women's golf out here and just how they support a home player is really great.  It's really nice to see.
Q. You played here last year and you finished tied for 17th.  Now you're in the leading position and which a chance to win.  Do you feel any different this year compared to last year?
NELLY KORDA: The conditions were different.  It's a different golf course.  Last year, the wind was blowing really hard every single day, so it was really hard to shoot under par, and for the leader to blow out the field like that and play the way she did, it was quite amazing.
But it's a completely different feeling.  It's a different kind of condition, different golf course.  I don't remember how I felt last year, but I'm happy this year.
Q. We all know about your sister, Jessica, and she's taking this week off.  Will you call her and try to get some tips?  She's a five-time winner on the PGA TOUR?
NELLY KORDA: I've been in this position and she was with me in Singapore.  There's not much you can say to a person in this position because she's already said it so many times.  So really, she's already told me what she needs, and she's just going to tell me to stay calm and play the way I've been playing.
Q. Are you going to call her tonight?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah.
Q. Tomorrow you will be paired with Wei-Ling in the final group.  Apparently there will be a huge crowd, an even larger crowd tomorrow and probably more pressure on you, too.  How do you plan to cope with it?
NELLY KORDA: I mean, I've had crowds following me before.  There's so many great players on the LPGA Tour.  They have so many fans.  Really just going to try to block that out.  I know everyone is going to be rooting for her because this is her home country.
You know, just going to take it shot by shot, and you know, not much I can do.  I can't really tell what's going to happen, but I know both of us are going to give it all we have.
Q. With the par 5s, will that be a key point for tomorrow?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I mean, every hole is going to be important tomorrow.  But it depends on the wind, as well.  Today a lot of the par 5s were reachable, but yesterday, they weren't because of the wind.  So it just depends on how the wind is going to be blowing.
But every hole is going to be really important tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT