DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 19, 2019
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Here with Nelly Korda.  After a 65 here on moving day, the first event of the year.  How are you feeling about the round?  
NELLY KORDA: Pretty good.  It was a bit windy out there.  I played really solid, so I'm really happy with today.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about this format, playing with the celebrities?  I know you had fun with some of the ones earlier this week.  
NELLY KORDA: I love it.  Legitimately, absolutely love it.  Getting to hear their stories and know their background is really cool and really inspiring, but they're really down to earth.  So that's what makes it a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Ariya Jutanugarn took advantage and was really picking Ray Allen's brain yesterday.  Anything you've been able to take away from them this week?  
NELLY KORDA: We've just been having fun.  I haven't really picked their brains.  I've asked them questions like, if you didn't play this, what would you do?  We just had a lot of fun and had a blast.   
 Q.  You played really well at the end of last season, getting your first win.  How have you been able to keep that momentum going through the offseason to carry over here?  
NELLY KORDA: Just staying patient and working on the same things with my coach Dave Whelan.  We really made a goal this year to stay consistent and take it shot by shot and see how this year goes.   
 Q.  When you won in the fall, you were tied for the lead heading into the weekend.  Little different scenario, you're a few back.  What will be kind of your game plan?  
NELLY KORDA: Just doing what I'm doing.  I know the weather is not supposed to be too great tomorrow.  You never know.  Just try to hit fairways and try to hit greens.  If one sneaks in, great.   
 Q.  How do you feel about playing in the cold and the wind?  
NELLY KORDA: I'm a Florida girl.  I don't like it, but nothing I can do.   
 Q.  Good luck tomorrow.  
NELLY KORDA: Thank you.   
 Q.  In the Korda family, the two little girls sit together for the first time and talk about being Solheim Cup teammates?  
NELLY KORDA: Never really, actually.   
 Q.  You never talked about it?  
NELLY KORDA: It would be really cool.  In the past couple of years, obviously, we've talked about being paired together playing in the Solheim Cup, but we've never kind of -- I mean, it's always been in the back of our head it's been our goal to play together, but we'll see how everything works out.   
 Q.  I'm just thinking 1st tee Gleneagles, Scotland, down the tee representing the United States, boom and boom.  What would that be?  
NELLY KORDA: It would be a cool feeling, but there's still a lot of golf to be played, and you never know.   
 Q.  Four ball or foursome or both or either?  
NELLY KORDA: I like them all, yeah.  I played -- I actually played Junior Solheim Cup.   
 Q.  Both of you did.  You've been through that a little bit.  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it was really cool.  It's different, but it's really cool.   
 Q.  Playing four ball or foursome with your sister?  
NELLY KORDA: That would be really cool.   
 Q.  Wanted to ask about that risk/reward move on 16?  How do you approach it?  How have you done with it so far?  
NELLY KORDA: I parred the first two days, I birdied today.  It was reachable today, so I drove right through it on the green and two-putted.   
 Q.  Do you have any thoughts on that Aon program that measures everybody's score over the Risk Reward course?  
NELLY KORDA: I think it's really cool, but it's probably the last thing on my mind going into my round.  There's so much going on.  You're just trying to play the best you can, and the less pressure you put on yourself, the better.   
 Q.  It's one of those things, I suppose, where if you got to the end of the season and you found yourself --  
NELLY KORDA: It would be very cool.  The fact that the PGA TOUR and the LPGA are doing the exact same thing is really cool for women's golf.   
 Q.  Was that any sort of surprise to you to see they were awarding the same prize money to both players?  
NELLY KORDA: I think it was really exciting for everyone on Tour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT