GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 27, 2021
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Nelly, just take me through what today was.  It seemed like it was ripe conditions be ready for you to just go out there and attack.
 NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, I mean, I started out with a couple pars.  Didn't make a birdie I think until later on my front nine.  But I hit it pretty solid; gave myself a couple good opportunities.
 I think I just played pretty consistent all day.
 Q. That's really been the key for a lot of players, especially those going low.  Take me through the two birdies on the front nine.  What worked so well for you there?
 NELLY KORDA:   Well, I made a long one on I think No. 7.  Thank God I hit the hole, because that was coming in at a pretty hot pace.
 No. 9 I just hit my drive really well and I had a 6-iron in so I just two-putted and made birdie.
 Q. That long putt on 7, do you know how long that was?
 NELLY KORDA:   On 7, that was probably like 25, 30 feet-ish, straight downhill.
 Q. So nice sigh of relief.
 NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, thank God.  Finally.
 Q. And then being able in some of your closing holes, not exactly the last two, but before that being able to finish with those birdies, what does that do for your confidence after a round like today?
 NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, definitely boosts it.  Any time you can get ahead of the pack going into Sunday is a positive.  There are some good players there, so it'll take good golf to win.
 Q. You were going back and forth with Lydia it seemed like all day birdie, birdie, going after each other.  Were you able to motivate yourself when you saw some of her looks go in?
 NELLY KORDA:   For sure.  Yeah, she started off hot and I then I eventually started rolling some manage.  That's how it is.  You feed off each other when you're at the top and you're competitors.
 Q. I don't know if we asked this week, but how many times have you played Lake Nona?
 NELLY KORDA:   Never.  This is my first.
 Q. This is your first.  So when you came her this week, what were some of the things you thought of right away?
 NELLY KORDA:   I really like it/  honestly, my home course I play at every day is Concession, which PGA TOUR players are at this week.  Kind of reminds me it of.  The greens are really undulated.  Completely different grass.  I don't know what they overseed here with, but it has to be a bit of po and bent around the greens, which is very unusual for Florida, especially like the rough.
 But I really like it.  It's a very pretty golf course and hopefully treats my right tomorrow.
 Q. Have you caught some of the PGA action at your home course?
 NELLY KORDA:   Yeah.  Yesterday after my round I went off in the morning and unfortunately saw Viktor Hovland save a probably 15-footer on a tough hole.  I call it Concussion.  That's what I call it out there.  Either you're riding on a high with your confidence or you're at a major low.
 Q. Back here at Lake Nona, this course seems to be treating you well.  What do you think it'll take for you tomorrow to keep yourself at the top of the leaderboard?
 NELLY KORDA:   Just staying consistent, as I said.  I don't know what the pins will look like and if it's going to be windy or not.  Staying consistent and trying to convert as many chances as possible.
 Q. This is also a special day for your sister.  It's her birthday.
 NELLY KORDA:   Oh, yeah.
 Q. She's closing in on contention as well.  Do you have any surprises for her?
 NELLY KORDA:   Yeah.  I told her she got a little sweet surprise back at her place.
 Q. I love that.  We haven't seen you win on home soil yet.  We've seen a couple close calls.  What would it mean to you to win in your home state?
 NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, that would be amazing honestly.  Having my parents here would be great, but as I said, it's 18 holes.  There is still so much golf out there.  I'm just going to take it shot by shot and see how it is.
 Q. What's your best round at Concussion?
 NELLY KORDA:   At Concussion, probably 6-under, yeah.
 Q. Where would you rank this course on the LPGA in terms of its quality?
 NELLY KORDA:   It's in really great condition.  I would rank it one of the top golf courses we've played for sure.  It's really nice.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT