SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 25, 2018
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So what were the big highlights of your round today?  
NELLY KORDA: I think I was just really consistent today, hitting enough fairways and greens.  The greens out here are a bit slower, so I just had the right speed going today.  I gave myself a couple of great opportunities and I got to capitalize on those.   
 Q.  You played in Taiwan last year.  Pretty good result, too.  Do you like coming back here and playing?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I just love Asia in general.  I love the Asian Swing.  It just seems like so easy for the players.  Everyone is around each other.  It's kind of like we're a big family.  I feel comfortable.  But the golf course is really different from last year.  I mean, last year we had like an average of like 25-mile-an-hour winds.  You know, it was perfect weather today and like not a breath of wind.  I really got to hit some really good shots and make a couple putts.   
 Q.  Have you approached anything differently in year two versus last year, your first year on Tour?  
NELLY KORDA: Not really.  I just tried to take it shot by shot, really.  It's always been my thing my coach and I worked on, not to get ahead of myself and take it shot by shot.   
 Q.  Who is your coach?  
NELLY KORDA: David Whelan.  I've been working with him since 2014 probably.  Long time.   
 Q.  Anything in particular you're working on in your game right now?  
NELLY KORDA: I mean, I've sent him a couple swings here and there, and my transition was a bit fast.  Just working on my transition.  I do a little pause at the top of my swing before I swing down in my practice swing, and that's just working on my transition.   
 Q.  You do that a lot, where you send him videos for him to look at?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, every week it's good to kind of get a check-up.   
 Q.  Do you use any golfing apps?  
NELLY KORDA: No, not at all.   
 Q.  Pretty straightforward?  
NELLY KORDA: No, just videos by iMessage.   
 Q.  How about that birdie on 12?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I had about 160 to the pin.  I hit a little 7 and made a long putt.  Then kind of have to capitalize on those and just take what you can.   
 Q.  Wow, a little 7-iron.  Not many players have been able to capitalize on 12.  That was great.  And then an eagle, as well, on the front nine for you?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it was a nice little chip-in.   
 Q.  It's a great golf course.  Players are seeing it for the first type.  How good is the setup this week?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, it's really cool.  I really like this golf setup.  It definitely has a bit of character to it.  You can't always hit driver off the tee.  You really have to do a lot of placement out here.   
The greens are really slopey.  They don't look slopey at all, but they really are.   
 Q.  Is it frustrating for people that hit it a long way, to keep the driver in the bag?  
NELLY KORDA: No, I actually like it.  When you play kind of straightforward golf courses where you hit driver all the time, it's really nice just to hit a rescue off the tee sometimes.   
 Q.  The Swinging Skirts, they are a wonderful foundation.  We've been talking this week about how it's perfectly acceptable to see the men wearing skirts?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I saw, actually, when I was playing my Pro-Am yesterday, the group in front of me, the men were all wearing skirts.  I was like, this is awesome.   
 Q.  Plans for this afternoon?  
NELLY KORDA: I'm going to go putt and go get something to eat.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT