U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2018
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Did you watch any of the coverage this morning to kind of see how the course was playing?  
NELLY KORDA: No.  I watched the men, I think the European Tour was on Golf Channel.  I took my sister's dog and we were relaxing in the room.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
NELLY KORDA: No.  We just sat on the couch and watched golf.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the conditions today and how you found the golf course?  
NELLY KORDA: It was still a little wet but I think the course has drained pretty well.  It was playing pretty long but, you know, I managed to do pretty well.   
Some of the pin positions are pretty hard because there's a lot of tiers on this green, very big and undulated.  It's just about hitting it in the right spot and I managed to do that pretty well today and I'm happy with how it went.   
 Q.  What are you going to work on for the next round?  
NELLY KORDA: Nothing, really.  I mean what I've been doing kind of try to stay consistent, take it shot by shot, really.   
 Q.  What do you think is the hardest part of this golf course?  
NELLY KORDA: Definitely the greens.  As I said, you really have to hit it in the correct areas because you'll have hard putts if you don't.   
 Q.  Nelly, do you and your sister have any fun with the Jutanugarns given both pair of sisters are out here now and you both are doing well?  
NELLY KORDA: I played with the Jurtanugarn sisters as a junior golfer.  I've known them for a really long time.  I mean not really.  Just like any other competitor.  I mean they're good friends and I played with Ariya a couple times this year.  She hits it pretty far.  I'll be hitting first all day today.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)  
NELLY KORDA: Today is the first time I've seen the back-9 since Sunday.   
 Q.  Any difference?  
NELLY KORDA: Little dryer on Sunday.  Really hot.   
 Q.  Do you feel more tired given how tough it is just walking it in these conditions, do you feel more tired tonight than usual?  
NELLY KORDA: Legs hurt a little.  Yeah.  It's the same for everyone, though.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT