CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2017
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free round today.  What was going so well out there?
NELLY KORDA: I was striking it really well and making putts here and there.  Started off birdie, birdie; I made a long putt on the 1st hole, and then I chipped in on the 2nd hole.  That kind of started my round.
Just stayed really consistent today.
Q. I remember a couple years ago you were sitting out here reading a book underneath an umbrella watching Jessica.  Could you have seen yourself at this point being here at this moment?
NELLY KORDA: I found it funny.  I walked on to the range on Tuesday, and I was like, just last year people were asking, So me where are you going to be out here?
It just seems so surreal to be out here playing alongside my sister and just the best players in the world.
Being in contention is really, really special.
Q. I know we're not even quite halfway through, but you've gotten yourself in the mix a little bit before.  How comfortable will you be in weekend contention?
NELLY KORDA: I think every tournament is a bit different.  Having my family around will definitely be more soothing.  But I think just taking it shot by shot.  Not really going to think about it.
I am just going to start the day as even par and try to play the best golf I can.
Q. How much do you keep track of Jessica?  Do you look for her when you see a board?  Do you check your phone when you got off after the round?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I do definitely look for her on the board.  I'm really happy that she's playing well.  Yeah, we're very supportive of each other.
Q. I know I'm asking you to look ahead, but do you ever dream of a final pairing with your sister contending for a title?  Is that something you've thought about?
NELLY KORDA: I've never really thought about it.  I know a couple people have mentioned it here or there, but you can't really think about it too much.
You just try to stay in the moment.
Q. What would it be like?
NELLY KORDA: I mean, I played with her a couple times this year and it's been a lot of fun.  I think it would be the same.
Q. How many times you think you've been paired?
NELLY KORDA: We've been paired together three times.  It's been a lot of fun.
Q. You didn't start the first round here together, did you?
NELLY KORDA: No, no.
Q. How different do you feel now in this event compared to the beginning of the season?  Still feel like a rookie?
NELLY KORDA: To be honest, I never actually really felt like a rookie because I knew everyone out here.  Everyone welcomed my because I've been watching my sister out here for a really long time.
Never really felt like a rookie.  Obviously I have the (indiscernible) right next to my name, but I feel pretty comfortable out here.  My sister has definitely helped with that, too.
Q. Does it affect your play at all when you see your sister doing as well as you are?  Does it amp you up a little bit?
NELLY KORDA: Maybe it amps me up just a little.  No, it's friendly competition.  Even though we want each other to succeed, we also want to beat each other.  I think she would say the same thing.
I really want her to do well manage every event.
Q. They analyzed your swings with Jessica's side by side, and even though you have your own differences, Karen Stupples' comment was it's really ridiculously similar.  Do see yourself as having similar swings?
NELLY KORDA: She's more of a feel player.  I hit the ball kind of more aggressively.  We have the same coach.  I've been working with my coach for at least four or five years, and she started working with my coach two or three years ago.
Q. Dave?
NELLY KORDA: David Whelan, yes.
Q. What do you think you need to do to be able to stay in contention physically or mentally going into the weekend?
NELLY KORDA: Just what I've been doing:  taking it shot by shot and not really thinking about it too much.  Just hit my ball, find it, hit it again.
There are going to be mistakes out here.  You have to just kind of forget about them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT