BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 15, 2018
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Got that going today after a little bit, huh?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I struggled a little on the front.  I think I struggled all day on the greens.  Just couldn't get the speed, and then I was misreading them, too.   
I had a couple miss-shots here and there, but other than that it was pretty solid.  I mean, the conditions aren't that easy.  It was really cold in the morning and the wind started picking up on the back nine.   
But I just struggled on the greens today.   
 Q.  Your sister got off to a hot start.  
NELLY KORDA: Saw that, yeah.   
 Q.  I was going to say, were you paying attention?  
NELLY KORDA: I think I saw it on the first par-3, yeah, when she popped up.  She made four birdies in a row or something like that.  I don't know how she finished, but...   
 Q.  She finished at -3.  
NELLY KORDA: She played well.   
 Q.  She did.  You've been with David Whelan longer than she has.  She was talking about the improvement in her short game.  What have you seen in terms of your short game?  
NELLY KORDA: Her short game?  It's definitely improved a lot.  I remember she would never chip if it was on the fringe, and now she is like starting to regain a bit more confidence chipping; chipping shots that she would usually putt in the past.   
I mean, it's improved a lot.   
 Q.  What is it that makes you guys a good fit with him?  
NELLY KORDA: He's really easygoing and he just explains it really -- it's just everything is simple with him.  That's what golf should be like.  It should be simple.  Your swing should be simple.   
The more complicated you make it the more you think about it and the more you struggle.   
 Q.  Did you tell Jess, Hey, I really think you would enjoy working with David?  
NELLY KORDA: I think it was more my dad.  She asked me like how he was and I'm like, Yeah, I really like him.  He completely turned my golf game around.  I was really struggling when I saw him.  My swing was God awful.  He just really like rebuilt my golf game.   
 Q.  When did you start with him?  
NELLY KORDA: Gosh, maybe when I was 16, 15.   
 Q.  And Jess started with him a year or two years ago?  
NELLY KORDA: I have no clue really, to be honest.   
 Q.  I think it was early '16.  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, maybe.  She started with him in the off-season I know one year.   
 Q.  After your finish at the HSBC, do you start thinking about getting into contention like even earlier?  
NELLY KORDA: I take it round by round, shot by shot really.  Every week is a new week and the conditions are really different, the weather is really different.   
I was dripping sweat in Singapore, and here I'm freezing cold.  Even though I have a skirt on, I'm freezing.   
So it's different.  You never know.  You can't play well every single day.  That's just golf, and any sport really.   
 Q.  Is it hard when you play the pro-am yesterday and it's completely different weather today?  Is it hard to make that adjustment?  
NELLY KORDA: It is, because like -- I mean, it's not a hard adjustment, but you're playing like a completely different golf course.  Like the ball flies further when I it's warm, and it's definitely not as windy.   
 Q.  I'm just curious, given your tennis background, how often people, like fans, people you know, compare you to what you could do like the Williams sisters?  Do you get that a lot?  
NELLY KORDA: No, not really.  Not at all really, because it's just so different.  Like it's a sport, but it's a completely different sport.   
I don't know.  We just don't really -- yeah, there are a couple tweets I see here or there that are like, Oh, Korda sisters, like Williams sisters.  (Indiscernible).   
 Q.  Do you ever daydream about sort of dominating the tour together?  
NELLY KORDA: I think like, yeah, it would be cool, but you try not to think about it too much.  You try not to get ahead of yourself.   
 Q.  Has your approach changed this year?  You're not a rookie anymore.  More comfortable?  Maybe more confident?  Does it affect the way you're playing now?  
NELLY KORDA: I mean, I know the golf courses now.  Last year I didn't know the golf courses at all so I had to arrive early; I wasn't sure if I was going to play in the pro-ams so I had to play 18 on Mondays.   
I don't know.  I definitely feel more comfortable out here just because I know a lot more girls and I know the golf courses.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT