SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 29, 2017
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your favorite memory from this week?
NELLY KORDA: I think just playing this amazing golf course and seeing all the fans come out and cheer us on is really amazing.
Q. What's your favorite hole at TPC KL and why?
NELLY KORDA: Every hole.  I'm not going to pick a favorite hole.  Because if I come back next year, maybe the hole that I don't pick as my favorite will punish me.  So every hole is my favorite.
Q. In your words, what do you feel is the magic of the LPGA and why is it that fans and players can get so close together?
NELLY KORDA: I feel like we're a family.  Each and every one of us are really good friends.  The atmosphere out here is amazing between us all.  So I think that's what makes the LPGA so special.
Q. A nice 65 today.  You had the back-to-back bogeys, but a great way to bounce back with the eagle.  Tell us what happened there.
NELLY KORDA: It was after the rain delay, and starting on 15, it's hard because that's a very hard hole, and yesterday I doubled it.  So obviously it was in the back of my mind not to go in the water.  I bogeyed it.
The next hole, I was like, okay -- I was 1-under and got to 1-over very easily, so I can get to 1-under very easily, too.  It just takes one hole.  Hit it like maybe 30 feet away and I made the putt for eagle and I just gave myself a fist pump, and I was like, okay, let's go, two more holes.
Q. So what's the rest of your schedule like for this year?
NELLY KORDA: I'm going back to the States after this.  I'll be back playing in Blue Bay and CME.
Q. What's it feel like with the first year almost under your belt?
NELLY KORDA: Feels great.  I played pretty well this year.  Obviously a lot of up-and-downs.  But I'm really happy with the way my year's going and I'm just really excited to maybe start the season next year out stronger.
Q. What's one of the biggest takeaways you've learned coming away from your first season?
NELLY KORDA: To stay patient.  Really that's mainly it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT