MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 22, 2017
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Two-shot lead going into Sunday.  How good does that sound for you?
NELLY KORDA: Sounds really good.  There's still 18 more holes and a lot of golf left to be played, so I'm just going to stay patient and see how it goes.
Q. Back-to-back birdies on the two par-5s here to end this.  Does that give you a little momentum going into your final round?
NELLY KORDA: Definitely.  When you end on a birdie, you're just really excited to play the next day and get it doing, so I'm definitely excited.
Q. What do you think the pressure is going to be like in that final group with a two-shot lead looking for your first win?
NELLY KORDA: Not really going to think about it too much.  I'm not going to get ahead of myself.  I've done that a couple times this year, and I'm just going to take it shot by shot.
Q. You're only 18 years old still; has that set in for you, that you're doing what you're doing this week?
NELLY KORDA: I mean, there's so many good young players out here on Tour that I don't even feel like I'm 18 truthfully.  But it's really cool, and I'm definitely excited for tomorrow.
Q. Nelly, have you ever led going into the final round?
NELLY KORDA: No.  I mean, it's my rookie year, so no, I haven't yet.  It's a new position, but I'm excited.
Q. What was your mentality out there and your approach to this third round today?
NELLY KORDA: My mentality hasn't changed.  It's the same as the first two days.  I just try to take it shot by shot really.
Q. Experience with those more veteran golfers, I know Lexi is still 22 or whatnot, but what have you learned here in this rookie year?
NELLY KORDA: I've learned a lot my rookie year out here.  It's definitely to stay patient and really to take it shot by shot.  I've been in a couple positions where I've been on top of the leaderboard, and I just really got ahead of myself, started thinking too far ahead, and I just told myself I need to calm down really, take it shot by shot and stay calm, breathe a little bit more and just stay calm.
Q. As opposed to being an amateur, does it add any pressure?
NELLY KORDA: Truthfully I'm not really thinking about it.  I'm just going to go out tomorrow and try to play my best golf.  I know there's a bunch of girls out there on top of the leaderboard shooting really good scores, so it's definitely going to be a challenge tomorrow, but I'm really excited for it.
Q. 17 and 18, birdie-birdie finish.  Do you think maybe it might take that once again with all the birdies that are coming across the board?
NELLY KORDA: I mean, definitely they'll help tomorrow.  As I said again, I'm just going to take it shot by shot and see how it goes.
Q. Can you draw from any experiences on the Symetra Tour for tomorrow?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, definitely.  I'm very grateful I went through Symetra Tour.  It taught me a lot, and I actually won out there last year, and really that's why I'm saying taking it shot by shot really helped last year because when you get towards the end of your round, nerves really start to kick in, and when you stay calm, it definitely helps.  Having a caddie like mine beside me really also helps a lot, too.
Q. You're still young, obviously; do you remember when you were a girl over there, eight, nine, ten years old coming to a tournament like this and getting the experience of, oh, man, that's my hero there?
NELLY KORDA: Truthfully the first time I went to a U.S. Open was my sister's -- or an LPGA tournament was my sister's U.S. Open event, actually.  Yeah, so I think I was, I don't know, 11 or something.  But yeah, it was really cool seeing all the girls I looked up to, and even when I was on the range when I was 14 playing in my first U.S. Open, I was like, I cannot believe I'm right here.  I watch these girls on TV; this is so cool.  But yeah, it's really exciting.
Q. Will you get any advice from Jessica tonight?
NELLY KORDA: She'll probably just be like, breathe a lot and go to sleep.
Q. Do you think you'll have trouble sleeping tonight?  Will you be nervous?
NELLY KORDA: I don't know, we'll see.  I can't tell.
Q. You missed a short but fairly treacherous putt on the second hole, and then the next hole you made a semi-long birdie putt.  Was that something that gave you confidence because then you went on a roll for five or six holes.
NELLY KORDA: I mean, definitely.  For the past few days I've made three birdies in a row somewhere.  When I get on a roll, it definitely helps.  You kind of get in the zone.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT