HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2018
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A birdie on the final hole is always a good way to end the round.  How do you feel right now?  
NELLY KORDA: I feel good.  Definitely nice to birdie the last hole, and hopefully I'll keep the momentum into tomorrow.   
 Q.  A bunch of birdies today, just the one bogey.  You played so well again last week.  Where is your game right now?  
NELLY KORDA: I mean, I'm just really consistent.  That's all I've been working on this off-season is just to hit as many greens just to try to minimize those big mistakes.  The more consistent I am, the better I'm playing, so hopefully I continue that throughout the season.   
 Q.  What kind of takeaways did you take from your rookie year which was successful?  You had a great season and people were talking about you for the Solheim Cup as a rookie, and now going into year two, how do you feel you're progressing from last year?  
NELLY KORDA: Just to be more relaxed.  I was relaxed out here last year.  I mean, I had my sister and she made it pretty easy on me, having someone out here.  But just to kind of take it day-by-day.  I really shouldn't get too far ahead of myself.  There's still a lot of golf to be played.  So I mean, just to take it day-by-day.   
This year, I'm looking forward to it a lot.  I'm probably going to be a little bit more comfortable this year.  I've seen a lot of the golf courses and I'm definitely really excited to see where this season takes me.   
 Q.  Speaking of your sister, what was it like to be with her last week?  
NELLY KORDA: It was awesome.  I got a facial of beer but it was great.   
 Q.  Does that result inspire you a little bit more?  
NELLY KORDA: We obviously have a little bit of a sibling rivalry, but everything is very friendly.  She does make me want to be a better player, and seeing her win last week after the tough off-season she's had was definitely very inspiring, and hopefully I can step my game up this week and take it home, but we'll see.   
 Q.  Does she give you advice a lot, or what's the banter in your relationship?  Do you want the advice?  
NELLY KORDA: Occasionally, yeah, we give each other advice.  Like if we see something that really stands out, she's struggling or if I'm struggling, she's really good at helping me with my swing.  You don't have a coach out here every single week, so whenever I ask her, she's always there and it's great.   
 Q.  What about the off-course stuff?  
NELLY KORDA: Off-course?   
 Q.  She's been through the life of an LPGA player for several years.  
NELLY KORDA: A lot of relaxing, gym time, movie time.  Anything to just kind of get your mind off of playing golf.   
 Q.  A nice 66 in the second round here in Singapore.  You birdied the final hole.  It's always a good way to finish your round.  How do you feel after two great rounds here in the heat in Singapore?  
NELLY KORDA: Exhausted.  No, I'm definitely very excited to keep the momentum up and see where this weekend takes me.   
 Q.  You're coming off a great week in Thailand, both for you and with the win for your sister.  What's life like now in the Korda household?  
NELLY KORDA: I think my parents are very happy.  We're just enjoying ourselves out here.  It's been brutally hot these past two weeks, got to say, but I think we're handling it pretty well.  I see that Jess is doing well today, too, so hopefully she keeps it up and has a good finish today.   
 Q.  You're certainly enjoying this Asian Swing of events.  
NELLY KORDA: I am.  A little hot out here, though, I'm not going to lie.   
 Q.  You put up a number of birdies on the golf course.  That's a tough layout.  
NELLY KORDA: It is, yes.  I heard it's a pretty fairly new golf course, so it's a bit firm.  So you definitely have to place your iron shots well on the greens.  But I'm very happy with today and hopefully keep it going.   
 Q.  You must be thrilled for your sister, winning last week.  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I was definitely really happy for her.  She had a tough off-season.  She went through a lot with her surgery.  It was really inspiring seeing her win last week.  There's definitely it was definitely a very special win for her and I was happy to see her win.   
 Q.  You're just 19 years old and your brother, Sebastian, just won the Australian Open in tennis.  How good is your tennis?  
NELLY KORDA: It's not.   
 Q.  How is his golf?  
NELLY KORDA: His golf game is so good.  His swing is pure, very nice.   
 Q.  What are you going to do this afternoon?  
NELLY KORDA: Just relax.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT