HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 24, 2018
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What you did and your sister talk about at dinner last night?  How to annihilate a golf course?  
NELLY KORDA: We actually didn't have dinner.  I got room service; she got room service; and we both went our separate ways.   
Actually didn't even see her this morning so I didn't get to wish her good luck.  I left her some sleeves in my locker because she was like, I don't mean to it get sun burnt.  Hopefully we'll have dinner today.   
 Q.  That was a pretty eventful off-season for the Kordas.  What was it like with Jess going through surgery and your brother, Sebastian, picking up an Aussie Open title?  
NELLY KORDA: I mean, it was pretty exciting on my brother's side; a little unfortunate on my sister's side she had to go through that.  My mom I think took it the hardest because she had to take care of my sister.   
But she's playing great golf out here this week.  She's really killing it.  Hopefully she keeps killing it, maybe I can make a run for it.   
 Q.  You went your separate ways last night.  You've trained separately in previous off-seasons.  Did you train together this year?  
NELLY KORDA: Not really, because she kind of lives over on the other side now.  We still have the same coach.  She started her prep a little later than I did, so I mean, not really.  I mean, kind of.  Couple of times.   
 Q.  Pretty unsocial in general.  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah.  (Laughter.)  We spend a couple days together here and there, but, yeah.   
 Q.  You're making pretty easy on your parents to keep tabs on you.  There is a very really chance depending on what happens behind us that you could be playing together tomorrow.  How would that be?  
NELLY KORDA: That would be awesome.  We played together last year three times.  It was a lot of fun.  I know her so well; she knows me so well.  She's my best friend; I'm her best friend.   
It will just be a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Do us one favor tomorrow:  Don't wear the same colors.  
NELLY KORDA: I'll try not to.  I'll email her about it.   
 Q.  Nelly, a nice 7-under, 65 today.  A little rough at the end, but we'll get to that.  Let's talk about all the good stuff.  You have a lot birdies out there.  Looked to be a pretty exciting round for you today.  
NELLY KORDA: I mean, it was really exciting.  I definitely was very aggressive on all the par 4s.  Actually my caddie and I looked at my par-5s.  I'm a pretty long hitter and I usually reach the par-5s in two.  We looked and I was even after two days on the par-5s and we were like, What the heck?   
Today I bogeyed one of the par-5s and birdied two others.  At least I'm 1-under on the par-5s.   
 Q.  There you go.  A little progress there for you.  I do want to ask about 18, your only dropshot of the day.  You said you had an unfortunate little hit there?  
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I had a 4-rescue into the green.  Unfortunately I pushed it a little right and it hit the tree and ended up behind the standard there, the suite.  I got a bad lie with my drop and it just kind of went nowhere.   
The rest is history.   
 Q.  Still, without that I think you would be pretty happy with how you're playing right now.  Well under par; couple strokes behind your sister; might have a Korda/Korda pairing in the last group tomorrow.  How do you feel heading into the final round?  
NELLY KORDA: I feel good.  Just going to continue with the same game plan:  take it shot by shot and see how it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT