ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2017
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What have you learned from your experiences here?  You played here in Q-School and you made a few starts.  What have you learned over the years?
NELLY KORDA: Don't hit it in the rough.  No, the greens are really firm here usually this time around.  Just staying consistent and hitting as many greens, as many fairways as possible.  And you know, if it goes in, then it goes in.
Q. You had such a great start to your rookie season here on Tour.  What do you think has been the key for you?
NELLY KORDA: I'm just really happy to be out here.  I think that's it; that I'm just over the moon, truthfully.  Playing alongside my sister, too, and playing alongside the girls I used to look up to.  I'm just really happy to be out here.
Feels amazing, seeing my name atop the leaderboard is something I've always dreamed of.  So hopefully I keep it going.
Q. You opened the season with a top-five result.  How much did that help going through the year?
NELLY KORDA: Obviously it was a huge confidence booster.  Made me realize I can definitely play alongside all these girls.
Q. Your sister came through here, before she even signed her card, she said, "Did you see how well Nelly is playing"?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I saw her I think on 16 and I waved to her.  I just saw that she shot 4-under today, so I'm really happy that she made to the weekend.
Q. You have a little break and then kicks right in tomorrow afternoon.  Do you have to make any changes to your game?
NELLY KORDA: No.  Truthfully I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing.  I mean, I just played 30 holes, so I'm a little exhausted.  So I'm just going to go home and rest.
Q. How much further are you hitting the ball now?  You seem to be smacking it.  Are you getting a lot of extra yardage this year?
NELLY KORDA: No, I think it's just out here.  When I was playing in Arizona, as well, I was hitting it really far.  Like I hit a 7-iron, Arizona, and I flew it 190 in Arizona.  I think it's just the altitude and the weather.
Q. So the whole family is in a house together this week.  What are you guys doing at night to keep yourselves entertained?
NELLY KORDA: Well, we got a dog in Carlsbad because we got it for our grandparents' 50th anniversary.  Playing with her or just chilling in our rooms, yeah.  We're all together always.  My brother is playing in Indian Wells right now and he's in the semifinals, so my parents are mainly with him but kind of letting us go.  But whenever he's done, they come out and support us.  It's really nice.
Q. How much time is spent talking about your round and his match?
NELLY KORDA: Not at all.
Q. Not at all?
NELLY KORDA: No.  Legitimately nothing.  Obviously I ask my sister.  Like yesterday she made a double on some hole.  So I'm like, "Dude, how did you make a double there."  Or a couple of birdies or something like that.  But it's usually like five minutes and then we move on.
Q. Jessica said you watched the tennis on TV and the Miami tournament, hanging out.  What does that do for the mental state hanging out with the family?  It must be good.
NELLY KORDA: It's really relaxing to be completely honest.  We were watching the Nick Kyrgios versus Alex Zverev match yesterday and we were like, my sister was voting for Zverev and I was voting for Nick because he has the same initials as me.  So we were screaming at each other like, "No! Yes!"  So it was really nice.
Q. When did you first notice your name on a board?
NELLY KORDA: 17.  Got a little nervous there.
Q. Did it sort of sink in, it's a major championship.
NELLY KORDA: Well, I thought I was maybe in the top five for sure but I didn't know I had a solo lead.  So hopefully it keeps going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT