U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2015
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You set the course record by a female.  How awesome is that?NELLY KORDA: That's pretty awesome, very grateful.  I don't know, it's a beautiful golf course, so I'm glad it's out here.Q. You really had it going.  What did that feel like?NELLY KORDA: It was amazing.  I've never been 8-under par, so the lowest score I shot was 7-under, so to come one short of it, kind of a little sad, but I'm happy with how I played.Q. You even had a couple of opportunities coming in maybe on, what, 7 and 8 where you could have gone a little lower; you got the tree there?NELLY KORDA: Yeah, 7 and 8 where I bogeyed, yeah.  I three-putted No. 8 because I thought it was going to be a little faster because I had kind of the same putt yesterday and it was lightning fast, so I thought if I just tap it, it'll be fine.  But it came up short, and I didn't make the second putt. But No. 7, I had no shot.  If I'd have hit it, it would have gone in the water, so I'd rather take a bogey than a double any day.Q. Interesting week for you coming from Q-school to here and just basically playing it blind.  How much do you think that helped you, hurt you, no effect?NELLY KORDA: I think it kind of helped me because I thought about everything a lot more.  I was really studying everything, like where to hit it, where to not hit it.  Obviously the first day I was kind of in every spot you don't want to be, and I was lucky to hit all the -- make all the putts for par.  But today I was comfortable with the golf course, so I just kind of went after it.Q. So you just came from playing a stressful high-competitive environment.  Do you think that helps jumping into a national championship like this just fresh off that experience?NELLY KORDA: Yeah, I kind of just tried to forget about it, just tried to keep like the attitude, being very focused, so I just practically forgot about Q-school, and now I'm concentrating on this.Q. So it's an interesting week for your family with your sister across town this week.  How is that going to work?NELLY KORDA: Oh, we're staying in the same hotel.  After my rounds I go into her hotel room and we just relax there and we talk about our rounds.  We talk about the golf courses.  We have really good food here.  Portland has really good food.Q. What happens if you keep advancing on through match play?  What happened with the family dynamic here?  How is dad going to react?NELLY KORDA: He's going to be with me.  Hopefully I'm just going to --Q. Are you going to make sure he doesn't have a phone to keep track of what's going on across town?NELLY KORDA: I'm just going to try to keep it one step at a time.  I'm just looking forward to my match tomorrow, and we'll see how it goes.Q. Do you remember 2010, I think, that Jess was in the final of the Women's Am?NELLY KORDA: Yes.Q. You were there that week, weren't you?NELLY KORDA: No, I was watching on TV.  I just remember the last hole was a par-3, and I don't know if she three-putted or not, but she lost on that hole, so yeah.Q. Did that register at the time what kind of event, that it was a national championship, or when did it really get -- when did that start to register with you?  How old would you have been?NELLY KORDA: Man, I was -- when was it, 2010?  I was 11, I think.  I was 11 or 12, yeah.  No, I didn't really know.  I was like, oh, my gosh, she's on TV, how cool.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT