U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Nelly Korda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your first U.S. Women's Open round.   Can you talk about that? 
NELLY KORDA:   It was really nice.   I didn't really get that nervous on the first hole which was a big surprise because I thought I was going to get really nervous.   But I shot one over par with one double and one triple, so it was definitely some up‑and‑downs, but I finished well, so it was good.

Q.   The triple was on 7? 
NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, I hit it into the water.

Q.   That was difficult on that hole?
NELLY KORDA:   It's a little scary, you know.   You don't really want to miss.   You have to hit on the green, and it's right in the front.   So you're like, oh, my God, I have to hit this shot perfect.   But I didn't, so that's how I made the triple.

Q.   But you were able to bounce back pretty well there?
NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, then I made birdie‑birdie.

Q.   Talk about that mentality of not getting down. 
NELLY KORDA:   Me and my dad were just like let's forget this hole and move on and start fresh.   That's how it went.

Q.   What kind of advice did Jessica give you this week? 
NELLY KORDA:   Just to keep calm.   That's mostly it.   She helped me with‑‑ we played all our practice rounds together, and she helped me with the greens.   But mostly to keep calm.   That is the most important for me, probably this week.

Q.   How could you not be nervous on the first tee? 
NELLY KORDA:   I don't know.   I was like I don't even know.   I was just like how am I not nervous?   I just went up to it and hit it like it was just a junior tournament.

Q.   Were you nervous last night or this morning? 
NELLY KORDA:   No.   It was weird.   I wasn't expecting this at all.

Q.   Did you hit it right down the middle? 
NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, I hit it really good.   So I was like, whew, let's go.

Q.   You were 3‑over early and you managed to bounce back and get back to even par with like three birdies on your second nine?
NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, I made a couple of long putts, but then I hit some pretty close to the pin, so I managed to make those, which was really good.

Q.   Did you come in here with a specific goal or were you just like, hey, I'm here, my first experience, just move. 
NELLY KORDA:   Just to tee it up on the first hole.   Just get that over with, and then I'll look.

Q.   What were your first impressions the first time you played here, which I assume was Monday? 
NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, the fairways are forgiving, but then the greens, it was like, oh, my God.   This will be a challenge this week.   I definitely think I had a couple of three‑putts, but it was‑‑ it's definitely about putting here.

Q.   Were you at Interlachen when your sister made her debut in '08? 
NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, I've been to all six of her U.S. Opens.   This is my first one playing though.

Q.   What were your impressions when you're at 9 and watching your sister play as an amateur at 15? 
NELLY KORDA:   I was nervous.   I was probably more nervous for her back then than I was playing my first time.   So it was definitely I was nervous for her.

Q.   If you and your dad go out for 18, who wins? 
NELLY KORDA:   I haven't played with him now because he has a bad back.   But it's usually really close if we play together.   Like sometimes he goes for it.   So sometimes he makes an eagle, and I'm like, oh, really? 

Q.   Does it help, even though you haven't played before, but because you've experienced the Open atmosphere and watched your sister, was that a help that you at least knew what it was going to be like out here? 
NELLY KORDA:   Definitely.   That's why I probably wasn't that nervous because I had just been to a lot of her tournaments.   So it was just like one of my tournaments.

Q.   I talked to her at the LPGA Championship.   She's sort of protective of you.   She said I don't know how she's going to do, but it seems that you're dealing with it just fine. 
NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, it was good today.   I played really well, and I'm really happy with my round.

Q.   Will you talk to her much today before she goes out or not at all? 
NELLY KORDA:   No, I won't.   Probably I'll tell her about a couple of things, but I won't talk to her a lot so she can concentrate on her round.

Q.   You played relatively well today.   Does that change your outlook for tomorrow in terms of how you go about your second round? 
NELLY KORDA:   No.   I'm just going to come out here and play, and nothing else.   I'm not going to expect a lot.   I'm just going to come out here and play my game.

Q.   Does your dad calm you down or fire you up?   How does that work? 
NELLY KORDA:   He calms me down.   When I start walking a little too fast, he's like, okay, slow it down a little.   But then when I make a birdie, he's like, okay, let's go.   Next hole.

Q.   You're not going to play much after this, is that what your dad said? 
NELLY KORDA:   No, I'm just going to relax.   I don't really see my friends that often, so I'm just going to relax, play some soccer, swim.   I'm not going to put‑‑ I don't even know what tournament I have after this.   But if I get into Junior Solheim, then that's definitely my next big goal.

Q.   So even if you make the cut, you wouldn't play the Girl's Junior Women's Amateur? 
NELLY KORDA:   I don't know.   I'm just looking forward to tomorrow.   I don't know yet.

Q.   Did you ever dabble in tennis at all? 
NELLY KORDA:   When I was little, just like I was hitting with my dad on the court.   But when I have days off, sometimes I go with my brother.   Not often, because I don't really get out there too much.

Q.   Are you any good? 
NELLY KORDA:   My forehand's good.   My serve is not very good.

Q.   Playing soccer and swimming, does that help in terms of getting your mind a little away from golf, but it's still a good sport? 
NELLY KORDA:   Yeah, definitely.   I play with one of the soccer players, he lives by us and he comes down every summer.   His name is Pavel Nedved, and I play with them.   Sometimes I play some golf with him.   So I just have fun in the summer.

Q.   What grade will you be going into? 
NELLY KORDA:   I'm going to be going into 10th grade.

Q.   Do you play on any of the school teams?   Do you play soccer in school? 
NELLY KORDA:   No.

Q.   Your dad says you and Jessica are different. 
NELLY KORDA:   Yeah.

Q.   In what ways? 
NELLY KORDA:   Probably a little mentally.   We have a different kind of swing too.   It's just what we do outside the golf course.   We just think a little different, but we look the same.   I'm her mini me.

Q.   Do you get mistaken for her at all? 
NELLY KORDA:   Oh, yeah.   On the range yesterday I was with Tom because I had to do an interview, and he came up to my dad.   He was like, oh, my God.   I thought that was Jessica.   And I was like, no, Jesse's on the other side of the range.

Q.   Do you guys ever play pranks on other people because you look the same? 
NELLY KORDA:   Pranks?   No, we haven't done that one yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT