LOS ANGELES CHARGERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 19, 2018
Anthony Lynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Unedited DraftScript   
 Q.  Do you have an update on Joey Bosa and where he stands right now?  
COACH LYNN: Oh, it's still the same.  Nothing's changed with Joey.  He's out for this week.   
 Q.  Not expected to practice?  
COACH LYNN: No, not expected at all.   
 Q.  Coach, what type of defensive match-up problems do the Rams present to your team coming into this week?  
COACH LYNN: Good players, we've seen good players every week though.  We have I goes that can match-up, and so we'll let it play out on Sunday.  But they have a good receiving group.  They have one of the better running backs in the league, and the offensive line is really steady.  The young quarterback is playing lights out right now.  So they're scoring 34 points a game, so they're presenting problems for a lot of people.  But we'll see.   
 Q.  What have you seen from the maturation of Jarrod Goff the last couple of years?  
COACH LYNN: I've seen him just grow tremendously.  You know, I'm assuming that's why they drafted him first overall.   
 Q.  Is this just another opponent or are you looking at them more?  
COACH LYNN: You know, they're next on the schedule.  You know?  That's just the way we approach every single game.  Every game is a big game for us, so it's an important game for us to go out and compete and win, so, yeah, they're just next on the schedule.   
 Q.  You mentioned the growth of Goff.  When you watch him, what do you think he does well?  
COACH LYNN: Well, Sean is doing a good job of using his skill set.  The system that they're running, I'm very familiar with.  I grew up in that system.  So he's executing it right now really well and moving him around a lot.  He's throwing on the move.  He's more of an athlete than what people give him credit for.  He can move the ball down the field with his legs as well.   
 Q.  What does it mean to bring in three defensive linemen for work outs?  
COACH LYNN: Always looking for added depth, always.  That's not uncommon for us.   
 Q.  Is there anything on the defensive line you're looking to address?  
COACH LYNN: Well, we're, like I said, we're looking at added depth.  We lost Joey for right now.  We have Isaac over here, and we really didn't have another big end behind Isaac.  Damion Square can go out and play big end in a heartbeat, but we're just looking at other people available.   
 Q.  Can you sign one of those guys?  
COACH LYNN: We'll see how they work out.  Just get them -- just let them know be ready just in case.   
 Q.  Is Isaac Rochelle still the starter?  
COACH LYNN: Oh, absolutely, absolutely.   
 Q.  Coach, anything new on Joe barks Dale, if he might be able to play this week?  
COACH LYNN: It's the same with Joe.  Joe's out this week.  You know, we're not going to put him back out there before he's ready, and Sam is the guy they've got right now.   
 Q.  When you talked about being familiar with the same system McVay's running, how different is he doing from what you did before?  How much has he changed his system?  
COACH LYNN: You mean?   
 Q.  You said you were familiar with it?  
COACH LYNN: Yeah, very familiar with it.  I was in the system for years in Denver, and we said back-to-back with Kyle Shanahan coming here.  So it helps that I'm familiar with that system, in speaking with the defensive staff.  But they've tweaked some things.   
 Q.  Any sort of thing that you've noticed in particular that's different?  
COACH LYNN: Nothing that I'm going to tell you right now (laughing).   
 Q.  They've got two cornerbacks and a defensive coordinator who are pretty familiar with Philip since the AFC West opponents in the past and Marcus Peters has had his way with Philip a couple times.  Does that change anything you might do offensively, or is it something to be aware of, or how do you approach that?  
COACH LYNN: We know they're going to be aggressive, in your face, man corners.  We have to win our one-on-ones.  That's our challenge is beat man coverage.   
 Q.  What type of a challenge does it present for those two big interior linemen that they have, not only run defense, but they also seem to just kind of Bowl their way to the quarterback?  
COACH LYNN: Yeah, they have a good interior rush with Donald and Suh, and Brock.  Those guys can get after it.  They're good.  But we have a plan.  We have a plan to protect our quarterback, and, you know, we'll see.   
 Q.  Last week the second half, the Bills got to Philip a couple of times.  With as that break downs?  
COACH LYNN: One was miscommunication, and the other one was they got to the quarterback.  We knew they were a good pass rush team with Jerry Hughes over there, and they got off the edge and got to us.   
 Q.  Is Mel going to practice today?  
COACH LYNN: He'll practice today, yes.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
COACH LYNN: Travis Benjamin, we'll see how much he can do today.  Not sure yet.   
 Q.  You guys scored 28 points in the first half.  Second half you guys only scored three.  Does that concern you with the team that you're facing this week knowing that you have to keep on scoring?  
COACH LYNN: No, I know what we're capable of, and just because that team was averaging 34 a game doesn't mean they're going to average that against us.  So I expect our defense to step up and play well, and our offense to finish games.   
 Q.  Given that interior pass rush, how have you liked what that interior at the line has been able to do or you've seen from them the first two weeks?  
COACH LYNN: Oh, they've been good.  They've been really good.  No one has scored a touchdown on them the last six quarters.  So they've been good inside pushing the pocket.  The corners outside are covering well.  Peters has four interceptions and a pick six.  So he's doing his thing.  So it's football.  It's going to be a heck of a challenge for us, but we're looking forward to it.   
 Q.  The interior of your offensive line?  
COACH LYNN: My offense?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
COACH LYNN: I think Dan Feeney, Mike Pouncey, and Michael Schofield, he has really stepped up.  Those guys are playing well inside.  We could have played a little better in the second half last week, but I expect those guys to pick it up this week.   
 Q.  Has Mike given you -- Mike Pouncey, a blueprint for Ndamukong Suh having practiced against him for years in Miami?  
COACH LYNN: I don't think there's a blueprint for stopping Suh, man.  He's a heck of a player.  One of the most powerful interior linemen in this league.  And we just have to stay in front of him and protect our quarterback.   
 Q.  You mentioned this is just another game, the next game up on the schedule.  But does the fight for L.A. thing mean anything?  
COACH LYNN: No, that's the first time I've thought about that.  That don't mean nothing for us.  I'm sure it's good for the story lines and all that.  But we fight for one another.  We fight for ourselves.  So we don't pay attention to the fight for L.A. thing.  It's just another game for us.   
 Q.  Todd Gurley, what is it that makes him so unique and special?  
COACH LYNN: He's a three down back.  He has power, he has elude, he has nice hands to receive out of the back field.  I've studied him hard coming out of college.  I loved him then.  He's just a good runner.  He's proven everything.   
 Q.  What makes cokes such a deep threat?  
COACH LYNN: His speed.  That's what makes him a deep threat.  He's a sprinter.  He could be a world class sprinter.   
 Q.  Last week all three of your guys, Kaser, Uchenna and Derwin had an impact in the game.  How do you expect them to be able to handle this week, and are you excited or do you think they've been playing well?  
COACH LYNN: Those guys are getting better every week.  So I expect those guys to continue to get better, and step up and make plays like they did last week, even more so.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT