ICC CHAMPIONS TROPHY
June 5, 2017
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Abandoned (no results)
Q. You have played England and Australia. Who do you think is a better unit, and what are the differences in the two teams?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Look, we played against Australia for the first time since 2011 and obviously knew that this team is difficult. Australia was on top today with their bowling, and except Tamim, nobody go through.
But I think still they are in the tournament, so see what happens.
Q. Just the difference between England and Australia?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Difference between England and Australia?  I think Australian pace is obviously different.  I think Australia have some quality fast bowlers.  Obviously England have, as well.  But Australia maybe have a little bit of extra pace -- as we have seen today.  Mitchell Starc came and took four straightaway and finished that game.  Could have got like 230, 240, if Tamim can go through, but he didn't.
So I think both sides are equal, but with the fast bowling, I think extra bit of pace can change (game).
Q. What we've seen in the last two games that you've played here, the appetite there is for Bangladeshi cricket in this country with the fans that have come out to watch you play, do you think it's strange that given the interest in Bangladesh here, that you haven't been invited for a full tour since 2010?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I think in England, we knew that the support will come and a lot of fans will come and support us, basically today, as well.  The last match we got a lot of support, and we are expecting the next match, as well.
Q. You've been thrown a bit of a lifeline I guess here with a point from the no result, but can you take advantage of that, beat New Zealand and get into the semis?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Well, you never know.  I think even in 2015 World Cup, we got one point from Australia and went through, it really helped us.  This time we have a chance.  You never know.  Straightaway, we have to beat New Zealand and obviously we have to wait for a few results, as well.  So our job is to play hard against New Zealand and if we can go through, then you never know.
Q. Smith said that he got away with one against New Zealand with the rain.  Do you feel today that you had a bit of luck on your side?  Do you feel like you were fortunate?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, obviously if you look at today's match, I think Australia was far ahead of us, and if you look at last match against New Zealand and Australia, I think Australia, also, in the same position.
So no, you can't do anything with weather.  As I said that both teams are now in the situation that Australia has to win against England and we have a great chance to beat New Zealand and go through.
So let's see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT