ICC CHAMPIONS TROPHY
June 4, 2017
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you know how to beat Australia, Cardiff 2005.  Obviously a big day in Bangladesh cricket history.  Are you confident you can beat them again tomorrow and knock them out of this tournament?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yes, Cardiff is 12 years back.  Obviously tomorrow is a new day and, and it has been a good memory for us.  Obviously the best teams are going to play tomorrow and we are confident enough to play against them.  We will try our level best.   
 Q.  How much of an advantage do you think it will be to have played already once on this pitch?  It's going to be the same pitch, I believe.  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I don't think so (it will be advantage), that we are going to play the same pitch.  Yes, I think it might help.  At least we know what score we can defend, or how much we have to score.  So it might help a bit for the batters and bowlers.   
 Q.  And talking about the batters, any more thoughts about loading your batsmen, eight batsmen last time around, any thoughts about it?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, I've been thinking about it.  But one thing is clear, we have to score a large sum.  Normally 300 in one-day cricket is good enough, but with the circle they have got now, and if the wicket is like this, you have to rethink about it.   
 Q.  How well do you remember that game in Cardiff?  You're the only player on either side still playing.  And what was the feeling like to beat Australia back then?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I can remember, only I get Gilchrist out, that's what I can remember.  It was a great memory for us, especially in this team, only me.  That's what I can remember.  But the team has changed.  The team is playing good cricket now.  So let's see what happens.   
 Q.  And you've had a good run over the last couple years, but how big a scalp would it be to beat Steven Smith's team tomorrow and possibly put them out of the tournament?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yes, we're playing so far good cricket.  But you know, overseas we have to improve a little more better.  Yes, we are learning, and hopefully we'll cope with all the pressures tomorrow and we will try to deliver our best.   
Whatever I say, we have to calculate a bit more, which area we need to do a little bit more like batting, 30 extra runs or during the bowling time for the batters' benefit, if we can bowl ourselves a bowling groove, if we can score 30 more runs, that will really help the team win.   
 Q.  What was the team doing last night when there was the terror attacks and how safe do you feel right now?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Last night we have been in our hotel.  Look, this is happening all over the world.  So we have to benefit on the host and ICC, so we don't have to think about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT