ICC CHAMPIONS TROPHY
June 1, 2017
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








England vs Bangladesh: England won by 8 wickets
Reviewed by Raj
Q. Do you think in hindsight that maybe picking eight batsmen may have undermined your bowling a little bit today?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, always you knew that, but the thing was that to get an extra bit of freedom for two batters, the batters can respond themselves a little bit better. I think batters also batted really well.
Yes, we could have picked one more bowler, but the sense was that.
Q. Do you feel that your fitness is 100 per cent at the moment, all the players?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Look, last month or so, we kept playing and we have been having camp in Brighton and then we have been to Ireland. Yes, boys playing a lot - eight or nine matches with all practice matches. But I think bowlers, the players feel well. They haven't complained yet. I think boys all feel pretty good.
Q. In hindsight, do you think a score of 300-odd was enough, or were you aiming for like 330 or 340 on that pitch?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, I think so. I mean, that's why -- but still, I think in the middle patches, we couldn't get any wickets, that's also a point.
Yes, obviously with eight batters, we were in a great position to score 330, 340. But we couldn't. We lost too many wickets in the late order. From 40, 42, we started losing wickets, and really no one could go through.
Q. Related to that, the last six overs, you could manage about 46 runs. Do you think that's where Bangladesh could have made like 30, 40 more runs?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, I think so. I know Tamim -- after Tamim got out, Mushfiqur, the next ball, he got out. So two got out together, that was the problem for us. And obviously, still we had Mahmudullah and Sabbir Rahman and a few more batters there.... Sarkar. But we couldn't really go through those six, seven overs, and I think we were 20 to 30 runs short, especially on that sort of wicket.
Q. Tamim seemed to be convinced that he had caught Eoin Morgan, and he was quite angry he wasn't given; what was your view on that catch?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: We haven't seen yet. We just came out from the field. But you know, end of the day, the call is final. So we can't make any call.
Q. Was it the biggest support that you've had in England, ever?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yes, I know in London, a lot of Bangladeshis, so we knew that they will come and support us. Not only here, we got a lot of support the last World Cup. And even wherever, last year, we played in Ireland, we got the same sort of support. But a lot of Bangladeshis live here and we knew that they could come.
Pity we couldn't go through today, but thanks to them that they came and supported us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT