ICC CHAMPIONS TROPHY
May 31, 2017
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Approved by Tim   
 Q.  Bangladesh have a knack of beating England in global tournaments.  Are you confident you can beat them again?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: You're asking about 2015?   
 Q.  Yeah, and 2011, they won, as well.  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No, look, it was a long time back.  And after then, England is a totally different team.  The way they are playing, if you look at the last two years, their performance, they win almost everything.  And especially in home, they are a serious side.   
You just can't say that, we are going to do that.  But we know that we are also a better side; that we are a very improving side.  Also, we are playing the last two or three years, pretty much good cricket.   
Yes, overseas has always been a challenge.  Not for us, for all teams.  Overseas always been a challenge.  I hope that this time we'll play at our best, because this is the first time we play Champions Trophy; it's well deserved.  So I guess that the boys are very, very excited and they deliver their best.   
 Q.  You've been on this journey with Bangladesh for quite a long time.  You've made a lot of progress as a side.  What's been the biggest factor in your improvement as a team, and how much more improvement can this nation achieve?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Look, first thing that we have some experience playing the side.  This is the first thing.  If you look at our side, at least four or five players have been playing cricket together the last ten, 12 years, more than ten, 12 years.  That is the most important thing.   
Other things that also, we have some exciting youngsters has been included on our side like Mustafizur and Sabbir Rahman Taskin Ahmed, those players are also in our side.   
And the combination is very good in the last two or three years.  That's why I think our cricket, is moving in the right direction.  And obviously going further, I think we have to continue the good things, the way we are doing.   
And obviously overseas, when it comes to overseas like this year, we are playing almost every series in overseas.  So if you can improve a little bit, that confidence will build up, and later on, we never know, we'll move from there, as well.   
 Q.  Yesterday you were bowled out for 84 on the same ground.  How damaging is that for your confidence going into tomorrow's game?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Look, definitely we don't want to.  You know, 84 obviously doesn't look good.  But if you look at last five, four matches, as well, in Ireland and especially in here, as well, against Pakistan, Pakistan is a good bowling side.   
So I think the that batting-wise we did well, especially in Ireland, and the last four, five matches I guess.  Yes, last match wasn't that good, but I hope that batters will understand their role and not to think about much about yesterday.   
But obviously you have to think what the mistake was, so I think we can handle tomorrow especially.   
 Q.  How surprised have you been about England's improvement since you beat them in Adelaide 15 months ago, and do you feel it's possible to beat them again tomorrow?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No, beating tomorrow, you can't say like that.  I mean, I can't answer that, that I can beat tomorrow.  But the thing is that we all know that on a given day we can beat anybody.  But we have to start well; if you can start well, then things will come easier.   
There will be a lot of pressure, but I think we can cope up.  Also, if you go back to the England side, I think they also feel more pressure than us, because they want the trophy.  Especially this is happening in their home.   
So it's both sides, there is a little bit of pressure, but who can cope up, they will perform their best.   
 Q.  England will start as many people's favourites to win the tournament, and Virat Kohli is coming to the country and he said they looked like a team that don't have any weaknesses.  Do you see them as a team that don't have any weaknesses are they justified as being favourites?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Look, because the way they are playing the last two years that's why everyone is expecting that this time England will be the most favourite one.   
I feel the weaknesses, every match you can't play that you are favourite, even though sometimes you will lose.  But almost England have -- this time, they have good all-around side.  They have good batting side.  They have good bowling side.  Overall, that's why people think that they are the best side, especially in this tournament.   
Also, they are playing in their home.  So most of the ground, they know how much good is good enough and how much you have to chase.  So they will know better than others.   
So I think that's why people are asking that England will be the best side.  But again, it's cricket and anything can happen in the game.  So you never know.   
 Q.  England seem to have quite a few different match winners, Ben Stokes, Joe Root, Jos Buttler.  Which England player gives you the most concern?  Which one are you worried about most?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: All 11.  England, very good side, man.  I mean, Joe Root is there and Jason Roy -- there is Root.  Obviously captain Eoin Morgan is in good form, Stokes, Buttler.  I mean, you can figure out anyone.  If you are going to win, you have to play well in every department.   
 Q.  What encourages you most in the belief that your team can win tomorrow?  Where do you see your side winning the game?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: First thing that we played well recently.  Recent past we played good cricket.  Obviously I told you that overseas is different for us, but still, no, we just recently beat New Zealand in Ireland.  Also loss to New Zealand, yes, we couldn't win any matches, but the thing is, we played really good cricket.  Just we couldn't finish well, that's it.   
And the experienced players we have, if you get that opportunity to close this match, I hope that this time we don't do any mistakes.  So we just want a good start and later on, let's see what happens.   
 Q.  Can you give us an idea of the expectations that you guys will have at home?  It's a big cricketing public, very passionate about cricket.  What are they expecting from you?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, there is a lot of expectation.  People start that this time we will take the Champions Trophy home (laughing).  There is a lot of expectation.  But we have to understand where we are, and the main thing is that we are progressing or not.  Little by little, we are coming up.  We are starting from ten to nine, now seven, eight, now six.   
So that means that the graph is coming up.  So that's most important to me, and this trophy, there is a lot of hope, but realistically, we have to play at our best to be honest.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT