ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 8, 2015
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Being a pressure game, what is your approach?  Both teams are under pressure, so what is your take on this match?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, definitely it's a pressure match, but our boys are looking very confident, especially with chasing the last match 318.  Doesn't matter who they're against.  So the boys are very confident, which is more important, and they're ready to give their best tomorrow.   Q.  In Bangladesh's cricketing journey over the last ten years, is this the biggest game Bangladesh will be involved in ever in the last 20 years?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, it's difficult to say because you can say Asia Cup final total was very important for us.  There were a few matches definitely, but it is one of them.  If we can win this match, it will be a great memory for everyone who are involved with this team.   Q.  In the last World Cup in Chittagong, do you have a stronger side this time around to try to achieve that again, more experienced?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, that was in Bangladesh.  Definitely it was four years back.  I think that is a long time ago.  We have to play good cricket tomorrow, which is very important for us.  Yes, it's a nice memory for us also, but I think it depends how we play tomorrow.  That is the main thing.   Q.  In the last game there were Bangladeshi flags and Bangladeshi supporters.  There were going to be a few thousand Bangladeshis who live in this part of Australia at this game.  How much difference does it make for you as a team even though you're a long way from home to feel that you have support on the ground in a match like this?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, definitely.  It means a lot to us, because once we play Bangladesh around 30, 35,000 people supporting us, and we never expect that in Australia we'll get it, but it is amazing to see that those people who live in Adelaide or even only practice match played in Sydney, even in Melbourne, they're all in the field and keep supporting us.  Hat's off to them, and hopefully we'll get it tomorrow as well, and we'll try our level best to give them some good moments.   Q.  Are you a hundred percent ready to face England tomorrow?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Inshallah I have to, and I'm ready to play.  It looks better.   Q.  Broad and Anderson have struggled in this tournament.  Do you feel if you get on top of them early that that will set the tone for a dominant batting performance against England's pace attack?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yes, some players can be a difficult time, but I think we have to think of our process.  It doesn't matter who it's against.  I think still Anderson and Broad can make the difference.  If I can, as you said, we can set the tone in first ten overs do really good and hopefully we'll do it, Inshallah.   Q.  Is the bowling still a concern considering that 300-plus against Scotland?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: It was a good wicket, but it's still I think 270, 280 could have been a lot better, which is what we were thinking.  Hopefully we'll come back tomorrow, but our bowling is, I think, good enough to do it.  But still this wicket looks to me 270, 280, it's really good.  Hopefully we'll manage tomorrow.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT