ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 5, 2015
Tamim Iqbal
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SPEAKER: Just an update on the injury status of Anamul Haque.  Anamul has been diagnosed with a right AC joint strain, grade 3, and at the moment, the team management is in consultation with local medical experts on this particular injury and we will decide on the best possible management of the injury. At the moment we're not able to say how long it might take for him to recover, but we'll keep you updated as we go along.  Thank you.Q. Was that one of the most carefully planned innings that you played?  Generally, when chasing targets, Bangladesh tend to go aggressive at the start, and that was a huge target.  Did you think about slowing down or managing it better?TAMIM IQBAL: Actually, we had a team meeting before we came out to bat.  The coach said that we should bat like we're batting first and not to think about the total.  We chased down a similar kind of score two or three years back against Zimbabwe and we batted in a similar way.  So rather than thinking about the scoreboard that's extra special, we were just enjoying the wicket. The wicket was fantastic and the outfield was really quick.  So we didn't have to do too much because if we were timing the ball, then the ball was flying.  So that made it easy for us.  So we just batted ball by ball.Q. Do you think if you were playing in Bangladesh, it would have been easier to control yourself?TAMIM IQBAL: At Shere Bangla Scotland won't be getting 300, for sure.Q. Do you think there is a case for Bangladesh in between World Cups playing teams like Scotland more, and if you played in Scotland would that maybe help your skills to bowl as well?TAMIM IQBAL: I think we should play with every team.  And Scotland they are playing very good cricket in this World Cup starting from their warm-up matches, and these conditions suit them quite a lot.  Yeah, definitely, if we keep playing with everything, we're just going to improve and nothing else, even not in Scotland. They can come to us as well.  So even they can learn about our wickets and all of those things.  So definitely if we play cricket, then everyone is happy.Q. Mashrafe, before the start of the game there was quite a bit of focus on Bangladesh's bowling attack, if they were going to include more spinners and Taijul and Arafat waiting in the wing.  Do you think in hindsight you could have played an extra spinner instead of a fast bowler?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, we could, but the wicket looks like it's going to swing back but it's not.  It's happened, but still we've come back strongly later on.  Nasir bowled really well and also Shakib.  So it was a bit of a tough decision, but at the end of the day winning is winning, so we're happy.Q. Do you think against England who might be susceptible to spin, you might include an extra spinner?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Let's see.  We'll have to look at the wicket first and then we'll decide.Q. What are the plans behind starting the bowling with Shakib?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Because they might struggle against spin.  Still we can ask that we can pick another spinner, but that was the plan, basically.  Still we picked three bowlers, three quicks, but it was planned.Q. Well played today.  After the game, does that make you think that ICC's plans to reduce the World Cup to ten teams might not be a good idea?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: It's pretty difficult for me to answer this question.  Whatever the ICC have decided we have to do it, so it's up to ICC.Q. Just on your batting performance, was that one of the best you remember in a long time?  Because it never seemed in doubt.  You chased those runs off very easily.MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Hopefully that was the best.  This wicket was very good to bat on, but even I think Tamim mentioned that two, three, four years back against Zimbabwe over 300, but still that is the best because in World Cup always a pressure.  So I think that is the best one.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT