ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 4, 2015
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: We expect to win.  In our last match we lost, and definitely when you lose, you lose a bit of confidence, so this is a great opportunity for us to win this match and go with some confidence against England.Q. Just with those fixtures to come, the expectation is to reach a quarterfinal, is that the motivation of the Bangladesh team at the moment?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, definitely.  We had a great chance to go through to the quarterfinal, and the boys are really looking forward for that, and also we've got a match against Scotland if we can play better cricket in here, hopefully the confidence we can take into the England match.Q. And maybe Scotland and England are on a similar level at the moment, yeah?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: But still, I think England is a better team, and they have a great chance, as well.  I think next match is very important, but for us, I mean, against Scotland, and then we can think about the later one.Q. It's your first game in New Zealand in a while.  Last game was I think in 2010.  Scotland have been playing and winning games in New Zealand.  Do you think that's going to be a factor?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: People think like that, but no, my thinking that one day is something that -- on a particular day if you play your best cricket, wherever you're playing it can be your day.  We are really thinking how we can play at our best cricket and let's win this match and go through the next match.  But for that, obviously we have to play at our best because it's true that England -- sorry, Scotland have played the most matches in New Zealand, so it might help them, but also, we're looking forward.Q. What are the threats that you see in the Scotland side?  They have a lot of medium pacers who move the ball around, and swing bowling is always a difficult thing to handle, right, so do you see that as a threat?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Well, in the match anything can be a threat.  That's why we cannot target any special things.  Once we go into the middle, we have to cover everything, and that's what we are thinking right now.Q. Do you plan to play an extra spinner against Scotland?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I can't say right now.  Let's see.Q. The last two ICC tournaments you played at home, tremendous pressure, lots of people coming in to watch.  Australia, as well, people came in to watch the games.  Nelson is going to be quiet.  Does that help the team, or does that -- there's no attention here.MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No, playing in Bangladesh, definitely people come and support, yes, there have some pressure, but we enjoy that.  Playing in Bangladesh, all of us enjoy. Yeah, definitely in Nelson we don't get that support, but it's okay.  Hopefully we'll play our best cricket, and from back home people will support us definitely, and we still have a few people who will come.  I think they will support in the press; all the brothers are here (laughing).Q. Is it more relaxing?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: You know, you can't relax.  Wherever you play, international game is always a bit tense, so you cannot relax.  Yes, you can relax only when you start well, so we focus on that, and in that sort of game you cannot relax.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT