ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 26, 2015
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Mashrafe, your impressions on how Bangladesh bowled and fielded?  On your bowling there were a couple of chances very early on throughout.  Your impressions on how you guys did on the field?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, definitely drop catching is costing us, but it happens in cricket.  At the same time I think as a bowling group we have not been up to the mark today.  We need to work it out, and hopefully the next game we'll come up with good things.   Q.  Going into the match, there was some talk that this could be a close game, this could be a chance for Bangladesh to win against Sri  Lanka in a World Cup.  Did the expectations and the pressure of the occasion get to your team?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Not really.  I mean, definitely if we could win, that could have been very good for us, but there was no pressure.  I think the boys didn't take any pressure.  Of course the expectation was there, but at the same time our focus was to play good cricket, but we couldn't.   Q.  But did you expect the team to win today coming in, though?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, definitely, why not?  Even though we lost, the next game we go for the win.   Q.  Your first time on the MCG, there were high expectations today.  You'd made a good start to the tournament.  How big a setback is today, especially with the way you played?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Definitely 330 going to chase is not very easy, especially, as I said before, with the ball and field were not being up to the mark.  But yeah, once again, still we have good chance.  We have three matches left, so hopefully we'll do something in the next match.   Q.  Mashrafe, do you think Bangladesh team took too much of a risk against the Afghanistan game which slowed down their reflex in the field?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Not really.  I think the bowlers have been training, net training.  I think that wasn't a problem.   Q.  The team seemed very spirited after getting three points from the first two games, especially the display on the field surprised us, too.  Can you explain actually the occasion got to you, playing in the MCG, such a big ground, is it difficult to just understand the ground?  What happened actually?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Can't excuse with the ground, but yes, it was disappointing with the field today, but it's happened.  It's very difficult to explain, but as I said, I can't excuse in here.  We couldn't.  That's the problem.  Hopefully we'll come up with good things, as I said before.   Q.  Mashrafe, is there any reason why Shakib and Rahim batted No.  6 and No.  7 when they are your main batsmen?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No, there was no reason.  Shakib should bat five.  But Mominul was because we lost two wickets earlier, so we sent Mominul to get a good partnership.  Once again, Mominul was failed, so there is no reason for that.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT