ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 18, 2015
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Mashrafe, people have spoken before this game about the learning curve of teams in their first World Cup. You haven't played a one‑day international in Australia since 2008. So it's pretty much changed conditions and a learning curve for you, as well, isn't it? Are you pleased with the way you coped today?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA:  First of all, I think Afghanistan is a very good team that they are playing their first World Cup, but still, we respect them before the match, and obviously this sort of wicket we haven't played much, but this wicket suited us. Once we looked at the wicket we hoped that we had a good start and were able to win this match.       Q. A very great opening spell today. Do you think a performance like that will be enough to trouble the Australians at the Gabba?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA:  It's difficult to say right now, but if we can bowl like that, definitely good bowling is always good. It doesn't matter who we're against. Hopefully we'll do whatever we have done today as a bowling unit. Hopefully we have to do it again and again.       Q. What is the reason behind picking up eight batsmen against Afghanistan?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA:  Maybe the first practice match we couldn't score a lot, so just make sure that we have extra batsmen yet can bowl and also Soumya is there, so we can have four like that, that way.       Q. It seems when you go good in bowling, the team gets more motivated. So how is this? When you start well, you do good, then other players get more motivated. What is the mystery behind it?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA:  Well, it is very important. It doesn't matter start good or who start, Rubel or Taskin. It is important for us that whenever someone comes and bowls, he have to bowl well, and once ‑‑ bowling also some kind of partnership, if we can bowl from both and put some pressure in, so the wicket will come. So it doesn't matter who is bowling and who is putting pressure. I think everyone's job is to bowl well.       Q. This match showed how important pace bowling could be in this World Cup, and you as the senior‑most bowler on the side, what lesson would you have learned from this, and what will you be telling your bowlers for the rest of the games? What exactly is the length to bowl in Australia?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA:  As I said before that, we haven't played much on that sort of wicket, so it was important after we come here for the practice to pick the right length, and we have some good quicks, like Rubel can bowl 140, Taskin can bowl 140, so if they can bowl with that pace in the right areas, it always can affect. Luckily they have done today, so hopefully the rest of the match they'll do the same thing.       Q. You played with Afghanistan, so do you think with Australia and next Sri Lanka, you're going to do the same thing, or are you going to change? What's your plan?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA:  So we have to look at the wicket first, and whatever we do, we cannot tell right now, so we have a chat after looking at the wicket. Hopefully whatever we do it will help us, and if luck is with us, then we'll do good performance in the next few matches.       Q. You're bowling about 145, some deliveries about 145 kilometers an hour. I think you're about 141, 142, I'm not sure.  MASHRAFE MORTAZA:  A long way to go.       Q. Was the goal to come to Australia and bowl slightly quicker because they're very fast pitches, and you're going to the Gabba next week, which is traditionally one of Australia's quickest pitches.  MASHRAFE MORTAZA:  Yeah, see, I never believe that if you bowl fast ‑‑ yes, if you bowl fast there and if you put the ball in the right areas, then it's effective. If you bowl fast and you can't bowl in the right areas, it does not affect. I think that our two guys can bowl 145. As I said before, if they can bowl in the right area, it doesn't matter who the batsman. Bowlers do the rest, I think.       Q. Are you looking forward to playing in the Gabba?  MASHRAFE MORTAZA:  Yeah, we haven't played in Gabba, but we've heard it's one of the quickest wickets in Australia. Hopefully we'll do well, and yes, we are looking forward to it.               
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT