ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 8, 2015
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Two months before when we win 50, and we had good domestic cricket, and within the last two weeks we have been in Brisbane and have had very good training, and also played two practice matches and also had two practice matches here, so hopefully it will all add up and give us our best shot in the World Cup.Q. You had the option, didn't you, of playing some more games but decided to play internally, practice internally; is that right?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, that's true.  The last two months we just decided that we'd keep going with practice.  We've been here the last two weeks and had a good practice in Brisbane, as well.  Hopefully it will add up, the condition will.Q. Your batsmen retired after they scored 50, I think, in Brisbane.  What was the thinking behind that, to give everyone an opportunity to bat?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, we of course decided that everyone wants to bat.  That's why we decided that after we get 50 we'll retire, but unlucky if you're good in bat you get out in 40, 45 overs.  I think it doesn't look so well, but the team was   coach decided that everyone wants to bat.Q. You've got a couple more practice matches coming up.  Will that happen again or are you going to play them as normal games now?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No, no, definitely not.  World Cup starts now, and we take it very seriously, and we play as a normal match.Q. Not a lot of your players have a great deal of experience in Australia.  How tough is that going to make it going into the tournament with just a few practice matches under your belt here?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: It can be very tough, but I think our young players are very good.  They haven't played a lot of international cricket, but they have some experience, and hopefully they will turn out very well.Q. What should people's realistic expectations of Bangladesh's performance at this tournament be?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: To be honest, everyone expected to go to the second round, but it's going to be very tough to be honest.  You have to beat at least two bigger sides, with Afghanistan and Scotland, but it is tough because that condition we are not very used to, but we are trying our best to add up to, and hopefully we'll give it our best shot in World Cup.Q. You said beating the big sides.  In 2007 Bangladesh beat India, in 2011 Bangladesh beat England.  Is that something you can look back on and say it can be done?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: It can be, but it is past.  We can't rely on those performances.  I think we have some experienced players, as well, like Mushfiqur, Tamim and Shakib.  They are quite experienced, as well, experienced players.  I think if the big guns step up and the young players can help them, I think we have a great chance.Q. Is there a particular team Bangladesh feels that they can beat a lot more easy than any other team?  Is there a team that you're targeting?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No, not really.  We don't target anyone because if you're going to target anyone it creates all this pressure, so we'll take every single game, and hopefully we'll do well that time.Q. You've seen Michael Clarke in action more than most other people.  Did he seem fully fit to you last week?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I think he can  yeah, that's to tell him.  I cannot comment about it.  I think he has been pretty good, his running, his bowling, and he's batted quite good.  I think he's okay.Q. You'll be the first team to face him most likely in the World Cup.  Do you have anything planned for Michael Clarke?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I think you can't plan for Michael Clarke.  There's a few great batsmen in Australia's side.  Like Finch is in great form, like Watson is there, Warner is there.  I think you have to plan for all of them, not only Michael Clarke.Q. Playing your first game against south Pakistan, have you learned from mistakes (inaudible)?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, definitely.  Every match, even if you win you can learn from that.  That was a bad day, I think, and hopefully that will not repeat again in here because the boys are really confident.Q. Do you expect to be playing Michael Clarke in that first game?  Do you expect them to make it?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, definitely.  I always expect because he's a great player.  As a player I want him to play because everyone wants him to be in the field, because in the World Cup, such a big player, if he can't play, we are not (inaudible).Q. (Inaudible.)MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Only Michael Clarke and his doctor can say that.  It is very difficult for me to say.Q. Would you take him at 50 percent fit if he couldn't play for Australia?  Would you have him play for Bangladesh?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No, he told   has he told that?Q. He has to play for Australia, but would you   in Bangladesh would you take someone like Michael Clarke if he was only at 50 percent?MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No, not really.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT