ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 20, 2019
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Australia - 381/5 (50.0), Bangladesh - 333/8 (50.0)
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mashrafe Mortaza.
Q. I think it was lack of intention with the new ball maybe or maybe the first 20 overs you conceded way too many runs to that opening stand?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: When we are batting?
Q. Bowling.
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Bowling.  I think it was really good to get, both sides want to bat first.  And obviously created a few chances, which could have been taken against this big side.  You have to take those 50/50 chances, I think.
Could have been different.  And I knew that we needed a wicket at that particular time.  And I think they also led very calculatively.  They knew if they don't give wicket much air, they can damage us.  So I think obviously not picking off wicket was the main thing.
Q. Do you think a place now in the top 4 is beyond your side?  And are the teams that are in the top 4 operating at a different level to the rest of the teams in this tournament?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: You're asking that our top 4 batsmen?
Q. No, I'm asking do you think you can qualify still.
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I think still you never know.  Still what we can do, I think, we have still three matches left.  We have to play hard and then let's see.  And it's going to be difficult for sure, even if we can able to win all those three matches, still we have to look and have to see what's going on.  But I think from us, I think it's very important to finish all those three matches, especially one at a time.
Q. Do you think the teams who are in the top 4 are operating at a different level to the rest of the teams?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yeah, I think so.  I think so.  If you look at this World Cup, I think at the stage we thought in the middle of the tournament, you know, a few strays going on and a few matches will end up in the top 4, a few were lost, a few matches, and the tournament will go in a different way, but it's certainly not -- but still I think it's still a few matches left, you never know.  Let's see.
Q. How difficult was it bowling to David Warner today?  And where does he kind of rank in terms of the hardest batsman to bowl to in world cricket when he's going like that?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: It is.  We all knew that that sort of wicket is always difficult to bowl.  A player like this, it's very difficult.  But at the same time I'd say that we got a few chances, which is we couldn't take, especially that run-out, it could have happened.
We knew that we have to pick the wickets.  If not then it's going to be very difficult, which is exactly what happened.  David Warner is batting so well and obviously feels quite -- Everyone has played well.  And I think the damage has been done by Maxwell, that 13 balls, 40-odd runs.  That was the big factor as well.
Q. It's probably the third or fourth match in which you've conceded more than 300 runs by bowling.  Obviously is that the problem area for you, or is that going to be the deciding factor whether you're going to go through the semifinals or not?
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Look, if you look at England wickets and everything, we knew that it would be a high-scoring match, especially the ground we are playing, to be honest.
And the damage has been done.  Shouldn't be like this.  It could have been 300, 280.  That what we've been asking.  But, again, both matches against England and obviously today is 380.  So it's been a lot for the batters.
Anything around 300, 320, even better on this wicket, and our batting was really good.  Even all those matches to score that sort of run except New Zealand, I think.
Yeah, I mean, you're pretty much right that most of the matches they've been costing 40, 50 extra runs.
Q. Twice in a row your team has scored more than 300 after, chasing a big total (indiscernible).  So gives a lot of heart to you as in the team is not afraid to chase a big total?  I see batsmen going for their shots.
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No, you knew that against Australia it can be big, but I think bowlers have been trying their best to restrict them around 300, as I said, 300, even less than 300.  For that we have to pick wickets, we know that.  In that patches we couldn't get any wickets.  I think we get wickets when the damage has been done at the late part.
But it's hard for the batters who are asking all the time 350 is always difficult.  In this wicket we're capable to score 340, 320, even 340 could have been chased down.  The batsmen are showing their courage, if you look at our batting, I think everyone has been batting with some intent.  As I said, we don't play that much in that sort of part.
We need to play enough to score the big runs.  But it's still, 330 is not a bad effort, I think.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT