ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 19, 2019
Mashrafe Mortaza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Mashrafe Mortaza.   
 Q.  A better part of the campaign now, now that you've won two games, I mean, after Sri Lanka, that winning that West Indies match must have pleased you?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: No question.  I think that was a must-win game for us to stay in that tournament.  Losing point from New Zealand and England and obviously Sri Lanka, never know, we could have been winning, we could've been losing, but losing -- still losing point from these guys.  Again, back into the track, it was much needed.  And the boys are pretty much confident.   
 Q.  You played in Bangladesh's ODI one-day -- you played in Bangladesh's only ODI victory over Australia, I think 14 years ago now.  How much has Bangladeshi cricket changed in terms of their fearlessness in playing a game like Australia?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yes, as you said it's a long time, 14 years.  And it was in this country.  I think it has been changed a lot.  I know a few players are in our dressing room who believe we can beat anybody.   
But against Australia, it won't be easy, for sure, especially the condition and the form they're taking.  I think it won't be easy.  But, as I said, these boys can believe, especially if you had a good start, you never know.  So let's see.  We'll fight and you never know.  That's all.   
 Q.  Since that win in 2005, Bangladesh cricket hasn't been shown a lot of respect from Australian cricket.  So many tours canceled in Australia.  Is that a motivating force tomorrow, that you can prove to Australia that you're a worthy opponent?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Actually, no.  I don't think we have to prove them, but it's always disappointing when you're not touring and not coming and not playing in such a big site.  It's always disappointing.  You can learn a lot of things when you're travelling, that sort of part of the world like Australia, England, New Zealand and obviously South Africa.   
So there's so many things we can learn, especially the (indiscernible) teams.  It's always disappointing when that sort of thing happens.  But again I would say that what has happened happened before, we don't have to think about it.   
It's a tournament that everyone wants to play well.  Everyone wants to win.  And this is the right time and to prove ourselves that we are in a better side than what we've been.   
And playing for your nation, that's a big thing.  So I think it boils -- only think about what you mean actually, that not having tools and can sell all those tools.   
But for this tournament, to stay in this tournament it's a very important match.  Again, Australia is very difficult but it's not that impossible.  So we have to fight and let's see.   
 Q.  On that last question, it's been 16 years since Bangladesh played a test in Australia.  Should more be done, though, to make sure you have the chance to play test cricket in those countries?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Yes, we are -- we played test cricket in Australia a long time before.  We played in Darwin and (indiscernible), as I can remember.  I was a member of this team.   
Since Darwin I haven't played any test cricket in Australia.  It's really disappointing, I know, as a test nation.  But I'm still not sure even if we win tomorrow, I think this thing is going to fix it.  But it's all about negotiating, I think.  If our cricket boards and Australian cricket board can negotiate each other, then it might be possible.   
But tomorrow I don't think that this thing will be playing on our mind, only the things that we are looking forward, that we have to play well for our team and make sure that we are staying in the World Cup and show the world that we're an improving side and much better side than what we have been.   
 Q.  Horrific what happened earlier this year in Christchurch.  How are the boys now?  Do you have to check in on them to make sure everyone is okay?  How is everyone healing from that episode?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Everyone is healing much better.  They feel very good and our team is playing as a team, which is very important.  And a good thing that everyone is fit now, fit to play and everyone is looking forward that if we can have a good match tomorrow, which is you'll never know, then you also -- you will still be strong in this tournament.  So that will be great, that if we can manage it.   
 Q.  Just a word on Shakib, his performance has risen the rest of the team as well?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: Shakib is brilliant, even from -- he started his career for Bangladesh cricket.  He's brilliant.  And he knew he's a very confident guy.  And hopefully he'll keep going.  And you know, the way he's playing, I think we need to support him as well, his team.   
We need to support, like, the other match leader, Liton, when he comes in, have good innings.  And obviously Tamim had a good start, Soumya had a good start.  So I think we need to cope up with what Shakib is doing and the other bowlers have to step up, obviously bowling side as well.   
It's going to be a good batting track as we know, that our bowlers have to step up tomorrow and bowl really well to restrict Australians' batting lineup, and obviously batting also.   
 Q.  At the moment Bangladesh seems to be a one-man army.  How dangerous can it be for the team as the tournament progresses?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I won't say it's a one-man army.  Shakib is scoring runs; that's a great thing for the team.  But if you look at it, the other boys have stepped up.  Mustafiz, as I said, last match having those two wickets.  Saifuddin comes in and took a wicket, early one (indiscernible) all over the world, we know that Chris Gayle, what can he do.   
So it's not been a one-man army.  If someone is scoring like 100, he took all the cameras and media to him.  That doesn't happen in our world cricket.  So, it's not been an army, but he's exceptional.  Shakib is exceptional.   
He's playing at his best at the moment.  But I think few other bowlers, like I said -- Mustafiz, Saifuddin, Tamim made a good start; Soumya had a good start.  Again, Liton, and why not Mushi (phonetic)?  Especially Mehidy is bowling so well.   
So it's not been a one-man army, but as you said he's been doing outstandingly.  Some other bowlers have to step up a little bit with what Shakib is doing.  We really appreciate what Shakib is doing, and with that, few other bowlers, what they've been doing, it will be carried on from here.  It will be great to see.   
 Q.  The way you dealt with the West Indies bowling, does that give you a lot of confidence for how you deal with Australia's bowling as well?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I think the Australian bowling attack has a lot of variation.  They have Pat Cummins, who can bowl change of pace, quick, (indiscernible).  They have some options if you really look at it.  I think they have some good wrist spinner.  Nathan Lyon is there, Zampa.  I think they have some more variation.   
So it won't be easy like other match, as I said, but the confidence is the main thing, which bowlers have right at the moment.  I think if we took that confidence into the ground and deliver to our best and we can assess the wicket very well.  You never know.   
 Q.  Back to 2005 one last time, you told the storey wonderfully in the past about when you won in Cardiff, that you got taken around town in a limousine.  Can you tell us about your memories of the night when you beat Australia after you knocked off Adam Gilchrist?  
MASHRAFE MORTAZA: I got this wicket, I guess, Adam Gilchrist.  That night suddenly, when the limousine was coming in front of the hotel and everyone was inside.   
But it's been a nice memory.  But you know, Cardiff, always we played well, except this time.  But I always believed that in the past whatever we have done, it's not going to help tomorrow, which is I feel that it's a new day, it's a new match.  You have to start from the first ball.   
And obviously that Australia was very strong.  Again I say Australia, always different team, especially in the World Cup.  Australia always played at their best in the World Cup.  It won't be easy.   
It's been a nice memory.  I can remember everything what we did in that particular day and night.  But hopefully I hope that the same day will be coming tomorrow, but for that we have to play hard and at our best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT