MLB WORLD SERIES: NATIONALS VS ASTROS
October 28, 2019
Kurt Suzuki
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First, Kurt, how is the hip feeling and what do you think your chances are to be in the lineup tomorrow? And missing the games the last two nights, what were you able to do in terms of helping break down the video and advice to teammates?
KURT SUZUKI: It feels better, obviously. I got some treatment and stuff like that, and it's progressing. So we'll see.
Going to do some stuff today and we'll figure out more tonight after we get into Houston about tomorrow. Everything is looking good so far.
As for watching a couple of games, it was Games 3, 4, and 5, I've done pretty much all my homework the first couple of games, just a matter of changing up your sequences and your patterns and things like that, because obviously they're good hitters over there, they make adjustments, as well. So we just have to change it up and at times go with your pitcher's strengths. So we'll see. It should be interesting.
Q. Watching the last couple of games, and obviously there's been a lot of attention on the strike zone, how pitches are being called. Do you have any particular thoughts, not criticizing, but are the pitches that we see sometimes on the huge screen that might make a fan go crazy, like how did you miss that pitch? Are they always as apparent to your hitter or as a catcher?
KURT SUZUKI: Yeah, I think sometimes obviously if you're a catcher you want more pitches. As a hitter you want the strike zone smaller. It's definitely not easy, guys are throwing upwards 95, 100 miles an hour. You're not going to be perfect. Obviously we understand that.
That being said, obviously you want the strike zone to be consistent. But these guys are human. They do their best, as we try our best to hit the ball or catch the ball. And nothing is ever going to be perfect. It's part of the baseball game, you got to deal with it, and just move forward and try not to let it bother you.
And sometimes it can dictate a little different result. But at the same time, we're all professions here and we all have to make adjustments and we all have to adjust to certain things that happen in the game. Like I said, it's an imperfect game.
You can't really blame the umpire for your wins and losses. It's just part of the game. You have to move forward and keep playing baseball.
Q. Have you been able to do cardio, running, getting in the cage? And how much available were you the last two nights to pinch-hit?
KURT SUZUKI: Yeah, I was ready, ready to pinch-hit. I kept it in an emergency, obviously. But just kind of my thing and treatments obviously, not doing blocking drills like I would do in Spring Training. But just trying to stay sharp and be ready.
I think at this point in the season, you're always going to be ready. So there's nothing extra that I have to do at this point in the season to stay ready. We're good to go. We're ready.
Q. You guys have obviously faced elimination three times this month. You've come from behind to win games. You were involved in one of the biggest ones of the year. Why do you think this team is particularly good at dealing with those kind of situations?
KURT SUZUKI: I really don't know. Pretty much everybody eliminated us from the season in May. So we've kind of been playing like every game was an elimination game since then.
But just basically you've just got to go out and play. You can't worry about what's at stake and this and that. You try to play it as much as possible as another baseball game. And we've been in this spot before earlier this postseason. And we've just got to go out there and play baseball, man. We can't control the future. We just control what's at present right now, and that's going out there and competing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT