SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2016
Dicky Pride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  No one has more starts here in the Sanderson Farms Championship than you.  Do you remember your first opportunity to play here?  
DICKY PRIDE: I do.  It was my rookie here in '94 when we played at Annandale, and it was a 36-hole event because of rain.  I shot 72-64.  I played with Chris DiMarco and Randy Watkins, and Randy eventually became the tournament director for about 10 years here, and I shot 64, finished tied for eighth, and two weeks later I won Memphis, so I like this place.   
 Q.  With all that, now this is your 18th start.  You played well here today.  What's allowed you to really score well on this day?  
DICKY PRIDE: Well, last week, as I figured out that I was going to get in this week, we had the emergency Dicky Pride, oh, my God, I'm going to get in a golf tournament next week invitational at Bay Hill, and Greg Owen and Rob Oppenheim, we had two foursomes, and I was playing with Skip Kendall, and Skip and I have played a lot of golf together over the years, and I was on the 8th hole and I'm kind of chopping it around, and I said, Skip, how does my swing look, because I really haven't practiced because since the Wyndham I've been doing some knee rehab.  I had to have some stuff done there, and it's getting much better, so I'm happy about that, and he said, your swing looks good, but I'm not used to seeing you do this, and I was moving off the ball.   
 Q.  So that one quick trick?  
DICKY PRIDE: I started hitting the ball really good, and then my teacher, Dan Snyder, came down Monday for the pro-am, and credit to him, most teachers want to make sure they give you information, Dan just wants me to play well.  He said, I like what he told you, don't mess with it.   
 Q.  Your 18th start here, you're familiar with the town, the golf course, and you brought your game with you this time.  
DICKY PRIDE: Yeah, what a shock.  It's been really amazing.  Since the Wyndham Championship, I had to get an MRI and some stuff done to my left knee that kind of bothered me all last year, so I've been really hitting rehab really hard, haven't been playing a lot of golf.  I'm really happy my knee feels better, and I'm glad to see the score.   
 Q.  You were 6-under through 12, gave yourself a lot of birdie chances on the way home, too, and I thought hit a lot of good putts and just nothing went in for you.  
DICKY PRIDE: Yeah, nothing did.  I really hit a good putt on 13 and 15 both, and 16 I hit the putt I wanted.  I misread that one, though.  I definitely misread it.  I thought I made it on 17, and then 18, I hit my putt, and Angel is raising his hand like I made it, but it kind of straightened out at the end.  I hit the putts the way I wanted to, I just had a couple slide by at the end.   
 Q.  Did you do some work on the range last week?  
DICKY PRIDE: Last week I played Bay Hill.  I figured out I was going to get in here.  I had the Dicky Pride, oh, my God, I'm getting into a golf tournament next week invitational, and I had a bunch of guys over to Bay Hill, Greg Owen, Rob Oppenheim, Jim Renner, and we split up and had a big game, tried to get a little competition in, and I was playing with Skip Kendall, who's a good friend of mine.  We've played a lot of golf together, and he saw something in my swing, so I asked him, he's like, I'm not used to you moving off the ball like you are, and I've done that before, so it immediately clicked in and I started hitting the ball better, and yeah, I was really happy with it.   
 Q.  How about all the Alabama kids playing well, Justin Thomas, a lot of Alabama people out here playing well?  
DICKY PRIDE: Yeah, Jay Seawell, the head golf coach at Alabama, is just doing an exceptional job, not only recruiting really good players but making them better, and these kids, they come out prepared to play, ready to go.  Justin is a perfect example, and then Trey and Bobby both out this week -- I mean, this year, and then, yeah, they're just good, and it's tough because they bomb it right by me, and I have to like start trying to get in their head and stuff to have a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT