U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 18, 2009
Dicky Pride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Heck of a round out there.
 DICKY PRIDE: Yeah. Yeah. I played good. I made a lot of putts. I actually switched putters this morning, and turned it around. And I hit the ball good yesterday, so better today. 
 I made a ton of putts. A bunch of terrible lag putts. But I didn't have a lot of short putts. But I made a lot of putts.

 Q. Your low round of your career tied with 2006 in Milwaukee. It was the lowest golf score. 
 DICKY PRIDE: Really? Lowest round of my career? I'm going to have to check that.

 Q. It's in the media guide. 
 DICKY PRIDE: You're right, 63 is probably my low round in tournament play. But I shot 64 in where was it? Palm Beach at the Ginn two years ago, and it was a par 73. I shot 9 under. But I'm not complaining. 
 Okay, low round, yeah. 

 Q. What is it about your round you liked?
 DICKY PRIDE: I think the course is in such good shape. The grounds are so good. If you don't get the ball where you want it, you can still make a play. 
 I only hit a couple of bad shots. I didn't hit it tight -- I hit it tight a couple of times, but I made a lot of plays. Start making putts. Good things happen.

 Q. You think this gives you a shot tomorrow? 
 DICKY PRIDE: I don't know. Too early to tell. I mean, I'm just off the golf course thinking about the play. So if that's the case, probably not. But, you know I am just really glad. 
 I made a 10-footer on 9 yesterday to make the cut. So I'm just thrilled to have a shot to play today, and I'm glad I made it. 

 Q. Last week you made the cut on the numbers and finished second. So there's a lot of good possibilities?
 DICKY PRIDE: Absolutely. 

 Q. Depending on what other guys do and what you do tomorrow. 
 DICKY PRIDE: I'm just glad I put myself in a position to make it actually matter tomorrow. You know.

 Q. Did you finish on 9 or 18 yesterday? 
 DICKY PRIDE: Finished on 9.

 Q. Ten footer? 
 DICKY PRIDE: Yeah, I left it for birdie on 8. So I was really pleased. And then in the left rough, punched it back right, and got it up-and-down. So I'm glad to be here. 

 Q. The damage to the green on 17 was that a factor of any putt to you this week? 
 DICKY PRIDE: They kind of moved the pin around. I've never seen the pin where it was on 7. It was right on top of the ridge. Trying to avoid that. But I can't say that for sure. But it hasn't affected me. 
 The grounds crew did an unbelievable job. You really don't notice it unless you're standing on top. 

 Q. When is the last time you putted like this? You made a lot of long ones?
 DICKY PRIDE: Yeah.

 Q. Are those once a year rounds? 
 DICKY PRIDE: I don't know. The Monday qualifier, I did about the same thing with the Monday qualifier for John Deere last week. I shot 8 under and qualified. So I did about the same thing. I hit it a little closer, but I sunk my long putt. 

 Q. One more of these tomorrow, and who knows, right? 
 DICKY PRIDE: I'll take it and never hit a shot. I'll go out and do the best I can and see what happens. If I can throw in another one of these -- if I can shoot another score like this, I'll shake her hand. 
 You know, I'm just happy to be in a position. Where would that put me, 13 under or something? 

 Q. You putt so low like this, do you even look at the putting greens, practice greens until tomorrow? Where do you go about that? 
 DICKY PRIDE: I'm going to decide that one over lunch. (Laughing). I'm going to definitely hit a few balls. I didn't practice at all yesterday, because it ribbed my neck out Friday. It actually probably helped me with my swing. 
 And yesterday, it was killing me so bad, I didn't hit a shot. I went straight to the fitness trailer. Kind of hard to argue with those people.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT