CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC PRESENTED BY WAL-MART
November 1, 2007
Dicky Pride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEWART MOORE:  You're off to a good start.  Lot of players in the mix that are 5 and 6 under.  Certainly off to a good start.  Maybe some opening comments?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  I've played well.  Golf course is obviously wet from all the swells and stuff we had and are getting while we're playing.   
 I had an interesting one today.  I had a chip shot that the rain was getting me when I putted, and my shot was over the hole.  Never done that one.  But it was just -- I played well.   
  
  Q.  What are you thinking going into this week with it being the last week in your position and all that?  Do you have to put that out of your mind, or is it on your mind?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Well, you try.  You don't really succeed the whole time.  When you do start thinking about that, you have to remember it's not going to help you to think about that.  So you just have to think about what you need to do rather than what you want at the end.  So it's just one of those battles, you've just got to do it.   
  
  Q.  As a veteran, is it easier for to you get that tunnel vision, and focus on shot to shot, and not think about the implications?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  I have to do it.  We all have to do it.  I've been through this before though, so there's experience there.  So I know that if I start worrying about that other stuff it's not going to work, so I guess I'll try something else.   
  
  Q.  You were talking the other day about your stretch from when the FedEx Cup season ended until last week.  You missed a bunch of cuts.  I'm just wondering how difficult was it to be patient through that time?  You were working on some things.  You know, the end of the year's coming.  Is there a balance there?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  There is a big balance.  And yes, it was very frustrating.  I was as frustrated as I can be.  Especially after Phoenix, because Phoenix kind of hit the low point.  As far as I was playing really good, but not scoring whatsoever.  And really putting poorly.  I started getting that fixed.   
 But, yeah, I had the same thing, just like you're saying, I had to take the big view of it.  Are you playing better?  Yes.  Do you have more confidence in your golf game, yes?  Well, then get your butt out there and score better.   
 You have to stay patient.  It's such a crazy game.  You can feel like you have nothing, and then the next day you feel like you're a world beater.   
  
  Q.  What's clicking for you right now, today?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  I'm hitting the ball very good.  And I'm starting to putt the ball.  It started happening last week, I started making putts.  Basically, I started hitting putts where I was looking.  I didn't always make them, but you want to hit it where you're looking.  And I started running the ball where I was looking.   
 Started making some putts and I started figuring out, Hey, you're hitting putts well, you have to keep trusting yourself and keep putting and keep doing it.  It kind of snow balled a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Have you sort of resigned yourself a few weeks ago to, hey, I've got to go back to Q-school?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  You did?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Did that in a way take some pressure off?  Just knowing, Hey, you know what, I'm probably going to go back.  Might as well not worry about these last few tournaments?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Well, that's one of those things I've always taken it as this.  Q-school is one of those things if you want to play against the best in the world, that's what you have to do.  That's it.  If you don't want to play against the best in the world, then don't do it.  And if you have to do that to play against the best in the world, then don't bitch about it.   
 It's one of those things, if you're going to do this, you probably have to go there some time.  And sometimes you're going to have to go there even when you don't want to.   
 But I didn't sit there and say, Okay, the season's over and I'll just play.  I wasn't playing to get ready for Q-school or anything.  But for me it was my golf game is good.  It's got to start clicking sooner or later, and it's doing pretty good right now.   
  
  Q.  You told the story of having to mark your fourth putt?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Yeah.  That would be the low point I was referring to.   
  
  Q.  And that was just a couple weeks ago?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Yeah, it was.   
  
  Q.  Was putting the biggest problem, and what did you do to get to that?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Putting was the biggest problem.  Brian Mogg, my teacher and I has really helped me.  I really have a good feel for my golf swing, and I'm hitting the ball as good as I ever had.  And I said that before last week and all that, that's why I was trying to be patient.  I was not starting my putts off on the line I was looking.  Two things happened.   
 One thing I saw Todd Anderson who was my golf coach when I was in college and my first part on Tour.  And after I finished my round on Thursday, I saw him in Phoenix, I'm referring to.  I said, Todd, you have to help me out here.  I'm dying.  This is as bad as it's ever been.   
 He saw something in my set-up, and it was better the next day.  And we kind of emailed back and forth, And I knew he didn't tell me everything he saw, because I have to play the next day, and you can't think about all that stuff.  So he emailed me back.  I worked on it that Sunday.   
 I went and saw Brian.  And I took the email Todd sent to me.  I said this is the guy that taught me how to putt.  This is what he sees.  He said I agree with that.  We did one other thing, and I started playing better.  So it was a definite here's the spot, you've got to go do it and work on it.  And I worked on it, and it got better.   
  
  Q.  If I'm not mistaken, if you're in the top 150, you getting to straight to the finals?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  So would that be your immediate goal this week?  Or do you look beyond that?  Or do you think, Hey, I'll just try to win?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  No, I'm trying not to worry about that stuff.  I mean, yes, would I like that to happen, would I like to be in the top 125, yes?  Would I like to win the tournament?  Yes.  So it's a real simple deal.  We all know what we want, but you've got to take care of what you can take care of which is the shot at hand or the round at hand or whatever.   
 So I'm trying to just stay there rather than think about the results and where it could get me.   
  
  Q.  The tournament here is Children's Miracle Network.  You've been doing this for a long time.  With the tournament and the charities, how often do you deal with the charities of the tournaments in your game?  Do you guys actually brush up against the charities that are involved?  Like, for example, in this one here?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Well, you mean considering my daughter's been to CHMS and both my kids were born at Arnold Palmer.   
  
  Q.  I didn't know that?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  My daughter had juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, so we've been patients at CHMS.  She's fine now.  But yeah, we rub against this stuff a lot.  Especially the Arnold Palmer Hospital for Women and Children.  I'm very involved with a lot of that stuff.   
 Mr. Palmer's helped me a lot through the years.  I've had both my children there, and I've done stuff for the hospital and that organization.  And CHMS was phenomenal for us.  It was a huge thing.   
  
  Q.  Give you a positive feeling about the events and the tournaments that you're working with?   
 DICKY PRIDE:  Oh, yeah.  It's amazing how golf can affect so many people in such a positive way.  You know, CHMS and the Arnold Palmer Hospital, and the Miracle Network, it's just phenomenal how you can help people by playing a silly game, and I just think that's awesome.   
 STEWART MOORE:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT