DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2012
Dicky Pride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about birdieing 17 and birdieing 18 to jump inside the 70.   Did you know going into the final few holes where you were and what you needed to do?
DICKY PRIDE:   I didn't know exactly.   I knew I was close.   I knew I needed to get a couple or I thought I needed to get a couple.   I was trying desperately not to look at the scoreboard.   I was doing the Nick Saban.   I was trying to get into the process of the shots I was trying to hit and execute those, and I hope Coach Saban would have been proud.

Q.   You just came out of the scoring trailer, and there are a couple of guys that could knock you out.   How stressful are these next few moments for you? 
DICKY PRIDE:   I'm very confused right now, but as far as stress, I really want to play next week, obviously.   But I'm not stressed because I went out there and did what I was trying to do today.   That's the big thing.   It's either going to work or it's not.   Let's face it, I've had a great year and I've done better than I have in a long time, so there are a lot of positives.   If I get knocked out it's going to hurt, and I will use that for motivation in the off‑season to work really, really hard, just like TaylorMade gives us bags at majors, and I have a PGA Championship bag that I didn't get to use.   I won't ever use it, but I will look at it every day. 

Q.   You came in 96th.   So far you have inverted those numbers.   You're 69th.   Good luck. 
DICKY PRIDE:   I like that.   Thanks.

Q.   Right now you're 69 but you could go down, you could go up.   Can you figure it out?
DICKY PRIDE:   I can't figure it out.   I know I did everything I can to play my best and came in with a good score.   I'm just hoping it's going to be enough. 

Q.   Birdied the last hole, played that like a champ.   You knew you needed a birdie there, didn't you?
DICKY PRIDE:   Yeah, I had a feeling I needed to.   I actually asked my caddie before I hit the chip, do I need to make this, and he said, no, let's just play.   Let's just play golf, which is what I was trying to do, and that was just me getting in my own way, and he helped me get back to where I needed to.

Q.   You're signing your scorecard, obviously the tournament scores are in there.   Are you punching through those to see where you stand?
DICKY PRIDE:   No, I asked Tom with the TOUR who is the guru of the FedExCup points what's going on, and he gave me an idea.   I'm either going to make it or I'm not.   There's not a whole bunch I can do about it right now.   I know I really want to play.   Alabama guy I've known forever, Tony Pancake, is the director of golf at Crooked Stick, and my wife is from Muncie, Indiana, so I want to go there and play in front of our friends there.   That also goes to any players who are there, if I get in the tournament, I need your tickets. 

Q.   I know you're a huge Alabama football fan, and Nick Saban has affected so much of the populous in our state.   Has he affected you in preparation, taking one step at a time, not getting ahead of yourself because that's kind of how you played today?
DICKY PRIDE:   He kind of preaches what Bob Rotella preaches to me.   It's all along the same line, take care of whatever you can take care of, which is the shot at hand, and then go back through the process again for the next shot.   Just like 18 I hit that rescue club, I thought it was perfect, I thought it was right on that ridge, it was going to feed right to the hole and it comes up short.   I couldn't believe it.   I mean, I was so pumped, I'm surprised I didn't hit it over the grandstands. 
It was good.   It was good to play like that and be in the heat when I wanted to get something done and play solid and accomplish some things.
(Following portion comes after Pride finds out he has made the BMW): 

Q.   Well, the wait is over, he has clinched his spot to move on to the BMW next week, and I know you were sweating it back there in the locker room.   What were those moments like for you?
DICKY PRIDE:   Well, it's stressful.   I wanted to do it really badly.   I mean, my wife is from Muncie.   We want to go to‑‑ I want to play in Indiana with a lot of friends.   I was real excited.   I felt for John.   I played with John the first couple days.   I know how good he's playing, and he just missed doing it.   It would have been tough, but I would have taken it.

Q.   We talked about how great a year it's been for you, kind of a renaissance in some ways of your career.   Now you're moving on to the third playoff event, no cut, and you have an opportunity with a great week to make it to the TOUR Championship, which comes with a lot of benefits.   What's your mentality going into next week?
DICKY PRIDE:   Well, absolutely‑‑ basically going to go see the golf course and get on the driving range because I've got to play great to move on, and I'm really excited to have the opportunity.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT