HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 19, 2012
Dicky Pride
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Dicky, solid iron play.   You had a couple of putts when you needed them.   Well done. 
DICKY PRIDE:   Thank you, yeah, solid. 

Q.   Hey, 11 was an adventure for you.   Take me through that hole. 
DICKY PRIDE:   I hit a 2 rescue off the tee, thinking I could just get it past the bunker, and it was going fine, and the wind hit it and it kicked, and someone jumped out of the way and next thing I knew I was on the road, and I was happy it wasn't out of bounds. 
Got a drop, hit it right where I was trying to, hit it in the bunker, hit a bunker shot that didn't spin, and got it good. 

Q.   Tough to gauge the win out there, wasn't it? 
DICKY PRIDE:   Absolutely.   You can throw your caddie up in the air and never see it land!   So it was tough out there.

Q.   You got a hug from Mrs.Nelson coming off the 18th green, Lee Roy Jordan standing there watching you play.   Life is good? 
DICKY PRIDE:   Yeah, it was great to see Mrs.Nelson, and Mr.Jordan, I've known him all my life.   I'm in awe of him, just the way it is. 

Q.   Got a chance to play in the final group on Sunday.   You got to be excited. 
DICKY PRIDE:   Thank you. 

Q.   Difficult day out there in terms of the conditions.   Way to hang in there. 
DICKY PRIDE:   I played solid the whole day, had a couple of putts I thought I made on the back 9, especially 16 and 17; they didn't go in.   Oh well. 

Q.   How windy did it get? 
DICKY PRIDE:   I threw my caddie in the air trying to figure out the wind, grass I couldn't see, so I threw Spencer up. 

Q.   Which way did he drift? 
DICKY PRIDE:   Not far. 

Q.   '94, it's been a long time since you've been in this position.   How does it feel? 
DICKY PRIDE:   I'm enjoying it.   I like the way I'm playing golf.   I was playing good at the beginning of the year, starting off.   I wasn't injured, which has been a rarity in my career, and I was able to practice and play. 

Q.   What do you do tonight? 
DICKY PRIDE:   I don't know, eat dinner, go to sleep, eat breakfast, have a cup of coffee.   It's golf.   Come on, just do the same stuff. 

Q.   Nine, ten‑car pile‑up at the top right now.   Do you like the fact that you can sneak in under the radar? 
DICKY PRIDE:   I'm here with you.   Is that sneaking in?   I don't know.   So many want to make drama about it, but it all comes down to just keep playing golf.   If I wasn't here at the HP Byron Nelson Championship, I would be at the Nationwide Tour playing golf.   Just play golf.   All those cliches that no one wants to hear, but you got to play.   It's a heck of a challenge, but that's the idea. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Dicky.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT