GIPPSLAND TROPHY
January 31, 2021
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions.
Q. Talk to us about coming in off your title run and how you're feeling in preparation for the AO.
ARYNA SABALENKA:   Well, yeah, usually I'm practicing a little bit more than two hours.  But it was actually good, like two hours really intensity practicing.
Yeah, after the title, actually maybe it was good to have few days off.  I still was practicing in the room.  Yeah, maybe was good for me.  Then, yeah, two weeks of quarantine.  It was actually quick and nice.  It didn't feel that we were stuck in the room for how many hours, like 19, right?  I'm still counting good.
I always was moving, doing something.  I felt really well.  Yeah, I think I did everything I could to prepare myself well for the tournament and for the Grand Slam.  Yeah, we'll see.
Q. What were you doing to occupy yourself for those 19 hours, 11 or so hours in the room when you were conscious?  What were you doing to pass the time?
ARYNA SABALENKA:   Well, still we were doing some workouts with Jason.  I don't know, I was watching movies, enjoying my time off.  I was speaking with my family.  Yeah, I mean, I didn't felt that I was in the room for that long.
Q. In terms of having to stay as fit as you possibly can, you had the five hours out, when you talked to Jason, was there a particular regimen or routine that he wanted you to do in the hotel room to help facilitate you staying fit for the two weeks?
ARYNA SABALENKA:   Yeah, we were doing a lot of mobs, make sure my body is, like, fit, keep moving.  Yeah, a lot of stretching, a lot of - how to say - like legs workout, make sure I'm fit and the legs always feel good and ready to go.
So, yeah, this was what we were doing for every day I think.
Q. What is your mentality right now as you get ready?  Coming in on a winning streak, what that means for you at the 500 but also at the Australian Open.  Where is your mind at as you start this section of things?
ARYNA SABALENKA:   Well, yeah, I already forget what happened in the past, to be honest.  I already forget about this title.  I don't know.  I'm going to focus on my game, prepare myself for the Grand Slam.  We are still have focus on the Grand Slam.  I am going to do some things on the court that can help me on the Grand Slams.
Yeah, this is where is my mind is.  I would say ready to go.
Q. Your first opponent this week is Kaia Kanepi.  Talk about the challenges that she presents.
ARYNA SABALENKA:   Well, she's really powerful player.  Big serve.  Yeah, it's going to be tough to handle this power.  But I think I will prepare myself for this kind of game.  Yeah, we'll see.
But it will be, like, a big challenge I would say because, yeah, she's really aggressive.  It will be really quick game.  I have to be really ready with my legs, I would say, to handle this power.
Q. In Abu Dhabi, despite you forget what happened there, you played a lot of matches.  You have a lot of matches in your body, more than anybody else going into this section.  What is your goal for this week?  Do you feel like you need matches?
ARYNA SABALENKA:   I think, yes.  We had few weeks.  How many weeks we didn't play matches?  Two or three?  I still feel like I need some matches.
But for me, focus will be more on some, like, things which going to help me on AO.  I would say this tournament for me is preparation for the AO.  I mean, of course I want to win one more tournament.  If I can, I will do everything to win this one.
But, yeah, focus is on the Australian Open because I have already, like you said, some matches.  I still feel like I need more.  Yeah, I was just go for it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT