HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 26, 2019
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. SABALENKA/K. Muchova   
7-5, 7-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  It was starting to look like it was going to go to a third set at 5-3. How did you turn it around and get it done in two?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I was just trying to stay in the game, try to just serve and like take that game and then try to break her. And I did it well, but then again my serve didn't go well, and then again break.   
So I was just like trying to stay in the game as long as I can and just try to stay focused, and you never know what's going to happen, just try to get it done.   
 Q.  Just your thoughts on facing Kiki in the final tomorrow.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: It's going to be really interesting to play against her. Every time we play against each other it's like a big battle, so I'm just looking forward to it and really can't wait to go on the court and play.   
 Q.  This is your fifth finals in China this season. One is in Tianjin, one is in Shenzhen, two is in Wuhan and this is in Zhuhai. What do you think, what makes you perform so well in China season?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I mean, I don't know, like I said, I think China loves me and I love it too, so the results here are really good and unbelievable, so I'll just try to keep being here.   
 Q.  I know you were worried a lot about the rankings at the start of the year, but I know -- maybe it's not something you're thinking about any more -- but any worries you might have had, it's, they might have dissipated because, depending upon how you do, you'll probably be even higher than where you were at the end of last year. So do you think about it any more and is it a relief to finish the season so strong?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I mean, I don't even want to think about ranking any more. After the experience I had this year, I'm not focusing on the ranking any more, I'm focusing on my game and just to put everything on the court every time I'm playing. So that's where my focus is right now. No ranking any more. I don't care. That's all.   
 Q.  Was there anything about her game that surprised you today?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I mean, I knew what's going to be on the court, so I knew what she's going to do. I just want to say that she's playing really smart, maybe today was a little bit unforced errors from her, but she's playing really smart and she is using like slice from the backhand, top spin forehand, like flat backhand.   
So she has a good game and I think the problem today was like her serve game doesn't go well and it's helped me a lot today. But overall she's a great player and I mean I just -- I mean, for me she's kind of same player like Ashleigh Barty, I think same style of game, maybe she is go to the net even more than Barty. But she, it's really great game and it's really uncomfortable to play against these kind of girls, but nothing really surprised me because I knew it's going to happen and I just watched her matches and I saw what she's going to do, so it's not like surprise. But I like her style.   
 Q.  Last time you meet Kiki that was in Wuhan and you win the match, but there was a crazy tiebreaker in the second set. So what would you expect if there is another tiebreak?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I'll expect great level from myself and good fight in the tiebreak if it's going to happen. But anyway, it's going to be a touch match, she's a great player and it's always tough to play against her, so I just expect a great level of tennis and just, I don't know, like a big fight maybe, big battle or something.   
 Q.  How is your physical condition right now, because you still got a single final and also Shenzhen ahead.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I'm good, actually. I had two weeks, even more, to prepare for these last two tournaments, so physically I'm ready for it, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT