HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 25, 2019
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. SABALENKA/E. Mertens   
6-4, 3-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How relieved are you next week to know that you're going to be on the same side of the net of as Elise and not across. And how tough was it to have to play your doubles partner.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Actually I tried to don't think about that she's my doubles partner like this week. It was a really great match today, she played really great and it was a really great level and I think I was a little bit more lucky in the last few games. And I really am happy to be on the same side next week, it's going to be good, I think, and I just can't wait to play with her against some girls (laughing).   
 Q.  Speaking of your doubles partner, does it feel bad than beating somebody else or does it feel the same?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, yeah, it feels a little bit bad, I just said before the tournament that there was a little bit disappointment that we were in the same group, I would like to play final against her, it would be a really nice battle. But even today was a great fight, great battle and I was enjoying every second on the court. Of course if could be someone else it would be even more enjoyable to win. But against Elise, against your doubles partner it's a little bit like, like, okay, it's happened. But hopefully we're going to meet each other on the court a little bit less next season and it will be easier. She's a great player, it was great level, I mean it was a great match, I think.   
 Q.  Do you think those terrific passing shots, forehand passing shots in the third set is one of your best points this year?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah. My coach said like next time we're going to move you on the practice, and if you will tell us that can't move, we're going to remind you about that point, because you actually can do it. And, yeah, it definitely was like amazing shot from me, I was just going for everything and I'm really happy that I put the last ball in. It was really tough, it was my, I don't know, I think if I miss that shot then I would easily lose that game, because I didn't have any power left on that one. But I just left everything on the last shot of that game, it was really good. Great play from her, but like I said, I was a little bit lucky there in the third set.   
 Q.  With Elise, when you see her in Shenzhen will you talk about this match or will your focus be just completely on the doubles?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Like in the future or in the past?   
 Q.  In the future, like next week, will you talk about this match?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I think we will speak a little bit and we actually did this for coach after the match when I was cooled down. And, I mean, everyone understands that it's tennis, it's like today you win, tomorrow you lose or -- hopefully I won't lose -- but I think, I mean, she's a good girl, she's a nice person and she will not get that mad about this match, I think, I hope, actually. But we will see. I think we will speak a little bit, because it was a great match. I mean, it wasn't like that bad or something. So it was really nice to each other, I think so, and it wasn't something crazy today. I mean, for sure we will speak a little bit.   
 Q.  You play Karolina Muchova next, just your thoughts on her as an opponent, she's played a lot of tennis and is very tired, but what can make her tough to beat?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I thought I was playing against Saisai, no?   
 Q.  No, I think it's Muchova. Yeah.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Oh, okay. Well, she's a great player, I just watched a couple of points from today's match and I would like to say that she's a great player and it's going to be a tough match and I'm just looking forward to what's going to happen tomorrow. I mean, we never meet each other and I didn't speak with my coach yet about her, so we'll see. But anyway, she's a great one, she's a great player. If she's here, she's great, and if she's in semis, it seems that she's a good player.   
 Q.  How did you perceive the atmosphere on the court?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: It was really great. I was really happy that some people stayed until the end and supported us and it was really nice, I enjoyed every second on the court. Like I said, I really like to play in China because people support us here really good, they like put everything out there and it's really enjoyable to play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT