ZHENGZHOU OPEN
September 11, 2019
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions in English first.
Q. Congratulations on winning the doubles at the US Open. Can you talk about that experience the two weeks there?
ARYNA SABALENKA: I don't know, it was something weird and we didn't expect it, we actually wanted to focus on singles and, I don't know, doubles it's like for fun for us, like to practice something for singles and serves, returns, volleys. And then when it was happening, we're like, what's happening here and we just tried to enjoy every match, tried to play our best, like be aggressive. And after we won that we were laughing like, because at the beginning of the season we said let's focus on the singles, doubles, it's just comes in second, and we'll see what happens.
And after the US Open we're like, well when are we going to focus on singles? But it was amazing, the Gland Slam champion and also in doubles, also Grand Slam title, and it's all really incredible.
Q. How are you feeling typically and what are your first impressions of the tournament and the city?
ARYNA SABALENKA: Actually I like to play in China, it feels like at home here. But this time, after flying 14 hours I feel a little bit sick, but still ready to play. On the court I feel okay and I don't feel anything wrong. But I can't wait to play here and I really like to play in China and especially the first time in Zhengzhou -- no, actually not the first time, I remember I played here in the 125K and that was why I was like a little bit excited when I arrived here, I was like, wow, like after four years I'm coming back here for the bigger tournament, this is amazing and I can't wait to play here.
Q. You just said that you feel like you're at home when you come to China. Can you describe why you have this kind of feeling, give us some details, please, thank you.
ARYNA SABALENKA: Because I played a lot of tournaments here and like all of them I played really well. Especially the last year I won Wuhan and two years ago was my first WTA final against Sharapova, and like three years ago I played some 125K here and I won them and it was something incredible. And that's why every time I'm coming back here and feeling like I'm at home and like I'm waiting for the good tennis here and I know that I'm going to show my best.
I like everything. I like the hotels, courts, the people here, they really can give everything to make sure that they're going to help me and it's just amazing.
Q. Looking ahead now to your first round match against Ostapenko, can you just talk about that?
ARYNA SABALENKA: I know I played against her before and we practice a lot together and she's a great player, aggressive, and she has a lot of experience. And also she's like a new generation and it's going to be really interesting to play against her. I don't know, it's going to be a tough one, but I'm ready for the tough matches and I'm looking forward to playing against her.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. You have been playing in Zhengzhou and we're wondering what kind of match it will be like the last time?
ARYNA SABALENKA: You mean here?
Q. The last time were you here.
ARYNA SABALENKA: I played 125K and I think I lost second round against Radwanska, it was three sets against her, it was really crazy match and I was so upset after that match. I remember I said, at that time I said like, I'll come back here and play much better and like win the title or whatever. And after four years or I don't know how many years I'm back here in the Premier tournament and kind of, to win the title will be really tough, but I'll try to do that.
Q. In Chinese calendar there is going to be a festival called Mid-autumn Festival. On that day the family will come together and make a family reunion. So we're wondering, in your hometown do you have this kind of family reunion festival and could you introduce to us about it?
ARYNA SABALENKA: I don't understand the question.
Q. The question is there's a Mid-Autumn Festival, it happens and when families come together and they celebrate. Do you, in Belarus, do you have anything that's similar to that?
ARYNA SABALENKA: No, actually we don't have something like that, but it will be interesting to maybe start to have this tradition or something like that.
Q. This question is about your coach and we're wondering, do you still cooperate together?
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, we're still working together, but for this week we made a decision to have a rest from each other. Sometimes you need it and, yeah, but we're still working together.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT