WUHAN OPEN
September 26, 2019
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. SABALENKA/E. Rybakina   
6-3, 1-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Busy day.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, of course.   
 Q.  What did you make of the two wins today? How do you feel?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I feel great. It's great to finish the day with two wins. It was great level on singles and great level on doubles. I'm just enjoying my time on the court.   
It wasn't that long, I think. Maybe even doubles was longer than singles, I don't know. But it was great to play.   
 Q.  A rematch with Ash next, semifinals again. How do you look at that matchup, where you both are now in your careers compared to a year ago?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, she's a great player. She's No. 1 right now. It's going to be interesting to play against her. For sure it's going to be tough match, but I'm looking forward for it.   
I'll just try to focus on my game, focus on each point, try to stay calm and be ready for everything.   
 Q.  In the second set, what was she doing differently or was it something that you did differently?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: You mean today?   
 Q.  Yes.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I think, like, she broke my serve, and I start to nervous a little bit. I was just like overhit the ball. She just block it. Doesn't hurt her that much. I wasn't going for bigger target maybe.   
The third set, I was trying to move her a little bit more, don't give her that much time, just move her from side to side a little bit quicker.   
Yeah, that's what's happen in the second set.   
 Q.  The second set wasn't ideal. But the fact you were able to turn it around so well, does that make you feel positive coming away from the match?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, second set was definitely not the great playing from me. In the third set, I was like, Okay, I just need to go for it. It's going to be tough, but I have to finish this match with the win. It was really important for me.   
Yeah, after third set felt a little bit -- not a little bit, but much better (smiling).   
 Q.  Watching you this week, it just seems as though the game is moving slow for you in terms of you're seeing it so quickly. You seem on balance hitting the ball. Is that how it feels for you, clean?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah. I just feel that I think clean and I move much better. That's what's we been working on. Takes a little while.   
But, yeah, I felt like great balance during the shots. It's more power and more control on the ball. Yeah, that's definitely how I felt. You're right.   
 Q.  You've never lost a match here, main draw match here.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Don't put pressure on me (laughter).   
 Q.  Does it feel that way to you? Are you feeling it in terms of confidence?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I feel, like, confidence maybe to play here. I don't know. I mean, people support me really crazy here. I feel it. Maybe that's why I'm playing much better here.   
Yeah, definitely crowd help me here. My game getting better and better with every day, with every match.   
 Q.  Even in doubles you look mad when you miss a shot. How difficult is it to maintain focus after the singles, coming out very soon after and play doubles?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I don't know. I was okay. I was like ask even for one-hour break between the matches. I was ready to go like straightaway.   
I mean, it was just my first reaction. I get mad, of course. Everyone get mad when they lose the point. Then I was like, Okay, doesn't matter, let's go for the next one. Just like first reaction.   
Outside you see I'm mad. Inside it's like, Okay, doesn't matter. It's confused a little bit.   
 Q.  Going into the doubles, anything specific you were hoping to improve on from the singles? Did Elise watch your singles and did she say anything?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I don't know. Maybe I tried to improve my serve a little bit, not go every time for big serve, go sometimes for a great target. I think this is the only thing, or I was just trying to put as much balls as I can in this court.   
 Q.  With you making the semis, Ash making the semis, Riske now into the semis, Petra, all four of you have had success on grass. This tournaments seems to historically work out well for players who are good on grass. Do you see why that might be? The way the ball bounces, the court?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Not really. Actually the bounce here is a little bit higher than other courts, I think. That's what I feel. But I don't know. It's tennis.   
I can't say anything about this. Just sometimes it happen.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT