NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2019
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. SABALENKA/C. Wozniacki   
2-6, 6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk us through that crazy final point.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I mean, I don't know.  It's something crazy there.  I think it was a little bit of luck on that point.   
 Q.  You came back twice from being down.  Just talk us through how you feel, because it was obviously a rematch of last year's final.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, of course I'm happy with this win, and especially against Caroline.  She's a great player, and I lose her in the final here last year.  This win is really important for me, and I didn't win these tough matches for long, since last year.   
I'm happy that I find this, I don't know, this kind of fight, like, in the game and just find myself have to fight till the end for each point.  Doesn't matter what the score.  Well, I'm so excited with this win.   
 Q.  Have you changed anything tactically to avoid last year's results?  What did you change compared to last year?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: To be honest, nothing, because last year what's happened I lead in both sets and I couldn't finish them.  Both sets I was serving for the sets.   
I think this year I'm a little bit stronger with my mind.  I could handle this actually pressure to serve for the set, for the match, and all of this, and just stay in each point.  Doesn't matter what happen there.  That's what I change (smiling).   
 Q.  Mentally, what makes you suddenly change?  Because it was looking like a very different game, and then you found a new way of playing and the power came.  How do you find this?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I don't know, actually.  Actually, I know.  I have been working for long to be more consistent on the court and to be more focused and doesn't matter what, to play each point, forget about anything else.   
That's actually what happened today.  I lost the first set, and last three games in the first set, like, I start showing my best, my tennis.  Then it's help me to come back in the second set and start to play well from the beginning of the set.   
Well, there is only one thing in tennis I'd like to say, just be focused on each point and to forget about everything else.  This is really tough.  It's easy, but it's tough at same point.  That's how it is.   
 Q.  Do you enjoy winning games like this, or would you prefer to win a game 6-0, 6-1?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: No, I prefer to be in games like this.  What actually happened in Birmingham I lost three-set match against Su-Wei, and she's a tough opponent.  I mean, there was kind of similar game like today, and I lost it but still I was really happy with my game, with my attitude on the court.   
Yeah, I prefer to win matches like this, even to lose matches like this instead of win 6-Love, 6-Love.   
 Q.  You've got Kiki Bertens next.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: That's a tough one.   
 Q.  Another tough opponent.  Can you just give us your thoughts on that match.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, she's a tough opponent.  She's a great player.  She has a lot of experience on tour.   
I lost against her twice, and twice I had chances to -- like, first match I had match point, and second match I had a lead in the tiebreak.  Doesn't matter.  So I had chances to fight better and to probably win matches, but, well, my thought is just to come on the court tomorrow and show my best.  Same like today.  Just fight for each point and doesn't matter what happen in there.  Just enjoy.  Enjoy the atmosphere and fight.   
 Q.  It's been a bit of an up-and-down year for you.  How much confidence do you draw coming back to a place where you performed really well last year?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: It's actually give a lot of confidence, especially I'm just first time on this level, to be top player.  And what's happen in the beginning of this year, I just couldn't handle it.  I was just, like, I was thinking a lot about all these things around.  And to come back and find my game, find myself.   
I don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow, but I can see that I'm coming back on my game and on my fight.  Tough mind, I would like to say.  I don't know how to say, but I think you guys understand me.   
 Q.  Do you enjoy the crowd?  Because you create excitement for them and they respond to you.  Do you like playing in front of people?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, I like.  I really enjoy, especially when people enjoy my game.  Then it gives me even more -- I don't know.  I'm happy that I can makes people feel happy and enjoy the game.   
And I like to play in Eastbourne.  People here are really (indiscernible) and same time they really support us like nobody else.  That's amazing.   
 Q.  What will you do to relax after a game?  How do you relax after a game like this?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, of course, good treatment with my fitness coach and physio at the same time.  Great food.  I have actually a great restaurant, Rosetto, Italian foods.  The food is best recovery actually.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT