WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2018
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/A. Sabalenka
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Congrats on a very good week this week.  I got the sense the very last two games of the match you were that close to making a breakthrough and probably taking control of the match.  Did you feel that way, as well?
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, it was so close.  But she's a good player.  She put everything in.  I think I was waiting for her mistake.  Next time I'm going to be more focused on the points.
But she play really well, and I was so angry after the match (smiling).
Q. What's the biggest positive that you can take from this week, from your play, from your wins?
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, I won a lot of good players, and I show great tennis.  It's bad that not today, but I'm going to try to keep my level and actually to keep, like, trying to be much better on the court.  And, well, it was a fantastic week for me.
Q. Do you feel that you have more game plans heading into matches now, working with Dmitry, than before?
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, yeah.  We have, of course, some things we try and have to work on.  And it's good that you have something to work on, what can be better.
Q. How long have you been working with Tursunov?  And did you work with Tideman before?
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, yeah.  I was work with Tideman before.  And with Tursunov I start to work two weeks before grass court.
Q. What did you learn from this wonderful match today?
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, I know I was too nervous on the match.  Next time I just want to try to be more calm on the court, and, like, I was trying to go for my shots and everything was coming back.  I was, like, Why she take everything?  I was trying to go more harder and harder.
Next time I will just keep, like, half of my power and just move her and be calm on the court.  That's what I learn.
Q. Is there anything that you work on, aside from your physical training, to help you stay calm?
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, yeah.  Yeah, I work on it.  Yeah, for sure.  Of course, of course.
Q. Biggest takeaway from this week?  Three big, big wins this week.  Your biggest takeaways?
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT