WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2018
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. SABALENKA/D. Cibulkova   
7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel about how you played today?  How does it feel to put in this performance and make the semis?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: It was not easy match because she's moving really well and she's put a lot of balls in.  Like, she make pressure on me.  Well, sometimes the game was going up, sometimes down.   
Well, I'm so happy that I finish this match with win.  Well, I'm happy.   
 Q.  You made two consecutive semifinals at a Premier 5 now.  Are these the sort of results that you expect from yourself these days?  Is this becoming comfortable?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, every day you ask me this question.  I didn't expect this.  I'm just came to this tournament for enjoying, just to show my best.  Well, it is how it is.  I am happy with this.   
 Q.  How do you assess your form throughout the week, not just today's match?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: My form?   
 Q.  Yes.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, it's not the best form which I had.  I'm just trying to work that with some things which is don't going on my side.  I'm just trying to find the way to win.  Well, I did it well (smiling).   
 Q.  You looked frustrated at times with the ups and downs, breaks.  You called Dmitry out a couple times.  What did he tell you that helped you because you played better afterwards?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: He was just saying, C'mon, you're doing everything well.  Just like, keep going, keep put the ball in, don't get crazy on court.  You're good.   
Well, it's works.   
 Q.  Talk about your next opponent, how you see that matchup.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I play against Barty.  Well, I played against her on Australian Open.  It was such a good match.  I really waiting for next one.   
Well, she's a great player.  She's, like, I would like to say tricky player because she's playing slice, lobs, with spin.  Well, it will be not easy match.  Of course, semifinal, who get easy here?  Well...   
 Q.  A player like you that has so much power, talk about the process you've had this year with the help of Dmitry, honing that power, knowing when to go for the shot and not.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, before I was hitting every ball just as hard as I can.  After I start work with Dmitry, he explain, You don't need to do it all the time.  Sometimes it's only to put three balls in.  With your speed, it's enough.   
Well, I think this thing start work with me.   
 Q.  Was it difficult for you?  As soon as he started having these conversations...  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I was really wanting to change something.  I was really open for information.  I was really listening to him, try to make it as fast as I can.   
I think I did it quite fast.   
 Q.  Even when you were playing the circuit, you also won a championship.  What is your general impression of China and of Wuhan, the city?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, yeah, I like to play in China.  I always doing well here.  I don't know why.  Probably the fried rice make me much stronger on the court (smiling).   
Yeah, I like this city.  Everyone is open.  Everyone is friendship, friendly, open.  Yeah, I like the tournament here.  I always happy to come back in China.  I always waiting for this part of the season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT