CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 23, 2018
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. SABALENKA/B. Bencic   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How excited are you heading to the semifinals?  How do you feel about the prospects of taking this whole tournament?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, I'm so happy to reach the semifinal here.  It's a great experience for me.  After yesterday's match even more, because today I was totally like different person on the court.  I'm so happy with that.   
I'm waiting for tomorrow match.   
 Q.  Do you consider yourself a perfectionist on court, like you can't make any mistakes on court?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, no.  Everyone makes some mistakes.  You just have to keep gig.  Doesn't matter what.  Even if it's like un -- I couldn't say it.  Even if it's stupid mistake, you have to keep going, don't care about anything.  Everyone missing, so it's fine.   
 Q.  You had a good run last week in Ohio.  Did that help you coming here and continuing the success?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, it's of course help me because to play against that kind of players, it's always giving you more power.  You start to understand more about tennis.  Yeah, it's give me more power.  I can, like, run even more than I could before.  Well, yeah, it's always great to play against, like, top players.   
 Q.  In your last match you were very emotional.  Today you said you were a completely different player.  How did you manage your emotions this time?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: You know, I didn't feel any power for emotional.  I just went on the court and say, Okay, so you just have to be calm on the court because you don't have any power.  If you get crazy again, you will lose 6-Love, 6-Love.  This thing keep me more calm on the court.   
 Q.  How important is the past year, given your Fed Cup, how important has Victoria been?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Victoria?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, after Fed Cup, the Fed Cup matches, they give me a lot of power, different things, which will help me in my career on the WTA tournaments.  Yeah, to play with Vika, it was nice experience for me.  I always enjoy it.   
I mean, doubles and singles is quite different.  I just was playing with her and enjoy it and try to understand how she's thinking on the court, probably to take something from my side.   
But, well, doubles and singles quite different, yeah.   
 Q.  What about mentally, having someone from Belarus, how important has that been for you coming up?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Yeah, of course it important to play with someone from Belarus because you understand each other.  I mean, it's help for Fed Cup.  Probably we going to play some matches with her, I mean doubles.  It's not sure, but it's could be.  You never know.   
To play with the girls from Belarus, it's like something really close to you because you understand each other.  You know each other from young years.  You know what to do on the court.  This is nice things.   
 Q.  As well as your hard court season is going, does it make you look forward to this major coming up even more?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Of course, of course.  I am so happy with the result which I'm showing right now.  It's give me more energy for the future.  I start to believe in myself even more.   
Well, I'm really waiting for the future.  I hope it will keep going like this.  But you never know.  The sport is always, like, up and down.  You cannot be on the same way.  Everyone is trying to be on the same way.  I will try to do this.   
 Q.  How do you feel about playing Julia Goerges?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I played against her in Eastbourne and it was quite tough match.  She was really aggressive.  She was playing really well there.  It's will be one more tough match for me.   
After a lot of three-sets matches, I'm ready for everything.  I'm don't care about whom I'm playing.  Just like come on the court and just try to show my best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT