AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 10, 2021
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. SABALENKA/D. Kasatkina
 7-6, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How were you feeling on the court?
 SARA ERRANI:   You mean singles, right?
 Q. Yes.
 SARA ERRANI:   Well, it was tough match.  She play really well.  She make me move.  It wasn't really easy.  I was just trying to keep pushing myself just to run and put the ball back, like try to find my rhythm.
 I think after first set I found my rhythm, my game, and I start to play little bit more aggressive, following to the net.  Yeah, that's was really good for me.  That's why I finish in two sets.  It could go longer because she was fighting, she was there.  Yeah, it was not easy.  I'm really happy I could handle this match.
 Q. What was your mindset going in?  Was it a matter of relying on all the wins you've in to get you through that?
 SARA ERRANI:   I think it was really good -- not really good, but good lesson for me when I lost against Kanepi.  Kind of put me back in the reality.  Makes me work a little bit more.
 So I think it was really good for me.  That's why I already won two matches here, because I'm little bit like I understand that everything can happen again.  I mean, I was saying of that every day is a new day.  Still, when you're winning, you kind of have this feeling that it's really tough to lose.
 I'm really lucky that I lost that match against Kanepi.  I shouldn't say that.  But it was a really good lesson.  It was even better to lose that one and kind of, like, switch off, understand that you have to work, everything can happen.  It's like kind of push myself into the work, help me for this week.
 Q. You've talked about overthinking moments at Grand Slams.  Two matches through, how would you rate your mindset at these tournaments?  Do you feel you're in the moment?
 SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, Kanepi match really help me to stay in the moment.  Also I'm trying to stay less on-site, to don't put this pressure on myself.  It's a lot of people here.  Even if you don't want to put this pressure, the situation is putting on the pressure.  I'm trying to stay more in the hotel, have nice walk there in the evening, cook for myself, kind of switch off.
 Yeah, that's help me to stay in the moment and kind of be on the Grand Slam, but at the same time understand that this is just another tournament.
 Q. What are you cooking?
 SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, because it's a tournament, so I cannot cook any sweets.  I'm cooking just fish, chicken, red meat, some vegetables, yeah.  Just easy, make it easy.
 Q. You talked a lot about being calmer, having a different mentality, being a little bit more Zen.  Have you been able to apply that in the craziness of a Grand Slam?  Do you still feel as calm, have that perspective?
 SARA ERRANI:   I'm trying to stay calm, but sometimes I'm still getting, like, overexcited and overcrazy on the matches.  I mean, here in the Grand Slam...
 I'm trying to keep this mentality, to understand that this is just another tournament.  Again, every time you just have to step in on the court and do everything you can to get this win.  You have to work for it.  This kind of thinking helped me to put this pressure away and be there.  I think I did it well today against Dasha, but still there was few moments when I get back in the old habits.
 But I kind of handle it very well.  That's why I won first set because every time I was bringing myself back in the game.  I'm just trying to stay calm.  I don't want to say that I'm really calm in the Grand Slam.  I mean, nervous is still there.  I'm just trying to work with all this.  Like, nervous.
 Q. Today was the first hot today.  How difficult was that to be playing and practicing, very mild weather, to then this?  Do you think playing two matches today maybe helped you?  It's supposed to stay hot for a few days.
 SARA ERRANI:   Yeah, maybe was good.  But, I mean, it was just the app shows it was 24 degrees, 26 maximum in the singles match.  Here in Australia, 24 feels like 35.  It was really hot.  Especially I was playing against Daria.  She makes me move.  It was long rallies.
 Sometimes I didn't have, like, power to just hit the ball.  I was kind of trying to push myself to, C'mon, you have to do it.  This is the tournament again where you have to punish yourself no matter what.
 I mean, it was really tough, especially against Daria.  I was kind of trying to push myself through everything, but it was really tough day, long day.
 Q. Are you in a position where you feel if you wanted to, are you still going to come on-site on your off days or avoid coming on-site?
 SARA ERRANI:   Well, I think I will practice on NTC, not on-site.  No, I don't want to come on the off days on-site.  I don't need it.  I just want to switch off and prepare myself for the next day.  Yeah, I don't want to go here.  Sorry.  I shouldn't say that, but, I mean, it's help me to stay focus and stay in the moment.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT