QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 29, 2020
Aryna Sabalenka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. SABALENKA/P. Kvitova   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  This is your first time in Doha and you're going back home with the falcon. How do you feel?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I mean it feels so amazing and I couldn't really expect the title for the first time in Doha. And especially, I mean, I love playing in China, it's, I'm doing well there, I enjoy it there, but I'm happy to finally win a trophy not in China (Laughing.)   
And, yeah, I'm really happy, it feels so special for me.   
 Q.  You played exceptionally from the word go. What was the secret, despite facing somebody like Kvitova, you both have quite similar game, but you just took off and never allowed her to come back into the match.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: I mean, I respect her, I knew she is a big fighter, I know she will bring everything she have on this final. And I just knew that and I tried to focus on each point, because I knew that she will try to come back in the game and she will try to beat me.   
It's a final, it's something different, because play finals it's always different than like every match in the tournaments.   
Yeah, I was just like focused, really focused on each point and played every point like the last point and like I'm actually losing. So, yeah, that was the secret, I think.   
 Q.  During the presentation ceremony we couldn't pick it up here, you were saying something about your coaching team. Was it because the coach, when he came to the court and he seemed agitated or we couldn't figure what he was trying to tell you.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: No, I was saying like we were working together for two years and it's a lot of up and down with him, like we always have a huge fight. And then I just ask him, Can you please be more calm and like try to be nicer with me.   
So, yeah, this was my, like I was asking him behind the whole crowd, like so many people can see that, that I tried everything and I ask him about to be calm (Laughing.)   
 Q.  Speaking of your coach, in the tournament you are allowed to get the advice from coach from even when he is in the box. So do you think that helped you out?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: You mean that we can speak?   
 Q.  Yeah, coaching.  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well actually before I think everyone was doing it like a little bit, like supporting and like saying something. And right now they just make it open. So, yeah, it's helped.   
But he, usually he's not saying that much, he's just saying like, Focus or like, Put the ball in or like, More speed on the ball or like, Over the net, something like that.   
And, yeah, it's helped, it's helped, especially on the important points in games, like bring my focus back and just push me a little bit, because he can say something.   
So, yeah, it's helped a lot but, honestly, I think everyone was doing it before.   
 Q.  This is your first visit to this part of the world. There are players like Ons Jabeur who are also doing very well and I'm sure there are a lot of young girls who have also watched you play in this tournament. What would be your advice to young girls of the Arab region or from Qatar who want to take up tennis?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: My advice is you have to keep going and keep pushing yourself no matter what. And everything is possible, don't think that like it's something unbelievable on the tour, like everyone can beat everyone, like everyone can be top player, you just need to really want it. So just put everything on tennis and you'll reach your goals.   
 Q.  At 21 it's been a few years that you've been considered a prime talent. Now two consecutive back-to-back Premier 5 titles. How, when you look back, have you lost anything on the way that it took you some time or do you think now you're peaking into the right frame of mind to succeed?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Well, it was I think it was a long journey here and I mean not -- like I'm saying like few years -- and I put everything on tennis, I was working really hard, like I was actually only playing tennis and focusing on tennis and nothing else. And I think I gave everything for tennis.   
And I just lost my dad in the pre-season and he was my biggest motivation, and I'm doing it for him.   
 Q.  I think you're the next Belarusian after Victoria Azarenka to win this title. Do you speak to her, do you get some words of advice from her?  
ARYNA SABALENKA: Not really. She's, she, like, we live like so far from each other and like we're not seeing each other so often. And, actually, no, she didn't say anything (Laughing.)   
But it was great motivation to be the second Belarusian girl to win the Qatar Open. It's a nice tournament and I enjoy being here and, yeah, it's kind of motivate me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT