AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2006
Iveta Benesova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  How did you experience this match?  You were up 3-1 quite fast.  Then it slipped away a little bit.  How did you see it? 

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah, I was pretty happy with the beginning of the match.  I was 4-3 up.  Yeah, that game cost me a lot of energy, a lot of power, the game for 4-3.  Was too hot today, and I felt so weak afterwards.  I missed, like, four returns in that next game and made three double-faults on my serve.  Yeah, so it was a pity that I lost the first set like this.  But, yeah, and then the second set, well, she made me feel so uncomfortable because she's very clever, very smart player.  She knows exactly where to put the ball.  Yeah, I wasn't feel that well on my foot today.  I was quite late most of the points.  That was the point I lost. 

Q.  Was the heat a deciding factor for you? 

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah, well, I felt pretty weak today, as I said before.  The beginning was fine, but then afterwards it was too much for me today. 

Q.  Playing against Martina, it's completely a different game as compared to Mary or other players? 

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah, well, it's different.  She's like a legend, a great champion.  But I tried to take her as another opponent.  I wasn't thinking about that too much. 

Q.  And game-wise, that she mixed it up, the shot, more than others?  Is it more difficult to play her?

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah, it's very difficult.  It's like I had no rhythm afterwards.  Yeah, I was in trouble the second set. 

Q.  Do you think Hingis can go on to win this tournament? 

IVETA BENESOVA:  Uhm, it's really hard to say.  I mean, I don't know how she's going to play against the top players.  I've seen her in Sydney against Henin-Hardenne and it's a different level for her still.  I don't really know.  I don't know even who's her next opponent.  Do you know maybe? 

Q.  Stosur and Bammer tonight. 

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah, so she will be next round, I think (smiling).  Nothing against those two.

Q.  I apologize if you've answered this question, but you said it was all too much for you today, the heat and everything. 

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yes. 

Q.  How dangerous do you think it is playing tennis out there at the moment? 

IVETA BENESOVA:  How dangerous?  Well, not dangerous as you can die out there or something like that.  But, yeah, it's pretty difficult.  I mean, Krajicek, I saw she retired after first set.  So it was really hot out there today.  Yeah, I just maybe I didn't drink too much or maybe I should do something else to be ready.  But I wasn't today.

Q.  Did you just feel weak?  Did you feel dizzy?

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah, I felt a little dizzy.  On the changeover when I was 4-3 up, I really felt like not good, in trouble. 

Q.  What's the sense of Martina's comeback being so strong at this point?  You've watched her when you were growing up, I understand. 

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah.  Well, it's really amazing, you know, after three years, not playing a match, and she's really mentally strong.  She believes in her game.  She knows what to do out there.

Q.  When you got such a good start, you were playing with a lot of confidence. 

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah. 

Q.  You sensed perhaps that you had a chance against her at that point?

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah, I was thinking that it's a good start, and if I can continue like this during the whole match, it would be good.  But, unfortunately, something happened and I couldn't make it at this level. 

Q.  Are you going to spend some more time over here and watch some tennis while you got eliminated?

IVETA BENESOVA:  Yeah, I would like to definitely.  I'm staying because I'm playing next week in Tokyo, so I'll be practicing here.  I like to see something of the city as well. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT