PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Ryan Helminen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Ryan, I know it's not the ending you wanted but you came so close.   Wanted to get your feelings about the overall week so far?  
RYAN HELMINEN:   I think it's phenomenal.   I think what The PGA of America does for the 20 club pros is outstanding.   I think the tournament was fantastic.   Valhalla was a great venue.   It was a first‑class, great learning experience, and I just hope maybe some day I get another chance to do it again.  
   
 Q.   You came down the stretch so hard.   Can you fill me in on what happened on 7,8 and the 9?   
RYAN HELMINEN:   I made a bogey on 6.   6 was playing really hard today.   That back left pin was playing a half shot tougher than probably yesterday.   I hit a great tee shot, and still had over 200 yards in.   Tried to get fancy with it and hook it in there but made bogey there but I'm sure a lot of guys did.   
7 I played great.   I went out to the right and I missed a four and a half footer.   You know, I hit a good putt on the last hole but I had a couple loose swings yesterday, but overall, I felt like I played very well.   First time I ever played really well and missed the cut.   
   
 Q.   How far was the birdie on 9?   
RYAN HELMINEN:   I would say probably ten feet.   But I've played well all day.   I got off to a little rocky start.   I made bogey on 10.   10 is not an easy par 5 but you should never bogey a par 5.   It's playing a little tougher today, a little wetter so played a little longer.   The rough was a little thicker.   But overall the golf course was very fair.   It was very well done.   You got rewarded for good slots and you got penalized for bad shots.   
   
 Q.   This learning experience for everybody, 13 rookies of the Top‑20 that came in here, so everyone had a feeling about it‑‑ some adapted well I thought.   
RYAN HELMINEN:   I think that all the 20 club pros that were here this week are all great players.   They all showed that at Myrtle Beach.   There's a lot that didn't make here.   But the fact that we are able to come and compete in this tournament; I feel bad, I wish I could have been the one to get through and represent the club pros and get at least one guy to make the cut.   
But it's great that they do this for us and I think it draws people in.   I brought a lot of people in and I'm sure a lot of other club pros brought people in.   That's how we promote the game.  
   
 Q.   Good support from your friends and family?  
RYAN HELMINEN:   The number of people that have called and texted me; I had 25 people that came with me this week.   It's been fantastic.   I probably could have brought 25 more.   It was great.   It was a great learning experience for me and I feel like I can compete at this level but on the other hand, I feel like I've also got the guys that are up at the top, Rory and the guys leading this week, 9‑under, you don't realize how good that really is.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT