EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 25, 2009
Becky Brewerton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BETHAN CUTLER: Becky, welcome back to the media center for the third consecutive day. After four rounds where you were leading last week in Spain and then another three here, that would be seven round you've been leading. How does that feel? 
 BECKY BREWERTON: Yeah, I feel like I'm getting used to it a little bit now. I think this week is a little bit different pressures. So I'm thoroughly enjoying it still.
 BETHAN CUTLER: What was the key again today? 
 BECKY BREWERTON: It was definitely a bit more of a struggle today. I wasn't quite flowing with my game as I had been over the previous two days.
 I have to say my short game was quite unbelievable on the back nine. Took a lot of confidence from that. Made some great up-and-downs that truly held the round together.
 BETHAN CUTLER: How will you keep it going tomorrow? 
 BECKY BREWERTON: I think I'll go and do a bit of work now with my coach. When your short game is going well and you're getting up-and-down from positions, it really does take a lot of pressure off. 
 You know then when you make the birdies you're making up ground and you're not losing any, so I'm very happy with that.
 BETHAN CUTLER: You seem very relaxed. Were you as relaxed today? 
 BECKY BREWERTON: Yeah, I must admit I was a little bit nervous on the first couple holes. Again, being in this situation, I was trying to lie there last night and sort of imagine what it was going to be like and what it might be like tomorrow. 
 And although I'm enjoying it, it's a good kind of nerves. You just have to stay in control and not get too excited. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: Just the one mistake today on the third. What happened there? 
 BECKY BREWERTON: I hit an awful tee shot actually on the third. I hit it way right down in trouble and just had to chip it back onto the fairway. I was quite fortunate to have a shot really.
 Hit a good shot onto the green and two-putted. I took my medicine there and just got out with a bogey. It could have been a lot worse.

 Q. You came right back with a birdie at the 4th. What happened there?
 BECKY BREWERTON: Actually didn't hit the greatest tee shot on the fourth. Just stuck in the rough on the right-hand side. Luckily I found probably the first nice lie I've had all week in the rough here, and was able to hit a nice shot in and hit it to about four foot. It was a good birdie in the end. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: 6 and 7 again good holes for you. Can you remember what happened there? 
 BECKY BREWERTON: Yeah. The 6th I've played really well. It's quite a tight tee shot. Really have got to hit one dead straight there. Every day I've managed it, and again today I left myself with a wedge into the green and hit a really nice, controlled shot and had about a five-foot putt for birdie which just rolled in, so it was nice.
 7 as well I was able to get up to the green in two again, driver, 3-wood, and had a nice little chipping putt there. So that was quite good.
 BETHAN CUTLER: Can you talk us through the tenth for birdie there.
 BECKY BREWERTON: Yeah. Hit 3-wood off the 10th tee. The pin is in that little section on the right-hand side of the green, which is quite narrow. I was fortunate in a way. I was planning to land the ball behind the pin and get some spin back. 
 But it literally pitched right from the edge of the green. It was probably borderline whether it bounced over or came back, and luckily it came back and again rolled a nice putt in from about ten foot. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: Questions.

 Q. When you see the long lost of illustrious winners here and you're on the eve of probably joining them if you carry on in this format, how do you keep your head together? 
 BECKY BREWERTON: It's difficult sometimes. I think all the work that I've done, and especially the last couple weeks with seeing the sports psychologist and having my coach here, it's all helping to keep me calm. I've written a few notes in my yardage book just to look at when I feel that I might be starting to lose my edge a little bit. 
 Again, just trying to treat it like all the other rounds. It's very difficult to do so. You can't really say it's the same as ever other day. But just keeping everything as calm as possible.

 Q. How important has the work with the sports psychologist been? Can you talk a little bit more about that? 
 BECKY BREWERTON: Yeah, well, it was interesting. It wasn't an area that I covered that much for the last couple years. My coach came up to watch me in a tournament in Holland a couple months ago. I really wanted him to be there to see, because I just felt I wasn't making the most out of how I was playing. 
 He surprised me a little bit with his comments. He said he felt that all the parts of my game were good, but I wasn't really taking my form from the practice range and from the practice rounds onto the course. He almost felt like I was just holding myself back a little bit. I wasn't being positive enough and believing in myself. 
 I hadn't really felt like that. So I put nose comments on board and I went to see Brian Hemmings before I went to Spain. We clicked instantly. It was great actually. I got on very well with him immediately. 
 Within sort of half an hour of meet thinking stranger, we were talking like we'd known each other for quite a long time. I was able to be quite open with him about how I felt about my game. 
 He just said a few things to me that really sort of hit home and just simplified, you know, how you can make it difficult, but it's really not that hard to make the choices of how you want to think on the course. 

 Q. Just about the Solheim Cup coming up. Made your rookie appearance there two years ago. Is that a big motivator here for you as well?
 BECKY BREWERTON: Yeah, I mean, that's one thing I said to everybody that asked me after I played in the first Solheim, a lot of the other players who haven't played, What's it like? What's the feeling like? I just said, You just have to get in to experience it, because it isn't like anything else. 
 It's always been my dream actually having watched a lot of Solheims on the telly to play with Laura and, I got my dream. I got to play with her on the first tee on the first day. It was the most unreal feeling ever. About ten times better than anything else I've ever experienced.

 Q. Two weeks ago, if someone had told you that you would be on the way of winning the Evian Masters, what would you have said to them?
 BECKY BREWERTON: I probably would have laughed. At that stage I wasn't even sure if the last tournament, Spanish Open, was even gonna count the get in because it was so close. I almost thought my chances were done.
 In a way, it might have relaxed me a little bit. I thought, Well, I might as well be aggressive and go for broke in Spain. Even after I arrived here on Monday after making sort of frantic last-minute travel plans, I still didn't even feel like I was here. 
 All of a sudden the tournament started. You know, maybe that helped, that I hadn't had too much time to think about it and stayed relaxed all week. 
 I certainly wouldn't have believed I would be in this position a couple weeks ago.

 Q. Have you ever felt so much pressure in your career?
 BECKY BREWERTON: I feel okay at the moment. You know, again today, although I was nervous on the first couple holes, I thought I would feel a little more stressed maybe, but I didn't, and settled into my round quite nicely. I think myself and my caddie have got a good routine going. We talk a lot about some strange things to sort of keep my mind off the golf side of things in between shots.
 At the moment, I feel quite fantastic. I'm sure I'll be quite excited in the morning. Yeah, just see how it goes keep playing the way I have, and I feel quietly confident in a way.

 Q. What sort of strange things are you talking about with your caddie?
 BECKY BREWERTON: Anything about -- I think he might have made up the fact he had more skill than (indiscernible) in the football match at the beginning of the week. Just things that we've done in our life, cartoons we used to watch when we were younger. Because we're about the same age, we can think back to the same sort of memories when we were young to what we had for dinner and stuff like that. 
 Just anything really just to sort of not have any quiet spells during the round.

 Q. You've only been together a short spell of time, haven't you?
 BECKY BREWERTON: Yeah. I think this is probably only our ninth or tenth event together. I knew Craig frilly well before he caddied for me. He caddied for a couple of years for Joe Mills out on tour. I had spent a little bit of time with him. 
 We're very, very similar personality-wise. We have got the same sort of idea of what we think is funny. He's great on the course. He's another real important piece of the team. I really, really enjoy working with him.

 Q. Is it mentally tiring for you? You lead every round last week and you've been leading or sharing the lead every round this week. How hard is that for you? 
 BECKY BREWERTON: I don't think it was as hard last week because I was always quite a few shots in front and it was a nice sort of cushion position I was in. Even on the last day with a five-shot lead coming into 18, it didn't seem too tiring. 
 I did feel very tired here on Monday and Tuesday. I think the whole thing caught up to me and I sort of realized that I had won. This week completely different. I wasn't even aware today most of the way round that I was leading. I wasn't really looking at any of the boards. 
 I said at the beginning of the day I wanted to shoot another score in the 60s and maybe try and get to 15-under. Didn't manage that. 
 But I was just happy with the way I played. The first time I looked at a board was on the 18th. Didn't really know much apart from that.

 Q. How important is someone like Laura to have around? I spoke to her, and she said she's not surprised that you're leading, just that it took you so long. 
 BECKY BREWERTON: People like Laura are great. The fantastic thing is that she's always more than willing, I think especially towards the young British players, to relive her experiences and memories.
 I think one of the best moments I've ever seen was when she chipped in on the 17th last year for a par. It's just so typical Laura. She's so unique and done things her own way. She's so different to everybody less. 
 It's just great to listen to her talk about her career and what she's achieved and how she's gone about things. He attitude is completely different, so it's quite refreshing. But she was fantastic to me in the Solheim. She made me feel so relaxed just by being very, very funny, as she was naturally. Her comment to, me on the first tee was, Just make sure you don't duff it, which was a typical Laura comment. She was fantastic. She is been very, very good to me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT