EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 24, 2009
Becky Brewerton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BETHAN CUTLER: Obviously tied for the lead. After the first round with a 67, you had a 68 today. You started off really well. What was the secret?   
 BECKY BREWERTON: Just carried on where I left off yesterday. I felt really good on the range this morning, and it was exactly the same thing.   
 My short game was excellent. Everything was great. I holed a couple really nice putts again, chipped in, and just felt very good in all parts of my game.  
 BETHAN CUTLER: Coming back, obviously had a couple bogeys on the last three holes. Was it the rain? Did that play a part, would you say?   
 BECKY BREWERTON: No, no, because it didn't really start raining badly until we got onto the 18th tee. Just missed a couple fairways.   
 Well, on 16, you know you can't miss it on the left because the rough is horrendous, which I did. I didn't really have a shot. Just literally tried to hack it out. I only had 80 yards to the green, but I could barely hit it 30 yards. Actually, my wrist is quite sore after hitting that one. Then just had a chip on the green and just a bit unlucky and left my putt just short. But that's the thing here, you get punished if you miss the fairway.   
 Then I had a 3-putt on 17 from probably being a bit too aggressive with my first putt. But I've been aggressive all week and it's worked so far, so I'm not gonna change that.  
 BETHAN CUTLER: How would you have felt at the beginning of the day if someone told you you would be leading again at the halfway stage of the tournament, tied for the lead?   
 BECKY BREWERTON: Yeah, I had have been very happy. Obviously there's a touch of disappointment because I got to 11-under. Again, like I said yesterday, this is a really tough course to not have any bogeys. It would have been quite an achievement not to.   
 Disappointed I did at the end, but I would have taken 68 at the start of the day.  
 BETHAN CUTLER: What's the plan then for tomorrow?   
 BECKY BREWERTON: Well, just the same really. Be interesting to see what happens with the weather tonight. I guess if it keeps raining like this the course will be softer and it will make it play a little bit different again.   
 But I'm really enjoying it. Get out tonight, have a nice meal, sleep well, and do the same thing.  
 BETHAN CUTLER: How did the course play compared with yesterday?   
 BECKY BREWERTON: Pretty similar. Really good pins on the slopes, which was good. It was very, very similar to yesterday. You just have to hit it on the fairway again and try and make birdies probably more so on the front nine than the back. I think the back is a little bit tougher.   
 BETHAN CUTLER: Good luck for tomorrow.   
 BECKY BREWERTON: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT