THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 16, 2007
Becky Brewerton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Becky, I know it was an emotional finish and a sad way to finish the game, but you should be very proud of yourself this week.   
 BECKY BREWERTON:  I must admit as far as match play goes that was one of the best matches I've ever had.  We both played well and probably, you know, I -- a halve is probably a bad result.   
  
  Q.  It's been a great experience for you.  Tell us about the best moment.   
 BECKY BREWERTON:  This week has been unbelievable.  Getting here and walking into my room and seeing the golf bag and trying on the uniform and just finally get to Friday, it seems to take forever to get to Friday, it's been brilliant.  I've really enjoyed it.   
  
  Q.  You've done the Welsh flag very proud today.  Congratulations.   
 BECKY BREWERTON:  Thank you very much.   
  
  Q.  Becky Brewerton.  First time in the Solheim Cup.  How is your resume after this week?   
 BECKY BREWERTON:  brilliant week.  Thoroughly enjoyed it.  The Solheim Cup is the premiere event.  It was a pleasure to be here.   
  
  Q.  Is it as you expected it to be?   
 BECKY BREWERTON:  It was better.  It really was.  People trying to describe to you what it's like, and they just can't because until you're here, you don't know.  That's what a lot of people said to me.   
 The entire week, from getting my golf bag out to trying on the uniform and finally getting to the matches on Friday, it's the most unbelievable week.  As soon as I got here -- I've been here for half hour.  I've got to make sure I'm fine.   
  
  Q.  You had miserable conditions during the weekend.  How did you cope with that?   
 BECKY BREWERTON:  It was very tough.  We all got it.  We didn't seem to get any luck at all with the weather.  We were always out there when it was raining and windy and when we were stopped and everything.  It was a shame, but I mean, you know, it was testing conditions on a tough course.  It was the same for everybody at the end of the day, but it would have been awfully nice for the clouds and if we could have just seen some sunshine.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that the bad weather maybe took the home advantage a little bit away?   
 BECKY BREWERTON:  The sun has been out, so I would have thought it would have helped, especially on European soil.  We've been playing conditions like this, it seems like, the whole season.  Every week it's been horrible.  So, you know, this is no surprise to us, but, I mean, you know, everyone coped with the conditions very well, considering how tough it was out there.  The standard of play was excellent.   
  
  Q.  Last comment on the performance of the U.S. team?   
 BECKY BREWERTON:  They're doing very well.  It's you know, all 12 players really, really tough characters.  Really, really good players, and, you know, you've got to be on top of your game to have a chance, and they were an incredible team and performed very well.   
  Q. Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT