WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2021
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. A mechanical adjustment?  What turned everything around that you were able to make nine birdies in a row over the course of two rounds?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   All it was was having some putts go in.  With me, that's kind of all I need to do.  I made one really long one last night, and sometimes those get you going.
Q. If you look at the ShotLink stats it's been a struggle for you on greens this year.  You have almost 200 feet of putts in the first two rounds.  You have 14 birdies, seven birdies each day.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I made an adjustment this week.  I tried to kind of replicate my belly putter setup, and my eyes way more outside the ball, trying to keep my hands inside the ball, and it's really working so far.
Q. Any connection to the Super Bowl?  Are you still a Brady fan coming in New England?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, I'm bummed out the Patriots aren't playing.  I'm happy Brady is playing.  I think it's going to be a great game.  I want to lean towards Kansas City winning, but never count against Tom Brady.
Q. Did you feel like you carried some momentum from last night into this round, or yesterday afternoon into this round?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I mean, it's so great when you have those late-earlies and it kind of keeps the momentum and then I went back out on the same nine that I played last night and made all those birdies, so that was fun.  I really had some good stuff going there, and it kept it going, I just didn't make as many putts after that.
Q. Putter has been working well this week.  How confident are you over the ball right now?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I feel really great.  Even the last -- I had a bunch on the back that didn't go in, but hit my lines, and for me, if I can just be around zero strokes gained putting or plus one, that's probably going to be enough for me to do pretty well.  If I'm plus two or three then we've got some action like we had this week.
Q. Speaking of great putting, what do you make of 53-year-old Steve Stricker doing what he's doing out here?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, these guys are so good.  Strick has been out here for forever it seems like, Phil and all these guys, and if they play well, they're going to be near the lead just like they were 20 years ago.
Q. You've played this event every year since 2012; what is it you like about this place?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, I love the atmosphere.  I know it's a little different this year, but it feels like a big deal from what we've been playing in.  It's just like a regular event almost with the fans.  I like the course.  I like the grass.  It's just an exciting week.
Q. You're a guy that loves the Ryder Cup.  Anything you like about the chance to maybe play with Stricker tomorrow?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Oh, I didn't even think of it.  No, I mean, I've got a long way to go before I can make that team.  Strick is not going to be watching me any tomorrow if I'm playing with him.  But certainly playing well this weekend would help.
Q. You have never shot better than par on Saturday here.  Why is that?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I don't know.  Tomorrow will be the first one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT