THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 2, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Starting off playing with Phil, I don't think that surprised anybody, but maybe start with what you like about playing with Phil in match play. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I love playing with Phil.   He's one of my good friends out here, as well as some someone I'm very comfortable playing with.   I know that no matter where I hit it, he's going to be able to get the ball up‑and‑down.   We just seem to feed off each other very well. 

Q.   Playing against Louis and Charl, guys you're familiar with, but what do you know about their game? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I think that Louis and Charl are one of their stronger teams.   They are both great players, and you know, that's definitely a team that's going to be difficult to beat.   So Phil and I are going to have to play at our best. 

Q.   That's a lot of experience, and imagine at this point, it's not really a concern, you just go out and play‑‑
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I think that it's going to be a really good match.   I think that was one when it popped up, I was thinking that me and Phil might play them, but yeah, that's‑‑ a lot of very good quality players in that group with a lot of great wins.   So it's going to be a tight one I would think. 

Q.   What do you all as a team talk about, things to work on today in practice, what are you focussing? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think the 14th hole, we got the tees way up, trying to figure out how to play that hole.   Also, you know, a lot of guys are playing each other's balls for alternate‑shot.   Phil is actually good enough, he just played my ball, and that helps me out a lot in the alternate‑shot.   But most of all, you're just kind of getting ready at this point to play tomorrow and rest up.

Q.   What about 14, you're a long hitter anyway, but what do you think you would want to hit, where it is today, what do you think is a good idea? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, I think that it's going to be a very‑‑ it's very difficult to make birdie on that hole if you go for it and don't hit the green.   I think you're going to see a lot of guys still laying up on that hole because it's so brutal.   But it's definitely right there.   Pretty much everybody in the field is going to be able to at least contend to hit it on the green. 

Q.   Talk about Michael Jordan being here‑‑
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Michael Jordan is a good friend of mine.   I'm excited to wear his shoes and be a part of his brand.   It's very cool to have his logo on my shoes that I'm playing.   It means a lot.

Q.   Did it freak you out, saying Michael Jordan is a good friend of mine?   How many people can say that?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's weird.   It's weird.   But he's one of the nicest people I've ever met.   Very helpful and a guy that I think a couple of us out here leaned on for some advice, and just wearing these shoes makes me a little cockier or a little more ready to go in. 

Q.   I know you were there last year, but what do you feel is the difference, why do you think just from your point of view, talking to other guys, why do you think that you have done so well in Presidents Cups, and struggled in the recent years in The Ryder Cup? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think that‑‑ I think there's not an exact reason I don't think why.   I think it helps us to play all of our guys.   That's always helpful.   I think that there's a lot of experience and I think guys‑‑ it's weird, because you think it would be the same but the Europeans have just played really well in The Ryder Cup and beaten us heads‑up. 

Q.   They don't play as well as their ranking suggests, and other than South Africa obviously, and the first one in Melbourne‑‑
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I think that this course is going to, this is going to help them in terms of they have played this a million times.   We don't have a distinct home‑course advantage in terms of the golf course.   The crowd we will, but I think everybody on that side has played this tournament at least a couple times.   I'm not 100 percent sure but I know this is a course that they are comfortable on. 

Q.   Are the team spirit, does it really matter who plays with Tiger Woods?   Everybody says they want to play with him, but is there much that goes into that? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think everybody would like to play with Tiger.   I know I'd love to play with him some day.   But, you know, Tiger is a great teammate on these teams, and I think that it goes under‑looked at how friendly he is out here and just how helpful he really is and how he would play with anybody; he's so open to it.   I think him and Kuch fit really well because they are really good friends and Kuch can kind of, you know, joke around with Tiger and they will have a good atmosphere out there. 

Q.   It doesn't sound as if, according to what Fred just said‑‑ are there other strategic points on the course where big decisions have to be made? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I think that all the par 5s, especially 15, I think that 14, 15 stretch; 12, the par3, that pin is in the back.   There's almost every hole out here seems to be a very big risk, reward type of situation. 

Q.   What do you make of Phil's longevity being a part of these teams? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, on our bags we have a picture of The Presidents Cup for every one they have played on and I'm looking at Phil's bag and I counted ten.   I guess I just didn't realize, I go, is this your 10th Presidents Cup? 
He kind of laughed and said, yeah.   That's an unbelievable accomplishment.   That's 20 straight years, and he's played on every Ryder Cup Team.   That just shows, he's been one of the most consistent players ever in this game, and I know how much these tournaments mean to him, so for him to play on every one is pretty amazing accomplishment. 

Q.   Inaudible.
             KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think every alternate‑shot team puts some thought into it for sure.   There's not a distinct difference in terms of putting like there was at Chicago, but I think the way me and Phil do it is the holes we feel most comfortable on, we are going to let them know and it seems to somehow work out. 

Q.   You've played with Phil in the past, and he's encouraged you to be aggressive, especially on the greens.   If you're in the group early, are you going to go for more pins? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, Phil wants me firing at pins, hitting putts as hard as I can.   He's very adamant about how he's going to make every one coming back.   I think this year, even more than last year, Phil is really dialed in. 
So I really look forward to going out there and get excited and winning some matches. 

Q.   When your partner puts you in that bad spot, how easy is it to blow that back off?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I don't think it's a big deal at all.   Me and Phil‑‑ I've only played with Phil, so I don't know the other guys.   But we don't‑‑ there's not even an issue.   I know wherever I hit it, Phil can get it up‑and‑down.   So that's lucky for me.   But I don't‑‑ if Phil hits it in the woods and I've got to chip out, that's totally fine.   If I do it to him, I know he's going to do the same.   There's no, I'm sorry's, none of that nonsense.   

Q.   Last year, the first time‑‑ does it seem more close now? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, I definitely feel a lot more comfortable.   I know the guys a lot more.   I'm more comfortable in the team rooms now than I was last year.   I just have a better relationship with the guys, just from being out here longer and playing on that Ryder Cup Team. 
But it's still very fun and unique.   It's still really fun to be in the team room just hanging with the guys, and guys, idols of mine that I looked up to are now teammates and joking around.   It's really fun. 

Q.   What do you think Jordan Spiethis ‑‑ inaudible. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Spieth?   I think he's probably excited to play.   I know I was super excited and super nervous.   So I don't know, I think that this team, especially with Freddie as the captain, he does such a great job of kind of just relaxing and helping us out. 
So he's‑‑ I played with him already once this week and he didn't seem nervous at all.   So he's a tough kid. 

Q.   When you're around him, what is it that you like about him?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think he feels very comfortable out here.   I think that's a big deal for a younger player.   I know it was for me.   I think that he's ready to go out there and win some matches and he's not afraid of the big moment which is important. 

Q.   Did you know he hit a hole‑in‑one on 12? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, I didn't.   Did he?   Well, he's a good player. 

Q.   Is there momentum still‑‑
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, totally.   I think that Phil and I kind of have a system and we kind of complement each other's games.   I'm able to kind of‑‑ especially in alternate‑shot, we are very comfortable playing together and I think that tomorrow we are just going to go out and make as many birdies as we can and have fun and get excited and enjoy being part of this team. 

Q.   The Red Sox this week ‑‑
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, I will be watching though. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT