TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 20, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Keegan, a par 65.   A great round.   If I could get some comments. 
    KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it was fun playing with Nick.   We both played really well.     Good to shoot a low round.   I was disappointed with what happened yesterday.   So this was fun. 

Q.   [No microphone.]
    KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It wasn't much.   I just hit some more putts, and I hit a bunch more 3 woods off the tee today.   I was hitting it in the rough a little bit.   It's great to shoot that number around here because this is a tough track.

Q.   Is it easy‑‑ or not easy, but (no microphone). 
    KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, sure.   It feelsgood, definitely.   I felt like I played decent yesterday and shot 2 over par, which I think is really easy to do out here. 
    Today just kind of got off to a good start and kept rolling.

Q.   How are you feeling?   It seems like a lot of things are going on? 
    KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I feel good.   Everybody's a little bit tired right now.   We've got a lot to play for, so there's not much time to be tired.

Q.   If I can steal a slogan, do you sort of feel like it's last shot for you, your last chance to get in? 
    KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Totally, yeah.   I'm disappointed I haven't got one.   But I did a good job today of giving myself at least a chance on the weekend. 
    Looks like Henrik's going pretty low, but I'm only one or two shots out of second.   So anything can happen.

Q.   In the Presidents Cup, many guys on the American team aren't playing this week? 
    KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Totally, I think it's great.   And you can already start to feel the team atmosphere coming together.   You can just feel it coming, kind of like the Ryder Cup last year.   You can just feel the guys kind of going more out of their way to maybe eat lunch together or sit down and talk or play a practice round.   It's really exciting to know that‑‑ you can feel it, that it's coming.

Q.   What did you think of Jordan's round Wednesday? 
    KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I'm glad he's on our team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT