PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I definitely did.   I wanted to beat's Duf's course record for sure.   
On 14, I didn't hit that bad of a drive and it hit the tree and kicked it 60yards right.   Could have just as easily kicked it left and been right in front of the green.   But that's how it goes.  
I'm proud of the way I played today.   I've played the British Open and PGA good on the weekends two in the row, so I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   How is the course?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   The course, the first 13 holes or 14 holes are gettable, but the last four are playing really tough.   
17 and 18 are going to be brutal come the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   Knowing Jason as you do, how do you think he's feeling right now?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   He's going to be tough today.   I really‑‑ he's been there, you know.   He's been in this situation enough now.   
I've been playing a lot of practice rounds with him and he's putting really well.   When Jason rolls some putts in, he's as good a player out here as anybody.  
   
 Q.   Have you been texting back and forth?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I texted him last night.   I wished him good luck.   I would love to see Duf win this tournament along with a bunch of other people.   I will be watching Duf this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   He's a good guy and he's good hearted about a little ribbing that I will give him about that day.   
You know, I really‑‑ the friendship with Duf is cool because we're going to have that forever, me and him in that playoff.   If he wins this today, it would be even more fun because he'll have that Wanamaker.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I just feel like he's been involved in majors in the last twoyears a lot.   Whenever you see that, I think you see guys break through.   
But you also got guys up there like Steve Stricker, they have been around forever.   They could easily‑‑ it could go to anybody obviously.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Jim is another one that's going to be brutal.   I think he and Duf are very similar.   They put the ball in the fairway, good ball strikers.   They are not going to do anything that is going to surprise you.   Sure enough they will shoot 4‑ or 5‑under and you won't even know it.  
That's going to be a good match up with them today.   I think Jim is going to be tough as well.   He's mentally as strong as anybody out here.   It seems like he's rolling the putter really well.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you are on the right path heading to the FedExCup?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I do.   I feel great.   I haven't won this year, so I would love to get one before the year is over.   I've got a bunch more chances a bunch of really big tournaments to come.   This is going to be a good help going into the playoffs.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I hope so.   I think that especially with my generation coming up, I don't think 43 is that old out here anymore as it used to be.   Guys are working out, more in shape.   I don't think 43 is any‑‑ I mean, I'm not surprised at all by any of them contending.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, you know, I feel good.   I feel like I've validated that win.   Not that I feel like I needed to, but I feel like my career has steadily been rising.   And you know, I hope to continue to contend in Majors for forever hopefully.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I always do.   I try to wear my St. John's colors.   I try to wear red and white.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   They are both super competitive.   I feel like a lot of people think they are quiet guys, but they are very vocal, especially Duf.   I think that they are both super intense.   
People that you really ‑‑ on Sundays, that wouldn't be your first choice to go up against.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT