WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was a really weird feeling because it was like a tournament within a tournament, I felt like.   Coming in second alone is a big accomplishment considering Tiger had such a big lead. 

Q.   Since you've been a pro you haven't seen this; this is the type of stuff you saw when you were a kid.   What do you like better?   Do you like seeing him dominate?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   When I was younger, I did, yeah.   You know, I got to play with Tiger yesterday.   He's playing very well.   It's very tough to give Tiger that many shots.   The round he shot on Friday was pretty special.   You know, I hate to sit here and go on and on about how good he is, but he is.   It's difficult because I really want to get up there and contend with him, but he's just‑‑ this week he's playing really well.

Q.   Well, you get a chance to see him Thursday and Friday, so you must be pretty excited about that. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, any time you defend a title it's a little stressful, and in my eyes I almost won.   I almost defended, considering what Tiger is doing.   But I really enjoy playing with Tiger.   He's super great to me, and I look forward to playing with him and Davis in the PGA next week. 

Q.   Are you thinking about Oak Hill at all, any similar shots or how you're going to play the course?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I had lunch with Phil before I played, and he was telling me to use this round as momentum into the PGA.   He told me, you know, it's probably going to be very difficult to win, but go out there and play as if you were in the lead and use this to play well next week at the PGA.   I feel like I'm in a good spot for next week. 

Q.   Are you excited about Presidents Cup, thinking about it, looking forward to it?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I've got to make the team first.   I know this is going to go a long way, and believe me, I was thinking about it.   I've got to make the team first, but playing for Freddie and USA is about as much fun as I could ever have, so I really look forward to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT