WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice round today.   Is the course playing at all differently from what it did yesterday?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's pretty similar.   The wind is very up and down.   But there's definitely some pins that you can get at with these wet conditions.   But you've got to drive the ball in the fairway in order to do that.

Q.   Is it at all discouraging that you go out, play a good round, and before you get finished, Tiger has gone birdie‑eagle and is already ahead? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, no.   I played a great round of golf. 
Tiger, those first couple holes out there are definitely birdie holes, so I'd expect him to do that.   You know, I hope he doesn't go too low, but I'm in a good spot going into the weekend regardless.

Q.   What went well for you today? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   My game feels really sharp right now, so everything that I've done this week so far has felt really good, putting, driving the ball, irons.   I haven't gotten the most out of both my rounds, so hopefully tomorrow I can do that.

Q.   And the reception has been pretty good?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, people here have been awesome.   They've been cheering me on, and it's a lot of fun.

Q.   Even when you're at this level as a golfer, how often does it happen that you come out to a tournament and you just feel like everything is sharp?   Does that happen all the time?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, it definitely doesn't.   This time of year my game always kind of comes around, and I start to play better.   I love this golf course, as well, so this is a nice comfortable way to come back and play. 

Q.   This must be nice, too, you play in a PGA Championship and it rotates, but these are always here, but every year they'll remember you as a past champion?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, this could be my favorite tournament all year.   I love it here.   This golf course and history, and I really look forward to this golf tournament every time I come.

Q.   I guess it feels good when you shoot as well as you have the first two days, but you feel like there's even more out there for you?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, totally.   Yesterday I didn't make many putts, and then today I made more putts, but I felt like today could have been lower, as well.   I hit one shot on the back that came up way short that was right at it that I ended up making bogey.   I battled nicely coming in.   I had a nice up‑and‑down on the 9th hole.

Q.   Are you trying to follow the same format that you did a year ago when you won?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I've been eating at the same place every day, like I did last year.   It's good memories here.

Q.   What do you order every day?   Do you always order the same thing?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, I don't always order the same thing.

Q.   Do you eat for free if you're defending champ?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, you don't.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT