WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I love everything about this course.   I've always hit the ball well out here, and the course fits me well.   I feel good going into the rest of the week.

Q.   Does your mentality or preparation at all change as defending champ, or is it business as usual?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, it's business as usual, just want to not put too much pressure on myself to do anything crazy.   I know that this golf course fits me, so to let the course come to me is big here. 

Q.   Did you sort of feed off Luke?   You guys were both hot. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I play a lot of golf with Luke in Jupiter, the Bear's Club, very fun pairing for me.   No, it's great watching Luke make every putt he looks at.   I love hitting it 100 yards by him when I can.   So it's a lot of fun.   I love Luke. 

Q.   One of the other guys today was talking about after you get a couple wins, do you feel like your status in the game changes a little bit, maybe your reputation changes and the fans, if they thought you had a bad round, they think, Oh, that guy stinks, but now they think if you have a bad round, the guy is a great player, he just had a bad round.   Have you felt that in your career?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, yeah, totally.   I feel the last year or so, especially after the Ryder Cup, I've felt like I've established myself out here, and I feel like a different player in terms of I feel like I can win when I play well every time.   So that's big. 

Q.   And I guess it's more important how you feel about that as a player, but do you?   Do you take notes?   Do fans look at you differently?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, totally.   Before no one knew who I was anyway.   Now, especially after the Ryder Cup, a lot of people know who I am and are rooting for me, and I really appreciate that. 

Q.   Do you think Dufner is on the alert to get you back? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Oh, I'm always on alert when he's around.   I'm sure.   I'm sure he is, he's planning something.   I'm nervous for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT