THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Did you like this round today?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  Yeah, I did.  I played really, really
solid.  I could have been a few shots lower.  The greens are way
slower today.  A few putts out there I left right in the jar.
There could be some scores out there, for sure.
Q.  Tell me the differences you see today.  Let's start with
weather-wise, compared to the first couple of days.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  This morning there wasn't quite as much
wind.  The wind is picking up now.  The R&A did a good job of --
feels like they put water on the greens, which is a good thing
because it was getting a little dicey in the afternoon.  There's
still a few pins that will be tough.
Q.  We actually saw them watering last night.  I guess you
guys would have liked that the first couple of rounds as well.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  Yeah, it's very smart that they did.  It
would have gotten crazy if they hadn't watered.  But the course is
in great shape, and if you hit good shots today you can make
birdies.
Q.  Tell me the difference between your -- I know score-wise
difference, what did you do different today?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  I hit a lot more fairways today.  I hit
it in the right side of the holes.  And I gave myself a lot of
easy pars, which I hadn't been doing all week.
Q.  This is a nice way to after -- I know the first couple of
rounds were not what you wanted.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  Yeah, I feel like -- one good round
tomorrow, and I could have a very solid finish here.
Q.  Can you talk about yesterday making the cut?  I know
you're never really sure.  Did you have an idea coming up 18.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  Yeah, I missed a 3-footer -- we figured
it was going to be 7.  We missed a 3-footer on 17 to go to 8.  I
thought I had to make birdie on the last hole to make the cut.  I
hit a nice 6-iron in there to about six feet.  It's so weird when
you try to make the cut and you've got a 6-footer to make the cut,
you're so nervous.  It's not the case when I have a putt to win
the tournament.  I was super nervous.  You're over here in Europe
and you've missed the cut and you're kind of stranded.  So it was
a big putt.  Especially when I went out there today and shot a
good round, and now I'm one good round away from a good finish.
Q.  Why has this course been so difficult for everyone?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  It's playing so fast and firm.  I've
never seen anything like it.  So if you hit it in the wrong spots,
you can have the ball roll into the bunker.  It's just difficult.
The minor mistake can lead to double or worse.
Q.  Phil was saying yesterday he thought the greens were
faster than Augusta.  Do you agree or does he have a point?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  Yeah, I mean, a lot of the greens, a lot
of the cups that we were putting to had no grass.  It's like
putting on a carpet.  There's no way to measure the Stimp of the
greens because downhill, downwind you can't stop the ball.
Q.  Is this unique, what you've seen here?  Have you ever
seen anything quite like this?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  No, I've never seen anything like this.
This is the hardest.  The U.S. Open is hard, because the rough is
so high and it's just borderline -- well, it's just tough.  Here
it's out in front of you and it's still very difficult.
Q.  You're not the first one to say it, but for you this is
arguably one of the toughest you've ever faced?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  Yeah, for sure, definitely.
Q.  Is there more green out there?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:  Definitely.  They did the right thing.
There's a few cups that were already burned out a little when I
was out there.  But they for sure put a good amount of water on
it.


 
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT