TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was the difference from today's round for you compared to yesterday?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I finally made a few putts, even though I missed a hundred, too.   But today was better.   I had a good stretch of holes there in the middle, and could have been a lot better.   But that's how it is.

Q.   Can you talk about feeding off the crowd.   Obviously you were a threesome.   You had a great gallery and when you guys are playing well, can you talk about how that has an effect?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   Zach and Justin are two of the best guys out here.   Last year I got to play with Webb right after he won the U. S. Open.   So the crowd is very appreciative of them coming here, and I obviously love them coming out and supporting me.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm thinking about it.

Q.   Can you talk about the conditions out there, especially after last week?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   I mean the conditions are very scorable.   You know, there's a lot of low numbers out there today. 
But it's a tricky little course, a shot here or there or just a fraction off can lead to a bogey as well.   So you have to walk a fine line.

Q.   How much confidence does a round like this get you going into weekend play?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I feel great.   I'm not ‑‑ today's 65 could have been 62 or 3 easy.   So I'm really looking forward to this weekend.

Q.   Different state of mind for you as opposed to a week ago at this time?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, definitely.   I was bumming at this time last week.   But I'm really happy to be here in New England and hope to give it a run here on the weekend. 

Q.   I thought that birdie you made at the 18th hole was really big just for your mental attitude. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   It's been a frustrating couple days, but I was able to get a nice stretch there at the end ‑‑ I mean the middle of the round.   And on this course it's going to take just two or three good runs on this course and you're going to be right there on Sunday.

Q.   Dennis Paulson says you need three good rounds and one really good round to win here.   So you're in position going into the weekend. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   I feel great.   You can go out there on any of these days and shoot 61, 62, 63 and get yourself back in it.

Q.   Did you notice the golf course getting faster at all?   Were the greens a little bit firmer?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Definitely.   This is the firmest I've ever played it.   And it's not firm.   But normally it's soaking wet out here.   The course is firming up, the fairways are firming up.   The course is looking really good.

Q.   You know, you've hit 32 of 36 greens this week. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Man, yeah.   That's a great stat.   I wish if I'd just made a few more putts, we'd be in there.

Q.   34 putts in the opening round, 29 putts in the second round.   There's your difference in the score. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   Definitely.   I hope to give it a good run this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT