TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   We would like to welcome Keegan Bradley to the interview room.   If you want to talk a little bit about the course, and then your thoughts on playing this week and then we'll have some questions.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   The course is in amazing shape.   We got a ton of rain yesterday but it drained really well.   The greens are perfect.   The course will be ready to go tomorrow.   I think there will be some low numbers like there always are, but that's what makes this tournament so great.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever attend this event as a kid?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, this was the first PGA TOUR event I ever came to.   I don't really remember what age I was but I remember coming to watch David Duval.   I remember following him around and it was the first time I saw professional golf and many memories here.   
   
 Q.   Any holes that stick out?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I remember 14, 15, the drivable par 4, a lot of the holes that I came out to watch, I can remember where they hit it and everything, so it's a pretty neat thing.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the mind‑set of playing after a U.S. Open to come back this week, and probably this course is a lot more friendly.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's a lot of fun.   The week after the U.S. Open, we come here and Travelers treats us so well, and we go out and try to make as many birdies as we can.   The course can play tough, for sure, but if it's not windy and soft, I think you'll see some low numbers out here.   
   
 Q.   You had won a PGA TOUR event by the time you won the PGA, so what can Justin expect?   What can he expect here in the next handful of days, weeks, months, that you didn't have an opportunity to do or experience when you were just a pro or not a Major Champion?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, I think Justin is probably in a little better spot to handle this.   I was a rookie.   He's been one of the best players in the world for a long time.   He's a great player.   
But I know he's been off doing media for the last‑‑ since he won on Sunday.   He's probably going to be just absolutely exhausted.   As this probably will be a tough week for him just to come down from winning the U.S. Open, I know that he's been busy.   But if there's anybody that can handle it, it's him.   
But winning your first major only happens one time and it's an amazing thing.   I wasn't able to sleep very well for weeks after.   So I hope he's been able to enjoy it and come out and play well.   
   
 Q.   How about from an expectation standpoint, maybe not so much when you put on yourself after you won the PGA but maybe some expectations of others, sponsors or peers for family or friends; how did you deal with that after winning the PGA?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   After I won the PGA, I struggled a little bit out here.   It was such a huge adjustment for me.   For Justin, I think it's a little easier.   But he's going to putt a lot of pressure on himself to play well in majors from here on, because winning a major, the feeling is so awesome that he'll want to do that again.   
But I think Justin is really good at managing his emotions on the golf course and he's a pretty together guy, so I think he'll handle it really well.   
   
 Q.   We understand you're coming back to Wichita Country Club in August, last year you raised a lot of money; why come back?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I love giving back to New England and I love coming home.   Vermont is a very special place for me.   I'm going to try to raise as much money as I can for the people of Boston and some other cool charities that we'll be working with.   
It's going to be another great day.   Last year was a huge success and we all look forward to coming back and doing it again.   
   
 Q.   Is it the format going to change?   Would you like to see some different stuff, maybe some special guests?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, we are going to work on some things a little different this year.   I know there's people that want to check it out and play.   There's a lot of people that are really interested in coming out and supporting the event, so it should be really special this year.  
   
 Q.   The Bruins, the triple overtime, is it tough for you to follow along?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I was‑‑ before the week started I knew the game would be on tonight and I was just praying for a late/early tee time and when I got the 12:50 tomorrow, I was so relieved.   I love the games so much, I can't miss them.   I'm lucky I'm 12:50 tomorrow, I can say up and watch the game and sleep in and be totally fine.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about your strategy playing the course hitting driver?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I try to hit driver as much as I can out here.   You want to make as many birdies as possible.   So it gives you room to hit driver but there's also holes that you just have to lay back and hit like a 2‑iron or hybrid off of and wedge in there.   And then 15, I think every year I've hit 3‑wood off that tee.   Some years it's not quite enough club but it puts you right in the front there.   
I think a lot of guys would take all pars and just walk on.   It's a great chance to make three, but you can easily make bogey or worse on that hole.   
MARK STEVENS:   Thanks a lot for your time, Keegan.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT