ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 23, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Not only a birdie on 17, but a birdie on 15, birdie on 16, tough bogey on 18, but I'm guessing you're very satisfied with this game?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I played so well, I hit a really good putt on 18.   This course is tough, so any round in the mid‑60s is really good.  
   
 Q.   You look at your stats, how about 14 of 14 fairways?   How pleased are you with how you played off the tee today?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Really pleased.   I was talking to M.J. a bunch this off‑season, and he was telling me to play much more cocky.  
   
 Q.   Stand by, M.J. is Michael Jordan, right?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, he wants me to play with a lot more aggression and be cocky and just pretend like I'm playing him, which is normally a pretty good beating.  
   
 Q.   Has he become your pseudo mental coach in a way?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I texted him last night and told him I did what he was saying for the entire round today.   I just was going out there and pretending I was him.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow the wind is going to blow 25 to 30 miles per hour.   You're a pretty good ways out in the lead.   But as you're chasing a guy way out in front, is that a benefit to have the wind blowing?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Absolutely.   I've had some good finishes this year.   This course is going to be tough with heavy winds, but I kind of like it when it's a little nasty.  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about today.   66, you didn't actually miss a fairway.   When is the last time you did that?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I have no idea.   I'm proud of the way I played, a very solid round.  
   
 Q.   You're getting better here.   74, 69, 66, what are you learning this golf course the more you play it?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, the first time I've ever broken par was yesterday.   So today was a really good round.   You've got to stay really patient on this course, because it can beat you up a little bit.   But you have to hit the ball on the fairway, and I did that today.  
   
 Q.   Were the conditions softer today?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, they were.   The greens were softer, but this course is so hard that it doesn't matter how soft the greens are, you can still make tons of bogeys out here.  
   
 Q.   Your game is coming into shape, and you're talking about learning the mental side from Michael Jordan.   Tell us what M.J. tells you?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, he just wanted me to be more cocky out there, more aggressive, and I'm learning through him what the mental side of what he was thinking, and that's a big help to me.  
   
 Q.   I always thought you were aggressive, but I guess even more so he was, right?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I kept telling myself out there today that I hit these shots a million times in practice.   Let's just do it again, and I really didn't mis‑hit a shot all day.  
   
 Q.   Great round.   What about tomorrow?   Are you excited?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm very, very excited.   It's going to be windy.   It seems like every event we've played in this year has been windy, but I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Something clicked late in the round yesterday?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I've never really felt that comfortable on this golf course.   I haven't played well at all, really, and starting on that back nine, I've been playing well all year.   I just haven't made any putts at all.   So some putts started to go in, and today I felt so good because I saw those putts going in the hole.   
I missed an 8‑footer for par on the last hole.   I hit it right down my line which is a good sign.  
   
 Q.   How receptive was it?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was much more receptive than I've seen it, but it's not like it's super soft.   It's still probably what a normal course is like.   Here the greens are so firm, sometimes you can't even hold them.   So I think the course plays better when it's like this.  
   
 Q.   Did Michael think you were aggressive and cocky enough at the Ryder Cup?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   He uses examples where times I have been.   Sometimes I can be a little passive.   Today and yesterday afternoon the last nine holes I felt like I was being cocky and carrying myself a little different.  
   
 Q.   Did you reach out to him or did he reach out to you last night?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, we talk.   I play a bunch of golf with him in Jupiter.   I texted him last night.   He's another one of these guys that's such a good guy.   He's so good to me.   It's a really good thing to have somebody like that to just be able to text and reach out to.  
   
 Q.   You've played golf with him?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Oh, yeah.   I love playing golf with him, because you know you're going to be out there and there's going to be a lot of trash talk and he's going to want to beat you.   He's a good guy, and he's helping me out.  
   
 Q.   Easy money, Keegan.   Just say it?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Definitely easiest money I've ever made.  
   
 Q.   What do you give him?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I give him 5 a side.  
   
 Q.   Does he ask for more?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm not giving him anymore, even if he asks.  
   
 Q.   He plays the tips?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   He plays the tips.   I've said it before.   I think that his short game is above average of what a TOUR player would be.   He's a very good player.   Hits it very short, and I make sure to point that out to him.  
   
 Q.   Do you talk any basketball with him?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, yeah.   I mean, he's very approachable.   Like everybody I seem to have met.   He's very willing to give information and help me out which is really cool.  
   
 Q.   How many memberships does he have in South Florida?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I have no idea.   He's got a bunch.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT