NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 13, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:     Like to welcome Keegan Bradley. 
Keegan, you just got done in the Pro‑Am.   If you want to talk about the course here at Riviera and then we'll have a few questions.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, the course is looking really, really great.   Very similar to last year.   Greens are firm, quick.   I love this golf course.   I love everything about it, the history and the layout and I'm really looking forward to this week. 
MARK STEVENS:   As you were playing, obviously some memories of last year came back.   You hit some big putts there at the end and big shots; you want to talk about coming back? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, this course and this area, it's fun to come back because of last year. 
It was a defining moment even though I didn't win the tournament.   I'll always have that memory of what happened there on 18 and in the playoff and stuff like that.   It really gets me excited to play, just even being here. 

Q.   How many times have you seen that, making that putt on the 18th, and when you watch it, what does it feel like? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's really awesome that the Golf Channel seems to play it a lot, which makes it fun to watch.   It's something that you dream about as a kid.   You dream about that putt on 18; after Phil makes it, getting to a playoff at Riviera on 18, pretty special. 
When I watch it, it seems like, that wasn't me.   It seems like I'm kind of watching a dream, which makes it more fun. 

Q.   They had the whole event on Golf Channel last night, and you went for 10 in the playoff.   And given that and given the way it turned out, do you still feel like you're going to play that hole the same way, or did the outcome alter maybe how you're going to approach No. 10? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, you can't play up to that back pin, it's impossible; you can't hold the green.   When the pin is in the back right, you have to get it up by the green and hopefully over the green.   You can't lay up and holed that green. 
But I had eight feet to tie Bill Haas again, and it was actually a really good putt.   It caught the low lip.   For me, it's a good 3‑wood.   You know, when that pin is up on the front left, I guess you can lay up, but it's kind of silly considering you can get up there close. 
But when the pin is on the back right, you're just trying to make 4 most of the time.   Bill made a 45‑foot putt, which is good for him. 

Q.   You just talked about the putt on 18 and how significant that was for you.   Can you elaborate or on just what that meant, and going forward, maybe how that propelled you to the rest of the year and that kind of thing?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I think that that putt and this tournament kind of set me up to win Bridgestone later in the year.   It was in that atmosphere, playing against Phil and at Bridgestone I was playing against Jim Furyk, another Hall of Famer, and it was those couple moments coming down the stretch where I really felt comfortable and all of my other wins, I had come‑from‑behind. 
This one, the whole day I was kind of in the hunt and I really learned a lot.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT