HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 7, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   ‑69 and the afternoon was supposed to be more difficult.   What got you to 69 after the morning round of 71? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I played so well all day.   This morning I had three or four 3‑putts and I missed some makeable putts.   This afternoon, I basically hit every green.   I just have felt really solid out there. 

Q.   This is known as perhaps the most difficult golf course to walk on the PGA TOUR schedule and you had to do it twice today.   What was it like?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was tough but I guess that's what you train for all off‑season.   I've been trying to get in better shape, and I think that this has paid off today because I do feel very well. 
I feel for the caddies.   The caddies have been grinding out there.   Pepsi did a great job out there and I appreciate it. 

Q.   Considering the high winds, I thought you were in control of your golf ball.   You hit 16 greens in the second round. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, that's great.   And I missed one by just an inch or so.   So it was really solid ball‑striking, a lot of fairways.   I felt really good all week. 

Q.   I used to think you struggled in windy conditions, because you have such a high ball flight, but I think you've worked on controlling the trajectory. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I have, I've worked a lot with Jim McLean.   I won my first tournament in 35‑mile‑an‑hour winds.   I never considered myself a bad wind player. 
But this week, I felt really comfortable on this golf course.

Q.   What are your thoughts going into the final round?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm just so pumped to be in the heat and be ready to go out there tomorrow in the last couple groups.   That's what I live for. 

Q.   On a blustery day like today, what poses the greater challenge:   Hitting it off the tee or the putting? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Everything's really difficult but the putting is really tough.   You've got to really‑‑ a couple times today, I was purposely missing on the side of where I would have an uphill putt.   I would rather have seven, eight feet uphill into the wind than three downwind, downgrain.   It's a challenge out there for sure.

Q.   Are you a good wind player?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I consider myself a good wind player.   I just wanted to stay patient today, and my caddie, Pepsi, did a great job helping me do that.

Q.   On any other day this might have been considered bad winds, but did you almost feel like this was nothing after what you guys were trying to battle the other three days?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was definitely better.   There was a moment when I first teed off in the afternoon on 10 that was really bad.   I was thinking, here we go again.   But the TOUR did an unbelievable job getting the course ready and the superintendent here in helping us play these rounds today. 

Q.   Excited about your position? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I'm so pumped.   I live for this.   I'm just so excited to have a chance tomorrow; to be able to be excited to play, tonight, for tomorrow.

Q.   Is it true that there's a PGA TOUR commercial that just shows you from the waist down to samba music? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, that's kind of my thing.   (Laughter).   Today it was difficult because you had to really wait out these gusts.   If you got a gust‑‑ I got a couple gusts the last couple rounds where you had no chance, so you had to really wait it out.

Q.   Was there one crazy shot yardage‑wise? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I've been hitting 8‑irons from 100 yards.   I hit a 9‑iron today from 185. 
So I mean, it's‑‑ I hit a 7‑iron today from 236, and I also hit 7 from 130.   So you know, yardages don't really matter.   It's basically, you've got to be a good feel player in this wind. 

Q.   So it's an imaginative round; you have to use your imagination?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You've really got to feel it.   You can't just go by numbers. 

Q.   Avoid downhill putts?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Avoid downhill putts, yeah. 

Q.   Does it feel a little bit like a sprint now after all the waiting around, 54 holes in two days? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I love it.   I think it's great.   You know, I think the TOUR did a great job just getting us into 54 holes.   But it's weird to think that tomorrow is Sunday and I'm right there with 18 holes to play. 
So it's cool.   It's going to be fun. 

Q.   Are you looking forward to all the golf you're going to get in this week? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, yeah, it wasn't looking good for a while there.   Like I said, the TOUR did a great job.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT