WORLD CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL
December 1, 2012
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   67 today, nice playing, right where you need to be. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I feel really good out there.   It's so fun to be back in the hunt again.   It's been a while.   It's been a few months, so it feels really good to be back out here in the heat of everything. 

Q.   Looked like your putter was working pretty well today, but at the same time you missed a couple you'd probably like to have back.   Talk about that. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I putted‑‑ Pepsi, my caddie, gave me a little tip yesterday, and I putted better today, much better.   I've missed a bunch of makeable putts this week, so hopefully they'll go in tomorrow.

Q.   What was the tip?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   He told me to move the ball position up a little bit in my stance.

Q.   With Graeme so comfortable on this golf course, pretty important to stay pretty close there?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, Graeme loves this place.   He just has such an unbelievable record here.   I'll be looking forward to playing with him tomorrow.   It'll be a good time.

Q.   What's the importance of a win for you tomorrow?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It would be awesome.   You know, I played so poorly here last year, it just feels so good to be in the hunt, and I'm striking the ball as good as I can, and a few putts go in tomorrow, I think I could have a good run at this. 

Q.   Has everything kind of calmed down with the long putter comments?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, I heard some today actually.   I had some guy here call me a cheater on the last hole, which was no fun.   But I look forward to hopefully making everything tomorrow with that belly putter and hopefully it'll get a little louder.

Q.   Did you respond to him?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No.   You know, that's unfortunate.   It's very disrespectful.   But it's fine with me.   I've got to try to look at it as motivation to help me try to win this tournament.

Q.   Until a couple days ago, what's the worst you've ever been heckled? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I never have.   No, never.   I've never heard anything negative.   Today I heard a few things, but I also heard way more positives than negatives.

Q.   What's a positive thing somebody yells at you?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Don't worry about it, you'll make putts with that short putter or something silly like that.   But there's always going to be people that are negative.   That's fine with me. 

Q.   Tiger was talking about the water level, that there's a lot of standing water.   Any problems out there, any instances where it might have affected a shot? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's very wet.   I had one shot I had to hit‑‑ I couldn't really take relief, I had to just hit it out of the water.   It's a difficult thing, but everyone has got to deal with it.   We get an advantage hitting into these greens with them wet, so it's a two‑sided thing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT