RBC CANADIAN OPEN
June 6, 2019
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Started very quietly with six pars, and then suddenly five birdies in a row.  What changed?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I mean, all those pars could have been birdies, too.  I kept telling my caddie that I needed to stick with it and not try to force these putts in, and sure enough, they all started falling.
Q. Par-3s here are particularly challenging.  All four are playing as the hardest holes on the course, in the top 7.  You birdied two of them.  What was the key to that?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, I had perfect numbers into a come couple of them, and then I made 15-footers on those.  You know that these par-3s out here are tough, and to play them under par is (indiscernible.)
Q. You're third this strokes gained approaches this year.  How big an asset is that on this course?  The greens are small and slopey.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It really is, because you get a lot of the mid-irons here.  When you're dialed in you should make a ton of birdies.  I did that today.  You got to hit it in the fairway, which I did.  I really, really like this course.
Q. You mentioned hitting it in the fairway.  How important is that?  How big a premium is there on that, because the rough is up this year compared to previous years they played this course.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It is, and if you put it in the fairway you're going to have low irons in your hands, scoring clubs.
It's so important because the rough is really thick.  At that point you're just trying to get it on the green; hopefully you can do that.
Q. How will you spend your afternoon?  Lounging around watching them try and catch you, I would imagine.  Any practice?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Not today.  I will go out a little bit before my round tomorrow.  Got the U.S. Open next week, so trying to save as much energy as I can.
Q. Heck of a round out of the gates for you.  Clean card.  How would you characterize it?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Just solid top to bottom.  I hit almost every fairway, almost every green, and then holed some putts.
With me it's all about the putter.  When that thing gets going I can do stuff like I did today.
Q. When you're even through 6, how do you then go on that run to go 7-under?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, I was hitting a lot good shots and had a couple brutal lip-outs.  I just kept telling myself to keep going.  Don't try to force the putts in.  Sure enough, right after that they started going in.
Q. You're an absolute ball striking machine today.  12 out of 14 fairways; 17 out of 18 greens.  Describe what it's like standing over the ball.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, today was one of the best of the year, if not the best.  I knew if I could just put myself in the fairway, which I did today, I was having short irons in.  I'm pretty dialed in right now, so I was able to really get that close and then hole those putts.
It's just fun.  A lot more fun doing that.
Q. Talk about patience first.  I bet it took patience there the first six holes.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it was.  I hit a lot of good shots and had a couple lip-outs there.  I was getting frustrated and my caddie just told me to stick with it, stick with the process.  Did that and then they started going in.
Q. Talk a bout five in a row, right?  When you're hot, you're hot.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, that was probably my best streak of the year if not maybe ever.  That was fun.  I felt so comfortable and dialed in.  Sometimes you can get a little anxious when you're playing really well, but I felt very calm the whole day.
Q. 17 of 18 greens in regulation.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I'm really hitting the ball nicely.  When that putter can just click on just a little bit, good things can happen.  Hopefully can continue this weekend.
Q. On the 17th tee box you guys waited the flyover in honor of the 75th anniversary of D-Day.  You're on the highest tee box on the golf course.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It was pretty cool.  Felt like they were going to hit us.  It was crazy.  It was really, really cool.
Q. Is that as solid a round as you've had in a while?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, the green I missed I was actually able to putt.  I didn't have to chip it today.  I felt so calm the whole day.  This course just really fits my eye.  I enjoy playing out here and enjoy playing in Canada.
It's just a great day.
Q. You said last year at this tournament it was the first time your putter had really felt good for you.  (Indiscernible.)
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I mean, today was definitely better.  With me it's all about the putter.  If I can get that going even a little bit, good things can happen.
Q. Do you prefer this course over Glen Abbey?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: They're both great.  This is a really great course.  I've never played it.  Every time I come to play in Canada I always love the courses we play.  This one is really great.
Q. Did you get a chance to do some practice rounds here?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: I played -- yeah, I did.  I got to play nine and nine.  I played nine in the Pro-Am and nine on Tuesday.
Q. How does it feel when everything is falling into place for you like that, missing the green but still being able to putt?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it's just so great.  So fun to go out there and feel like that.  Today I was in complete control of my ball, and then when you couple that with feeling good on the greens, that's when a 63 or a good, nice round happens.
Q. How rare is it to have a day like that?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Where they're both combined is pretty rare.  I've had good ball striking days and then maybe you don't putt as well and shoot a couple under.
Today they matched up.  Just got to go for it when I that happens.
Q. Do you think there may be another 63 in the afternoon round?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I think the course is out there for sure.  Scores, I would assume, will be pretty low.
If you put the ball in the fairway you can really make some birdies out here.  If not, it can get tricky.
Q. How would assess your season so far.  Couple top 10 finishes.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I mean, I wasn't scheduled to play this week.  I added it because I'm looking to maybe get a little something going.  I'm thankful that I did, but I want to keep going.
Hasn't been quite the year I wanted, but that can change real quick.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT