THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2012
Keegan Bradley
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PHIL MICKELSON:   I just needed to hit a solid iron shot through the air, and that baby was all over the flagstick.   I was really glad to see it come down at the right yardage.   It looked really good in the air, but until you see it land, you just don't know.

Q.   The reaction that you had was unbelievable.   Foursomes, four‑ball, are you guys a better foursome or four‑ball team? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think we're good in both.   I love playing with him.   That last shot just showed why Phil Mickelson is awesome.

Q.   Do you have any energy left? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Baby, I wish I could go 36 more. 

Q.   Phil, talk about what it's like to play a match like that and get that reaction. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's awesome, and right here on the 17th, it was incredible.   My man played so well all day.   We've had so much fun, and it's what his brought our best golf out, and to close out with that shot feels absolutely spectacular.   This is one of the most emotional days playing a Ryder Cup that we'll ever have.   It gets emotion out of a player, good or bad.   This has been one of the biggest highs that we've had. 
I just love playing with Keegan.   He's just played so good all day, and it has kept me up the whole time.   It's been awesome.

Q.   Keegan, your first day in Ryder Cup.   This morning you beat a pair in foursomes that have never been beaten in foursomes.   This afternoon you beat the world No.1 and one of the best grinders the European team have.   Try to explain the buzz. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Just having such a blast playing with my partner Phil.   That was the best shot I've ever seen in my entire life.   I'm just happy to be a part of it.

Q.   Phil, you've played nine Ryder Cups, more than any other American.   How special is this one? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   It's awesome.   His energy is so positive, it's so good.   This morning watching him drive it and be so far up and in the fairway, it just is ultimately going to wear you down after a while because we're hitting such short irons into these greens from the middle of the fairway that ‑‑ his driver and his putter is off the charts.   I just love watching him roll it, the way he reads the greens has been very helpful for me.   Like I said, we've had a lot of fun, and that brings out best golf out.

Q.   Keegan, you seem to be an adrenaline junkie.   Tell us what you feel. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I just love every second of it.   To be able to walk down the fairway with Phil and do this is just a dream come true.   It's another moment in my life that I can't believe I'm a part of. 

Q.   Keegan, how was your day? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Oh, man, it could be the best day of my life.   It was just so fun.   I wish I could play more of these events.   It's just a blast.

Q.   Phil, you looked young out there to me today. 
PHIL MICKELSON:   I felt young, and it felt great.   Had energy all day, just it felt terrific.   I love playing with Keegan.   He's just‑‑ I'd say to him a couple times out there, hey, I need a little pep talk, and he'd just give me something that would get me boosted right up and I'd end up hitting a good shot.   To finish it like this was just great. 

Q.   Phil, what club did you hit there? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   7. 

Q.   Keegan, from the opening tee shot you hit this morning on the first hole to just about every putt, running around, doing peer wets, pumping your fist, did this environment today sharpen your focus? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Absolutely, yeah.   I've been looking forward to this my whole life, and to be able to play the way I did today and play with Phil, one of the best days of my life.

Q.   Phil, what's so special about him and how much did he inspire you? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Amazing.   His energy is just so positive.   It's so uplifting.   The way he drives the golf ball off the tee, it just wears down your opponent, watching him hit the ball so long and straight, and the way he putts it on the greens is just off the charts, and to have him for a partner, what a privilege for me, and so much fun.   It just is such a fun day.   We had so much fun that it brought our best golf out.

Q.   A point is a point, but is it a little more special beating Rory McIlroy, No.1 in the world, as good as he's been playing and as good as him and Graeme have been playing the last couple years? 
PHIL MICKELSON:   Well, they're obviously incredible players, and one round does not a career make or what have you, but we put it to them today. 

Q.   Do you hope you're playing both sessions tomorrow? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm going to leave that up to Captain Davis.   He's doing a great job with this team so far.   If he wants me to play 100 holes tomorrow or wants me to watch, I'm just happy to be a part of this team. 

Q.   I think you said earlier the best day of your life; is that true? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I can't imagine much better.   This is literally what I've dreamt about since I was a little kid.   I got to do it next to my idol all day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT