PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2012
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Assess your first round?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was great.   I played very well.   Only two 3‑putts.   One was from off the green, but they were my only two bogeys of the day and it was just a solid, solid round.   
I feel great.   Any time you get announced‑‑ I get announced as the PGA Champion, it gives me chills.   It was really fun and I love playing with Tiger, so it was a great day.   
   
 Q.   Couldn't get off to a better start?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it was great.   It was a little surprising almost.   The shot I hit on 2, the 11th hole, was pretty good.   And that was big to help calm me down maybe a little bit and focus.   
   
 Q.   Just two years ago you were winning on the Hooters Tour, what's your advice to some of these guys that might be struggling going forward?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it could change in one week.   I went from having a decent year to struggling a little bit and then I win and I'm backup here up top.   It could change in one week; it did for me on the Hooters Tour and that's what brought many here.  
   
 Q.   Did your putter head fall off?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I was walking down the fairway on Tuesday with Phil and I hear a ping and part of my putter had fallen off in the fairway.   You know, it's a miracle it didn't happen on Sunday.   I'm thankful that it didn't happen on Sunday or today.   
But Odyssey made me a putter that's exactly the same.   It feels great.   It's my old shot shaft in there.   No worries at all.   It's amazing, with my old shaft, it looks the exact same, there's no difference.   
   
 Q.   How were the conditions?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was great.   I'm so happy it started blowing because it was so hot this morning.   On the 14th tee was one of the hottest moments of my life.   This is a nice little wind though for the guys.   
   
 Q.   Is it nice get to go see what Kiawah actually has to offer?   Gorgeous day today in comparison.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's been really fun.   Today was a great day.   Weather cooperated for us in the morning.   So we can't ask for much more than that.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your day, how did it go?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was a great day.   Felt very good.   Any time I get to play with Tiger, I really enjoy it.   
   
 Q.   How differently did the course play today than the last two days?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, it's relatively soft just because of the rain.   But, you know, it just‑‑ it's very playable if you hit the ball well.   If you hit the ball in the fairway, you can make a lot of birdies.   If you don't, you're going to struggle, and you've got to play these par 3s as best you can, and today I did that.   
   
 Q.   When you see this morning, a window of opportunity with the great weather, do you really put the pedal to the medal or do you take what the round gives you?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You have to take what the round gives you.   Any time in golf if you try to push it or force it, bad things can happen.   
I just tried to stay calm and I got off to a really good start, which is helpful.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT