ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 8, 2019
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN BUSH: We would like to welcome Keegan Bradley to the interview room, our co-leader after 36 holes here at the current time at the Arnold Palmer Invitational.  4-under par 68.  Excellent play.  If we can get some comments on your round.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I'm just I'm putting very well this week.  I'm very comfortable on this course.  I had some nice up-and-downs early on in the round and I made a couple longer putts towards the end that were big.  I'm very comfortable on this course, it fits my eye well and I'm looking forward to the weekend.
JOHN BUSH: We'll go right into questions.
Q. Wondering, you've been on a decent run since last year a little bit and after being a little bit lost for a stretch for lack of a better word, what has changed, what's kind of, what's bolstered your confidence and where are you at right now with your game?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, I had to put a lot of time in with my coach, Darren May, he's the big reason for the big turn around and at this point in my career it's all coming down to putting and I haven't had the best start of the year putting, I ended the year great and I was positive both days on the weekend in Mexico and then positive these two days.  And if I can just be anywhere at zero or better for strokes gained, I should be in good shape.  And that just, that's everything at this point.  My ball striking's pretty solid from day-to-day, it's just the putting.
Q. How much higher is your confidence level now that you've seen some results and getting back to the end of last year and whatnot?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it's much higher.  I even felt different today.  I felt way calmer and I felt comfortable with where I was.  And I'm sure this weekend I'll be uncomfortable and nervous, but the win in Aronimink is going to be a big thing come this weekend and I've been there before and I hope to be there again and if, all I can do is just put myself in these positions and if I give myself enough chances I should close a couple out.
Q. From your years at Bay Hill, Rory made a point earlier today that as firm as it gets on the weekend he felt like it firmed up earlier this week.  That you've already got weekend --
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah.
Q. Do you see that in terms of the difficulty and what do you think the weekend holds?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I was saying to may caddie, Chad, today this, is a different course than we played yesterday.  And it was pretty firm yesterday.  Today was, we're talking landing the ball six, seven eight yards short on a 9-iron, low irons, so it's tricky.  Then the fairways get really firm too.  Like holding that 15th fairway is a challenge on the weekend and it was today.  This course is such a great course because the fairways are not super narrow, yet it's still difficult.  So the firm greens are going to be tough this weekend.
Q. As someone who had to deal with a pretty significant rule change a few years ago that really did impact you I'm just wondering what the current ones that are causing a lot of controversy, is it almost sort of when you consider what you went through, are these things that big of a deal or how do you look at it now?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, it is a big deal if they're affecting players out on the course like it has been.  I think that it would be nice if we never heard from the USGA.  If -- the more you hear about it, the more issues probably are happening, whether people are getting penalties or -- it would be nice if we never heard or got asked questions about the USGA, because they should be off to the side and hopefully the rules are here to help us and help us play.  I don't know what to think of the USGA anymore.  They're kind of doing their own thing.  But we're trying our best to figure them out and I just, it's a shame when you see it affect other players on the course and affect their livelihood and I hope that we did get all that sorted out.
Q. How much do you talk to your own people about it?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: What's that?
Q. How much do you talk to your own people?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: My own people like?
Q. Like Tyler Denis or Slugger or Russell, your own TOUR officials about it and do you feel like you have any say?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well the TOUR officials are the best, the PGA TOUR and European Tour guys, they're the best, they -- they're just there to relay the rules to us, but some of the things I can't quite figure out.  I mean it's different, but I guess we got to have a, the USGA makes the rules and we got to follow them and maybe some day that would change, but I highly doubt it.
JOHN BUSH: All right, Keegan, thank you for your time, appreciate it.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT