ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 7, 2019
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great round.  67.  Your scrambling numbers, that was probably the key to it.  Getting up-and-down when you weren't there on the green.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, my first probably four or five holes were not very pretty and I grinded those and made some pars.  And then I started to hit the ball a lot better after that and then made those putts.  It was great.
Q. You had a couple great opportunities coming in too.  Was that an indication of how you turned things around with your ball striking because on 8 and 9 those were very makeable and you almost made them both.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I did, and those holes were tough, too, so you take 4s there if you can.  But I hit some good shots there.  The putt on 8 was just brutal, it was above the hole.  And the one on 9 I just didn't hit hard enough.
Q. You've been driving the ball well, at least for the last year it seems.  Your overall game back to where you want it to be?  Is this an indication of it today?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it is, it's just a matter of putting at this point.  So when I go out and have a round like that, or putt like that, normally it's going to be pretty good, so I got to keep that going.
Q. 5-under, 67, excellent start.  Get some comments on your day.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I played great all day.  My first four or five holes I didn't hit the ball the way I wanted it and I made some great scrambling pars.  And then right after that everything kind of settled in, I was hitting a lot of fairways and greens and rolled a few putts and I love this tournament, I love this course, so this is a great start.
Q. What is it about the course that fits your eye?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: I think it's a big course, but it requires some precision with the ball striking and I guess that's why it fits my eye.  But pretty much every shot out here I really feel comfortable with and I just am able to roll in the putts today and that's obviously the key.
Q. Where are you with your game, you won last year and are you right where you were when you won?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I have been, I didn't putt -- at the start of the year I didn't putt the way I wanted to or was putting and I put some work in and hopefully this is the first sign of it coming back around the way it was at the end of the year.
Q. A little bit of, before winning last year, what you went through, does that have something to do with the putter change and the rules, did it just take time to get accustomed and sort of build your confidence back up?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it does.  It was a big change.  I was in a great spot towards the end of the year and I just the start of this year I just didn't putt the way I wanted to.  Sometimes you think you're there and you neglect it for a little bit and maybe it doesn't keep up.  So I've had to really focus in on that.  I putted great on the weekend in Mexico and then putting great again today, so that's a really, really good sign for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT