MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2012
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice way to finish.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, feels so good to make better than bogey on 18.   That was a good way to finish, good memories going into next year.  
   
 Q.   How much have you talked with Phil about what this place does to him?   Have you noticed that?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, he gets really excited when he's here.   He spends a lot of fun times here.   There's not anybody in this field that knows the course better than him, so he's going to be tough to beat.  
   
 Q.   You have played a lot here.   Is there something physically about his game, mechanically the way his ball plays that makes him such a favorite, it seems like, every time he shows up?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think that being a lefty maybe on the back kind of helps him.   12 is an easier shot.   He can hit drivers on 13 and 10 and get it way down there.   I just think that he knows the course, he loves the course more than anybody and it's a big advantage.  
   
 Q.   In years past he might have been a little bit more tense, now he's got a bushel full of a few majors in there, but now he's more relaxed out here?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I think this kind of rejuvenates him.   He gets out here and he gets excited about golf.   It shows in the way he plays.  
   
 Q.   What does it do for you?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It taught me a lesson.   Augusta beat me up pretty bad.   I definitely think this is a course I can play well at.   I learned a bunch out there this week just, you know, shots that I thought were perfect that were a little off.   Some holes maybe I'll hit 3 wood on next year.   
So I wanted to hit a good drive on 18.   I kind of told myself just imagine you have got a 1‑shot lead here, just for maybe in the future, and I striped it.   I needed that for maybe years to come.  
   
 Q.   You bummed being one for two now?   You are still 500.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm still 500.   I'll take 500.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT