MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What happened on No.1 and what was your mindset coming off of there?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I just kind of got into some trouble.   I had a wicked mud ball, and I actually hit a good shot, just missed the green and then made a mess of the 1st and played really well after that.  
   
 Q.   How determined were you coming off the 1st?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I felt fine.   I knew that 2 was a good birdie hole, and out here you've got to stay really patient, and I know that I've got a lot more holes to push.   
   
 Q.   Did you have issues with mud on your ball any other time today?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   A little bit.   A little bit, yeah.   But it wasn't that bad.   I did have some that had some mud on it, but it wasn't bad.   
   
 Q.   You spent a lot of time preparing here.   How much does that help you stay patient after No.1?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It did very much so because I knew I had some‑‑ any time you get the back still to play, you can make some birdies on those par‑5s, so I stayed real patient, which I'm very proud of.  
   
 Q.   Was the course soft all the way through the greens, as well?   Were the greens receptive?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, the greens were receptive, but there were some really good pins out there.   I don't think the scores are too low this morning, which just shows how tough the course is actually playing.  
   
 Q.   What was it like?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was great.   I had a great group, and it was really fun atmosphere out there.   It was everything I expected.   It was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Were you a little nervous?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I think everybody is a little nervous.   I am a major champion, but it's my first Masters, so it was a lot of people out there, which makes it a lot more fun for me.   But it was definitely different.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It helps a lot.   To see my little nephew before I teed off, that helps relax me a little bit.   It's really good to have them all here.   My mom cooked me my favorite meal last night, a special chicken that she makes and corn and rice, so it felt like home.   
   
 Q.   Is Pat here?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Pat is here, yep.   
   
 Q.   How do you balance the kind of wanting to be yourself and have a little fun and the pressure that you have here?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm trying not to change anything when I'm out there.   I have so much fun around this course just because there's so many memories out there.   You're out playing and you kind of realize the holes around you what's happened in the past, and it's just cool to be a part of it.  
   
 Q.   Do you have time to think about that?   A lot of people would say, keep focus, don't think about too much.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, I love looking around and seeing different spots and just enjoying myself out on the golf course.   Here at Augusta it's so much fun to play that if you didn't do that, I think you'd be at a disadvantage.  
   
 Q.   What's your mom's name?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Kae.  
   
 Q.   What do you think connects you to fans?   Why do they enjoy watching you play?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Oh, I don't know.   I mean, I just enjoy to play golf.   I watch how Phil Mickelson plays and he looks like he has a really good time out there, and I just try to enjoy myself and show some emotion, and that makes it fun for me and hopefully other people, too.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I really enjoy the fans and the people out there.   It's a lot of fun.   It's cool to kind of be recognized a little more.   It makes the atmosphere a lot more fun.   
   
 Q.   You and Charl talked a lot out there.   Were you comparing major championship wins or‑‑  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, I just really like Charl.   We played in a Grand Slam together.   It's a good time to kind of get to know each other.   He's a great guy, a funny guy.   It was nice to be out there with him.  
   
 Q.   How hard was your shot on 4?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Oh, my shot was 4 was really hard.   That was one of the best shots I've ever hit.   That was really fun to see it go in and hear that famous Augusta roar.   I was hoping it get it within ten feet.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT