PGA CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA DAY
March 22, 2012
Keegan Bradley
Rob Correa
Pete Dye
Roger Warren
Allen Wronowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  JULIUS MASON:   Good afternoon, everyone.   I'm The PGA of America's Julius Mason and I would like to welcome you to the 94th PGA Championship Media Day here at The Ocean Course on Kiawah Island.   Before we kick things off, I would like to turn your attention to the TV monitors for the history and tradition that is the PGA Championship.   
(Video played).  
94 years of history in about five minutes, also cool to watch Keegan Bradley watch 94 years of history.   
Like to recognize a few guests in attendance, if I could, ladies and gentlemen.   First the mayor of Kiawah Island, the mayor, Steve Orban.   Thanks for joining us today.   From the Carolinas PGA section, president, Michael Casto, and Executive Director, Ron Schmid.   From The Ocean Course at Kiawah Island, PGA Director of Golf, Brian Gerard.   
Several members of the 2012 PGA Championship executive committee are also joining us.   PGA head golf professional, Stephen Younger; superintendent Jeff Stone; from the PGA of America Vice President, Ted Bishop; Chief Executive Officer and PGA Honorary Member, Joe Steranka; Senior Director of Championships, David Charles; and the Director of the 94th PGA Championship, Brett Sterba.   
And now let's hear from former PGA of America President and the general chairman of the 94th PGA Championship, ladies and gentlemen, Roger Warren.   
ROGER WARREN:   Thank you, Julius.   First of all, Keegan, congratulations on your win last year and we are happy to have you here today to get a first look and opportunity to play The Ocean Course and hope it's a good first‑time experience.   I know you'll talk about it in a bit.   
It's hard to believe it's almost here.   We have been talking about it a long time and spent a lot of time with the experience of getting there, and it's almost here and we are proud of that.   Proud of the golf course and proud of the support of the State of South Carolina.   Charleston County, City of Charleston, town of Kiawah Island, the support we have been getting is just wonderful and we look forward to welcoming the world to this event in August.   
We want to talk, also, that as many of you know, we have sold out tickets on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and the Wannamaker, but we do have tickets Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, and Thursday, and we want to assure people know that and can get involved with those tickets.   We don't want anybody have to talk about the fact that this great event happened and they couldn't get here.   We want to make sure that people have the opportunity to get those tickets.   
The Ocean Course has been recognized as the toughest golf course in the United States.   We are looking forward to having the greatest players in the world play this golf course, and be able to demonstrate‑‑ Mr.Dye, you can't complain about who put those bunkers there, and we kept telling you, you did.   At 86 years old, Mr.Dye hit the ball right down the middle on just about every tee shot and played well.   
It's a great golf course.   Every level of player can play it, and we are looking forward to the challenge that it will be to these great players, and we know that we will have another great champion of the same caliber of as Keegan, and we thank you for being here and we thank all of you for being here and we look forward to the 94th PGA Championship in August.   
Thank you, Julius.   
JULIUS MASON:   It seems appropriate that we recognize two individuals.   These two individuals played the golf course today, and they are closest to the hole on No. 8 and No.17.   On No. 8, nine feet zero inches, closest to the hole, Tom Carapoli (ph).   Tom, stand up and wave to everybody.   You have 25 years free membership at The Ocean Course.   (Laughter).  
On No.17, ten feet, right on the dot, Tim Dominic.   You get front row at news conferences.   
Now, ladies and gentlemen, from Delray Beach, Florida, someone who knows virtually every inch of the property that we played today and someone that is going to get a reception close to what Jeff stone got today I'm guessing.   He was the 2004 PGA Distinguished Service Award recipient and 2008 inductee into the World Golf Hall of Fame.   
Ladies and gentlemen, Pete Dye.   
PETE DYE:   I had a nice time and I got a ham sandwich.   
JULIUS MASON:   Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Pete Dye Show.   
Pete is 86 years old today, plus 77 days.   He parred ten holes today and shot below his age.   Am I right?   So Pete, I guess some people are thinking out there, what in the heck were you thinking when you designed this golf course, and you've seen some major championships come through here already; what's your anticipation of what it will be like this August?   
PETE DYE:   It's great to be here and great to see the golf course, the ambiance and everything.   I have no idea what will happen in August.   Hope it's good, though.   
Do you know what's going to happen here in August?   (Laughter).  
JULIUS MASON:   Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to come back at the end for Q&A, so load up for questions that you might have for the diabolical Mr.Dye himself.   
Now, ladies and gentlemen, all the way from New York City, the executive vice president of programming for CBS Sports, Mr.Rob Correa.  
ROB CORREA:   Thank you, Julius and Joe, Ted, Allen, Roger, Keegan, Pete, Kerry.   This will be CBS's 22nd consecutive year of coverage of the PGA Championship since 1991, and we have seen, really, unbelievable golf history made.   
We have seen John Daly come out of nowhere; Tiger's four PGAs, including his incredible bat well Bob May in Valhalla; we've seen rainbows with Davis; shadows with Rich Beem; Keegan's terrific come back last year.   And those are just a few of the highlights.   It's really been an incredible, incredible golf championship for CBS.   
Over 25 million people watched all or part of the PGA last year on CBS, which really, that's a lot of people.   Great way to exhibit your sport.   We have had a terrific partnership with Turner who, joined us‑‑ who joined them in 1991; thank you, Gary, and all of the terrific people you work with.   We will be on the air at two o'clock on August 11 and 12.   Hopefully we will not be on the air August 13, but if we have to, we will be.   
Our talent, which we humbly consider our golf talent the best in the business, will include Peter Kostis and David Feherty walking the grounds here.   Peter Oosterhuis, Ian Baker‑Finch, Gary McCord.   We have so many, I have to look at notes.   Verne Lundquist, Bill Macatee and of course Jim Nantz and Nick Faldo anchoring the 18th hole.   
Our production will be led by our producer Lance Barrow and our director Steve Milton.   Bill Macatee and David Feherty will do the late night highlight show.   We are really looking forward to it.   It is absolutely one of the biggest events CBS has, and we look forward to it every year.   This year should be no different.   It's going to be terrific.   
JULIUS MASON:   Speaking of Turner, ladies and gentlemen, from downtown Atlanta, our television and digital media partner Turner Sports, it's their senior director, business operations, Gary Turner.  
GARY TURNER:   Thank you, Julius, good to be here.   Just to add a few comments to what Rob mentioned.   
This is our 22nd consecutive year of televising the PGA Championship, and we have enjoyed two great partnerships throughout that time.   The one with PGA of America is one that we truly, truly treasure at Turner Sports.   And special thanks to Allen, Joe Steranka and his staff, David Charles, Julius, Una Jones, Casey Morton, all of the staff at The PGA of America that frankly make our job that much easier.   
And of course our friends at CBS with whom we have collaborated all these years, and special thanks to Rob and Harold Bryant and all the team at CBS Sports.   We really enjoy working with them.  
Last year, we broadcast 19 hours of live coverage on TNT, primarily on Thursday and Friday, as well as morning coverage on the weekend leading up to the CBS broadcast.   Again, we expect our expert announce team of Ernie Johnson, Ian Baker‑Finch and Billy Kratzert to be back and to bring all the action to our viewers.   
Of course, we will miss our colleague and good friend, Jim Huber, who passed away in January.   Jim was a fixture on our telecast.   He entertained fans for years with his eloquent story telling and essays of the championship and he will truly be missed.   
Finally, we look forward to, again, providing a very comprehensive multi‑platform coverage of the PGA Championship here at this spectacular event.   In addition to our broadcast, we also partner with the PGA to operate PGA.COM, the official online home of The PGA of America and destination for the PGA Championship.   
So, whether viewers are viewing the broadcast, watching live, streaming video on PGA.COM in the office, using one of our mobile apps to catch up on all of the action while they are on the go, or even here at the event, or within the last couple of years now a new thing, using their tablet to enjoy a multi‑screen experience; fans will be able to enjoy the event wherever and whichever device they choose.   
So really excited about coming back for the 22nd year.   Look forward to seeing everybody in August.   
JULIUS MASON:   From Hillendale Country Club in Phoenix, Maryland, it's the 37th president of The PGA of America, Mr.Allen Wronowski.   
ALLEN WRONOWSKI:   Thank you, Julius, and thank you everyone for taking time to be with us today.   
It's exciting to be here at Kiawah Island and return, and it's certainly an incredible setting and majestic golf course and set up for world‑class play.   
To me personally it means an awful lot because in 2006, this is actually where I began my journey as an officer of The PGA of America and I was elected secretary at that time to serve the Association.   
So it is my privilege now to return as president and represent the thousands of men and women professionals around the country who go to work each and every day not only to grow the participation in the game of golf, but to really work hard to enhance the experience of those that play the game.   
Certainly, Kiawah has had other chapters with our association and has been incredible through history when you think about, I'm sure a Ryder Cup that most of us will never forget in 1991; our Professional Championship in 2005; and you think about the Senior PGA Championship that was played here in 2007.   We know that this will be another exciting and dramatic chapter that we'll add coming this August.   
Certainly we know that The Ocean Course will provide not only an outstanding test of golf, but the scenery and the beauty around it, it's just a majestic island and fun to be here.   
We certainly know that our championship has the strongest field in championship golf, according to the Official World Golf Rankings last year at the Atlanta Athletic Club.   We had 98 of the Top‑100 world‑ranked players.   Last year we also set a championship record with 73 players representing 22 countries, the most of any U.S. major.   
It's the only championship to also have 20 PGA club professionals.   Those individuals will be determined this June 27th on the Monterey Peninsula for the 45th PGA Professional National Championship at the Bayonet and Black Horse Golf Courses in California.   
The excitement of the PGA Championship commands not only a national audience but a global audience.   In addition to the millions of viewers who watched some 28 hours of high‑definition coverage by CBS and Turner, the presentation will be in more than 200 countries and territories with a household reach of more than 450 million people who will be able to tune in to the season's final major, Glory's Last Shot.   
PGA Championship has been fortunate to produce some of the greatest drama in championship history, and it will be exciting to see who captures the Wanamaker Trophy.   We certainly can remember some of the greatest highlights as we move forward through our championship season.   
Last year was no doubt one of the greatest finishes that we have seen, and certainly added to those magic moments in history.   As you recall our defending champion made a rally Sunday late in the evening at Atlanta Athletic Club, and in the process, became the third person in nearly a century to capture his major in his first appearance in a championship, which is pretty incredible.   
He's also the sixth PGA Champion to have a father who is a PGA member, and one of those professionals I talked about at the beginning that works so hard and dedicates himself to the promotion of the game of golf.   
He had a near disaster during the final round when he made one of the most remarkable and incredible comebacks to win, and won in certainly a dramatic playoff fashion.   Playing with him today, it was easier for me to understand, because we know you learn an awful lot about a person when you spend time with them on a golf course.   I know he's got every one of the tools that is needed to win major championships and golf tournaments, great striker of the ball, amazing around the greens and great putter.  
But beyond that if you look up class and character in a dictionary, you might see a picture of Keegan.   He's one of the finest gentlemen that I've ever been around and a great representative of the PGA Championship and The PGA of America.   
So if anybody is a little fuzzy, and I'm sure you're probably not, but somebody might be of what happened last August, please watch this video.   
(Video played).  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Thank you very much.   I just want to thank The PGA of America for having me out today.   I got to play with this guy here and Joe and Rob, and they showed me some places not to hit it during the PGA.     So that was the biggest help of the day so far (laughter).   
But thanks to all for coming, and that was a cool video.   It still gives me a panic attack watching that stuff, but thanks a lot.   
JULIUS MASON:   Let's talk about what happened on the golf course today.   My count is one, two, three, four, five birdies out there today.   Let's talk about each one.   
First birdie on No.2, what did you hit?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, the second hole is a nice par 5.   I hit it right up in front.   Pin was tucked front left.   I got it up‑and‑down.   In the tournament, I don't think that will be possible.   The greens will be a little faster.   But I was able to get that up‑and‑down for a birdie.   
JULIUS MASON:   No. 7.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No. 7, another par 5.   Kiawah has amazing par 5s, and 7 is a good one.   I hit it up pin‑high, right, and chipped it up there to three feet and picked it up.   Didn't putt it.   The guys gave it to me.   (Laughter).  
JULIUS MASON:   No. 11.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No. 11, let's see, another par 5.   That's another one where my length is helpful on this course and I was able to hit it up right near the green and chipped it up.   They might have given me that one, too.   I tried to tell my playing partners on my off‑weeks, I don't like to putt 4‑footers, so they probably gave it to me.   
JULIUS MASON:   No. 12 for birdie.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No. 12, that's the drivable‑‑ yeah.   I did the play‑up/lay‑up.   I hit driver over in the back bunker and got it up‑and‑down for birdie.   That's going to be a crucial hole in the tournament, and I love how the PGA is doing something like that.   
They did it on Sunday at Atlanta, too, and it's just going to be a really exciting hole and it's going to be probably where the winner is going to pull ahead or hit it in the water.   It's going to be a great hole.   
JULIUS MASON:   And 13?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   13, let's see, long par 4 with the water.   I hit driver, 9‑iron to two feet and picked it up.   
JULIUS MASON:   In August, I don't think you're going to be able to do that.   But ladies and gentlemen, Keegan Bradley and the rest of the head table are happy to answer any questions you might have.   
   
 Q.   Watching the video with all of the champions that this tournament has, and what it means to be one of those champions.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's an unbelievable feeling.   It kind of hits home what I've done really, is times like this.   At the Grand Slam, also.   
But you know, seeing those names and knowing that these guys have held this trophy‑‑ the first thing I did was go over and check to see my name on that thing.   And it kind of let's you know what you've done; that you're part of history; seeing Tiger, Ben Hogan.   Sometimes, it kind of sounds clichÃ©, but it seems like a dream that it happened and it's awesome to see it in real life like that.   Because I can't watch highlights.   I literally have a borderline panic attack.   You guys forced me to watch it there and I enjoyed it.   
   
 Q.   This is a big deal in this area and in this state that one of golf's four major championships is coming here.   I guess your thoughts on coming to South Carolina in August and I guess what it's going to take to win here.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I love this area, South Carolina.   This golf course is going to be spectacular.   If the wind blows, I think that the winning score could be over par.   I'm not sure what the greens are going to be like, what the rough is going to be like, but it's going to be challenging no matter what the weather.   But if the weather is tough, I think the winning score could be over par.   
But I know talking to a lot of the players, everybody loves this area.   Everybody loves coming down here.   We are looking forward to coming to South Carolina for this tournament.     
   
 Q.   What kind of a player do you think will have an advantage on this course come August?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think that it's going to be a complete player that wins this tournament.   I think you need to drive it well.   And also, you need to hit it in the correct area on the greens and stay away from these collection areas that my boy over here put it in.   (Chuckles from top table).   
I think you need to be an all around good player.   It's going to take every ounce of your game, because if you do miss a green, you're going to be chipping up or in a tight lie, and it's going to be very important.   So obviously any major you have to drive it well and hit the ball well but it's going to take a complete game.   
   
 Q.   How has life changed for you since August, or has it changed?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's changed.   It's all been a lot of fun.   I've been able to do a lot of really special things.   I'm a big Boston sports fan.   I've been able to throw out the first pitch at a Red Sox/Yankee game.   I've been able to drop the puck at a Bruins came.   I got to flip the coin at a Patriots game.   Still waiting for the Celtics.   
I've just been able to do a lot of stuff that, seriously, you dream about as a kid.   Some of the stuff that I've had to deal with is a little more media, a little more attention, which I'm getting used to now and I think it's the reason why I'm playing better this year than I did at the end of last year.   It's just an adjustment.   
But now it's becoming normal, and you know, it makes me appreciate what guys like Phil Mickelson and Tiger Woods have done   because of the attention they have gotten, shows what type of players they are.   
   
 Q.   What had you heard about The Ocean Course before coming here today and how has what you heard about it compare to what you saw out there?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I heard it was really hard, and they were right.   It's brutal.   It's a good test.   It's very fair, which is nice, but it's going to be tough.   
You can play as many practice rounds as you want around here but if the wind switches around‑‑ today, if the wind switches to where it's with on the last couple of holes, it's a different golf course.   I think that your tee time, you could get a good and bad wave on the tee times.   That's just luck of the draw.   
But I think that it's as hard as they say it is, and I think during the tournament, I was talking about how high the rough's going to be‑‑ there's not much rough, so it's going to be a definite challenge.   
I know when you come to a Major Championship, I have only played in one of them, but this is what I hear, they are all really tough.   (Laughter).  
We are all expecting a tough test, which I think is going to happen.   
   
 Q.   I was wondering if you could talk a little about the rising controversy over the belly putter, and what you think the PGA's role is in controlling development of technology.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I get that question a lot.   I think, you know, my job is to follow the rules.   I can't make the rules.   So if they tell me I can't put with a belly putter, obviously I'm not going to.   There is part of me that I've put years and years of my life in practicing and playing with the belly putter; it would be disappointing.  
But if somebody told me I couldn't use it anymore, I'd be fine with it.   Like I said before, my job is to follow the rules, and unfortunately I don't make them.   Whatever the PGA or USGA or whoever makes the decision makes, I'll be fine with it.   
   
 Q.   Phil has been really good about showing you around and using his yardage book and Augusta and stuff; are you going to play with Phil at Augusta and show him what you learned today out here?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm going to see Phil soon.   I'm sure he'll be asking me about this place.   I know we were talking about it the last time we played.   You know, he's very meticulous in his preparation for majors, which is something that I admire about him and that I'm trying to copy as much as I can.   
You know, he's very good around the greens, charting them, which I think will benefit him at this course.   I'm sure we'll sit down and talk about it.   He'll be really interested.   
   
 Q.   Let's talk about the length of the course for just a moment.   7,600 yards, championship tees, seems these majors are getting longer and longer.   Do you think that's fair for the game?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I do think it's fair for the game, as long as it's a fair setup.   You know, if we are playing a hole that's 250 yards par 3 and the wind switches around, that's going to be brutal.   But the PGA has done an unbelievable job of setting the course up.   
On Sunday at Atlanta, they set the course up unbelievably.   I know as players, we don't have any worries.   The PGA does a great job.   The courses are getting longer because the players are getting longer, but this course I don't think needs to be that long to be tough.   
So whether it's 7,000 or 7,600, it's a hard golf course.   
MAYOR STEVE ORBAN:   I just wanted to thank the PGA for selecting Kiawah and the Ocean Course as this year's tournament venue.   We are very‑‑ at Kiawah here, we are really looking forward to it.   Most of our residents, as you know, we have seven golf courses here, so we are a golfing community.   We are really looking forward to it.  
Also wants to thank Bill Goodwin and Roger Warren for bringing the tournament here and Bill making the financial commitment to bring it here.   So we do appreciate that.   
Keegan, you never said how many bogeys you got today.   I know you got five birdies but did you get any bogeys?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   They only asked me about the birdies.   I definitely made some bogeys.   I definitely made some bogeys.   But I was happy with the way the course set up, and I know the players are so thankful that Kiawah is on the schedule.   I know a lot of the guys‑‑ talking to some of the older guys that have been out here, they love this place, and we are all thrilled and I know the PGA is.   
MAYOR STEVE ORBAN:   Well, good.   I do have a question, though, probably to the broadcasting folks.   Are we going to have the blimp here so we can show off our ten‑million beach and homes along the ocean front and so forth?   
ROB CORREA:   Yes, we will.   
MAYOR STEVE ORBAN:   I think we all appreciate that.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk to us about No.17 and 18?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yes, you know, 17 is like Atlanta, but harder.   It's a brutal hole and I think that‑‑ it seems like in all of these tough courses that we play, 17 and 18 are always difficult; whether it's Doral or PLAYERS Championship, and it's no different with this course.   
17 is going to be‑‑ it's just like Atlanta where I was four back, five back with four to play, and came back to win; the same thing could happen here with 17.   It's a brutal hole.   If you bail out left, you've got a really tough chip or bunker shot.   
And then 18 today played into the wind, and I hit driver, 3‑iron, hybrid short.   So I know there will be a lot of guys on TOUR today that would have hit driver, 3‑wood and probably come up short of the green.   It's going to be a good last few finishing holes, nine holes, really.   
   
 Q.   You're going to hit balls off the Yorktown this afternoon; can you talk about what you expect that experience to be like?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm so excited.   As soon as I found out that I was going to get to do that, I was really pumped.   I love being out there with the guys.   It's going to be an interesting‑‑ they didn't give me an easy shot.   From what I hear, it's 20 yards over water, buoys, fish jumping out.   So, we'll see.   
But I'm looking forward to it a lot, and looking forward to getting near Charleston and seeing the city and all that stuff.   
   
 Q.   How does a Boston guy go to St. John's?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, I honestly, it was weird how it worked out.   It just seemed to be a good fit for me.   Coach Darby at St. John's is a great coach.   The team was a great bunch of guys.   We got to play, they still play some of the best courses in the country there in Long Island, Westchester, Hamptons.   
And I'm so thankful that I went to St. John's, because there's no guys out here from St. John's, it sticks me out from everybody; and my teammates that I went there with are still my best friends today.   They basically all sleep on my couch back in Jupiter.   
So it was a great decision for me to go there, and I'm just so thankful that I ended up there.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little about some of the changes that you made to the course, specifically for this championship?   I noticed a lot of those tees are way back, but is there anything that you can tell us about the changes you've made?   
PETE DYE:   Very little change.   (Laughter.)   
   
 Q.   Can you elaborate a little?   
PETE DYE:   Well, there's a few small changes but very modest.   Mr.Goodwin, when he came here, Roger and all of us, he just told us not to make it any easier, that's all, and left.   I think we‑‑ I don't know if we made it any easier or any harder.   We'll find out.   
But the players are playing so great today, they will get around.   They will find a way to get home somehow or another.   I don't think the changes made much difference to tell you the truth.   
   
 Q.   This tournament, would your father ever play in the PGA?   Did he ever try to qualify as a club professional?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   He never played in the PGA Championship.   He never got to play in the club pro, either.   But he's more proud of his PGA ClassA status than anybody I've ever met.   So winning this Wannamaker, I got to have him hold it recently and take pictures with it.   It's pretty special for him and me.   But you know, it's kind of fitting that this was my first one, and makes it even better.   
   
 Q.   I remember reading where he had a bag tag saying, "I'm Pat's brother."     Does he have a new bag tag saying, "I'm Keegan's father"?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   We joke around because my uncles and my dad used to have a bag tag saying "Pat's brother" and now they say "Keegan's uncle".   We are going to get one for Pat saying "Keegan's aunt."   It will be a good joke.   It is funny how things change, but Pat is still my biggest fan of anybody and we are having a great time together.   
   
 Q.   Here at Kiawah, there are no bunkers, they are waste areas, and I don't know if there's any major championships that have that.   Do you have any thoughts on how that will affect the championship in any way?   
ROGER WARREN:   There has not been a determination at this point as to how all of the sand areas on the golf course are going to be played that will be done in the next few months.  
It has in the past for the Senior PGA and for the Club Professional Championship that was here been played as all waste area.   But there is some consideration in consultation with Pete to look at some of the closed‑in natural bunkers around the green complexes to make some of those bunkers, and then the rest of it will be waste.   
But that will be determined and will be clearly defined for all the players as they go out and play during this event, which I know they will appreciate.   
   
 Q.   I know there were issues with plugging during the Senior PGA.   It looked like there's been some grass grown in around the bunkers.   Can you talk about how the configuration of the bunkers may have changed in the last four years?   
ROGER WARREN:   Well two, things.   At the Senior PGA Championship, we did have some issues with balls plugging high in places that looked basically unplayable.   
In consultation with Pete and talking about it, we determined that it was an unfair playing condition frankly.   So we did alter those faces, and we have sodded them with paspalum; and the intent to be that if you hit it in that area, it will go down to the bottom of waste area or the bunker and play there.   Although today I hit one in the face and it plugged, so we'll have to talk to Jeff about that before we get to the event.   
But there have been some changes on some of the bunkers on the golf course, on 2, the complexes were changed a little bit; on 5 they were changed; on 12 they were changed; on 13 there were bunkers added around the fairway and around the green the configuration was changed.   
But all of it was done to define the bunkers, also, and to make sure that when a ball hit into that area, that it would wear down the face and then the sand, and not get embedded up in the face.   
I think that's some of the changes that Pete made when he came back and I think it's really enhanced the quality of the golf course without changing the challenge that I think the players face there.   
   
 Q.   You've been here a long time.   Any thoughts, concerns about logistics, getting people out here, getting people back?   It seems like a difficult in and out.   
ROGER WARREN:   I think that we have a good plan.   I think the logistical challenges we face getting people to and from the course, we have known from the beginning that it was a challenge.   And I think in conjunction with the county, the sheriff's department, fire department, Charleston, Town of Kiawah, we have come up with a very effective plan to get people to and from the island and once they get to the island, how to get from the general parking area at front of the island back down to the Ocean Course, and a bus system both internal on the islands and one external off the islands.   
We are going to be able to park between 10,0000 and 12,000 cars on the front of the island on acreage we have cleared and prepared there.   
I would tell people, wherever you're coming from, coming out to Kiawah, you are going to have to add ten or 15 or 20 minutes to get out here, because there's going to be traffic between 7:00 and 11:00   in the morning when we anticipate the highest traffic congestion.   We will have a very effective method to direct people where they should go and get them in and get them out.   We also have a system that we believe all of the players will be staying on the island, so we can make sure that they at least don't miss a tee time, which is important.   
So we have gone through a lot of planning, and I think we have a great plan and we'll execute it.   We want the story of this event to be the great play of the players and nothing else.   
JULIUS MASON:   Just adding on that, ladies and gentlemen, the plan is really, really good, and managing spectator expectations is a part of that plan.   
So for you, for your viewers, for your readers, thank you for helping us communicate that logistical plan to all of the ticket holders.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT