WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2012
Keegan Bradley
Tim Finchem
Richard Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  COMMISSIONER TIMOTHY W. FINCHEM:   Thank you everybody.   Good afternoon.   We're just here at this moment for some brief announcements.   I know you've already had an opportunity to ask Luke about his schedule.   And when we get done, you can have a chat with Keegan.
But starting with Luke, in addition to just carrying himself as the professional, he's had a phenomenal year competitively last year and we're delighted today to, in addition to the Arnold Palmer Award that he won at the end of the season and the Byron Nelson award that he receives for low scoring average, probably in the eyes of most players, many players, the No.1 thing is the Player of the Year award that's voted on by the players peers during the course of the year.   And the players voted after the season to award him the Player of the Year award in the form of the Jack Nicklaus trophy.
In addition to these awards, last summer, after winning the BMW in Europe, Luke took over the No.1 position in the World Rankings.   He's maintained that position ever since and Richard Hills from the European Tour, who is with us here this week for the World Golf Championship, is here to make a special announcement, as well.   Richard? 
RICHARD HILL:   Thank you, Tim.   Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.   Luke, many congratulations on receiving the Mark McCormack Award.   Mark was a very special man in the world of professional golf.   As Tim said, your run as World No.1 started the European Tour's flagship event in May, the BMW PGA Championship.   That run continued over 32 weeks.   Congratulations on an outstanding 2011.   Your run continues, and good luck in 2012.   Well done. 
COMMISSIONER TIMOTHY W. FINCHEM:   Good luck, Luke, in defending this week, where all this got started last year.
Now, with Keegan, Keegan was voted by his peers as Rookie of the Year.   He won twice, first an exciting playoff at Byron Nelson, HP Byron Nelson Classic down in Dallas.   And he was the first rookie to win a Major championship since Todd Hamilton in 2004.   He's the first player to win a Major championship coming off the Nationwide Tour on to the PGA TOUR.   And he was 20th at the end of the FedExCup playoffs in Atlanta.   So he had a terrific year and we're delighted that in addition to recognizing him for the year that he had last year, just this past weekend he helped a couple other guys generate a huge television audience in an exciting playoff in Los Angeles also, and Keegan, congratulations to you. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Thank you. 
COMMISSIONER TIMOTHY W. FINCHEM:   So, with these announcements, I guess, Stan, you want to do some photography.   And then we'll turn it back over to you all to have a conversation with Keegan as we step aside. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT