TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 23, 2011
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Maybe an up-and-down round. Just talk about the day.   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it wasn't that great of a day for me. I kind of got off to a bad start and just nothing really good happening. Close to good, but made no putts. I'll do better tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You got it going and you got some momentum back, and then you reached the par-5 in two and then maybe the three-putt, like you said, kind of had some good things happen and then not so good things?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it was unfortunate. I hit a couple bad, long putts up there, but you know, it was fine. I actually played better than my score. It was just kind of a frustrating round.  
  
  Q. Is this part of your new reality, that you're on the first page of the leaderboard and you're bemoaning the round, how mediocre your round was?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, a little bit. It is a little different. I'm not disappointed with my round, I just didn't play -- the things that went well yesterday didn't quite go well today. But it wasn't disastrous or bad by any means.  
  
  Q. There's a lot of guys within a couple shots of the lead. This weekend is turning into quite a shootout possibly?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I mean, this field has got a very good possibility to have a really thrilling finish because they're such good players. There's a lot of guys involved. It's going to be interesting.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday that the Presidents Cup kind of weighed on your mind every couple holes. How does the FedExCup and this tournament kind of weigh into both of those?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, you know, it's just something you've got to try not to think about. It's difficult to, but you've just got to do your best to put that out of your mind. It's going to come in there a little bit, but it's just something you've got to try hard to do.  
  
  Q. Speaking of the Presidents Cup, Phil was asked about Fred's captain pick, his last one, and he just sort of named you of all the possibilities and said, oh, it would be so great to have someone like him with his putting capabilities and how great a personality he has in the room. What does that mean to you that Phil is sort of trumpeting your inclusion on this?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: It means everything. It kind of is a consolation if I don't get picked. It's pretty cool to have Phil -- he's such a good guy, and for him to say good things about my golf game is one of the highlights of my career, honestly. It's an unbelievable feeling, really, really fun.  
  
  Q. What would it mean to you if Fred's two captain's picks are Tiger Woods and Keegan Bradley?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: It would be unbelievable. I kind of can't wait for Tuesday to come or whenever the picks are just to get it over with, yes or no. But it would kind of just be a nice topping to this great year, and it would be just so much fun.  
  
  Q. Back to your game this week, you said yesterday you felt rested, came off a great round. Today up and down, but the scorecard doesn't tell the story. What goes into tomorrow? What kind of momentum are you taking in for the rest of the weekend?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: You know, I'm in a good spot. I'll be probably an hour, 45 minutes ahead of the leaders, be in a really good spot to make a move. I'm still right there, and I really like this golf course. I just didn't make many putts today, but I didn't give myself a lot of good opportunities to. Tomorrow -- I'll rest up tonight and get out here tomorrow and hopefully shoot a good one.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT