SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2020
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. It's really interesting talking to people, they're like positioning is everything here, but you're making your tournament debut.  How were you able to quickly adapt to where you need to be on this golf course to do what you've done so far?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, I just love the course.  I love the way it sets up.  It's very simple.  You just stand object the tee and rip driver in the fairway hopefully and then the greens are small, but if you can find the fairway you can attack it.
Q. Speaking of attacking, you attacked 18 like you were going after this tournament.  What kind of momentum, what kind of boost does that give you going into the weekend to be able to hit shots like that in moments when you need it?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I mean, I had a blast today playing.  It's so fun to be done with the round, done with 36 holes and say, man, that was a fun time.  Sometimes it's not fun at all.
What a great day, and I'm bringing a lot to the weekend that I'm happy about.
Q. And one of the things you have to be happy about is the putter.  We talked about it after your round yesterday.  You've made over 200 feet of putts, and I want to ask you this again because I think it's so intriguing, for a guy who didn't grow up playing Bermudagrass greens, you said you really love it more than even playing bent.  What is it about these greens that you like?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I grew up in New England, I grew up on bentgrass, but something about Bermuda, I play better on, I like more, and the greens here, they've done a spectacular job with this course.  I'm just loving it.  I love making those putts.  That's the best part about this game for me is seeing those putts go in.
Q. So far this week just one bogey.  Seems like all aspects of your game are kind of spot-on right now.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it really was fun these two days.  It was just -- it felt like I was home playing with my buddies.  I felt just so comfortable over every shot, and this course really fits what I'm doing with my game, so I'm obviously thrilled with this position.
Q. You missed your first two cuts this season.  What's been the difference this week?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I just like this course.  I played decent at those two events.  U.S. Open was tough.  Missed both cuts by one or two.  I played decent in Napa, just didn't make any putts.  When the putts start going in for me, good things are going to happen, as it does for all players, but I'm excited about that.
Q. It feels like New England weather right now.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   This weather is just amazing.  Everything about this week, it's my first time being here, and I'm just so thankful for all the sponsors and everybody that puts this tournament on.  It's one I've never played and one I hope to come back to for a long time.
Q. Anything in particular you're doing -- different putter or anything you're trying to do differently?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, I've been working hard on everything really but especially the putting.  Sometimes things just click into place, and you never know when it's going to happen.  When you put in the work, hopefully it pays off, and it just -- things are clicking right now, and I love the course and everything about it.
Q. Can you think of a certain putt where you sensed, this is going to be a good week with the putter?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, I made about a 20-footer for eagle on 11 yesterday in the morning, and it was an up-and-over kind of putt where the speed was difficult to manage, and I just hit a perfect putt right in the middle.  I remember thinking, wow, that felt nice.  Let's just keep that going.
Q. When is the last time you've felt this good with the putter?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Probably when I won at Aronimink.  I feel like even the putts that I'm missing, that I've missed, are right where I want them, where the read might have been off or the speed just barely.  I haven't hit any putts yet that are poor putts, mis-hits or whatever that is, so that's a good sign.
Q. Seeing what Webb has been able to do with his putting, has that inspired you in any way?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, Webb inspires me in a lot of ways, but the way he putts is certainly -- it's helpful to see, and a lot of what I do with the way I putt is I'm basically just trying to copy Webb because he's had success doing it this way.  It's great to see him putt well for sure.
Q. It's been a while since you've been in contention; is it like riding a bicycle?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, not really, but I can tell you that I enjoy it so much.  I enjoyed today coming down the end.  It just feels a little more right.  Actually I feel a little bit more comfortable kind of there than I would be kind of grinding to make the cut.  I really look forward to these times, and obviously we're only halfway through the tournament.  It's not a big deal yet, but hopefully I can put myself here coming down the end on Sunday.
Q. What stands out as kind of maybe the highlight of your round today?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I mean, I drove the ball incredible, and I putted great.  I actually didn't hit my irons perfect, but when those two things are in combination, you're normally going to score no matter who you are.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT