TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 22, 2011
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA HILL: We'd like to welcome Keegan Bradley to the interview room, a 64 today, nice way to start, and I think that matches your career low. You needed a strong finish here to play into the FedExCup race, and you're kind of off to the best start you could ask for.   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it's good to see you guys again. I haven't seen you in a while. Yeah, it was a good day out there. I just felt comfortable right from the start, and I made a bunker shot on the second hole which kind of got me calmed down, and it just seemed to be easy today, and it seems to be when you play good golf, it's easy. When you play bad golf, it seems hard. It was just a good day.   
  
  Q. Have you seen the scoreboard? Have you seen the top two names on the board and the pairing for tomorrow and just sort of the parallels and ironies of Atlanta all over again, part two?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I think it's really cool. I saw that Jason was playing right in front of me today, and I think that's going to be really fun. I hope I get to play with him. He's a good guy. You know, it would be a lot of fun. I think it's kind of cool that coming back to Atlanta we're going to get to play with each other again, and I hope it happens.   
  
  Q. If you could turn back the clock to the day after you won the PGA, would you do anything different between then and now? Is there anything in there that you wish you could have done differently?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: No, I wouldn't have done anything differently. It just so happened that the next two events were basically in my two hometowns, and that was just kind of bad luck. Good luck, too. It was fun to go back home and play in front of everybody, but there was nothing I could do about that. I've been wanting to throw out the first pitch at Fenway my whole life, Tom Brady is my hero, I got to go on the field. I wouldn't have passed that up for anything.   
  
  Q. Can you try to explain why we have Bradley-Dufner at the top of this leaderboard again in Atlanta?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: I think these courses are very similar. It looks very similar, but also it's the exact same grass and on the greens. I know I love this grass. I grew up on bentgrass, but it seems like I'm way more comfortable out here for whatever reason. The greens are immaculate, they're identical to Atlanta Athletic Club, and I think we both liked the look of that course. And this course is very similar.  
  
  Q. Jason talked about that very thing; he plays well in the south. But he has an excuse, he grew up here. What's yours?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: I don't have an excuse. I was joking with Pepsi, my caddie, in the practice round that I love this grass and it's weird because I grew up on bent. But I feel almost more comfortable on this surface now than when I go back to Deutsche Bank or something like that. I live in Florida now, so I do play on Bermuda, but there's just something that comes natural to me now for whatever reason.   
  
  Q. Is there any less pressure on yourself coming into this event with so much attention being made to the FedExCup and the top 5 guys who control their own destiny?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I think that definitely is helpful. It's nice -- the best part is the little separation I had from the PGA and that they are talking about that, and I can kind of escape that a little bit and just play golf for the first time in about a month. That definitely helps. And these guys, Webb Simpson and some of these other players are playing great golf, and they deserve the attention.   
  
  Q. You've got kind of that other red, white and blue thing hanging out there in the distance, too. I wonder if you could talk about that and kind of your last chance for the open audition to make some noise and maybe get noticed?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I was joking earlier that the cliché is to say that I'm not thinking about it, but literally probably every third hole or maybe even less it pops into my mind. You know, I really want -- I say it every time, I really want to be on the team, but I want to earn my way onto the team just like I'm going to have to. If the captain and assistant captains think I've done enough to get on the team, they're going to pick me. And if they don't, that's totally fair, too.  
  
  Q. How much of your mind is consumed by the Boston Red Sox? And what are your thoughts about the Red Sox?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: I was able to watch a little bit of the game last night, and it's not looking good. I can promise you that. I think it's going to be close.   
  
  Q. Other than 64, what kind of vibes have you gotten and reaction since you got back to Atlanta this week and on the golf course today?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, the people of Atlanta during the PGA were unbelievable to me, and they've been unbelievable again this week, even in the practice rounds. It's cool to hear people say I was at the PGA, or good job at the PGA. For whatever reason, they're really, really nice to me, and I really appreciate it. Without them at the PGA, I probably wouldn't have won. They were unbelievable.   
  
  Q. Are they calling you by name now, and last month, was it "hey you"?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it's a little different now. Yeah, people do know my name a little more. I could kind of sneak around before. Now I just put on my Red Sox hat and kind of sneak out. But they do recognize me and say my name, which is really cool for me.   
  
  Q. I just was wondering if you could talk about that bomb you hit it on the 9th hole. That looked like it must have been 280, 290. Was that the best shot you hit today?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it was 280, and it was perfect. The whole time it was looking good, and it actually just ran right by the hole. I've played that hole now twice, or three times, and I've hit the same type of shot every time and I've hit a good one every time. There's something about that shot that feels comfortable to me. It's just a nice draw in there, 3-wood. It was pure, it felt good.   
  
  Q. I was just wondering if you had any superstitions carrying over from the last time you were here. Are you saying in the same place? I assume you probably aren't. But anything carried over from last time?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: No, not staying in the same place, but definitely some memories come back, like driving down the road I'll see something or flying into Atlanta airport. I was flying into my first major championship, and even just seeing the banners for the tournament is really good.   
 But it is very familiar in a really cool way. I mean, it's pretty -- I'm sure this doesn't happen a lot where you get to come back a month later in the same city that you won a major, so it's really fun.   
 LAURA HILL: Keegan, thanks for coming in. Good luck this week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT