WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2011
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KEEGAN BRADLEY: To be honest, I didn't feel that bad. Sometimes you can't look at those stats. They'll get -- I missed a few greens where I was putting, like on 18. So I didn't feel like it was a bad ball-striking round at all. 
 But also to look at a positive, it's a good stat to get it up-and-down seven out of eight times.

 Q. Phil had some nice things to say about you earlier. I'm just curious, did you use any tips today?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, we were joking about -- what were we talking about, me and Pepsi, it was just another thing that Phil told us. Oh, it was on the par-3, 7th. I had this really fast putt, and Phil actually had me hit this same putt. I didn't make it, but I remembered him saying how fast it was, and it's so weird how he told me to go to these specific spots, and both times I've had that putt, and I just trickled it down there to two feet and tapped it in. Yeah, so many things are going through our minds that Phil told us.

 Q. So this time you didn't --
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: No, I just lagged it down there. I knew it was going to be quick.

 Q. Obviously it doesn't sound like you're going to have one of these matches next week. Any idea when the next one will be?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: No, we talk about it. Hopefully this year we'll get another shot at those guys, but Phil is a busy guy, and we'll be waiting, put it that way.

 Q. What do you think is the key for tomorrow? Do you feel like you've got to be low?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it depends on the weather tonight. The course is definitely firming up, getting a little more difficult, rough is high. I definitely think you're going to have to go out there and shoot something, 3-, 4-under to win this tournament, there's such good players up at the top of the leaderboard. It's just a cool feeling to be in the mix and to be able to come out here late tomorrow and tee off.

 Q. Yesterday you were so exuberant about the guys in front of you and the guys behind you and all that. Was today the same?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Oh, it was even more so. On 16, I was walking down the fairway on 16 with Pepsi, it's a pretty iconic hole, and there was just thousands of people. It's a cool feeling, really, really cool. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT