FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 10, 2011
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Briefly talk about the bogey-free day.
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah. I played a great round of golf today. I did hit a few funky shots, but when I did, I got it up and down. I hit a shot on 17, looked like one of my uncle's, but I luckily got it up and down and it was just a good solid round. Like I said, when I got in trouble, I hit great shots.

 Q. How about the putt you missed?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah. It's disappointing, but I hit a good putt, it just didn't break. It actually broke off a little on me. Second to the last group, I would have taken that anyway. It's good.

 Q. How was it with Nelson, the same kind of vibe?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: No. I feel good. Last week was kind of a tough week for me. I was so tired. It took me by surprise how many more things I needed to do, but this week I'm back to normal. Me and my caddy were out there doing what we did at Nelson. We feel good again.

 Q. Was that like fatigue?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: It was a little fatigue. Mentally fatiguing. Never had to do all the media that I had to do. Obligations that a winner has to go through, which I'm so happy I had to go through it, but it took me a little bit by surprise, but feel good and feel rested now.

 Q. At the time it didn't feel like that, did it, you felt like you would be okay?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: I got off at the Memorial, I was like 7-over through 11, and then I actually played 4-under the rest of the way. Now since then, since the first couple of holes, I'm going back to playing some good golf.

 Q. What was the craziest, what was the most life sapping of the media?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: It wasn't that it was sapping. Something I never had gone through and just getting used to it. And there's nothing that was tiring about the media, it was just getting used to getting into a routine that I normally don't have. Wasn't used to it.

 Q. Talk about the course. You've played it for two days now, what are your thoughts?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: It's a great course. The guys, the superintendent, the staff do a great job. It's so hot out here. They do a great job with this tournament and FedEx runs a great tournament. They're really important to our Tour, and we're all happy to be here playing.

 Q. I hear someone get caught by top-dressing the greens.
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: No. I mean, there's little stuff to complain about out here. My putt did bump a little on the last hole. It's late in the day, that's what happens. I think the groundskeeping crew here has done an amazing job. It's not easy to keep a course in this good of shape with this heat. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT