HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2011
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: I played great. It's difficult out there right now, and I just played really solid all day, hit a lot of greens and I putted great.   
  
  Q. Talk about your position; it's a wait-and-see game, isn't it?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, 17 and 18 are playing as tough as holes can play. I'm not going anywhere, I've got a 5:30 flight I'm definitely going to miss.   
 I'm just excited to be here. This is all surreal, I can't believe it.   
  
  Q. That's a good thing to miss that flight, isn't it?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it is, it's a really good thing.   
  
  Q. Talk about the conditions and how they changed today. Were they brutal from the outset?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: They're just now getting to be really tough. The wind seemed to pick up as I was walking up 16 and we could barely walk up that hill straight into the wind. It's not easy, and 17 and 18 are hard holes without wind so, I mean, it's blowing -- it's about the toughest wind that this course can have.   
  
  Q. Not very many guys under par.   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah. Thank God I'm one of 'em. I'm happy to be standing here and not out there, I can promise you.   
  
  Q. Is this the year you think you can finally win?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: I would love to. We're going to find out today, maybe.   
  
  Q. Talk about the Salesmanship Club and what you think about them?  
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Those guys are unbelievable. We couldn't have this tournament without 'em. They're all great guys and they do an amazing job here.   
  
  Q. The putt at 17, that was impressive, and you even gave a big fist pump on that one. Tell me about those.   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: The first putt, that was about as close as I could have got it, and I was reading the second putt and I was thinking to myself, this is exactly what I've thought about doing my whole life. So I was just having a laugh to myself.   
  
  Q. On 18 you got baled out right, because you ain't baling out left, and then your shot was about 3-feet from the hole. You started bending your knees, thought you had it, didn't you?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I actually thought I had it. I must have caught a gust or something on 18. I hit a good putt, it was just sliding, and it was going with the wind. It was a tough putt.   
  
  Q. What was the day like out there for you? As you're looking at the scoreboard and seeing the guys coming back and coming back and you were hanging in there were you thinking to yourself you had a shot at this?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I knew -- I spoke to Jim McClain this morning and we were talking and anything in the 60s today would have been a good score. I tried not to look at any leader boards. I kinda knew where I was the whole day, I don't know why, I sensed it. I knew if I kept making parses, par out here right now is a great score.   
  
  Q. You're going to watch the guys coming down the stretch? I mean, I know you have to have butterflies in there if they say, "Hey, playoff" are you ready?   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: I'm ready, can't wait.   
  
  Q. Go have some fun.   
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT