BOB HOPE CLASSIC
January 21, 2011
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Start off with some thoughts on your round. 
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: I felt like today I didn't play as well, but I still had a good score, which is the most important thing. 
 Again, I had another great group of amateurs and that makes it a lot easier on us pros when you got a good group of amateurs. So it was a fun day.

 Q. Assess the course. 
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, the course is in phenomenal shape. This is some of -- I was talking to my caddie, I don't know if I've ever seen a course in better shape in my life. It's almost like the grass is Astroturf, there's no wind, greens are perfect, there's nothing, there's no negatives about the course. 

 Q. You've already done the TOUR of PGA West so now you go to SilverRock, which is supposed to be the toughest course. 
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah. I don't look at it like that. I actually think SilverRock fits me the best of all three, of all four of them. So we'll just do the same thing tomorrow and have fun. 

 Q. What do you got to do, obviously this is a tournament where you got to make a whole bunch of birdies, just kind of your thoughts ongoing into the weekend on what you got to do to stick around?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well you got to stay so patient out here on these courses, because you miss a putt for birdie it's frustrating, because you know you got to make them. 
 The key is, it sounds like a cliche, but you got to stay so patient and just be even more relaxed than you normally are. And that's a what I just kept telling myself, be calm, and those birdies will go in.

 Q. You're a rookie, right?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yes.

 Q. Just a few thoughts on what you expected, if you stay up in the lead, kind of your thoughts on playing in the spotlight, being on the big stage. 
 KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, I'll have to see what that's like when it happens, but right now I feel great. I spent the year on the Nationwide Tour in the final groups and final Sundays and right now it doesn't even feel like I'm playing in a tournament, it feels like we're out here, just no spectators, not a lot of leaderboards, just feels like kind of a Saturday game with your buddies, so right now it doesn't, it's no different feeling. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT