RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2018
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Birdie-eagle-birdie-eagle.  Tiger did that back in 1990, but you have to be really happy.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, that was wild.  It turned kind of an average day out here into something really special.  There's not many courses you can do that on like you can out here.  That's what makes it such a great event.   
 Q.  18, the wind is blowing behind you, but you're trying to figure out the angle, and you walloped that drive.  You had 159 left for your second shot.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, if you hit a good drive, it's really narrow, you're going to have mid-iron in.  That's why it's a fun par-5 is it's so tight.  But I got down there, and I had a perfect number with a wedge and hit it to 20 feet.   
 Q.  Three eagles in a round; when was the last time you did that?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Never.  I never.  I had a putt at Players on 16 for an eagle to have three, which that was always a record, and so today, that's the first I've ever for sure.   
 Q.  We talked at the Greenbrier, and you really have had a good year under the radar.  You've got to feel like maybe it's coming together?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I've got to just go out and do it now.  I'm at the point where I have to go out and play and contend, so I have a chance this week.   
 Q.  As long as you've been out here, what does it feel like when you close like this?  Does it give you more excitement for the weekend when you close like that?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, definitely, and you have to on this course.  This course, you have to take advantage.  You know in the back of your mind you have that stretch coming throughout the whole day, and you've got to take advantage of it.   
 Q.  Heck of a finish there for you, one shot now behind Kevin.  Talk about that finish and how you're dialed in there.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, that was crazy.  I've never had anything close to that happen in my career.  That was -- like I said a second ago, you know in the back of your mind that stretch is coming throughout the whole round, so if you can go get into that stretch a couple under, 2-, 3-under, you know you can shoot a really good score.   
 Q.  After sinking that eagle on 18, I saw you mention something to Kevin there.  What exactly did you say?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, we -- I don't really remember, honestly.  We were just excited.   
 Q.  It was the long the lines of, "I'm coming."  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Oh, I know Kevin really well.  He played great.  It'll be fun.   
 Q.  How would you kind of summarize your season?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Everything is right there.  I've just got to go out and do it, like I did today.  I'm at the point now where I've got to go out and play and have the results.  There's no more working really.  I've got to go out there and do what I did today.   
 Q.  Is it Scott Vail that's on your bag?  Is that recent or new this week?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It's been about three, four months.  He's a local guy, so he's got a lot of success here.  He's a great help on this course.   
 Q.  He had a win here with Brandt Snedeker not too long ago.  How much do you pick his brain around here?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: I mean, no different than I would any other week.  He's got a lot of knowledge of the course, just like most of the caddies do, but he did a great job today and this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT