THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 26, 2017
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was that today and playing with Dufner?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It was a really fun day, playing with Duf.  We both played well.  Feels good to be where I'm at.  Feel like I'm in a pretty good spot.  Only problem is they have us at the top pretty good.  We'll see.   
 Q.  What do you attribute this to?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I've had a good year.  I've played well.  There's one thing missing, and it's just, do it.  So I'm out here -- I'm so happy that I put myself in a position where I can make some noise tomorrow, because on this course, if you shoot a low round, you never know what can happen.   
 Q.  Did you ever a chance to play this course when you were in college?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: I did.  I'd say we played a handful of times.  But I played it before they took all the trees down.  I don't really remember many of the holes, but we definitely were out here.  Lucky to do that.   
 Q.  So what's the mentality going into tomorrow?  You're within striking distance, but the guys ahead of you are pretty good?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I mean, if you go out and shoot something -- it's going to have to be a good round.  But if you can go out there and shoot something in the mid 60s, you never know.  The FedExCup the way it is, a good round can go a long way just for that.  That would be awesome.   
 Q.  Does it change your strategy at all, the calibre of player that's in front of you?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I mean, I was thinking about it while I was out there.  I was a couple back and I was thinking, geez, I've got to make as many birdies as I can today because of who such at the top.  I don't see them coming back.   
So again, we'll see.  The last couple holes are playing kind of tough.  So if they get any more than ten or 11, it's going to be tough to catch them.  But again, this course is so tough that a good round goes a long way.   
 Q.  When are you do?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: November 18.   
 Q.  Is it a boy or a girl?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Boy.   
 Q.  Is it hard to separate that going on in your life right now from what you're doing out here?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It is a little.  I'm lucky that my wife has really taken control of everything.  She let's me come out here and play.   
But it's been more exciting than anything.  I can't wait.  I haven't -- it has not affected me in a negative way at all.  I'm more excited to go, and I've got to play well now because I'm going to take some time off when the baby comes.  She's been great.  It's helping me a lot.   
 Q.  I've got you down, you've played four, one week off, played four, one week off and now you're in a stretch of playing four again.  How tired are you?  How mentally, physically, how is that stretch?  How has this been?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: My one goal to start the year was to make THE TOUR Championship.  So that gets you in all the majors and everything.  So I've just decided, I'm going to play.  I can't any points sitting at home.  I'm out here playing, and when I'm home, I play more -- it's actually less work when I'm out here.   
I get a little crazy when I'm at home not playing, so I'm going to be out here; one goal, to make THE TOUR Championship, and the only way to do that is play.   
 Q.  You mentioned how hard it is.  What makes it so hard?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, the rough is really tough, and it's really firmed up.  And then the greens are tricky, really, really tricky and fast.  We're talking -- I actually hit a lot of wedges into these greens but the greens are so tricky that you don't see a lot of putts going in.  It's a tough course.  It's set up great.  Craig Currier, the superintendent, the course is immaculate, so we're lucky to play.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the way the course is set up, the first six or seven holes are really difficult; that most of the fireworks tomorrow are going to be on the back nine?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I think there's going to be a lot going on on the back nine.  It's fun because the holes are kind of condensed together.  You can hear the roars.  I heard a few today.  You can get a sense of what's going on.  I expect tomorrow to be an exciting day.   
 Q.  How tough is it when you hear the roars -- is it distracting?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: No, it's fun.  You know with the guys that are leading, you know they are going to be making birdies.  So you kind of expect it.   
 Q.  Do you see familiar faces in the gallery?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I get a lot of, "Go Saint Johns,"  some Wheatley Hills members. It's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  How long are you going to take time off?  How long?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Probably just after THE TOUR Championship.   
 Q.  How many weeks you taking?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: I haven't gotten that far yet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT