SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2017
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Keegan, what a start for you, tell me about the first four holes.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah.  I made a long putt on 11 and the par 5 as well.  So great to get off to a start like that.   
 Q.  Were you able to continue that momentum?  You played at 1-under the rest of the way.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I did.  I played well.  I hit some good putts that didn't go in.  Obviously could have been lower.  Very happy with the round.   
 Q.  Talk to me a little bit about your putting stroke, because it's gone through some modifications.  Have you finally settled using the long putter anchored against the forearm?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah.  I feel like I've got something that's working nicely.  I'm gaining hours back that I lost from what they took away the belly putter.  Certainly come around.   
 Q.  The golf course took on an awful lot of water.  How were the conditions?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Great.  Lot of mud balls.  The course was in incredible condition.  The greens are probably the best we play all year.   
 Q.  Keegan, get some comments on your round.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah.  Played well all day along.  Got off to a really good start.  Really like this golf course, so had some good finishes here and look to continue that.   
 Q.  Little bit more on the start, with the first 6 out of the first 8 holes you had birdies.  How did that it help your pace?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Those holes are there that you can make birdies on all those holes.  The par-5s are gettable and you got a couple short par-4s.  It's an important stretch in your round and to -- on Thursday when you go right out in it, it's an important stretch the get off to a good start.  I did that.   
 Q.  How did the course handle the heavy rain from yesterday?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It was great.  The course was in really great shape.  Played the ball down.  Lot of mud balls, but it's not their fault.  The greens were perfect.  They should be proud of the course.   
 Q.  How strange is it to be here this week and not having plans to go to Augusta?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It's very strange, yeah.  I don't think I've ever played here where I haven't.  It's very difficult, but you still one spot you can get, so good start.   
 Q.  Is that totally out of your mind or do you think that?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: No, I'm not thinking of that.  It's the first round on Thursday in the morning.  It's still lot of golf to be played.   
 Q.  What's your comfort level like now, personal life, recently married?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Everything feels very, very nice.  Feels good on the course.  The putter feels good.  Just a matter of going out and playing and doing it now.  I've been playing well this year.  This is -- I think things are really starting to come together.   
 Q.  What's been the key?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: I've been working with my coach, Darren May, and been putting a lot of work in, had some work to do.  The putter was -- is an issue just in terms of I had to figure out what I was going to do and then settled on this method, and it's helping me a lot.   
 Q.  Do you feel good about where you were before you started (audible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: I always feel good on this golf course.  Fits my eye nice.  Lot of drivers, which is a benefit for myself, and this is one I always look forward to.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT