SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2020
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. The par save, that was big.  Tell us about it because I know that made things feel a little bit better.
 KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I kind of got an unlucky break off the tee.  I was under the lip of that bunker and kind of hacked it out and had a 15-footer or so for par on the last.  There's nothing that feels better than making a nice par putt on the last hole.
 Q. Talk about the conditions today; I know it was still a little soft but the greens were firm, so there's a little contrast?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, the greens are very slopey and very fast, so they're tricky.  There's some tricky flags.  But I just love this course so much.  I love playing -- I've never played here before, and I'm really enjoying it.
 Q. Five of the last six winners have been top 5 in ball-striking from tee to green.  That's kind of your MO, so that obviously has to be one of the reasons you like it so much?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it is.  I get up really on every tee and really feel comfortable, and I've never played here, so it's kind of a different feeling.  But I really like the course.  I like where I'm at, and today was a good start.
 Q. For a guy who's from the northeast, you're down in the southeast.  Have you had grits?  Do you know what grits are?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I actually asked somebody the other day.  I thought grits were potatoes.  I guess they're corn.  But growing up in the northeast I loved playing on Bermudagrass.  I like it more than bent, which I grew up on.  I love this grass out here.
 Q. Can you elaborate on what it is you liked about the course when you first saw it?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I like courses where when you look out and you see what's going on, there's not a lot of blind shots, there's not a lot of funky hazards or out-of-bounds or stuff like that.  It's just kind of right there in front of you.  I like that.
 Q. Tell me about the eagle you made.
 KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I hit a nice drive down there.  It was early in the morning.  It was chilly, so I had 235 hole, which would have been a nice 3-iron normally, but I cut a little hybrid in there just because I didn't think the ball was going quite far enough.  I hit a perfect shot and made a nice putt.
 Q. They had a really interesting stat on the broadcast about you.  They said that you have seven top 10s in debuts in tournaments, including two wins.
 KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Wow.  That's nice.
 Q. What do you make of that?  What is it about your first time --
 KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, I mean, just off the top of my head, you don't have any -- there's no memories on any hole, good or bad.  Honestly I have no idea why that would be the case.  But I had -- I won twice my rookie year, which are all of my first times seeing it, and I had four top 10s that year, so there's a big chunk of those numbers there.
 But I'll take it.
 Q. What made you come this week instead of any other -- how come you've never been here?
 KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, it never fit into my schedule at all.  But talking to the players, a lot of the players said, hey, that's a great tournament, great course, greens are real good.  It was an easy decision this year.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT