DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2015
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Came into the week 71st, currently projected 65th, mission accomplished for you to extend your season?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, yeah.  The goal today was to get in the top 70.  I don't play the next two weeks or week and a half.  So hopefully it's not done yet, but hopefully that happens.   
 Q.  What momentum can you take into Chicago?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I feel like I'm playing well.  I feel like I've been saying that all year.  Playing okay, just waiting for that week to hurry and come together.   
 Q.  How aware were you of what you needed to shoot, how much number crunching did you do?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: I knew that I needed to shoot at least a couple under today.  I knew that.  I didn't look all week.  I didn't look on the leaderboards today.  I saw once by accident.  But I knew that a good round today would take care of that.  It was playing sneaky difficult today.   
 Q.  How would you characterize your week, and do you think you've done well enough to move on?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I just was talking to one of the FedExCup points guys and says I look pretty good.  A lot of crazy stuff going to happen.  A little disappointed, but hopefully I'll be in next week.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, listen, I feel like I've been playing well all year, all this week.  It just doesn't seem to happen.  But hopefully if I get another shot and I can play in Chicago, then I'm still in the running to win the FedExCup.   
 Q.  How much has it been on your mind, how much pressure was it?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Listen, I was nervous today.  It kind of felt like the feeling you had at Q-School, just kind of like it's not much fun.  But it's always on your mind, it's hard to -- it's too bad you have to worry about that on a day like today when you can make a move.  It was nerve wrecking.  I really want to keep on going.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I got off to such a good start.  I was really playing well.  The wind really sort of picked up after that.  This back nine is playing kind of difficult.  There are a lot of bogeys to be made on that back side.  I shot 2-over there.  I could have shot a couple under today.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I hit two perfect shots.  It's not a very good hole, that's all I can say about it.  I hit two perfect shots and made 6.  It's just a goofy hole.  I would hope that you could hit two good shots and not make six.  But you kind of know it on the 18th hole here on the redesign that it's so severe, the difference, between a 3 and 6 or even 7.  I could have made 7 easily from out there.   
 Q.  That said how aware were you that --  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: I was aware.  I thought I probably needed to make par.  I didn't know -- I thought there was a chance that that might have bumped me up.  And then I ran one by about four feet, had a tricky little four footer coming back down.  I knew that had to go in.  If it didn't go in it would have gone ten feet by.  Weird hole.   
 Q.  Did you have extra motivation starting the way you wanted going into the playoffs?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, again, it could have been a great day.  Could have been a great week.  Just kind of the way my year is going.  This was a very -- kind of puts my year in a nutshell, this tournament.  A lot of great stuff.  A lot of bad stuff.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT