DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2015
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KEEGAN BRADLEY: It's probably the best I've felt in a while, in at least a year and a half.  Just so happy with the way I played.  I finally made a couple of putts.
Q. Is it because you're back amongst friends, family, or is it because you've moved back to your old way of playing?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It's probably both.  The fans here were so loud here this afternoon.  It was so awesome.  I hope I give them something to cheer about this weekend.
Q. Are they more for Brady?  What are you hearing?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Brady's Free.  Everything you can imagine about Tom Brady or the Patriots, which I love, that's cool.
Q. Tell me a little bit more about your round.  When did it really get going?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It got going -- I hit a putt on the fifth hole that was going to go ten feet by, it hit the back of the hole, popped up about a foot in the air and went in.  And I've had stuff like that happen to me and it got me a little motivated.
Q. Got the juices flowing again, I imagine?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it's so boring not playing well.  So being out there today and hearing the crowd makes birdies -- I felt like my old self.
Q. (Inaudible.)
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, listen, I knew today that I needed to play a decent round or my year was over.  That was a horrible thought.  So I just played so well today, cleanest round I've played all year, by far.  I felt -- like I said, I felt like my old self today.
Q. That feels like a lot of pressure?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it was a lot of pressure.  I want to keep playing.  I feel like I've got some really good stuff going right now.  So the thought of not playing next week or the week after is a huge bummer, because I feel like any week could be the week.
Q. Was that or is that the No. 1 goal this week?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, the No. 1 goal is to win the tournament.  Listen, I win the tournament, I have a good week, I'll skyrocket up the FedExCup.  That's the beautiful thing about this tournament.  So I've got to go out and shoot low ones this weekend.  I think our wave yesterday kind of got a raw end.  For me to be 5-under is a pretty good score for the two days of play.
Q. You mentioned the shot that hit the hole and popped up and goes in.  What was your best shot you think you hit today?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Probably the wedge on 18.  That's just such a brutal shot.  I had 91 yards, I had a little 53 gap wedge, which is a really bad number for that club.  And pretty much bogey or double anywhere or not hitting the green.  I just hit such a good little wedge in there.  I would have been really bummed if I didn't make that putt, so it felt really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT