DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2015
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a week it's been for you.  First the news yesterday, your good friend and the hero of these parts, Tom Brady, was cleared to play.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it's an exciting time around here.  Feels like they won the Super Bowl again.  It's a fun time to be in Boston and I'm really happy to be here.
Q. On a personal note, the news of the engagement as well.  It's been quite the week?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It's been quite the week.  It's been one of the best weeks of my life.  Everything has been so fun.  The golf has actually come second this week.  But it's good to be out there and play today.
Q. Important week for you, though, you're on the outside of that bubble looking in.  71st in the standings, even par today, a couple of dropped shots, the eagle at 18, and the birdie at 8.  Certainly a decent round.
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I got up and down.  It's kind of tricky out here today.  I think even par is a pretty good score.  But I've got to make some more putts, if I do that I think I'll be in good shape.
Q. Pleased with your round today?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, once again I could have made some more putts.  But the birdie on 8 and the eagle on 18 really is keeping me in the tournament.  I'm only four back as of right now.  The course is playing really tricky.  So I'm happy with the round.
Q. What's going on in your personal life?  Does that take away the pressure of playing at home here?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: It does a little bit.  I have tons of family and friends here.  I know that they're here when I'm on the course, but when I'm off the course, I barely know that they're here.  They leave me alone, let me do my thing.  This is my fifth year doing this and it's become easier and easier every year.
Q. How were the fans treating you out there?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I get treated better here than any place in the world.  So I look forward to it.  Sometimes I want it too bad to give these guys something to cheer about.  Hopefully tomorrow I'll go out and shoot a low one and hear some a lot of cheers.
Q. You know what it takes for the playoffs.  Does that amp you even more?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, that's kind of my goal.  When the Patriots are down 20 points or so, I always think they're going to come back and win.  I just try and imagine my attitude toward the Patriots or whatever team when I'm out there.
Q. Is there still that excitement, it's easier in terms of some of the outside stuff?
KEEGAN BRADLEY: There's so much excitement.  A lot of pressure I put on myself.  But it's one that I look forward to.  It's a tough week for me, because I want to show New England and Boston low scores.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT