THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 2, 2015
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Rain effect today, slow down on the roll?  Can you talk about that a little bit?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, the rain was kind of annoying the whole day.  It's definitely a lot more difficult to play this course in the rain than it isn't, so kind of got a bad end of a draw there, but hopefully we'll get some good conditions in the morning.   Q.  Do you have a word to describe Shaq's style of swing?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Bad.  That would be about it.   Q.  What did you take from Shaq yesterday that helped you with your game today?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Nothing.  I learned a lot what not to do.  He was such a nice guy.  I really had a blast with him even though for about every four swings he made contact once.  It was fun to play with him.   Q.  So what they say is true about him being an entertainer off the camera?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, what amazes me most about guys like him and MJ and other superstar athletes is how well they treat the crowd and how well they treat the fans, and he's just so engaging with everybody, and I think that's why he was so well-liked as a player.   Q.  You didn't get a hole-in-one here, but we saw it and heard it.  Can you talk about the idea of having that kind of payout for the fans that are there and how exciting that is?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, Jim Justice and the Greenbrier put on one of the best tournaments of the year, so there's no surprise that there's something cool for the fans like that, and then they put the pin in a spot where there's going to be some 1s.  Almost every pin on that green you can make one.  It's just another example of what a great host Jim Justice is and Greenbrier.   Q.  How closely do you think you'll be following weather conditions going into tomorrow?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I hope we get a morning of no rain.  That would be nice, because the wave this morning got pretty good conditions.  Not that ours was terrible, it was just a little bit more difficult with the rain.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT