TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  6-under yesterday, with a 69 today.  What was the biggest difference today?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: The last couple hours the greens really started to firm up and play a lot different out there.  I think this weekend it was low.  Didn't play my best today, but grinded it out.   Q.  Yeah, yesterday was a day it seemed that everybody was really attacking and scored really low.  A little bit different today.  What will be your mindset heading into the weekend?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: You've got to go out and make a lot of birdies.  It still doesn't change.  Kind of missed a few fairways today at the end, which out here that's very important.   Q.  You told us earlier in the week you really liked playing out here and you loved the crowd.  How was it today?  Are you going to feed off that throughout the weekend?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, Travelers and Hartford do an unbelievable job at this tournament.  The fans are really behind me.  It's so fun to come back to New England and play in front of them.  They motivate me.   Q.  For a while there I thought you were going to tie for the lead, and then I thought you were headed in the opposite direction.  Kind of an adventurous final nine for you?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I didn't play my best golf today, but I grinded it out and salvaged something.  I hit a few really good putts there at the end that didn't go in.  But I'm happy.  I'm in a good spot.   Q.  Yeah, the pars that you made at 17 in particular were really impressive.  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I'm proud of myself for hanging in there.  I hit the cart path twice on 17.  It was in rough that was literally a foot deep and then grinded it out and made a 20-footer for par.   Q.  Then 15 got away from you off the tee.  You knew immediately where that ball was headed after you hit it.  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it's such an awkward shot for me today especially, because the 3-wood, it's just an awkward shot and it's out front.  But tomorrow I'll have to be more decisive and play for the middle of the green.   Q.  Can't complain about the two days.  I know you'd like to better.  It was a 69 today, but still you're right there.  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I didn't play my best golf today, but I salvaged a score at the end there.  Could have gotten away from me a little bit, but I hung in there at the end.   Q.  15 tough?  A lot of people had trouble on 15 today for some reason?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, the 15th hole is a difficult hole.  If you hit a perfect shot off the tee you're going to have a good chance of making birdie.  But when those pins are up front that hole is tricky.  You're making anywhere from 2 to 6 in that hole.  But I've played that hole well in the past.  You're going to hit a few in the water in that hole throughout your career, so hopefully that will be my last of the week.   Q.  Family and friends being here, does that put extra pressure on you, or is it a good thing to have all the folks and all the fans?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it puts a little extra pressure, but I'm learning how to deal with it.  My friends and family know how to do it now more than they did.  It's great fun to come back here.   Q.  You're pretty good right now.  Four shots is no big deal.  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, this is probably the best position I've been in ever here.  So, listen, on this course, anything can happen.  Somebody could shoot 61 or 62 on any given day, so just being around the lead is important.   Q.  (No microphone)?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I just didn't hit very good shots there at the end.  I hit a really good shot on 16 that rolled off and I got really unlucky.  But I could have made two or three bogeys coming in or worse.  I could have made double on 15.  Instead I kind of hung in there which is important for the weekend.   Q.  Knowing to be this close and what guys can do and what guys have done on that back nine, just to be kind of right around there, do you kind of need to be within four or five shots?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, it's so important around here not to get too far back.  Because like I said, the scores are going to be low.  So sometimes 67 around here doesn't move you much.  So it's important to be close or near the lead.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT