THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 6, 2015
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You were 7 for 7 on missing the green in par saves?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I guess I didn't realize that.   I chipped the ball really nicely.   Made a nice up‑and‑down on 17.   Played well today.   The course is playing tougher today.  
   
 Q.   How so?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   The greens are firmer.   The wind is up a little bit.   I hope it stays up.   But it was a tough‑‑ the course is playing tough today.   That's a really good‑‑ that's my best round of the year.  
   
 Q.   I've watched you play a little bit this year, and I watch you putt and the ball is turning over.   They look like good putts, it looks like you're hitting the mark.   And the ones I've seen you play, you haven't made a lot of putts.   You had 23 putts in this round.   Are you adapting to the standard length putter or was it a good day on the greens?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm using a shorter, wider, more conventional putter, and it's still making a difference for me as a whole.   It's going nicely.  
   
 Q.   Tiger shoots 85 today, any thoughts on that?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No.   I hope he's all right.   That's tough.   I shot 74 yesterday and I know what a bad round feels like, so I feel for him.  
   
 Q.   You played so well, you got done so early, you're in time to watch the Belmont and see the Red Sox lose this afternoon?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm excited.   I'm going to sit down and watch the golf, the horses and everything.  
   
 Q.   You're going to see the Red Sox, I know.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Remarkable round considering you bogeyed the first hole and 8 birdies the rest of the way.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   That was probably the best round I've played all year.   The course was playing tough, the wind was up, the greens were firmer.   I'm proud that I hung in there.  
   
 Q.   What was so tough about this golf course compared to the previous days?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, it was a little softer early in the week.   But this wind is up.   It's blowing a little bit and that makes the pins a lot harder.   I don't know if it is going to stay up, but I hope it does.  
   
 Q.   What does this do for your optimism holding the trophy on Sunday afternoon?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It helps.   I'm really proud.   I three‑putted the first hole.   I was 1‑under for the tournament, way back.   And I really fought my way to get myself back in contention.  
   
 Q.   I remember a year ago you shocked a lot of us when you pulled out the short putter.   How comfortable is it now that you've committed?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Every round that I get in is important for this putter.   I've switched to a more conventional, short putter, lighter, and it's really helping me, especially on fast greens like this.   I have more touch around the greens.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round out there a little bit.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I got off today and three‑putted the first hole.   I was pretty bummed out.   1‑under for the tournament, really kind of got nothing to play for at that point.   But I grinded it out and made two really good up‑and‑downs on 3 and 4, and then made eight birdies coming in.   Played awesome.  
   
 Q.   Those up‑and‑downs sparked that round a little bit?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I made a really good up‑and‑down on 4, and that kept my momentum going.   Made a really nice putt.   And then I started to hit more greens and holing putts, which is always big around here.   These greens are fast right now.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, I think they might have had the sub airs on last night.   They're definitely firmer.   And I know it rained a little, too.   They're firmer, the pins are in tougher positions and the wind was up for us.   I'm not sure if it's supposed to stay up.   But with the way the course was set up today, my 65 was probably the best round I've played this year.  
   
 Q.   What does a round like this do for you, obviously it has to help your confidence?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, I've been playing pretty well, I just have rounds like I had yesterday where I shoot 2‑over out of nowhere.   
But this one feels really good because I had to battle the whole day, and I made some really good pars coming in.   That 18th hole, that's a slick pin there.   I'm really happy with the way I was able to hang in there and battle through it.   
   
 Q.   There were some pretty low scores in the first groups, you didn't expect that?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I saw Dustin, he was playing in front of me, I saw him going low.   I was even par at the time and I saw him making eagles and birdies.   And I kind of like told myself, I can't let DJ outplay me this bad.   So that kind of helped me, actually, seeing DJ make putts and eagles in front of me.   And I made some, like I said, some really good saves on the first couple of holes and that really helped me throughout the round.  
   
 Q.   This is a game of confidence.   You're an emotional player, how are you feeling right now about tomorrow's round and heading into The Open?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I feel great.   I feel like I have something going really nice with this putter of mine.   I'm finally making some putts.   It's so much easier when you make 20‑footers in the round, such a huge difference.   I've been doing that this week, and that's big for the U.S. Open.   You've got to make those 10‑, 15‑footers, a million of them, to win that tournament.  
   
 Q.   You talked about your transition back to the traditional putter?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I was using a belly putter and then I switched to a‑‑ it was only about three or four inches shorter than my belly putter.   It was still super heavy, and I found consistently I couldn't putt well with it.   
So after‑‑ just recently, this is my second tournament with this putter.   It's a lot shorter.   I'm trying to stand more conventional.   It's lighter.   And it's making a big difference, especially on these fast greens.  
   
 Q.   Dustin said he made an adjustment off his TV commercial, have you ever done anything that bizarre?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No.   DJ marches to his own beat.   I'm sure he's watching the commercial of himself every night.   I've never done that.  
   
 Q.   After coming out with a bogey on your first hole and then you rallied to play the way you did, at that point did you do anything mechanically or mentally to put yourself in the position you got to today?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Not really.   I just‑‑ I was kind of pissed so I kept trying to motivate myself.   And I saw DJ going low.   I don't know, that helped me.   It was like, you know what, there's birdies out here, he can do it, and just kind of kept me going.   And I made a really good up‑and‑down on 4 and hit it to about six feet for eagle on 5 and missed it, but it just kept me going.  
   
 Q.   That gave you the confidence?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yep.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT