MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2015
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I don't know what it means for golf.   He's such a good guy.   He's one of my friends out here.   He's doing so good.   I'd be happy for him.   
   
 Q.   What makes him such a tough competitor?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   He's one of these guys that doesn't really have a‑‑ well, doesn't have a weakness at all.   He just does everything really well.   And he putts the ball really, really well.   
He's one of the guys that can wear you down, hit a bunch of fairways, bunch of greens and then he'll make two or three or four 20‑footers around.   
   
 Q.   What do you take from this week for yourself?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I played so good today.   I'm a little bummed out with my score.   I should have been lower.   But it was a fun week.   I learned a lot.   Feel like I'm getting to the point where I can come out here and actually contend or do something.   So this is a big day for me.   I played some good golf.  
   
 Q.   Was it the condition factor of this course?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No, I just struggled out here.   I can't really explain it.   I don't know what it is, but I always have had that one kind of bad round.   And I did again yesterday.  
Today, it was a good round today.  
   
 Q.   Your three best rounds have been on Sunday?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm aware of that.   It's a good sign hopefully for years to come, if I can get myself in position.   I've done well out here on Sunday with the way they set the course up, so I've always got that in my back pocket.  
   
 Q.   Did that feel like it's the best round you shot here, which it was?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was.   It was 68.   Should have been 65.   Just a little bummed out.  
I played so well.   I'm proud of the way I played today.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel the season has gone?   You've been in contention several times.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's gone okay.   I obviously want to be in contention more and win more.   My game is the best it's ever been, I'm convinced of it.   With this putter, I feel every week I'm becoming a better and better putter.   I feel I'm going to be a better putter with this, just way more consistent.  
   
 Q.   It's the same putter?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's slightly different.   Same putter, different shaft but it's the same head.   It's just five, six inches shorter.  
   
 Q.   Have other guys done that?   Have some of the other belly putter guys talked to you about that?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   No.   Webb has gone to a straight conventional.   I don't know what Adam has done.   But I just wanted to keep it kind of similar.   It is way more upright.   My eyes are more over the ball.   I just wanted to try to keep everything as similar as I could.   
   
 Q.   When do you start thinking about Chambers, and what do you think about the national Open being played on a links golf course?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm excited.   I've never been there.   I can't even remember seeing pictures of it.   So I'll have to go‑‑ I'll go a little early and check the place out.   You start thinking about the U.S. Open right around tonight, next week.   So busy schedule coming up the rest of the week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT