SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2015
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You've doing better these first two rounds than maybe you were doing earlier in the year?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, today I hit it almost every fairway and missed one green.   You know, I feel as though this year I've played well, I just -- it's one of those things where I got to stay patient because I feel solid every tournament I play.   The numbers haven't been there.  
   
 Q.   You say you feel more prepared for Augusta.   Is that more experience or something about the way you're playing?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   My chipping and short game is so much better than it ever has been going in there, and also I'm hitting the ball so much stronger right now.   I'm hitting the ball higher, little more spin.   Able to work the ball better right to left.   I'm just -- I'm really excited.   I never felt more prepared going into Augusta.  
   
 Q.   Are you focusing more on chipping or just the fact you're chipping it better right now?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's pretty much all I've been working on lately with my coach.   We just chip, chip, chip.   Would be one thing I'd like to improve, wedge it a little better.   I didn't wedge it very well today.   That's one thing I'll work on here in the next couple of days.  
   
 Q.   Keegan, there's a long way to go, but to see your name there close to the top of the leaderboard.   Your thoughts?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I've been in this position before here.   I love this golf course.   I just need to take care of the par-5s this weekend and I think I'll be right there.  
   
 Q.   Your round was one of the lower ones of the day.   Do you feel like there's another low one out there in the course?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, there is.   Like I've been saying, the par-5s are there.   So, if you -- you can get it going out here, it can happen quick, similar to Augusta.   Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised if there were some low numbers.  
   
 Q.   How similar are the conditions to Augusta?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's very hard to get the same as Augusta, but, you know, this course does an unbelievable job.   The grounds crew does a great job of getting it ready.   Augusta is a completely different course.   A lot different in many ways.   They do a good job of trying to get it there.  
   
 Q.   You're known as a high ball hitter.   Why are you trying to hit it higher?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I'm not trying to hit it higher.   I'm trying to hit it with more control.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT