HERO WORLD CHALLENGE
December 6, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   7‑under par, 65 has Keegan Bradley close to the lead, meaning you're in second place, but a little bit further away than perhaps you would like because Jordan is playing so well right now despite the tee shot on 16.   What was it like out there today compared to the first two days?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It was a lot of fun.   (Indiscernible) all my good buddies down here.   I've just been dialed in all week.   I played so good the first day and shot even par, so it's good to see some scores coming in.

Q.   Let's see some of those scores today here in the third round.   We'll take you through some of the highlights, and you do it with us.   The second shot here at 1. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, just hit a little 8‑iron, a little hold onto that wind.   It was probably the best shot I hit all day.

Q.   You go on to make the birdie putt to make almost ‑‑ take a peek right at the hole.   Now, at No. 2, is this the hardest hole on the golf course?   Is this the hardest shot on the golf course? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it is.   I've birdied it all three days, and I've played the 3rd hole, the par‑5, 2‑over.   Can't explain that.   Hit a little 6‑iron in there.   Another really, really, really good shot.

Q.   That one also gives us a little bit of an "ooh" here on live television.   Not using the long putter this week; short putter came out.   What about that? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Right, I hadn't made a good shot on that hole the whole day, and then just rolled one in with my favorite club on the back. 

Q.   Favorite club on the back he says.   Second shot here at 10. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   That was another just a little cut 8‑iron into a tough little pin and I hit it to about six feet.   Another really solid shot.

Q.   Four birdies in a row, 7 through 10.   You birdied all those holes.   How about your tee shot here on 15?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, Pepsi talked me into hitting 6‑iron.   I wanted to hit 5.   Told him right after it was a great club.   Hit it right up my line.   Another great shot pin high.

Q.   Pepsi would be the nickname, by the way, of Keegan's caddie, if you're not familiar with that.   Second shot now at 17 going forward?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I had 248 hole, so ripped 3‑iron, and I just hit it right up my line.   Rode the wind a little bit.   Just a great looking shot.   I really hit the ball good.

Q.   So you're hitting it well and you're putting well.   Let's get back to the putter.   How big of a deal is it for you to go away from comfort zone of the longer putter to the shorter putter?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's nerve wracking, for sure.   I've had five years and hours and hours of practice that are now taken away from me.
But it's fun to come out here and prove to everybody and myself that it's not a big deal.   This is probably the best three days of putting I've had in a couple years. 
JOHN BUSH:   Keegan, 7‑under par, 65.   A great round.   If we can get some comments from you about your round. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I played good solid golf all day.   Proud of the way I putted too with my short putter.
JOHN BUSH:   Talk a little bit about the second hole there on the 17th hole. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I hit driver; 3‑iron; 248, flag; get it to about 12 feet.   Hit a great little 3‑iron in there.   Rode the wind.   Probably the best shot of the day.
JOHN BUSH:   And going to the short putter this week, talk a little bit about that. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's felt really good all week.   Really proud of the way I've putted with it.   Feels really solid.   Hopefully make a ton tomorrow.
JOHN BUSH:   And lastly, six shots back.   What your mindset going into tomorrow?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Such, I mean, I got to shoot a low one and get some help from Jordan.   He's such a good player I don't expect that.   I'm going to have to shoot a really low one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT