THE RYDER CUP
September 26, 2014
Keegan Bradley
Phil Mickelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Two sessions here on Friday, Keegan.  The finish in the morning, how important was that?  What type of momentum did eye try to take from that?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: That was big.  Rory and Sergio are a really great team.  We played really well coming down the stretch to win that match.   Q.  When you play with a young man like Keegan Bradley, what is the comfort level knowing you can rely on him and he can rely on you?  PHIL MICKELSON: It really is fun to play with somebody of his quality and energy.  I love his energy.  When I'm down, he gets you right back up and it's really been a fun partnership these last three years.  We had a great morning match.  This last one stung a little bit.  We needed that point and we'll have some work to do tomorrow.   Q.  What positives do you take away from today?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: We're only two points back.  We still got 20 points still to play.  We're going to fight tomorrow.  We're going to try to get the lead.   Q.  What is the biggest challenge you have to deal with after a very long, cold day for the quick turnaround in the morning?  PHIL MICKELSON: Just getting refreshed and figuring out what pairings give us the best chance to get points in the morning, as well as to get points in the afternoon and in singles.  You've got to factor it all in.  It's not just focusing on that wave of matches. Captain Watson has a challenge ahead tonight.  We've got to come out no matter who plays for us, and there's a lot of guys that are playing well even though we're two points behind, we need to come and play well in the morning.   Q.  It's not an easy course.  Butch said he thought you ran out of gas the second match.  Were you tiring?  PHIL MICKELSON: I don't know the description I would use, I didn't feel like I was out of gas as far as out of energy, but I stopped hitting good shots.  I didn't play very well in the afternoon.  I ended up not making putts that I normally would make and hitting some shots that I haven't been hitting.  I didn't play the best.   Q.  Like 18?  PHIL MICKELSON: What do you mean 18?  I birdied the last hole.  In the morning?   Q.  No, this afternoon.  PHIL MICKELSON: I didn't play 18.  16, had a mis-club there into the wind, didn't hit a great tee shot.  Just didn't play well this afternoon.   Q.  You never use your health as an excuse, but you had the two gloves on in the morning, these are not the best conditions for someone with your --  PHIL MICKELSON: I haven't felt the effects of that at all.  I had the two gloves on because it was cold.  I just like keeping my hands warm.  I didn't feel those effects.  I haven't had any symptoms on anything.  I just didn't play well this afternoon.  I'll sit in the morning and use that time to get my game sharp for the afternoon foursomes  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT