DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How much more difficult was it in the conditions today than what you played yesterday?   A. Yeah, it was much more difficult.  The wind was up.  Greens are firm.  Tough course today.  It was a lot different than I've ever seen.   What's your mentality now going into the weekend?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Same old thing.  You're going to have to shoot a couple more low ones, I think.  The course is playing the way I think they want it to play.  Firm greens.  And it's not going to be a birdie-fest this weekend.  Not like in years' past.   Q.  Do you prefer it that way or prefer what you saw?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I think this is the way everyone would like to see this course play.  It seems like more of championship-style course.  And that's what everyone wants to see.   Q.  This is a big tournament for you.  All sorts of fans wearing T-shirts.  It's got to be a good feeling for you to come up here and see that?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, this is the most home field I've ever felt in my life.  Even coming here in years' past, seems like people are more worked up this year.  It's going to be fun tomorrow.  I'm going to be in one of the later groups it's probably going to get pretty loud.   Q.  You're playing well, too.  Seemingly your game is really trending upward, wouldn't you agree?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I feel like I'm in great shape.  It's just going to be so fun to be able to go out here this weekend or at least tomorrow and be at the end and really feel the atmosphere.   Q.  The course is tough, much tougher than it has in years past.  The greens are really, really firm.  How would you classify the course right now?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: I think the course is really great.  I think this is the way they would prefer it, exactly the way it is now.  In years' past we have had a ton of rain.  So this is a lot of fun.  This is a really good course.  And I think this is the way they would like to see it play.   Q.  Do you prefer it like this as opposed to a birdie-fest, and you have to go super low every day?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I think this is better.  I think this will show the best player this week, and it's great.   Q.  Excited about the last two rounds?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: So pumped.  Yeah, I'm excited to get out there.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT