DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Tee to green, Keegan Bradley, was great today.  You hit a lot of fairways.  You hit a lot of greens.  And you made some putts.  In your opinion what were the keys today?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, making those putts.  But I drove the ball really, really well.  And out here you need to hit the ball long and straight and I did that.   Q.  You're one of the guys that's on the radar for Tom Watson to make that Ryder Cup team.  Was that rattling around in your brain before you teed off today or maybe even while you were playing?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, every second.  When I'm sleeping, I'm dreaming about it.  When I wake up, I'm thinking about it.  When I'm on the course, I'm thinking about it.  But I've just made the decision that it's going to come up and I'm not going to try to block it out.  I'm just going to try to embrace it and be aware of those thoughts.  The more I try not to think about it the more it comes in.  I'm just embracing it.  Today felt good.   Q.  Do you feel you control your destiny as well as making Captain Watson's team?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: I think if I go out and shoot good scores, yeah, I think I'm in good shape.  But there's so many great players that aren't on this team.  I think this is one of the deepest American years ever.  You've got guys that are 17, 18 on the list that could be on the team.  I don't take anything for granted.  I don't think I'm a lock, by my means.   Q.  You told me earlier this week that last year you got close to 150 tickets for friends and family members, because you were a son of New England.  And it might be close to that this year.  Because you're such an emotional guy, do you feed off that energy from the New England crowd here?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, I think the first couple of years I had trouble with it.  But I think now I've really embraced it and it's a lot more fun.  I'm a little stressed.  But I'm learning how to deal with it.  But hearing the cheers today was so fun.   Q.  The man who's making a little bit of an impression on Ryder Cup Captain, Tom Watson.  Keegan Bradley, 6-under par today.  What was it about this golf course and today that had you playing so well?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: I drove the ball really, really long and straight, every fairway pretty much.  That's really the key out here.   Q.  What's that like when you're trying to be patient, waiting for putts to fall, and you see those first couple go in the hole?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: It was big.  I made about a 20-footer on the first hole.  And it's the longest putt I've made in a while.  It's amazing how just that one putt can open the hole up.   Q.  Tell me about this golf course and how it played.  A lot of guys were talking about this was the firmest they've ever seen this greens?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: I was just saying that.  This course normally when we play it is wet.  This is the firmest that I've seen it and it's only going to get firmer.   Q.  Playing this well at home, how are you doing this?  You've got all this extra pressure on the outside.  How are you keeping that away?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Well, I'm just trying to embrace it.  I'm trying not to think about the Ryder Cup.  I'm trying to think about all my friends and family that are here.  I'm just trying to be aware of.  I'm just trying to do the best I can to embrace it. I'm not going to sit up here and say any cliches that I'm not thinking about the Ryder Cup or any of that.  I am very aware every second of the day that I'm being watched by the Captain.  And I'm just trying to embrace that and be aware of it and enjoy it, if I can.   Q.  Do you feel like you're 25 percent of the way through doing what you need to do this week?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah.  I feel really, really nice.  I really would love to contend in this tournament, in my home state.  So that's first and foremost.  I'm thrilled with the way I putted the ball today, which I haven't done in a while.  And that's what's gotten the most success.   Q.  How do you feel about the way you've played here in the past?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: I've played actually pretty well here, other than one bad round my first year.  I've had a couple of low ones.  I'm just starting to learn how to play in the home state with my family and friends around.  But today was such a great day.  I had so much fun out there and enjoyed every second of it.   Q.  What kind of adjustments do you need to make playing at home?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: I think you just need to not fight -- you can't just try to play well for everybody in the crowd.  Because they'd come out here and watch me shoot 85, as much as they'd love seeing me shoot 65.  But it is that much more fun to shoot that here with the crowd and the fans.   Q.  Talk about the changes they made on 18 and your walking down on 18 here?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: 18 is I much tougher hole now, with that shelf over the back.  Kind of had a bad lie in the bunker.  Didn't hit the best bunker shot out, but then made a nice little 12-footer for birdie.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I'm so pumped, obviously, to shoot that score.  I'm most happy with the way I played.  I played really solid.  I don't think I missed a fairway.  I hit a lot of greens and made some putts, which is a really good sign.   Q.  You had to club up on that 55-footer on 14.  How much did you feel like you had that one?  How good did it feel on that run of eight straight pars?  KEEGAN BRADLEY: I thought I made that putt, it was kind of embarrassing it didn't go in.  Yeah, I made a bunch of pars there in the middle, I got up and down a bunch of times, so that was nice.  Those are tough holes in that stretch.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT