TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Keegan, nice strong finish for you.   Special birdies at 6, 7, 8.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it was kind of a tough day.   I didn't have my best game today, but I grinded it out and birdied three of the last four.  
   
 Q.   Grind it till you find it.   Tell us about that deuce at the eighth.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Oh, yeah.   That was a good‑‑ I hit a really nice 6‑iron in there to about 12 feet and made the putt.   That was big because it kind of kept the momentum going.  
   
 Q.   Back on the belly putter this week after kind of experimenting with the more conventional shaft.   Give us your thoughts on your putting.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I haven't putted really well all year.   I didn't putt very well early in the round, but I made some coming in.   So that gets me excited for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You know, it's funny you say you haven't putted well.   I know the stats say that, but I've watched you putt, and the roll looks good to me.   Really throughout the entire year they just haven't been going down.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's kind of a lot of lips, a lot of maybe slight misreads, but I'm ready to go out and make a bunch of putts.   I'm due.  
   
 Q.   Do it.   Strong finish by Keegan Bradley for an opening round 66.   How did you kind of put it together the final few holes?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it was kind of a tough round today, other than I grinded it out and birdied three of the last four to save the round.   Really kind of had a good round today, especially when it was raining all morning.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you were comfortable last week with your game at Pinehurst.   Any carryover this week into The Travelers?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I hope so.   I think it can go either way with it.   It can carry over or you can just be exhausted and shoot some lazy rounds, but I hung in there today.  
   
 Q.   You told me earlier in the week this was the first event you ever attended as a fan growing up in nearby Vermont.   What does this tournament mean to you?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It means a lot.   We only get two events in New England all year.   This one of them.   So this is a big event for me and my family and one that I would love to win some day.  
   
 Q.   Keegan, 4‑under on the day.   You're the first player we talked to that played all four rounds at the U.S. Open last week.   Mentally that has to be exhausting, and how do you kind of approach this week coming off such a tough week?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   I mean I gotta be easy on myself.   I gotta take it easy and rest up.   But today was a good day.  
   
 Q.   A lot's been made of, and I know you know this, anchoring the putter, not anchoring the putter.   You're obviously playing around with it.   It's coming up.   Why are you choosing to go back to what you're kind of used to this week?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I used it at the U.S. Open, and I just‑‑ you know, I'm kind of experimenting.   You know, I haven't made a decision either way which way I'm going yet, but as of right now I'm going to go back to the belly, but that's not to say I couldn't use the short coming up next week.  
   
 Q.   Every year since you've been out here, we see a ton of family; aunts, uncles, parents.   You're from this area.   So it's kind of a home game for you.   How much fun is it to come back here and be surrounded by all the people that love you?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's a lot of fun.   This event is very special to us, Travelers is such a great sponsor and one that I look forward to all year long.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Great start to your week.   Thank you so much for joining us.   Nice job today.   Way to go.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   So how was it today?   You know, starting off in the rain and having to deal with that?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, you know, it wasn't my best round all the way through except the last three out of four holes.   But it was tougher this morning with the rain, and it was just more annoying than anything.   But I hung in there.  
   
 Q.   So when it cleared up, it seemed to be something as though, you know, strong finishes after it got better?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Right.   Yeah.   It's something that I needed to do in order to stay in this tournament because this afternoon the scores are going to be low, and I'm proud of the way I finished.  
   
 Q.   You're in the hunt.   I mean there's like a bunch of guys at 4.   Do you think 4 is not‑‑ do you think they're going to go flying this afternoon?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I mean there will be low scores, for sure, but 4‑under is a really good score.   You know, I'd take that all four rounds.   
But you know, considering I was 1‑under with nine to go, five to go and I shot 4‑under is pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Sounds good.   Thanks, Keegan.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT