TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for joining us for a few minutes here at the Travelers Championship.   This is a good year, four top 10s, coming off a top 5 finish last week at the U.S. Open.   With that, just a few comments being back here at TPC River Highlands.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I'm excited to be back in New England.   I especially love coming down here and playing the Travelers Championship.   Travelers does an unbelievable job for the tournament and the community.   But most of all, it's really nice to be back in New England with my family and friends.   
THE MODERATOR:   With that, we'll jump in and take some questions.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, much different mindset.   Basically you want to go out and try to make as many birdies as you can out here, be really aggressive every hole as opposed to the U.S. Open where you want to make a lot of pars and kind of just hit a lot of fairways and choose around pars as you can, but out here it's how low you can go.   You put yourself in position to birdie a lot of these holes.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it for you to sort of get back into that mode after last week when you're grinding for four days and now you can go out and make birdie?   Do you like that?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I think it's easier to go from that to this as opposed to easier to really hard.   I think it's a really nice spot for the tournament because it's really fun coming here and knowing that you're going to hopefully make a ton of birdies.   It's a really nice change of pace coming off the U.S. Open.   I think going from really hard to making a lot of birdies is actually easier.   I felt like in the past it's helped me make a bunch of birdies here because it's such a relief.  
   
 Q.   How do you, I guess, get back after the U.S. Open?   I mean, you've got to be kind of amped, knowing the player you are and finishing up on the leaderboard, how do you sort of get back into playing mode after that?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, that is difficult because the U.S. Open is ‑‑ and I left the U.S. Open on Friday.   It was a long week, tiring, very tiring.   I was exhausted yesterday.   I played nine holes and all of a sudden I could barely even stand up.   So just going to try to rest up and be easy on myself.   
But it's difficult to get right back into it because especially when you have a good week, which I feel I did, it's very satisfying to just finish in the top 5 in a major.   You've got to have to kind of cancel that out and go all right.   We'll start back up here tomorrow.   This tournament's very special to me, one that I would love to contend at and hopefully win something.  
   
 Q.   You've gone back to the conventional putter, and I know you were an anchor putter before.   How is that transition going for you?   How are you doing with that?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Feeling great.   I wanted to kind of test it out at Memorial which are probably the toughest greens outside of Augusta that we play.   It felt really, really great.   So I just decided I wanted to prove to myself that although I knew already that I'd be okay, and I'm just going to kind of play it as I go.   I felt that my goal is to make the Ryder Cup contending in these majors and then make a permanent switch.   I feel as though it's easier going from belly to the short putter, because I feel like I've got so much more touch with the short putter.   I really feel in the future I have the potential to putt better over the long‑term.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's tough because I want to switch over right now, but there is so much more that goes into it for me than to just switch.   There is a lot that goes on with me switching, so I thought that as of now I'm just going to stick with the belly, stick with what I know, and kind of play it as I go.   I'm not going to say I'm going to switch for good or not switch.   Right now I'm going to go belly, and you never know, next week I could be shorty.   It's nice to know in the back of my mind that it's all good.   That I feel comfortable with it.  
   
 Q.   This tournament is the week after the U.S. Open where it should be a tougher week for tournaments to draw good players.   Four of the top eight in the world are in this tournament.   Why do you think that is?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think a lot of credit should go to Travelers.   I think that they've turned this event into something special.   I know that we as players love coming here.   They treatise really well, and it's a great tournament.   It's really fun.   I know there is not one person that comes here and doesn't enjoy themselves.   It's a great atmosphere.   The fans in New England are some of the best sports fans in the world.   I think the best.   Again, Travelers really knows how to put on a good tournament.   It is a very tough spot to host an event, and I think we've got to give a lot of credit to Travelers in setting up this great event.  
   
 Q.   You talk about going low, and if you do have a good week, can you roll that along through the rest of the summer, do you think?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Absolutely, yeah.   I've been playing really well all year.   Something seemed to kind of click in at Memorial.   Played really, really well.   I hit 80% of my fairways, and 80% of my greens for three rounds, which is tough out there.   Then at the U.S. Open, man, I hit it probably the best I've ever hit it over a tournament, and didn't putt my best.   But it's kind of at a point now where I feel like I could go, and I could have a nice little run in here these next couple weeks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT