U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You got one guy out there kind of giving you something to chase.KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I played with Martin these first two days, he's playing so good.  It's fun to watch.  I played well as well, but it was fun watching him hit every fairway, every green and make every putt, it was pretty awesome.
Q. Do you feel like an even par round is normally just what you want, but then compared to him?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I'm at 2-under, which it's still very early on.  He's got a big lead, but that doesn't really change anything I'm going to do.  I'm still going to go out and if I can shoot all four rounds in the 60s, man, that would be pretty tough.  So I expect the course to get harder and harder as the week goes on.
Q. Does it affect the way that you approach, say, tomorrow?KEEGAN BRADLEY: No, no, it doesn't.  Because the course is too hard to -- you just got to stick with the game plan.  You can't -- there's no place to force anything.  It's just similar to Augusta in that there's a double on every hole, if you're not careful.  So stick to the game plan.
Q. At what point do you have to change the game plan over the next 36 holes?  Where is the line where you say, he's got this big lead and now I have to put the pedal to the metal?KEEGAN BRADLEY: We've got to see what happens tomorrow.  But the back nine on Sunday is where it all kind of happens. I think that steady golf out here is going to be tough.  You need to go out there tomorrow and make a bunch of pars and you never know what's going to happen.
Q. Could you tell the rain had softened up the course a little bit?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, the rain definitely softened the course up, but the pins were much more difficult today.  So kind of a give and take.  But the greens were definitely softer, the course was definitely more receptive, but again, the pins were tougher.
Q. (No Microphone.)KEEGAN BRADLEY: It's awesome.  I'm so pumped.  I've never really done very well in the U.S. Open, it's one of my favorite events.  I haven't won one, so it's fun for me to be out here and kind of living my dream out at the U.S. Open.  I'm really excited for the weekend.
Q. Describe how it looks to you from your standpoint of watching this guy.  It looks like he's not playing in a U.S. Open.  What is that like as a player watching that?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Right, well, like I said yesterday, if you hit the ball in the fairway, you can score out here.  It's tough greens, but they're a little receptive. He's just hitting the ball in the fairway on every hole and that's how you score.  If you hit the ball in the fairway, you can attack a lot of these pins and these greens.  When you get off the fairway into the waste area, that's when it can get dicey.
Q. (No Microphone.)KEEGAN BRADLEY: No, he's dialed in.  He's as dialed in as I've seen.
Q. Did you see him show any emotion at all?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, he's a really fun guy to play with.  He's really nice guy, he's a Major champion, won THE PLAYERS, so he's got a lot of game, obviously.
Q. (No Microphone.)KEEGAN BRADLEY: He's just very steady.  He doesn't seem to get to up and down.  That's a pretty good combination for the U.S. Open.
Q. You finished birdie, par, birdie.  Was the par the one that maybe meant the most?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I was so pumped because that -- I kind of was making a mess of that hole, and then I made a 20-footer for par.  Those 20-footers for par anywhere are nice, but at the U.S. Open, it's just awesome.  That was a really momentum swing, it kept me going.  That's definitely the shot that I look back on today as the best.
Q. Did you have any idea what it was going to do or did you think you were going to get a better shot?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, my goal was to just kind of get it up to the front of the green.  It's really, you never know what you're going to get when you're hitting out of there.  It's kind of a guess a lot of times.  I guessed wrong that time, but then I hung tough and got the next one on the green and made the putt.
Q. (No Microphone.)KEEGAN BRADLEY: As long as you keep a good mind, it can last a tournament.  I think that there's definitely going to be stretches out here in the U.S. Open where you're going to have to grind and battle. So if you can get through those times even par, 1-over, even 2-over, that's how you win the tournament.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT