U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Do you feel happy with the round?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, this is the best round I've ever played in a U.S. Open, for sure.  Really, really happy with the way I played.  Mentally, everything was pretty solid.
Q. Talk about the challenges of the way the setup is.KEEGAN BRADLEY: They've done an unbelievable job.  It's the best set up I think I've ever played.  If you hit the ball in the fairway, you can attack and you can make birdies right now.  But if you hit the ball in that waste, even if you've got a good lie, it's hard to hit a good shot. But, you know, I pushed it a couple of times today with driver and hit the ball in the fairway and was able to hit some scoring shots in.
Q. Did you feel like you were more of a disadvantage in the afternoon than the guys that had the softer conditions?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, that's pretty much how it is out here.  I watched some of the telecast this morning to watch how things were, and I noticed the balls weren't jumping like they were.  I felt like the greens were softer this afternoon than they were even yesterday afternoon when I played.  The course is in great shape.
Q. What was your thought process in going back to anchoring this week?KEEGAN BRADLEY: I just felt like from off the green I was a little more comfortable with it, and I have so much -- you can have so many putts from off the green around here.  There was no other reason other than that, from those kind of putt-chips that you have.  I was more comfortable with it.
Q. Sticking with it all week?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah.
Q. Knowing the challenges that are out there, what did you think of Martin's round?KEEGAN BRADLEY: He played great.  He hit the ball in the fairway all day.  There were pins that you could score on.  And he's really striking it well.  It was an impressive round, one of the best rounds I've seen, for sure.
Q. Did you think that 65 was possible, even all week?KEEGAN BRADLEY: Probably not.  But like I said, you know, I felt like they put some pins that we could score on.  They moved a few tees up and put the ball in the fairway again.  It's true, because you can take a risk in this U.S. Open and hit the driver, knowing that maybe if you hit it in that waste area I can hit it on the green, which I think is a way more fun approach to the tournament.
Q. (Inaudible.)KEEGAN BRADLEY: Yeah, I mean, the tee was two tees up on 5.  There was a couple of tees that I was surprised were up.  But when they put that tee up on 5, they put that pin that's really tough, that front right.  I'm sure there was a lot of birdies, but I'm sure there was a lot of bogeys, as well.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT