HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome Keegan Bradley into the interview room here at the HP Byron Nelson Championship.   He is making his fourth start at this tournament and quite a record.   He won this event in 2011 and he finished second just last year.   Keegan welcome back to the Byron Nelson, if we can get some comments from you?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, thanks.   I'm happy back.   I have some great memories here and playing in the Byron Nelson, a lot of history and it's just a fun week to come back and remember all the fun memories of being in here after I won and it's just awesome.   
   
 Q.   What is it about the course that suits you so well?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's not something that I can 100% put my finger on.   Just seems that the holes fit my eyes nicely, the greens are perfect.   
This is one of the more underrated courses in terms of condition.   The greens are always perfect.   
There is something about this course that I see the right way, and that putts go in.   It's that simple.   I can't explain the exact reason but it's good stuff.   
   
 Q.   Keegan, I know you just finished the Pro‑Am and I think I saw somewhere that you and your dad are involved in an event that it's like a Pro‑Am, you're going to be playing with different Pro‑Ams.   Can you talk about that?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's with national car rental Pro‑Am series it's a great organization that we're doing.   My dad is, they're highly involved in PGA America my dad is a club pro PGA member so it just kinda fits in nicely.   This is their inaugural year and it's a lot of fun we have had a lot of really good feedback and its fun to connect with the fans and I will be playing golf with them later this year.  
   
 Q.   Keegan you're on the outside looking in right now with the terms of the Ryder Cup standings, with the success you had at Medina and obviously important to you.   How much do you know about mentally what you have to get done and how do you see it?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I really think that you're going to have to possibly get a win here to make that team.   The team is so deep, so tough and you're probably going to have, you know, Tiger outside.   So you got guys that are very deserving of picks, so it's important to make the team because there is going to be a few guys I think this year that aren't on the team that are guys that have been on the team forever.   
I know for me it's very important to make the team on my points.   
   
 Q.   How much do you recall or bank on what you did last year in the first round, obviously shooting 60.   That's got to be a special memory for you and is there a lot you can recall from going into this year?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's what I was saying earlier.   There's just great memories everywhere I go.   Sitting in this exact chair when I won, changed my life.   I remember, you know, walking around, calling my dad around the corner over here, after I'd won.   Then I've got memories on the course of shooting 60 and winning the tournament.   
Again, it's not something that I can exactly put my finger on, but it's good vibes around this course and I feel as though every time I come here I should contend.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any big basketball games planned this week with Jason Dufner and those guys?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I haven't heard‑‑ we had some intense pig games last year.   I'm surprised you remember that.   Me and Duff teamed up and smoked everybody.   I haven't heard from Duff, and I'm kinda surprised.   I got a big hockey game on tonight though, so I won't be shooting any hoops.   
   
 Q.   Different guys handle it different ways, how do you approach a Pro‑Am is it a day off for you?   Is it a scouting session?   Is it a chance to make contact?   I assume you played with guys that are your dad's age.   Does that take you back?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, the Pro‑Ams are important because the people that are in the Pro‑Ams are the reason why we have the tournament.   So it's‑‑ I wouldn't call it a practice round because the priority one is to make sure your guys have a good time.   It's fun to, you know, see the guys, how much they enjoy coming out and playing and how nervous they get.   
It's a fun time, a lot of good stories come out of Pro‑Ams.   
   
 Q.   When you play with guys your dad's age, does that take you back to when you used to play with your dad and his friends?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I grew up as a kid always playing with adults, whether I was 6 years old or now it's the same.   So it is, it's fun watching‑‑ I enjoy watching them have fun.   It remind me how fun the game is.   
   
 Q.   Keegan, really solid season for you so far, can you take positives out of the way you've played even though you haven't won yet?   Or is it more frustrating that you haven't gotten there?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's a little frustrating but I keep telling myself I put myself in position, I'm going to win come‑‑ soon!   I feel like I'm‑‑ my rookie year I won and I won kind of‑‑ not easily but I didn't go through any heart breaks and I feel like I'm going through that rookie period now where maybe you don't close 'em out.   I'm learning and I feel like a week is going to come where I'm going to go out and it's going to be one of those weeks because it's been close a couple of times.   
   
 Q.   Keegan you have played this course in a lot of conditions, finished the Pro‑Am round today.   How is it out there after the rains we have had and how receptive are the greens and what do you think scoring is going to be like?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Today and yesterday is a north wind and the rest of the tournament is south so that's a bummer, not much practice round knowledge there.   The course is wet, not as wet as I thought.   I gotta give the grounds crew and superintendent a lot of credit, the course is as good as I've ever seen it.   
Greens are receptive and soft, I would expect this course to be pretty low.   
   
 Q.   Your first start here was 2011, Jordan was actually 2010.   How impressed are you with what he's been able to accomplish in these four years that he's been playing out here?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I actually‑‑ when I won in 2011 I played with Spieth in the final round, when he was an amateur.   He's a well isworld class player, one of the best players in the world.   There is not more to say than that.   He's going to win a lot he's going to be in contention a lot and I'm glad he's an American, and he will be on Ryder Cup teams, and I would love to be his partner.   
THE MODERATOR:   Keegan Bradley, thank you, sir.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT