ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Keegan Bradley, thank you for joining us for a few minutes after a successful 7‑under 65 in round three of the Zurich Classic of New Orleans.   Capped off with a nice birdie at 18, just a few comments on the round, and we'll take a few questions. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I felt so great today from the first tee to the range to the last hole.   I'm most proud this week of where I've been mentally on the golf course and how calm I've felt.   So that's a really good sign going into tomorrow.

Q.   Were you not feeling well physically on Friday, and where are you now in that spectrum? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, Friday morning I must have ate something that was‑‑ yeah, it was bad.   But luckily I made it through the round.   I was worried.   About 40 minutes from my tee time I was having some issues, put it that way.   But I felt very, very sick yesterday, but I held it together nice.   Today I woke up, thankfully, a hundred percent.   So couldn't have been sick.   It was probably food poisoning.   I feel a hundred percent better now.

Q.   When you say you're improved mentally, what kind of different approach are you taking or what has been the difference? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I just think that my golf swing and putter and short game feel solid.   I'm not putting extra pressure on myself on the golf course.   I feel as though if I missed a green, I can get it up‑and‑down.   Then the putter seems to be really warming up, and that's always a good sign.

Q.   You were talking about Chuck a little bit on the CBS broadcast.   Where are you now in the process in terms of comfort?   When you change coaches, sometimes it takes a while for things to click in.   Do you know where you are in that process? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, we're done.   We're done doing much.   It's all just maintenance now.   Like I said, we're doing a lot of short game, lot of wedges.   I hit a couple of really solid wedges today.   But we're done.   There is not much more.   We're not making many more changes.   It's just maintenance at this point.   I feel very comfortable with Chuck and what we're doing.

Q.   I wanted to follow up.   For you, does contention mean you're happy with‑‑ is it winning, about hitting great golf shots, or is it about being in contention and in the fight?   What do you love about Sunday and being in contention on the PGA TOUR? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's about being in contention.   Personally, when I'm not in contention, it's no fun.   I love being‑‑ waking up and feeling that energy, getting to the first tee and the bigger crowds.   I mean, there is a lot on the line tomorrow and I want to win the tournament, first off.   So I haven't played much with Noh, but I know he's a great player with a great golf swing, so it should be a good battle.

Q.   Leave it to the media to ask a negative question.   The bogey today was on number 9.   Is that hole playing tough, and what happened there? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Just I hit a bad shot, really.   The only bad shot I hit all day.   But it's just an awkward shot because the pins to the right.   If you miss it to the right, you basically can't get it up‑and‑down and obviously left is the water.   So it just was a bad swing.   It's a weird number for me.   It was 207, in between a 6 and 7‑iron.   I just tried to hit a hard‑7 and it got up and into the water.

Q.   How much are you looking at Ryder Cup standings at this point in the year?   It's a wraparound schedule.   The standings are kind of volatile. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I try my hardest not to look just because it makes me crazy.   But I know where I stand, and I know I've got work to do as do a lot of players.   There is nothing more that I want to do than play for Tom Watson in the Ryder Cup.   So it's tough, because I can't look because it will make me crazy, but I want to know.   So it's a tough spot to be in.

Q.   I was talking to Billy.   He missed the cut this week.   He said he's had trouble being too hard on himself and he's trying to find that fine line between kicking himself in the butt but not driving himself crazy.   Where are you in that part of your career?   I know how hungry you are and how much you want to win.   But you're a very fiery guy also. 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I battled that same side.   It seems when you're playing your best, you're so easy on yourself.   Like today I hit one in the water on nine.   I just said whatever, made bogey.   Sometimes when you're battling to make the cut you get upset and mad.   But I'm trying to walk that line in between.   When you're too hard on yourself, bad scores come.   It's just that simple.

Q.   Justin told us yesterday that it took him a long time to love or even like this course.   You played it well yesterday.   Do you feel the same way?   That you've maybe figured it out? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I mean, Zurich does an unbelievable job getting this course ready, the superintendent, staff here.   I love the tournament, the atmosphere that Zurich puts on, the city of New Orleans.   I feel really comfortable out on the golf course.   Lot of shots that I like to hit.   You know, this is the grass that I practice on at home at Bear's Club is Bermuda.   So I feel comfortable out here.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, first off, I love being in this position, a couple back going into Sunday.   I'd like to be a couple in the lead too.   But I love chasing.   I love being in this position.   This is the position that I love being.   I'm in the final group.   I should be able to know what's going on and a low score tomorrow out of the final group could win the tournament which is very exciting.

Q.   Can you understand the position Noh's in?   Could there potentially be an intimidation factor playing with you?   Did you feel that at any point in your career when you may have been in the final group with somebody who had won like you have before? 
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Man, I don't know what he's thinking.   I'm sure he's fine.   He's a tough player.   I doubt that I'm going to intimidate him.   But it is definitely hard getting your first win, but he's a great player, again, with a great golf swing.   That combination normally results in wins.

Q.   How did the wind affect you at all, and I hear tomorrow it's supposed to be a little bit more gusts?   How does that affect your play at all, if any?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's actually a pretty good wind for the course, because the majority of the holes are straight downwind.   You play a couple holes early straight into the wind, and then you make the turn and you're playing all these holes downwind coming in.   So, it's very rare that you have a big crosswind, which is kind of nice.   But I do know the wind is going to blow tomorrow.   This course can play tough when the wind blows. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT