SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVE SENKO:   Well, Keegan, thanks for joining us.   Maybe just get us started, bogey-free day for everyone in your group.   Maybe just talk about your day and then we'll get some questions.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, really fun day playing with Phil and Webb, bogey-free day for our whole group is pretty amazing.   Phil said it's never happened in his career.   Pretty cool, pretty fun day.   We all played very well.   I got off to a good start on my back-9 and made a few birdies coming in.

Q.   What was working best for you today?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I hit a lot of greens.   Missed three greens, got them all up and down.   Hit a lot of really quality iron shots and made some putts early on, you know, very in control round, in control of my ball pretty well today.

Q.   Was the play that easy or you guys just played that well today?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   We all played really well.   You know, all of us could have been lower, especially, you know, Phil played really well, too.   But, you know, I started to actually think about it coming in that we all were bogey-free.   I think it's a pretty cool thing for three guys to go out here and this morning on front-9 was sneaky tough.   I think that's pretty cool.

Q.   When did that thought pop in your head?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I sort of popped in my head at 11, 12.   None of us made bogies.   We're walking down our last hole, me, Weber, and Phil starts yapping in our ear how none of us made any bogies.   Typical Phil stuff.

Q.   Was he trying to get a bet down at that point?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Me and Webb were two-putted.   How funny would this be if he 3-putts this after yapping in our ear.

Q.   How do you like this course?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I love it.   I got a really good record here, fits my game really nicely.   Greens are immaculate.   I think they're the best greens we play all year.

Q.   Can you elaborate on why it fits you so well?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's a big golf course.   All the par-5s are reachable for the most part for the longer players.   Shorter players can't really get to these par-5s.   Lot of drivers, big greens.   Good ball striker out here is going to make some stuff happen.

Q.   I think you're like 29 under over your last nine rounds here.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   I feel really -- I've been playing great all year.   I hadn't been making any putts and seems like the putter just kind of woke up right about now, which is really good time of year for it to do that.

Q.   Did the fact that Phil -- obviously there was some question about his health and, of course, he played yesterday.   Did he play a practice round?   What did you see in him today?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   He was striking it.   He was hitting it long and great.   I think he's okay.   I think he needed to maybe get a little rest, the rest of oblique or back or whatever it was, and I think that he's fine.   He did a lot of rehab.   He seems like it was feeling a lot better today than it was in San Antonio.

Q.   Is he a guy that obviously you're playing with for a lot of reasons, attracts a crowd and he's fun?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I love playing with Phil.   I love beating Phil, too (laughter).   We kind of -- he brings the best out in me.   So I love going out and playing with him.   I like to think that I do the same for him.

Q.   When you see the pairing for this tournament, straight away your thought, is this is good for me, is this is good for my game?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, definitely.   I love getting paired with Tiger and Phil and some of the other guys, big pairings, kind of gives a little extra buzz to it.   I love playing with Phil especially.   We're partners, Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup.   We have a really good time out there.

Q.   Obviously you want to do well this week.   How good does it feel all three of you guys a week before the Masters?   You got to feel pretty good about where you are?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I think that all three of us are in good shape for Augusta next week.   You know, it's great to kind of get your game feeling sharp and ready for the Masters, for any Major, for that matter, but it's a good time of year to do that.

Q.   Did you make a scouting trip in there like Phil always does?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I did.   I went this week, this past weekend, and played a couple times and got some practice.

Q.   Play with other Tour players or members?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I played with a member, Jay Shelf, brought one of my friends in to play, my college teammates.   The second day I played with Luke Donald.   We had a little practice round.   It's always great to get some extra looks out.

Q.   Was there -- give me one shot from today that stands out in your mind as the best or the most memorable for you or your one highlight.
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, on the sixth hole or the fifth hole, Phil -- he's been bragging how long he's been hitting it.   I hit a really, really good drive on five and he was kind looking over at me, and I smashed one about 30 yards by him.   Just kind of giggled up the fairway.   That was probably my best one (laughter).

Q.   Keegan, based on how you've been playing the last few weeks, did you feel like a round like today was possible?
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   I played some really solid rounds a couple weeks ago at Arnold Palmer on a very, very difficult golf course.   So, you know, to come to a course like that, I played well and that kind of favors my game, kind of seems good timing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT