ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 23, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It's not over until it's over?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I didn't play my best today, but I hung in there.   I hit some really good shots coming down the stretch.   I thought I made that putt on the last hole, I really did.   It was breaking in perfect and it just stopped breaking.   
   
 Q.   The members by the greens say that putt always seems to miss on the high side.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It did.   I actually was thinking about that Tiger putt.   I remember watching his breaking in there really hard.   I vividly remember that putt.   And it looked about the same.   
But I hit an absolutely perfect putt, perfect speed.   The tendency there is to hit it too hard.   Just didn't break in.   
   
 Q.   You had almost the same shot as you had yesterday.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I hit a pretty good shot.   It was 172 yards.   It's a tough shot.   The pin looks like it's in the water from where we're standing.   I just wanted to make sure I gave myself a chance to‑‑ I love making those putts.   I wanted to give myself a shot of making the putt.   I didn't hit a great shot.   But considering the circumstances it was all right.   
   
 Q.   When you get to 17 and‑‑ when you looked up at the board and realized what you had to do at 18?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I was kind of looking the whole back nine.   Me and Adam weren't playing that well.   And I knew he wasn't leading.   So I knew that Matt when he missed that putt, Pepsi kind of said that's bogey.   So birdie here is playoff.  
I just loved that moment.   I'm really proud of the way that I played.   But Matt played a really, really good round of golf today.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking after 2 and 3, what were you thinking after going to No. 4?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Two I get a really bad break.   I was in like a dirt hole.   Really unbelievable.  
And 3 I hit a decent second putt that I didn't think was going to break.   The greens are barely having any grass on them.   They're rolling right now fast.   I knew if I hung in there ‑‑ I was playing with Adam.   I figured Adam was going to be the measuring point.   And I hung in there nicely and I gave myself a chance.  
   
 Q.   With Adam today, anything about him being off at all, did you talk?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   This is a tough course.   You're a millimeter off‑‑ it reminds me a lot of Augusta where you can play really well and next thing you're 3‑over par.   I hit a lot of really quality shots the first four holes and I'm 2‑, 3‑over par for three holes.   So it's a tough track.  
   
 Q.   If you could have a shot back, looking back, where do you take it?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   If I could have a shot back I wish I could have that shot back on 11 that I pulled over the green.   Made a good bogey.   
And I wish I could have made that shot on 16.   I got too off line, and straight downhill, no grass, I just didn't hit it hard enough.  
   
 Q.   How hard is it to win on the PGA TOUR right now?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   It's hard.   It's really hard.   I just feel like the players are so good.   From the first guy in the field to the last guy in the field I feel like we all grew up watching Tiger and you're seeing his generation play now.   And they're not afraid to go win tournaments.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT