ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 22, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK STEVENS:   Like to welcome Keegan Bradley.   A very exciting round.   If you will talk about some highlights and we'll have some questions.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I got off to a really good start, made a nice birdie on 1.   Just kept it rolling the whole day.   I made a couple of bogeys, but they were both perfect shots in there.   I'm really striking the ball well, and got some putts going.   
   
 Q.   Start of the day eight back, looks like you may be three or two back.   What does that tell you going into tomorrow?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, I'm excited that I cut into the lead.   My goal today was just to cut into that lead as much as I could.   I kind of like being in this position, a couple back going into Sunday.   I needed to go shoot a good round.   I feel really good.  
   
 Q.   Just kind of following that, what is your mindset, I guess, looking at the leaderboard, seeing how Adam has played the first few days, and seeing the course has played pretty difficult, the mindset going into tomorrow?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, I'm playing really, really solid golf.   I just need to go out and do my thing tomorrow and keep hitting a lot of fairways and a lot of greens.   
My putter seems to have woken up a little bit, which is a really good sign.   I'm making a lot of 15‑, 20‑footers, which you have to do out here.   
   
 Q.   I was out for nine holes and it looked like the wind was blowing one direction on the lake around by six if you were on one side of it, and on the other side of it it was blowing another direction.   It looked like it was a one or one and a half club wind.   Did you see that or were you hitting it so solidly it didn't matter?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I made a bogey on the 8th hole.   I hit a really good drive out there and I had a perfect 7‑iron, I thought the wind was in.   It was right over the flag, I was staring at that, and it was long.   It was easily a club long.   I misjudged the wind in the area you're talking about.   
The wind has been swirly this week, that's for sure.   You feel like it's with you and then all of a sudden you look at a flag and it's coming back again.   It makes it a lot more challenging.  
   
 Q.   You talk about liking to cut into the lead.   When you start the day eight back or seven back like some guys are.   Do you watch the leaderboard to watch what he's doing, to give you some daylight?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I don't watch leaderboards a lot.   But I did check in on it a couple of times today.   I knew that Adam wouldn't come back to me or won't come back to me.   I know that I'll have to go out and shoot a good number.   And that was kind of my mindset.   I thought if I shot a 67 today that I'd be in really good shape.   And I ended up shooting 66.   I think I may have played my way into the final group, which is all you can really ask for.  
   
 Q.   You said you liked being a couple back going into Sunday, is that because it gets you into the chase or aggressive mode, can you address that statement?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, well, a couple of my wins, the PGA and Akron I've been in the same situation.   I just kind of like that underdog role.   I like knowing that I've got to go out there and play well.   It really gets me excited.   And playing in the final group with one of the best players in the world at Arnold Palmer's tournament is what we all dream to do.   Tomorrow is going to be a really fun day.   
   
 Q.   Keegan, a bunch of top‑20s this year, but only one top‑10.   Has it been pretty close, one or two things that you can point to that you haven't been quite‑‑  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I've played really solidly the whole year.   I've missed three top‑10s by a shot.   I'm right there basically without making a putt.   So just finally I'm seeing some putts go in.   It's just such a great feeling.   Getting on the greens and feeling like I could make every putt, which is‑‑ I can‑‑ when I get that feeling and that putter gets hot I can make a lot of putts.   
   
 Q.   First thing is, what did you have into 18?   Was the line you took the line up were intending to take?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I had 166 yards.   I had about 160 cover.   I figured the wind was a little down.   Hit 9‑iron.   Pepsi wanted me to hit it a little left of the flag, but I was going right at it.   He was a little nervous.   He said something walking up.   And I was going right at it, had a perfect number.   He was nervous, I knew the whole way it was going to cover and be perfect.   But it worked out.   Pepsi thought I was going to go further left, but it didn't.  
   
 Q.   The other thing is, it's been since Akron, since you've won last.   Did you think it would take this long?   You were on kind of a run there.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I've given myself a lot of the great opportunities to win the last couple of years.   Just a couple of missed putts.   I've given myself a lot of opportunities.   It's really, really tough to win out here.   And it doesn't take much to rattle off a couple, you see a lot of players, Patrick Reed and Harris English, kind of rattle two or three off within a ten event period, Jimmy Walker.   It's such a fine line winning and coming in 10th.   Hopefully tomorrow I can shoot a low one and get it.   
   
 Q.   I was going to ask you if you played with Adam before in the final round of a tournament?  
A.I played with Adam a bunch, never in the final round.  
   
 Q.   I'm not too sure if you're going to play in Texas the next two weeks, but if you were to go, if you win tomorrow what sort of confidence booster would this be going into the Masters?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Well, it would be amazing.   I'm really anxious to win a tournament, that's for sure.   But I'm going to go out tomorrow and play my hardest, play my best.   I would love to get a win before Augusta, obviously.   I think anybody would.   But regardless of what happens tomorrow I'm playing really, really good golf, and that's a good sign coming into Augusta.   
MARK STEVENS:   Thanks for your time, Keegan.   Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT