THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2014
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the round, how tough is it getting out there with the wind?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, the Bear Trap is playing like Bear Trap right now.   You've got to hit really quality shots and it's only going to get harder this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about 7‑under?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Really good.   I mean, for myself‑‑ for the tournament, I'm probably going to be several shots back, but I don't know, I'm feeling so good about my game, so today was one of the best rounds I've played all year.   
   
 Q.   What is it about your game that you're feeling so comfortable about?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I switched coaches to Chuck Cook and everything just seems to really be in good shape right now.   Feels solid, short game is better than it's ever been, so I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   When did you change to Chuck?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I changed to Chuck about Malaysia tournament and kind of been a progression of playing really well all year long.   Just been one swing a tournament, and then this week I've really held it together and played some good golf.   
   
 Q.   Did of the guys early on were complaining about mud balls and that they were unhappy about the change from down and up; how do you feel?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I had plenty of mud balls today.   You know, it is what it is.   It doesn't make sense I don't think, but it's a roll of the dice when you play it down today.   Being penalized for hitting in the fairway is a little weird.   But they have their reasons why they are doing it.   
   
 Q.   The Chuck Cook thing, why did you make the change?   Did you think you were not hitting the ball well or not scoring well?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Jim McClean was my old teacher and he taught me so much and I'll have fundamentals for the rest of my life.   I just felt like I needed a little change, and you know, Chuck was there, and I played a lot of practice rounds with Dufner, and he was saying he really liked him.   
   
 Q.   You indicated‑‑ a few shots back, right now Rory has bogeyed the last two and Brendon is over par for the day and maybe 7‑under won't be as far back as you thought.   If that's the case, do you feel like your game is now where you need it to be for tomorrow?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I really do.   I love this course.   I've played well here in the past.   You know, Rory is such a good player, he'll get it back.   I figure I'll be at least three, maybe four back.   But you know, that's nothing out here.   You can make a big number quick.   
   
 Q.   Take us through that birdie on the last hole.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I hit a really great drive right down the middle and then I kind of had a bad lie in the fairway and just decided, worst case, I'm just going to hit it left in the grandstands.   Got a nice drop and that pin was in a perfect spot where I was.   I had 49 yards to the front and just chipped it up there tight.   Felt really good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT