CIMB CLASSIC
October 24, 2013
Keegan Bradley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Thanks for joining us here at the first round 65 here at the CIMB Classic.   Still early, but congratulations.   You hold the course record.   If you can just start with some opening comments.   A good day for you.  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   I had a really great day today, super relaxed from the start; really one of my better rounds of the year.   So that was a really fun round to play, and I really like it here in Malaysia and this course especially.  
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   You had a little bit of time off.   It's your first start of the 2013‑14 season, but you had a busy fall with playing in all four, the FedEx playoff event, Presidents Cup.   What did you do during the brief time off?   Just kind of relax, put the clubs away for a little while?   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   I put the clubs away for a few days, but I got a lot of work to do this year, set a lot of goals that I want to accomplish.   
And coming here, this is the first time I've ever come here, so the schedule is a little different, and I wanted to be prepared for this tournament.   So I worked pretty hard the last couple of weeks.  
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Okay.   We'll take some questions.   
   
 Q.   If you could just elaborate on what you just said about goals for the coming season.   What are your goals this year?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, I want to be a more consistent player out here.   I want to win more.   I most importantly want to contend in the majors and play better in the majors.   
So my schedule and my practice routine will stay pretty intense for this whole year, just because I feel like there's no time to waste.   I really want to get off to a fast start, and it was fun to do that today.  
   
 Q.   And do you require like a mental change this year with the schedule starting so soon, with the wrap‑around schedule?   Did you have to adjust something mentally?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, it's difficult on players that have played all the FedExCup and the Presidents Cup.   It's really difficult because we've played the whole year.   
This is an addition for me to sort of try to keep up with the other guys that are going to be playing for the next‑‑ you know, that maybe didn't play in the PLAYOFFS and they're going to play all the Fall Series.   So it's an adjustment, but you know, we're going to‑‑ this year is going to be kind of an experimental year to see how the schedule kind of tips out.  
   
 Q.   You enjoy a really close relationship with Phil?   You practice a lot with him.   How much of a guiding force has he been in your career?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah, Phil has been a huge help to me.   He's one of my good friends out here.   We've partnered up a bunch in the Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup.   He's taught me a lot.   It's fun to just be around and play with him and be around a player that's won 40 times and won five majors.   So you know, you can't help but have a player like that rub off on you if you spend a lot of time with him.  
   
 Q.   Did you expect to score 7‑under today and what's your game plan for tomorrow?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, it was a really good round I played out there today.   This course is very difficult.   Rough is high, greens are really firm.   So I was really happy with that.  
I'm just going to keep going the rest of the week.   You gotta hit a lot of fairways out here, and that's kind of my goal is to hit as many fairways as possible.   I think the person that hits the most fairways is going to win this tournament.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   I hit a bunch of fairways today, and the ones that I missed, I was okay.   So that's a big difference.   If you go out there and hit five, six fairways, you're going to shoot over par.  
   
 Q.   And then the big misses out here, you're really penalized with not only hazards, but a lot of flowers and bushes and you almost have to take an unplayable.   
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah this course, you gotta drive the ball very straight.   So it's a good course for me.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone).  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, I bet it's between around 15‑under, 13 to 15.   I don't know.   It depends on the weather.   If it rains and the greens soften up, it might be lower, but if it doesn't rain and the greens stay firmer, who knows what it could be.   Could be 10.   So it's a great course, tough course.  
   
 Q.   Having the two‑tee start means you basically finish at the same time.   Is that a good thing or a bad thing?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   Yeah.   I think it's great.   I think it's a great thing.   Kind of‑‑ you know, sometimes in golf, golf can be really unfair, and when you have two‑tee start where everyone's teeing off and we're all playing in the same weather, I think it's a good thing.   Considering the weather can get very unpredictable here, it's a good decision by the TOUR.   
   
 Q.   What is that one lingering memory you have on the PGA Championship?  
KEEGAN BRADLEY:   You know, I got a lot of great memories on the PGA Championship, a lot of things that I'll remember the rest of my life, but you know, just walking out with the trophy and having it with my family, that was the most fun part of the whole being there.   And you know, it's something that I'll always remember for the rest of my life.  
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Anything else?   Okay.   Keegan Bradley.   Thank you.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT