BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2006
Brandon Bowman
Roy Hibbert
John Thompson III
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  In March, any win is a good win.  That's a very good win against a very tough team that did what they've done all year - they fight.  They keep fighting, they keep coming.  We got down early.  Then we responded and came back. 
 I just thought it was a tough game.  Two teams that play tough.  I thought our team played very well in the second half today. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the way Brandon played.  You've been on him all year. 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  Two years (smiling).  That is accurate.  I thought Brandon Bowman, he had a special performance today.  Not just the points, I just told him in the locker room, he made smart plays.  He got it in there, threw the right passes, got big rebounds when we needed it.  A lot of little things that make you win games, not just the points.  Brandon did all the little things today - coming up with balls, getting a deflection here, talking on defense.  Then, on top of that, he put the ball in the basket.  I thought he was terrific today, there's no other way to put it. 
 Q.  Can you talk about your team's work on the offensive boards.  Half of the shots you missed you got offensive rebounds. 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  Means we're missing too much (smiling). 
 We have to do that.  We had to do that.  We wanted to get -- we started off the game, you know, and that zone had it spread out a little too much.  We took, I don't know the exact numbers, but I feel like we took too many threes early.  Jeff got a couple inside and missed but other than that we took too many threes early.  Then we went to one of our sets.  We wanted to try to get it on the inside.  We were in position to do that.  Our guys made a conscious effort to go after the ball.  These guys just went after the ball. 
 Q.  Can you talk about Roy's presence, especially defensively on the boards. 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  Roy's presence? 
 Q.  Especially defensively. 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  Yeah, honestly, I thought that - and I didn't realize - I felt that he had scored more points, looking at the stat sheet now.  I thought he was a presence on offense also just because he draws so much attention.  People gravitating to Roy enable that middle to be open so much. 
 On the defensive end, he's getting better.  He's getting better.  But, you know, he is a presence, and we need him to continue to be a bigger presence. 
 Q.  Brandon, talk about your game today, the importance of your contribution. 
 BRANDON BOWMAN:  It was kind of like what Coach said, being a senior, you got to step up, make big plays.  Doesn't just include scoring and what not.  It's everything else. 
 You know, I got a couple big offensive rebounds during the stretch, you know, that we kind of converted on.  So, I mean, plays like that, a couple tips here and there on defense, you know, things like that, getting loose balls, those are all things Coach has been preaching to the team about.  I mean, we've been doing our best to try to, you know, do that.  We know that in March it takes all those plays to win games.  I'm just trying to contribute basically. 
 Q.  Brandon, can you talk about that last basket.  You went up for the drive. 
 BRANDON BOWMAN:  Oh, man, that's eight minutes, that's eight-minute layups before every practice.  Practice that layup going to the left side, hop the glass, you know.  It worked. 
 The coaches, they preach make layups.  We were missing a lot of layups.  I mean, Coach has been uneasy about it, but I think today we did a good job for the most part.  That's all it is, putting it up high off the glass.  Went in. 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  That was a nice layup, wasn't it?  That was a really nice layup.  Work on it every day. 
 Q.  Any specific adjustments you make for tomorrow against Marquette, Coach? 
 COACH JOHN THOMPSON III:  I can answer that in a couple hours.  You know, I don't know.  I got to figure that out in a couple hours.  You play one good team, then you got to get ready for another good team.  You play one team that has guys that can put the ball in the basket then you play against another team that has guys that can put the ball in the basket. 
 We'll see.  We'll see. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT