PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2006
Don Yrene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tell me about your round today.
DON YRENE:  You know, I hit the ball really, really good.  I struck the ball really solid throughout the whole round, one of my more consistent ball striking rounds, ever.

Putted pretty good.  Putted solid.  I just didn't make a lot of putts.  I birdied    I finally birdied, I started on the back side on 10.  I birdied 15.  I hit a good 9 iron, hit a good 3 wood down there, hit a 9 iron there about 15 feet and made it for my first birdie of the day.  And I think I was 1 under for the round after that.

Bogeyed the tough 16th.  I tried to draw a 3 wood around there and kind of blocked it out right a little bit.  I was in the rough and made a bogey there.

Then made some good pars coming in.  You know, the 17th hole, I killed a drive and then killed a pitching wedge on 18 to 12 feet and didn't make the putt.  I thought I hit a good drive on 1, but it was going down the left side, bounced to the right and thought it was in the fairway and we get down there and it's in the lip of the bunker.  Actually hit a pretty good shot just short of the green and didn't get up and down, I made a bogey there.

I came back and hit a really good 5 iron to maybe ten feet on No. 2, made a right to lefter, a good birdie there.

Just hit some really solid shots coming in.  Those last five or six holes, I birdied    parred the next hole, parred No. 3, birdied No. 4.  Hit a good drive, hit a 6 iron right in there pin high about 12 feet or so, made it for birdie.

Made a good par on the par 5, on the next hole the par 5.  Hit my driver in the bunker and kind of caught the lip.  Hit it like ten yards.  Hit a sand wedge, advanced it and hit a sand wedge to five feet and made that for a par so, it was a really good par.

No. 7, the par 5, I laid it up with a wedge to about 15 feet for birdie.  Didn't make the birdie putt.  Hit a good 5 iron to the middle of the green on No. 8 and 2 putted and had a long putt for birdie and 2 putted for par.

Then played No. 9, my last hole, really solid.  You've got to carve a 3 wood down there.  If you hit it straight, you're in the long rough.  If you pull it too much left, you're in the trees.  Hit a perfect little draw down with a 3 wood and hit a 7 iron right at it and drawing it in there, had another 12  or 15 footer and I hit a good putt but just turned on the low side and finished with a par on the last hole.  Just very good, played really good.
Q.  Was the length of the golf course any problem?
DON YRENE:  No, not really.  The fairways are starting to firm up.  If we don't get any rain, they are not predicting any rain, but looks like it's kind of clouding up now.  If the fairways remain firm, then it's not    it's not short.  It's not short by any means, but it's not playing tremendously long, though.
Q.  What's going to be your strategy going into tomorrow?
DON YRENE:  Just keep doing the same    keep swinging it really good, I'm hitting a lot of good shots.  The putter feels good.  So just keep doing it and keep doing the same thing I did today.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT