NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Zach LaVine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ZACH LAVINE: We're out there to have a good time, and trying to do the same thing.
Q. How has it been playing with some of our Canadian boys like over there, Wiggins?
ZACH LAVINE: That's my guy.  He's like my best friend on the team, and my best friend in the league right now, him and Karl[-Anthony] Towns.  That's my guy.  Playing with him the last two years and seeing him, it's better each day.  It's really good.
Q. In terms of the moment before the game, how do you pump yourself up?  Do you listen to music?
ZACH LAVINE: Oh, man.  I like taking a nap before a game.
Q. Really?
ZACH LAVINE: I'm like an old man, almost.  I take a long nap.  I get some food in, and then I actually like having a jump just before the game.  I listen to music.  I like warming up.  I like shooting a lot.  But I definitely get my nap in.  That's the main thing.  So today when I get done, I'm going to go back and take my nap.
Q. Is there going to be any kind of rivalry with you and Andrew going toe to toe in the Rising Stars?  Do you want to win because Andrew's on the other side?
ZACH LAVINE: Yeah, 100%.  I want MVP because he got it last year.  That's the main thing, you know, to go out here and have a good time.  But at the end of the day our competitive nature is going to take over.  Him and me are both competitive and we play each other every day in practice.  We're on the same team.  It's not like a real game we have to play against each other.  So we're definitely going to have some fun.
Q. He's so humble.  He didn't want to say that -- he said whoever wins, wins.
ZACH LAVINE: He don't mean that.  He's humble, but I know what he really means.  So I'm not hearing it.
Q. Tell us the real Andrew that we're missing.
ZACH LAVINE: The real Andrew, the one that talks mess to you in the locker room about how he's going to try to dunk on you, or he might try to go for 50 on you.  And then there is me going back saying I'll get 55 on you.  But he's a humble guy.  I might be a little more outspoken.  But it's two different personalities though.
Q. Do you think that's his Canadian side coming through?
ZACH LAVINE: It might be.  It just might.  That's just how he is, man.  He's very humble, and we all appreciate it.
Q. Will you go back to Minnesota with bragging rights if you win?  How long will it be before he hears the end of it if you win, and if you get that MVP you're talking about?
ZACH LAVINE: I mean, man, he had bragging rights this whole last year.  And after this year we're not going to be in the rookie-sophomore game anymore.  So that might be the end of it until one of us makes it to the All-Star team.  So that's what we're all going for.  Shoot, hopefully not a long time, but maybe as long as it takes.  So whoever wins this one has bragging rights for a while, I guess.
Q. What's it like to see him handle?  Obviously he's probably a pretty popular guy in Minnesota, but he comes back here and even though he's not on the All-Star team, he's pretty important to us.
ZACH LAVINE: Yeah, he's playing at an All-Star level, I feel like.  He's coming back home.  I feel like he should be getting this, and it's almost like you're proud of your boy.  You want to see him do good.  You want to see him have fun, different things like that.  So it's heartwarming to see the type of reception he gets back home, and it's cool.
Q. Will you tell your teammates any secrets about Andrew going into this game?
ZACH LAVINE: No, no, not any secrets, no.  We've still got to play them in the regular season.  That's real games.  That's what we get paid for.  This is to put on a show.  It's not going to be toe to toe.
Q. But you've still got his back?
ZACH LAVINE: 100%, 100%.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT