NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2016
Zach LaVine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
US Team - 157, World Team - 154   
 Q.  Are you more excited now for tomorrow for the Dunk Contest?  And secondly, I don't know if it's too late, but I've got an idea for a dunk is to do it and do a selfie at the same time and put it up on the big screen?  
ZACH LAVINE: Oh, man.  I haven't heard that one yet, so I might try to practice it.   
But I'm excited for tomorrow.  I'm going to try to put on a show, so I'm just anxious, I guess.   
 Q.  What did it feel like to steal Andrew's thunder out here and get the win and get that MVP?  
ZACH LAVINE: That's what I was going for.  I told you.  Y'all saw in that little interview, so it's kind of fun.   
He got it last year, I got it this year.  We won this year, so I think it came down to whatever team won.  So we got the W, and that's the main thing.  It got really competitive toward the last five minutes, so we started really playing.   
 Q.  Hey, Zach, I was just wondering if you can tell me what your earliest memory of Kobe Bryant was?  
ZACH LAVINE: Earliest memory of Kobe Bryant, probably when he won the Dunk Contest when he was 18, 19, and then probably after that just him in the playoffs hitting those shots, like Portland and Indiana in the playoffs in early 2000.  So that probably is the earliest ones.  I was really young, like six, five.   
 Q.  Was it kind of neat to see Andrew and the love that the fans have for him here, the big cheers and stuff that he got at the end?  What did you think of him in this environment here?  
ZACH LAVINE: It was cool.  That's what I feel like he should get.  He's a rock star in his hometown.  That's the main thing.  Just to be out here with him, us three, me, him, and Kat again.  Last year we had four players out here, so it shows how much potential we have on the team.   
 Q.  I just want to know where you get your hard work from and your athletic ability?  Where did that come from?  
ZACH LAVINE: I get it from my mom.   
 Q.  Your mom?  
ZACH LAVINE: Come on.  I get it from my dad who played professional football.   
Hey, who gave him a mic?  You can't do that.   
 Q.  So where did you get the hard work from?  
ZACH LAVINE: I got it from you.   
 Q.  Okay, you're going to keep working?  
ZACH LAVINE: Okay, that's good.   
 Q.  Yeah, yeah.  All right.  
ZACH LAVINE: Please don't give him a mic again (laughing).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT