NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Zach LaVine
Andrew Wiggins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Andrew, congratulations for your first MVP in the league.  How do you feel about that?  And how do you feel you played tonight?  I\'m from China.ANDREW WIGGINS: I feel good.  I feel like we competed.  We entertained the people watching.  And the most important thing, we had fun doing it.Q. Andrew, you\'ve really stepped it up after the start of the season.  Do you think how a rookie plays in this first couple of months, just getting used to the NBA, does that say anything about what kind of career he\'s going to have or is it really just a different kind of thing when you\'re just getting started in the league?ANDREW WIGGINS: On the career part, I\'m not too sure.  I\'m only a couple of months in.  I haven\'t played a full year.  That would be more of a question for a person who has been in the league a long time.  I can\'t really answer.Q. With four Timberwolves in the game today, does that say more about the future of the team or more about what this roster is about as we sit here today?ANDREW WIGGINS: It just shows the future.  The future is bright for us.  I think the most people in a rookie-sophomore game.  So it just shows a lot for the team.  It shows us rising.  It shows what we can be in the future.Q. Andrew, you played Team USA tonight.  Would you look forward to playing Team USA with a Canada jersey instead of a World jersey on one of these days soon?  Would you look forward to playing team USA wearing a Canada jersey one of these days soon?ANDREW WIGGINS: Definitely.  That\'s a game I dream of.  And hopefully we can play in the Olympics.Q. Do you plan to play for Canada qualifying for the Olympics?  Have you thought that far ahead?ANDREW WIGGINS: Right now I\'m taking it day by day.  But it\'s something I would love to do.Q. Zach, obviously weekend is not over yet.  How cool was it to experience this with three other teammates?ZACH LaVINE: It\'s been a lot of fun.  Just bonding with these guys over the first couple of months we have.  Now coming here all of us being a first, second year it\'s been fun bonding and having fun with the guys.Q. You both pretty much had the same stats today.  Could you tell us something about how it usually goes when you play at practice?  And what do you expect going forward from here and the rest of the season?ZACH LaVINE: In practice you know, we go at each other just the same we did out there.  One day he might have -- if we skirmish he might have 20; one day I might have 20.  Sometimes we\'re on the same team and we\'re both doing good or we\'re both doing all right. It goes up and down.  But we compete like we did out there in practice every day.Q. Going forward from now to the last 30 games, what do you expect for the Wolves?ANDREW WIGGINS: I expect to be totally different than the way we were before.  We have the whole crew back now.  They make the team a lot better.  Me and Zach, Shabazz, AB, and Gorgui, Glenn, we\'re growing better every day.  We\'re getting better at a unit every day.Q. Andrew, it\'s not often that a No. 1 overall pick gets traded right after he gets drafted or shortly after he gets drafted.  What kind of impact, looking back on it, did that impact you as far as how you wanted to prove yourself?  And playing the way you did tonight and here in this All-Star Weekend, what do you think that will do for you moving forward as far as your confidence and how well you\'re doing this year in the rookie game?ANDREW WIGGINS: I think it was the best move for me.  It gave me more room and put me in a position where I could grow up faster.  In the league, that\'s always what\'s best for you.  There I would have been more of a role player.  Here I\'m getting more time to shine and do what I was put in this league to do.  And I\'m enjoying the process.Q. This is for you, Zach:  Tomorrow with the Dunk Contest I think a lot of fans have tuned out over the years because they feel there isn\'t as much creativity as there used to be.  What kind of creativity will we see tomorrow?  Do you have something special?ZACH LaVINE: I have something I\'ll give you.  Hopefully I can bring that attendance and viewing back up.  I\'m going to go there and try to put a show on.  We\'re entertainers, so that\'s what I\'m going to try to do.ANDREW WIGGINS: You guys are in for a surprise.  Trust me.  It\'s going to be crazy.Q. I\'ll make that two in one:  Could you give us a little hint to the surprise we\'re going to get from Zach tomorrow?ANDREW WIGGINS: I can\'t say nothing.  Just know -- I almost fainted.  I never seen a dunk like that.  I\'ve never witnessed it live before in my life.  Just know.Q. Can you talk about your experience out there tonight?  Was it the game what you expected?  And was it fun especially when Oladipo challenged you a little bit?  Did that get the juices flowing as well?ANDREW WIGGINS: I love being out there.  It was all fun.  It was competitive, but it was fun, too.  I think we gave the fans and all the people watching something to watch, some entertainment.  It was all friendly chitchatting.  It\'s a competition.  It\'s the World versus U.S.A.  Hopefully next year Zach can get his Canadian citizenship and join me on the Canadian side.ZACH LaVINE: I\'m a little French.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT