NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2014
Zach LaVine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Zach, if you would start with an opening statement about the Timberwolves.   
ZACH LaVINE:   I'm ecstatic right now.   Words can't describe how I'm feeling.   I'm ready to put my heart and soul in this organization.   I'm going to go in there as a hard worker and try to do the best that I can do.   
I'm in a rush of emotions right now, man.   I'm sorry.   
   
 Q.   I've got to ask you, are you really going to miss the palm trees in Los Angeles?   It gets mighty cold in Minnesota.   
ZACH LaVINE:   I'm from Seattle.   So I'm cool with the cold.   I'm good with everything.   Minnesota is a great town.   It's a great place.   I'm excited to be going there.   
   
 Q.   Talk about, speaking of Seattle, the lineage of Seattle, NBA players from Seattle.   Talk about the advice those guys have given you and who's given you that advice and your mentors?   
ZACH LaVINE:   There's so many.   Seattle is a big ground for basketball.   There's so many players that have been brought up.   So many players in the league.   I played with Tony Wroten in high school.   I work out with Jamal Crawford, Will Conroy, Terrence Williams, I.T., all them dudes helped me out.   It's incredible.   
I'm really cool with Jamal Crawford, though.   He really helped me along.   I text him.   I'm definitely going to give him a text after this as well.   
Seattle is the underground for basketball, I feel like.  
   
 Q.   Are you looking forward to playing with fellow Bruin alum Kevin love?   
ZACH LaVINE:   Yeah, man.   I'm looking forward just to go there.   Kevin Love is one of the greats in the NBA right now.   I'm excited.   
Also, Shabazz is on the team from UCLA as well.   So I'm ecstatic.   
   
 Q.   When you got picked, you seemed to have some emotion on your face.   What went through your mind?   And what were you actually saying?   You seemed to mouth a few words out loud.   People were wondering what that was on TV.   
ZACH LaVINE:   Just I can't believe this is happening.   I've been waiting for this my whole life.   I saw the cameras come over, but it was just like a rush of emotions still.   I had to put my head down.   
I'm on cloud nine right now.   I'm really just trying to take it in.   I had a rush of emotion.   It still ain't sunk in yet.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned some of the players from Seattle since you played in this market for a long time.   Nate Robinson, did you ever work with him as well?   
ZACH LaVINE:   Yeah, he was at a couple of workouts.   Little Nate is a hard worker.   I talked to him a couple of times, yeah, definitely.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT