NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: CROWN ROYAL PRESENTS THE COMBAT WOUNDED COALITION 400 AT THE BRICKYARD
July 24, 2016
Jimmie Johnson
Matt Kenseth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're going to get started with our post‑race media availabilities for today's Crown Royal Presents the Combat Wounded Coalition 400 at the Brickyard. We are joined by our second‑place finisher Matt Kenseth, the driver of the No.20 Dollar General Toyota. Take us through that last restart there.   
MATT KENSETH: Just that last one? That was nice of you. Yeah, the last one we had, obviously the bottom was the choice, but the 22, I don't think anybody restarts better than him the last handful of years, especially that initial launch through the gears. With him doing it outside, he did a spectacular job of still being beside Kyle when we got to Turn 1 and I wasn't up there as close as I was hoping to get, and he cleared him, I barely got under Joey, and I was really tight so I actually barely got by him and just barely held off the 48 and 11. But got through the gears fine and got in position, just couldn't do anything when I got there.   
THE MODERATOR: We are also being joined by our third‑place finisher, Jimmie Johnson, driver of the No. 48 Lowe's Red Vest Chevrolet. Take us through that last restart, please.   
JIMMIE JOHNSON: For us it really worked to our benefit. I think I restarted in seventh and ended up third when it was all said and done. Cleared the 4 pretty quick. I can't remember who was right‑‑ I think the 11 got inside the 78 so that opened the door for me there, and we both got the 22 and I was able to get the 11 coming to the checkered coming off of Turn 4. I knew I had a good race car. I never really had a chance to see what the 18 had. I just heard lap times and obviously knew he was very fast. But we're sitting there on new tires compared to the leaders, and those restarts really worked in our favor, and I was able to get up to third there at the end.   
THE MODERATOR: You've clinched top‑30 spots and because of your multiple wins, you've clinched a spot in the Chase for the NASCAR Sprint Cup assuming that you attempt to start the remaining races this season.   
JIMMIE JOHNSON: Dude, we can take off. That's it. See you guys in wherever the first one is, Chicago. I feel really sick. I think I'm concussed. (Laughter.)  
   
 Q. Can you tell how small the crowd is as you're going around at 140, 150? Can you tell, and if you can tell, what do you make of it?   
MATT KENSETH: Can you tell what?   
   
 Q. How small the crowd was, how empty the place was?   
JIMMIE JOHNSON: I don't think my mic is working.   
MATT KENSETH: You're the six‑time champion. You've got to answer that one.  
I mean, it was hard to tell. It was like 120 degrees out there today. I heard that there was a state of emergency they declared before the race that told everybody to stay indoors. I'm sure that doesn't help, either. It was pretty brutally hot today, but I don't know, I'm the wrong guy to ask. I'm pretty focused on trying to drive race cars and trying to figure out how to make race cars faster. I'm not a promoter or track owner or any of that stuff.   
JIMMIE JOHNSON: Well said.   
THE MODERATOR: Matt and Jimmie, thanks for coming in here. Congratulations on your races today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT