WALKER CUP
September 9, 2017
Andrew Ingram
Jack Singh Brar
Robert MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon, we would like to welcome the GB&I team to our post-first day sessions of play at the 46th Walker Cup at the Los Angeles Country Club.  To my left is Captain Andy Ingram, directly to his left Robert MacIntyre and left of Robert is Jack Singh Brar.  And, Andy, I'll open it up by asking you for, probably not the way you wanted things to go, but your assessment of the day.   
ANDREW INGRAM: I think the feeling in the camp is one of disappointment, really, I think that the play -- well we're obviously disappointed with the result and although we are disappointed, we still think we can win.  We seriously do.  We just had a team meeting, the feeling is strong in the camp and we're going to go out with all guns blazing tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Robert and Jack, if you could comment as well.   
ROBERT MACINTYRE: Yeah, it's one of them days where things don't go your way, really, but tomorrow's a whole new day, so it's time to turn it around and make it our day.   
JACK SINGH BRAR: There's room for improvement from today, but I think we're still in for a shout and obviously the boys have a good, we play well as a team tomorrow, I think we can still do it.   
THE MODERATOR: Okay, questions?   
 Q.  Andy why do you still think you can win?  
ANDREW INGRAM: Because I got trust in the players I have.  They're a great bunch of guys, they're talented players, they have had a great season, they have won many championships.  I think that a lot of the games were close, we made some mistakes probably where we shouldn't have and we'll learn from those and we need 13 points and we have got four.  So we only need nine and there's plenty of points available tomorrow, so that's why I think we can win.   
 Q.  Obviously you need a good morning foursome session.  I'm not sure if you can go into your parings or whatever right now, but have you mixed it up drastically as a result or what's your thoughts on the foursomes tomorrow?  
ANDREW INGRAM: There have been some changes in the foursomes parings for tomorrow.  Which I'm not sure when they will be announced, but it will be shortly.  It's not a panic at all, I think that when you look at the changes, you'll see that the players who will be coming in have been on form, they deserve their place of right, and I think it's only right that we give them that opportunity.   
 Q.  Robert, obviously everyone wants to play every session but do you feel like it was a little bit of an advantage for you to kind of sit the foursomes out kind of take in all the atmosphere of that opening day of a Walker Cup and kind of get your nerves calm before you even hit a tee ball?  
ROBERT MACINTYRE: Yeah, everyone's nerves are going to be going no matter when you're teeing it up in the Walker Cup.  I think it's just so prestigious to every amateur player out here.  But I didn't come and see the first tee shot, so I just kind of done one thing in the morning and rested and just came out and played my own game and it was good enough today.  So just I think that you just got to take everything in as you said and just enjoy it.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the 15th hole and that tee shot and what your feelings are about it, as you're smiling, Jack, what your feelings are about it and how difficult do you think it is as a par-3.  Robert?  97 yards or 79 yard par-3.  
JACK SINGH BRAR: Yeah, it was playing like 78 today.  But, yes, interesting hole that one.  It doesn't really quite suit the rest of the golf course because the course is a bit a beast and then they Chuck in a little 78 yard par-3.  But you got to get the number so spot on otherwise like with Scott Gregory he pitched it at the flag and it takes one hop and straight in to the rough.  He played a world class shot out.  But it's not easy.  I was playing it with Stu and he went in the bunker and I was like okay I just need to pitch it just over bunker, it takes one skip up and it just comes back off that back fringe.  But it's such a demanding shot for only being 78 yards.  I think if it was further back it would probably be an easier shot.  Because the skip from about an 80 yard pitch is further than if I was hitting a 90 yard shot.   
 Q.  What club did you use?  
JACK SINGH BRAR: I used a 58.   
ROBERT MACINTYRE: I don't know what to say.  I didn't get to that hole.   
(Laughter.)   
 Q.  But you certainly had to practice for it.  
ROBERT MACINTYRE: Yeah, I mean.   
 Q.  That was cheeky.  
ROBERT MACINTYRE: That front pin I think you just, there's a hump in the middle of the green that I think you just got to make it a little bit longer to generate more spin and so I think just to kind of the middle hump in the green and kind of get it coming back off that is the only way to get anywhere near it.  I'm not sure if anyone got very close to it.   
 Q.  Jack and Robert, you obviously started strong, got ahead and kept the lead.  Andy, there were a few players that actually got ahead and let the lead slip and lost.  I wonder, how do you, what do you say to your players for tomorrow when they get ahead to hang on to it?  How do you convey that to them?  
ANDREW INGRAM: I think all I said to them is that where we made mistakes we need to look at our match, the match they played yesterday, or today, sorry, match, look at the match the individual match, think of where they went wrong, and just remember it for tomorrow.  Simple as that.  None of these guys have done it on purpose, things happen, don't they?  We're not all perfect.  So I just asked them to review their game, review their match, and be ready for it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Andrew, you talked about yesterday when we were in here about or the players did as well about how it's very difficult to be too aggressive on this golf course.  It gets you in trouble.  But now being four back, and assuming 2-2, let's say, out of foursomes tomorrow, you're still going to be four back going into singles.  Will you tell your players that you will have start doing some things, maybe be a little more aggressive than you had been, than you had talked to them about being today?  
ANDREW INGRAM: I think I'll just tell them to go out there and play their own game.  They're great players.  I'm not really sure if I'm in a position to tell them what to do.  That's not the way I really do it.  I like to just discuss things through with them, I tried to get on to as many tees as I can and I tried to get myself in as many positions as I can to discuss shots with them as it happens.  These guys know how to play, they're good and I still got great confidence that they will do well.   
 Q.  For Robert and Jack, the different ways and to get on to the Walker Cup team and also success in your amateur career.  In GB&I there's a different path, whether you go into the U.S. college system or stay on the national team.  Just curious if you could share your experience of staying on your national team squad.  
ROBERT MACINTYRE: Well, I done a year and a half out here in college when I left school, things didn't work the way I was hoping, so I decided to take a different approach at it and I don't regret anything I've done.  I think that the systems back home, now getting away to trips to South Africa, Australia, and places like that, it gives you a lot more chance moving forward in golf.  But sometimes they underestimate the college circuit, which is as strong as tournaments as you can get anywhere.  So I think it's a bit of a toss up between them both.   
JACK SINGH BRAR: I think that the college system, the GB&I guys, coming, they just don't seem to be going out there anymore.  It seems some of the GB&I guys it's more just golf, they don't really want the education part.  And they realize later on that it's quite hard school, when you go to college.  And so a lot of them don't really go for that reason, I think.  Because they finish at 18 and they're done.  With me I finished what we call college back home, so you finish at 18 and I had a uni place, I deferred, I was actually supposed to be at uni now, but I cancelled it, but that was just a normal degree, no golf team, so it was either go full golf or full degree for me.  The States, I did look into it, but I just felt how pleased I was with my family and stuff, it wasn't for me and so I didn't really pursue it any further.  There's still great opportunities playing in the European Tour, like the European circuit, sorry, and then obviously again as Bob said, you can go to Australia, which I did, you were there as well, Bob, at the start of the season and then I had a good trip to Australia, and then went back and had the European circuit and obviously got the win at Lytham and that's how obviously I think I got here.  But I think you can do, you can play great in the States, I see Harry's done obviously has progressed extremely well over the last few years and same with Paul.  So it depends what suits you, I think.  It's different for everyone.  Depends if you're close with your family or you like to stay at home.   
 Q.  Where would you have gone?  Where was the place you were offered?  
JACK SINGH BRAR: Which?  I didn't, I didn't even get to the offer part.  I literally just spoke to a couple through this agency, but I never really even --   
 Q.  Not over here.  You were offered a place at home.  
ANDREW INGRAM: No, I was going to go to Portsmouth University to do the Property Development Degree.  So, yeah, I just got in through my levels and then I just kept on deferring, but I couldn't defer anymore, so I cancelled.  Obviously I would have had to have started now, so.  Yeah, it's done.   
THE MODERATOR: All right, thank you, gentlemen.  Best of luck tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT