BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 2, 2019
Rich Gunnell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RICH GUNNELL: First of all, I would like to thank Martin for giving me this opportunity to lead our team for this bowl prep and for this bowl game coming up. I really appreciate his confidence in me and what he sees in me, even though I may not see it in myself. But just listening from him and starting to build my confidence and trying to be the leader I want to be as I move forward in this coaching career. I also definitely want to thank coach Addazio because he's kind of shaped me into the coach I am today. I learned a lot from him and I'm very grateful for him and grateful for the opportunity he gave me to come back to my alma mater where I put a lot of work in as a player. But he gave me an opportunity to come back and be able to be a coach and coach the position I played. With that being said, I guess I'll leave everything for questions right you now.
Q. One of the benefits of bowl eligibility is those 15 extra days of practice. Coach Addazio in the past has always used it for team building, getting the young kids working and then start game planning. Are you going to follow that same approach?
RICH GUNNELL: I will. And I did the same thing as a player and Coach Addazio did the same thing and that's what we're going to do. Like Martin alluded to, we have a lot of talent coming back and you want to continue to develop that talent moving forward. And that's my job is to keep these guys together, keep them focused at the task at hand and that's just to win this bowl game. That's the only thing I'm focused on right now.
Q. You heard Martin talk about where BC can go and where it's been. You saw that when you were here. Is that something you can bring to the team as a message to --
RICH GUNNELL: Yeah. As a prideful, proud BC man, I'm just going to continue to preach what we're all about. That's toughness and faith and all those good things and high character guys. And just moving forward I'm just focused on this winning this game. That's the most important thing to me right now, keeping these kids together. We got great kids in that locker room. And just making sure that they're all on the same page with what we're trying to accomplish and that's winning this bowl game.
Q. In terms of bowl prep, how much have you shifted from from the last game until now?
RICH GUNNELL: That process has started, meeting with the kids, constantly. We'll be on the road. But having another meeting with them today, just letting them know, again, the main goal is to win this game. And, again, we got great kids and that's who we are as BC. We have always got great kids, kids we are recruiting, kids that are in the program. They're willing to stick together and fight, and fight for this win, because that's what they care about. They care about winning too. Regardless ever what's going on they play for each other because it's about the kids and the coaches that's helped build that relationship and developing them these last few years. And they're going to do it together. And that's going to be my main message to them is just stick together throughout this thing right now.
Q. (No microphone.)
RICH GUNNELL: Just how to approach this thing and how to approach kids and how each player is different in how you coach them differently. Some kids need a pat on the back, some kids need a kick in the butt, you know what I mean? Just different things of how to take different angles to get best the out of your players. That's what I've learned from him. Get your guys to play as hard as they can. The X's and O's will come but getting your guys to play a hundred miles an hour with their hair on fire, that's what I got from him.
Q. Martin said you're not going to interview for the head coaching job?
RICH GUNNELL: No, I don't really want to get into that, I'm sorry.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT