NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 7, 1997
Eric Desjardins
Eric Lindros
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Eric, how are you feeling right now?

ERIC DESJARDINS:   Disappointed.  Upset.


Q.  A good effort, but it doesn't count if you don't win?

ERIC DESJARDINS:   I don't know how good of an effort it was?  We played better, of course.  But, you know, you have got to make sure -- it hurts and I hope we have nightmares all summer long.  We will get the tape and look at it and we will see how we put ourselves out of it.


Q.  What was this team lacking?

ERIC DESJARDINS:   I don't think -- it was lack of, again, maybe, experience, lack of dedication to the system and those tough times like we -- it is understandable to have a bad game, but falling apart like we did in the second one and again in the third one, just because we just let down our system, what we believed all year.


Q.  What are you feeling?

ERIC LINDROS:   Really disappointed.  I don't know what to say.  Shocked.


Q.  Did you expect more from the team?

ERIC LINDROS:   I expected more from myself.


Q.  How do you think you played in this series?

ERIC LINDROS:   Obviously not well enough.  Not well enough.


Q.  What do you think about having to lose in order to win one, how do you feel about that situation?

ERIC LINDROS:   Kind of pushed into that situation, aren't we?


Q.  This is a young team--  (INAUDIBLE.)

ERIC LINDROS:  I am not thinking about the big picture right now.  I am shocked as to what happened.  It is just a blur.


Q.  Was there a turning point in this series?

ERIC LINDROS:  Certainly after, you know, we come out and we score early in Game 3 and we are confident on the road and they come back and it was big, that one hurt.


Q.  What have they been able to do this year to win the series?

ERIC LINDROS:  I am not going to take any credit away from them.  They did a real good job with covering the neutral zone and their "D" was stepping up and taking the ice away from  us.  They did a real good job with that.


Q.  Do you believe it is four straight?

ERIC LINDROS:  And I didn't think that could happen to our hockey club.  I didn't think that we would be beaten 4 games in a 7 game series, let alone, four straight.


Q.  What, if anything, does that tell you about this team?

ERIC LINDROS:  A lot of good things getting here, but we didn't adjust very well.  We worked all year to get a chance and we had a chance and the chance is gone.


Q.  Do you think better gold tending could have changed this series?

ERIC LINDROS:  Everybody is going to sit here and point fingers at our goaltenders.  You don't know what it is like to play on a team with the team.  Our goalies did the best job they could.  They tried with every shot and we didn't help them out as much as we should have, as much as we could have. And, we left them to hang to dry on a lot of occasions and they still made stick scores.  They don't deserve fingers pointed at them.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT