U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Sahith Theegala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well, you had a lead and then he came back with three birdies.  What were you thinking at that point?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: Well, I was thinking just keep doing my thing.  I wasn't playing bad, he was just playing better than me at that point.  I was hitting solid shots.  I was hitting my irons way better than yesterday.  I was hitting my driver well, as well, fairways, greens, and just wasn't rolling the putts, and he was.  He was just hitting it closer than I was.  I just stayed in my same mentality, hit fairways, hit greens.   
 Q.  15, how long was that one?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: 15 was huge.  It was probably about 25 feet, pretty straight putt, turns a little left to right, and the whole day I've just been under-reading it a little bit, so I ended up not lining up that putt.  I had a diagonal or like a cross-line on it, and I put a really good stroke on that one, and it went right in the heart.  I knew that was big.  Unfortunately he hit a great putt, too, and that was a wicked horseshoe there.   
 Q.  And then 16 you came back again?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: Yeah, well, 16 I hit -- I figured it was playing kind of shorter today just because it wasn't as damp, so I hit 3-iron off the tee instead of hybrid, and I finally put it in the fairway there, and I saw he hit it in the rough and he ended up fatting it out of the rough just short of the green.  I figured just hit the front of the green to give myself a chance because I had just rolled in the putt before.  He hit a great chip up there to about a foot.  It was basically good, and I knew I had a chance -- it was a very similar putt, left to right, just straight up the hill again, and I put that sideways line again and put a great roll on it.  Kind of knew it was in midway through the putt there.   
 Q.  How long was that?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: It was about 20 feet, just shorter than the one on 15.   
 Q.  You saw Fred Wedel here.  Did you talk to him at all about his experience?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: Oh, absolutely.  He's been huge for me.  I've talked to him a lot about the three Amateurs and obviously semifinalist.  He's a great player.  He has a great mental game for match play, so he's definitely helping me out big time.   
 Q.  Where is your confidence level now after this victory?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: It's really high because I know Sam burns is an awesome player.  He's a great player, one of the top juniors and one of the top college freshmen.  Obviously the whole LSU team is strong, but he's a great guy.  I love playing with him, always has a great attitude.  I was just happy I ended up playing better golf at the end.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT