U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Sahith Theegala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  U.S. Amateur quarterfinalist; how does that sound?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: It sounds really great.  I played well again in this match.  I had it going early.  I was 3-up early, and then I ended up losing three holes in a row, which seemed to be key holes throughout this U.S. Am.  I lost 10 and 11 through both of the first two rounds there, and I lost it again, so I was like, I've got to just keep sticking it in there because I've been finishing well, and I did that really well.  I had a big break on No. 14.  I had about an 80-foot putt from the back left edge of the green to that front right pin, and it was probably going to be six or seven feet past the hole there, and it hit the back of the cup and went in.  I just rode that confidence into the next hole and canned about another 20-footer on the 15th hole there, which I did in the second round, as well, and I was 2-up at that point.   
I just hit fairway, green.  Just did my thing kind of.   
 Q.  Seems like you were making a ton of putts, a ton of long putts.  
SAHITH THEEGALA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is that something that you're usually good at?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: Well, I'd say putting is one of the strong -- my short game is the strength of my game.  But those putts were a bonus.  Nobody expects to make 35-footers.  I just tried to get the right line, tried to get the right speed.  That's the main thing, and I did that really well for the most part.  I'm getting some long ones to go in just because I'm putting good rolls on them.   
 Q.  How is your fatigue level at this point?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: I'm pretty beat right now.  Going to go rest up, obviously.  But when you're in the moment, I wasn't thinking about it on the golf course because you're just so in the moment, trying to hit every shot to the best potential.  Yeah, right after I finished the match I realized how beat I am.   
 Q.  Who's here with you, just dad?  
SAHITH THEEGALA: My dad.  My little brother actually came out but he had to go back for school.  My dad is here.  My dad's friends are here.  I have a teammate out here, both my coaches, another buddy of mine who caddied for me last year at the Junior.  He's out here, too.  So I have a lot of support.  There's a couple little guys who came out and supported me, so that was cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT