PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2018
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: It's close.  It got closer.  It's just been progress in the swing, really before THE PLAYERS I went to Swing Motion it cleared stuff up temporarily, but in fact pushed me further away from what I should have been doing.  So I spent literally two months nailing in the wrong thing and I'm trying to climb back out of it.  And that's unusual.  I never had that in my career, normally I work on the right thing too much and have to back off and work again.  So it's tough to trust on the golf course and I had a tough time yesterday and today I had no choice, you have to trust it and started to clear up a bit of it.  It's, a lot of it is just setup related.  But where I start tracking the club off line from a setup position that's not correct.  So what is correct feels off and so I'm just going to have to play, I just have to deal with it.  But today was a really, it was a lot of progress.  I wasn't sure going into the first tee, I thought that anything could happen today, but I lost one penalty stroke with a driver on 17, I've really given two strokes to the field there, which kind of hurts at the midway point.  But it was a really solid round.   
 Q.  How would you assess where you are on the leaderboard heading into the weekend?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I need something really special, but again just trying to progress each day.  My putting, both parts of my game not only were better today, they also felt better.  Sometimes it feels the same and putts go in, but I feel like I've given myself some more space through both, which allows me to not have to flip hands at either putting or the swing.  So I need to work more on it, but Akron was a good start in progressing the right direction and I think I'm doing a better job here.  My expectations are lower than they are when I'm in form, certainly last year at this time and I'm okay with that, it's just a process and I got to be patient with it getting back.   
 Q.  What do you make of this place after two days and what do you think it will take on the weekend for you and everybody?  
JORDAN SPIETH: A little frustrated at this place in general.  I think that it's tough to come to -- it's tough to come to a venue with bent grass greens and this kind of weather.  This course is, would be phenomenal in, and probably is phenomenal, if it's not playing so soft.  And it's not the rain that came on Tuesday, it was like that on Monday.  So you can just, you just fire in and you get away with more, like you don't have to be as precise.  That's frustrating in a major championship because typically what it does is you don't really have to be as precise on and around the greens.  That's frustrating to me because I feel like that's an advantage that I have.  So personally I would prefer more difficult and firmer faster conditions on the greens.  Having said that, I would have shot a much higher score yesterday, given you got to be in the fairways in order to hold greens where they need to be.  So I'm not saying that my score would be any better, I'm just saying what you would like to see in a major championship.  It is what it is.  I still, I really like the golf course, it's just, you just can't, you can't possibly have firm, fast bent grass greens with this climate.   
 Q.  Do you like May, the month of May?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I think May is going to be a lot better for this golf tournament for sure.   
 Q.  How have the crowds been?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Been unbelievable.  These crowds have been -- Monday shocked me.  And then every day it's been fantastic.  It's been not overkill, everyone's been I think very respectful, fantastic sports and golf fans.  This is a great market to come to in St. Louis.  These people love their sports, and I think it's only going to get better over the weekend.  I think this has been some of the most fun golf as far as playing in front of fans that I can remember experiencing.   
 Q.  You talked about finding something out there today.  Are you happy with the way you played today?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it took a few holes but I think, it took a few holes to get to where I could find where that club face was, but once I got to, once I got past the first few holes of the day at 1-under, almost 2-under, and I felt like I got through 13 hitting kind of a fade, I kind of hit every shot in the first four holes and I felt like I could trust what I was trying to do, which is most important for me right now.  Last year at this time my setup was just coming natural to me, which it does for 90 percent of the guys, it's coming natural all the time.  I'm just in that unfortunate position where I have to feel awkward when I'm over it before I even start the swing.  So through the swing it feels even more awkward.  And I thought, given that, today was a really solid day.  But I need better each day on the weekend to have a chance.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, so, a semester.   
 Q.  What do you remember about him if anything at all?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Beautiful golf swing.  He would hit driver just about everywhere.  He won a big tournament that fall I want to say in Atlanta, outside of Atlanta, maybe it was where the national championship was later that year.  I could be wrong on that.  But just a really, really solid player, raw talent, who is fine tuned it and been able to shoot low scores in really clutch situations.   
 Q.  Have you stayed in touch?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Here and there.  He's moved up in the world and he's in, he's coming over and playing some more events in the States, but we hadn't stayed in a lot of touch.  At that point I was, I wouldn't have really considered myself -- I was kind of half in school, half out, so.   
 Q.  Freshman or sophomore?  
JORDAN SPIETH: It was the first semester -- it was my last semester, my third semester there.  He was a freshman.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yes, we did.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: No, this fabric is fantastic.  It actually makes me feel cool.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: No, no, it's not cotton.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT