TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2018
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I'm here with Jordan Spieth who shot 1-under today, 4-under total.  Now that it's all said and done, what is it like to come back to a tournament where you had such an epic moment and then had to play the next year?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it's amazing.  The support today, I was amazed by it.  It really was something special to be out here at 10 o'clock on a Sunday.  The leaders don't go off until we're finishing, and the crowds were unbelievable.  It's certainly a one-of-a-kind event here.  There is a reason the players' voted it players' favorite event the of the year.   
 Q.  Now that you've played several weeks in a row here, and you've played a lot recently.  What do you do, and where do you go next?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I've made a lot of progress actually.  Even though the last seven weeks, I had six out of seven.  Lot of cut-line golf, which is somewhat unusual historically for me, fortunately, but kind of a grind.  But I've made a lot of progress where I needed to within the last few weeks my putt something right on point where it needs to be.  It's getting better every single week.  It's the best it's been for a couple years, and I just kind of get my alignment back in order on the full swing.   
It's tough when you hit a good swing and you look up and the ball could be 15 yards right or 15 yards left, and it's all because of alignment.  Just kind of the basics that I've that I need to get back in order, but I've got a few weeks back to get them in order.   
 Q.  Talk about your week.  I know it wasn't -- you weren't able to defend the way you wanted to, but just the way the crowds were and how responsive they were to you over the last four days?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I actually, I've got a pretty good gauge on where my own game's at.  I did a pretty good job after the first round of standing here and telling you guys that was kind of disguised, right?  But progress was made.  I'm not talking myself down by any means.  I just know when it feels good and when it feels a little off.  Just tee to green it was a little off.   
For me out here, it was just the easy holes.  Number 2, number 13 and 15, if I played them to the scoring average, not even better than average, I would have had somewhat of a chance to win today even without feeling like I had my best stuff.   
So I've just got to be a little more patient and smarter, which is what I've been working on anyways, and I did a good job of the first day, and I kind of let myself down trying to do a little too much and make birdies out here because there are just so many wedge holes.  But at the same time, 12-under won last year.   
 Q.  Does not having your best stuff do anything to your confidence going forward?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I know -- not because I know what it is.  I was searching for a lot last week and the beginning part of this week and even into the first two rounds of this week.  I really, yesterday and today started to know what it is, I just don't have enough repetitions for it to be consistent enough for the flights I want each hole.  But it's a set up in how I'm seeing things.  It's literally the same thing I went through with the putting.  I've just got to find a way to get it back on track, the full swing.  Because I've been striking the ball really well this year, minus the last, you know, three or four weeks.   
So that ball striking will come back and my putting is back, so I just play the right way and results should start coming.   
 Q.  Based on needing those repetitions, will you put something else on the schedule before The Open?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, maybe.  There is certainly potential for that.  I'm definitely off this week, going to be at the Special Olympics World Games this next weekend up in Seattle.  Looking forward to that.   
Yeah, as far as leading into The Open, we'll see.  Last year I went in after three weeks off, and it didn't hurt me.  So I believe I can get the work in whether I'm playing or not to get the repetitions.  Because normally on course, the repetitions you want to get is just get a little bit of course management and feel on and around the greens, but that feels great right now.  So I don't feel like I have to, but it certainly could help.   
 Q.  Is this a tournament you expect to come back to?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Definitely.  It gets tough with the U.S. Open going coast to coast the next few years, so we'll have to assess how the year's going next year especially because of the schedule change and everything being bunched in and a shortened schedule in 2017.   
So next year will be a tough go for this tournament to get players in general.  I certainly think it fits my game well, and really have enjoyed the last two years with the support I've received.  So, you know I'm going to bounce around the question whether I'm planning on coming back or not, so I'll continue to bounce around it and saying that it's going to be a tough part of the schedule for everyone.  But I'm certainly someone who will look to try to get back.  If I'm not back, I will be soon after.   
 Q.  You said entering this week that getting into contention here would be a big plus as it goes to Carnoustie.  Do you feel like based on how you play, if you don't play another tournament in the next couple weeks that you could still get things where you need to be to give a title defense a good run?  
JORDAN SPIETH: You know, it's still been, as far as a Saturday and a Sunday, being in the last couple groups, I guess The Masters a little bit, but I haven't really had the experience this year.  Your game's always a little bit different from different stages, right?  Your swing's more comfortable, less comfortable.  Your miss is right or left different years.  I think I have a decent gauge of, you know, under the gun, under major championship pressure where things are and how to pull through with it.  But it will be more difficult, I think, than say last year's.  Just standing here right now, that's how I feel for sure.   
 Q.  What do you know about Carnoustie and (inaudible)?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Not much, other than the finishing few holes being really, really tough depending on which direction the wind is.  I know it's one of the more difficult venues.  Obviously, everything over there is weather dependent.   
 Q.  How was it playing with J.J. out there, local guy.  You guys had a pretty big gallery out there?  
JORDAN SPIETH: J.J. was probably my first mentor on the PGA TOUR.  Managed by the same guy when I came out on TOUR, and he really kind of took me under his wing.  He was playing right behind us a couple groups at the first John Deere, stuck around with me afterwards.   
He's been a really, really good friend and somebody I've looked up to.  So anytime I get paired with him it's a lot of fun.  To be paired with him here, yeah, it certainly added to the crowds.  They love him.  He loves coming here.  We talked about this place the whole day today.  And I know he's going to continue to stay a couple days here like he normally does, seeing his family and friends.   
 Q.  You have the same agent too?  
JORDAN SPIETH: When we started out on TOUR, yeah.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, about 45.  Yeah, we don't see each other when we're home very often, but out on the road, anytime we get the chance to be around each other we try to.  It's nice, again, from rookie year, sophomore year, you're looking for guys that can kind of show you the ropes.  He's been out here for 15 years straight.  One of only a few guys that has held his card every single year like that.  So someone who has taught me some stuff off the golf course and on to certainly help get me started.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT