THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2018
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Disappointing finish, I know, but does that eliminate some of the momentum you got from playing here this week?
JORDAN SPIETH: Absolutely not.  I feel as good about my golf game right now as I have in two plus years.  I just didn't get anything out of this week results-wise for 72 holes, but I went 14-under in whatever it was, from -- with three holes left in the first round until the 17th hole of the final round on a golf course that really doesn't fit my game, and I'm going to a few places in a row that I really love, and my putting actually -- it's funny, I felt more comfortable striking and putting today than I did any other day, and especially yesterday.  It's just weird how the game works.  Maybe that's just this course to me.
But game feels awesome.  I just -- I'm working on some things that I came back from New Orleans with some significant kind of grip and swing feels that it's difficult to trust out here, and I just -- a couple times here and there, I had a couple water balls throughout the week, like 18 today left, and right with a 5-iron, the first round on 16 where I just didn't quite match it up, and I knew it when I started my swing, and I just should have stopped.  But anyway, everything feels like it's progressing really nicely.  I'm extremely positive about the next few weeks here.
Obviously no one likes to finish that way, but at the same time, it wasn't like it was anything on the line.  I didn't feel any nerves on the tee.  It was just an execution error.
Q. What were your impressions of Tiger's game out there today?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think he's -- I mean, he'll win sometime soon enough.  He's certainly playing well enough to do so.  I think I messed him up a little on 17.  He went and looked in my bag, and I had a 52-degree, which is a pretty aggressive play.  I had to draw it from the water.  And then he hit one, and the wind is just going like this the whole day, and if he caught this, he's a tap-in birdie, and he caught this.  It was unlucky there.  But he caught a couple really good breaks today, too, so all in all, I think he probably played like a 5- or 6-under round, almost shot 7 or 8, and ended up with -- I don't know what he shot, 4 or 5?  3?  So his game -- if I compare it to other guys that are winning golf tournaments that I'm playing with day-to-day, it's right up there.
Q. Is this stretch you've got coming up the toughest for you?  Four weeks in a row, right?
JORDAN SPIETH: No, actually, I enjoy -- historically I play better golf after I've played the week before.  You just get these weird kinks like what I did there, these kind of -- on 18, like these kind of, okay, refocus and make sure you're kind of playing away from trouble.  I get a little -- I don't know if lazy is the right word, but a little lack of commitment or maybe even overcommitment to trying to be too aggressive first weeks out, trying to shoot up the board.  But I'm going to a place that I have a significant advantage at next week, an advantage over anybody else in the field, having been there from the day they sprigged the greens.  I haven't seen a lot of the pins, and I know the tees are going to switch around from what we normally play, but I'm excited about the next few weeks.
Is it difficult?  No, I'm in my own bed.  There's certainly a lot of obligations that I don't have other weeks the next two, but I've done a good job managing them the last couple years and will continue to.
Q. For the first time in history, America has all four majors, THE PLAYERS, the Ryder Cup, the Presidents Cup and the Walker Cup.  Any reason why that might be?
JORDAN SPIETH: Pure luck.
Q. You don't think we're better loaded type of thing?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I really -- I can't speak to the Walker Cup right now.  I'm not sure.  I can't speak -- as far as the major championships go, it's kind of anyone's game.  There's more Americans in the field than there are anybody else, so I guess percentage chances say, hey, there will be an American winning it each time, but I hear what you're saying.
Q. I only bring it up in terms of the Ryder Cup.  It's pretty good with all you young guys.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, they've got a lot of young talent that's playing well, too, so it's -- I would say we might have a little bit more depth on paper, but going over there and playing over there with the numbers we heard on tickets that they're going to have compared to us, that takes away any advantage that we would have.  I mean, going into it, it's going to be harder for us to get this Ryder Cup than Americans to maintain all the major trophies I would say.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT