ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2018
Jordan Spieth
Ryan Palmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thanks, guys.  Obviously a tough way to finish.  Must be disappointing, but can you explain what happened the last couple holes?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  I had a couple really bad swings.  Just couple really bad swings.  Bad decision on the layup.  Hit a club that could possibly reach the bunker.
I was deciding whether to go over it or short of it, and instead I took the club that was right in between and tried to throw it up in the air to get it close to the bunker.  It was just trying to make up for the hole before.
You know, I cost our team an opportunity, which, you know, really sucks given how hard we fought today.  It's not a good feeling.  It's much worse than if it's just you.
Q. I guess that's the uniqueness of team golf.
JORDAN SPIETH: I guess so.
RYAN PALMER: Yeah, I mean, if it wasn't for some of the short game shots he hit we wouldn't have had that chance.  I mean, it was...
JORDAN SPIETH: We both hit.
RYAN PALMER: We both struggled a little bit all day, but our short games kept us there the whole time.
You know, I mean, it's fun.  It's a blast.  I wouldn't trade anything in the world for to.  It's the game of golf.
Q. Talk about how good you felt being able to claw your way all the way back at that point, despite the finish?
JORDAN SPIETH: You mean by 16 tee box?
Q. Yeah.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, we were laughing.  We feel like we stole a lot from the golf course.  We were both in some really tough spots today.
Not only did we get up and down, but we didn't even really have to really work that hard on the putts to make pars.  Our chipping was out of this world today as a team.  Ryan hit anywhere from a lob wedge to a hybrid around the greens to tap-in range.
It was really cool.  We got ourselves to 8-under with a par-5 left looking to get to 8 or 9.  That's right in this tournament.  I struggled with my swing really both days.  Just didn't hit the ball well at all.
We held it together for a while and then it finally just came out.  Unfortunately all we needed was two more swings.  Yeah, that's how it works, I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT