AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 17, 2018
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jordan, if we can get you to assess your round for us today, please.  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  It was about as easy tee to green as I've ever seen this place.  You know, ball was running a lot, you didn't have to hit a whole lot of club off the tees and without the wind, you know, that's normally the defense of the golf course.   
So, not surprised to see a low round.  10-under is an incredible round anyway for Marc.  Not surprised to see low scores.  Wish I got more out of it, honestly.   
 Q.  How can greens change over the course of a round given how hot it is out here?  
JORDAN SPIETH: They didn't change.  They were pretty consistent the whole day, firmness and speed.   
 Q.  Is there a particular part of your game where you weren't -- didn't feel like you were on all cylinders today?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I didn't putt well.  I had a three and four putt.  I didn't make anything.  All the birdies I made were inside of five feet.  Felt like I was hitting some decent shots, just weren't going.   
Had a lot of in between numbers that left me with -- they actually pretty similar to Sunday last week, felt like I actually my swing felt good, felt like I struck the ball well, lot of numbers where I got to choose in between clubs and when that happens on firm greens it's very difficult to get it close.   
So, having said that, I was then left with some mid-rangers that, you know, normally feel pretty good to me.  I didn't get any to go today.   
 Q.  What is your level of frustration with the putter versus how you felt the last few months?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I'm not sure.  You know, a day like today, you know, looking back the last year and a half I've had maybe four, five opportunities where I've actually been in a tournament after the 1st Round which is really frustrating, just the Thursdays for whatever reason just haven't been good days for me; the Masters this year being the only opportunity this year and few of my wins last year and maybe one other event.   
So, all in all, it was the putter that was -- what cost me today but 2-under still a nice grind.  It could have been worse.  I could have let that frustration lead into some shots but I did a good job of certain holes like No. 6, really stepping on the tee and calming myself down and then after I didn't birdie 14, I did a good job of 15 of hitting two nice shots in there close.  Just waiting for them to fall.  Got to be patient.   
 Q.  With these conditions, what's the likelihood there's another 61 or even better out there?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Looking at the forecast, I don't think that will happen again.  Just be too breezy and that affects on the greens a lot, too.  I hate playing in a dome.  I'm excited there's wind.  I wish it was windy everyday.  I really struggled when there's been no wind compared to the field this year and today was no different.   
So, I don't think there's a 61 anymore but I think people learning the golf course everyday and it will start to visually look a little bit better to them maybe off the tees.   
I personally never seen it like this.  The fairways are 25, 30 yards faster than they've ever been.  So I hit some shots even some really good drives today where I was like wow, I hit the wrong club but I ended 355 yards up the middle of the fairway.  They normally stick and they've done a great job -- they're pure but still bounces and playing the way that it should play.   
You know, 6-under was leading out of the morning wave with no wind.  I was surprised by that.  I thought there was going to be an 8 or 9-under in the morning but it just shows you where they can stick the pins outs here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT