WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2018
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know not the outcome you wanted.  Talk a little bit about the match?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I thought I rebounded nicely after it kind of looked like a round of 90 or 92 through the first few holes.  Yeah, it was -- I thought I played decent golf from there.  But with three water balls and three three-putts, you're not going to win many matches.
I'm just trying to make progress each and every day.  I came into here obviously not in the best form.  And I feel like I have a decent grasp.  Match play kind of makes you feel like you're in a battle on the back nine with somebody to win a tournament, because you lose and you're out kind of thing.
And so I'm able to actually see from the mistakes I made today, today being a pretty hyped up day and one that certainly he and I were both hyped up about.  I was able to see what kind of tendencies, since I haven't been in contention in a while, are evident right now and what needs to be worked on and worked through.  So that's a great thing going forward.  Obviously if I could have come out winning the match it would have been even better, because I'd have had more experiences like that.
But all in all I didn't come in expecting a whole lot this week.  I'm just trying to continue to make progress.  I have emphasis on four events a year.  And anything in between, especially as we get really close to them, is leading up to it.  So I felt like I can certainly take something out of this week.
Q. (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I just -- I'm realistic.  I'm human and I'm realistic that based on kind of the way the year's gone.  It's been a pretty -- kind of a trying time for me, especially on and around the greens, of trying to just -- stuff I took for granted in setup and pace control and all that kind of stuff, subconscious short game, stuff I've taken for granted in the past has been a little bit more difficult and I've been trying to figure out how to get back to that level and I've been trying different things.
Today I tried four or five different things and started to really feel good about it towards the end of the round.  It was just a little bit late.
Q. You mentioned the hype of this match.  Was it hard to keep your emotions in check, versus how much you wanted to beat Patrick?
JORDAN SPIETH: No, I felt I was very cool today, especially given the start.  I felt a little bit more than I did for the other matches obviously because it was 2 and 0, 2 and 0, there's only one scenario, or possible outcome.  The other ones I thought I had a chance even if I lose this.  It wasn't necessarily because it was Patrick.  It was a 2 and 0 versus 2 and 0.  Patrick was one person in line of trying to win all the matches.  And we certainly have familiarity.  But neither one of us played great golf today.  One of us played just a little bit better.
But I had great control of my emotions, I felt like.  I was positive at times where I could have gone the other way and have in the past.  So that was great.
Q. (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH: I'm not sure.  I'm not sure right now.  I've got so many check points in my head right now that I'm trying to get to before I get line and speed.  And in the past it's, okay, I'm set up, everything is good, line and speed.  So there's like an extra -- it may only seem like half a second or whatever but that's an eternity when you're over a putt of trying to just get yourself, okay, that's good, now get that.
So I've put in a lot of work and I'll get results out of it.  It will just take a little time.  I don't know when it will come.  I don't know if it will come next week.  I don't know if it will come next year.  But all I can do is embrace the challenge.  I mean it's better than backing away from it, that's for sure.
Q. (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH: Not sure.  I didn't feel like his match play toughness had much to do with the match today.  There were a lot of holes given to him.  He had a lot of pick the ball up throughout the day.
And then he really made a huge shot there on 13, a very difficult shot after I three-putted the 12th and he stayed 1-up, that was a big momentum kind of chance to get back to even with the tee.  And instead he probably felt a little bit there and made a committed wedge swing in there to two feet.  So he had a really clutch shot when he needed to right there.
And the rest of the golf course played pretty tough coming in.  So with a 2-up lead you pretty much have to make pars.
Q. (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH: No, the ones on 6 were frustrating.  Those were totally out of character.  I practiced on them.  I knew how hard to hit them.  I got caught up in the line on both of them and forgot about the speed which is kind of the opposite of how I normally putt.
It's fine.  Everything is fine.  Once again, like the British Open it looked like whatever, and then I make one putt and it comes back.  I just need a couple of putts to go in at some point, it's just taking longer than normal.  A couple of putts go in and all of a sudden it starts raining.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT