SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2018
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jordan, just discuss your week this week and then also today's final round.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, just I got a lot of work to do in the putting game.  I think I was somewhere close to about 100th this week in strokes gained.  I was like 95th going into today and made a couple outside ten feet, but then I also missed a number of them.  So I've got a lot of work to do with the putter, it's as simple as that.  Everything else is plenty ready to win.
Q. When you have a schedule like yours where you play so late in the year, you don't get a regular off-season.  With that in mind, how much stock do you take from two starts like this where maybe your putting isn't at sharp?
JORDAN SPIETH: I had six weeks off, which is a pretty good off-season, from Presidents Cup to Australia, and I took a lot of time off in that.  And then from Bahamas until now, I was really sick in December.  I only had a couple hours of practice from Bahamas until I got to Hawaii.  I was in bed most of December.
So I don't take a lot of stock out of this.  It was a lot of just -- it was a lot of trial and error, just kind of see where things are and see where adjustments need to be made.  I didn't have high expectations, like I mentioned, going into the first one in Hawaii.  I said it quite a few times.  It's going to be at least eight to ten rounds before I can hopefully get comfortable with the putter with adjusting back to where I should be.
You know, I got a three-week stretch coming up in a couple weeks that was really successful last year and hopefully can start to springboard the year.
Q. Ball striking was pretty good this week, though?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I struck the ball again, which was great.  I take a lot -- these two weeks were tremendous progress for me.  I would have liked to have the putting obviously there, but during the round it's difficult for me to accept, but then after, I'm able to kind of reconcile with the time that's needed to get things in place.
Q. What's easier for you to fix, not to suggest the putting needs fixing, but you know what I mean?
JORDAN SPIETH: What do you mean what's easier to fix?
Q. Ball striking versus putting.
JORDAN SPIETH: Well, I've gone on spurts where I don't strike the ball as well and my putter makes up for it, and then last year was a lot of tremendous ball striking where the putter just wasn't quite to the level it had been before but I was shooting a lot of low scores.  I think it should be easier with the putting.  A lot of what happens that you have to fix with putting is more in here, and the swing is more physical.
With that being said, it can be a lot streakier with the putting, and it's a more kind of a slower process with the full swing.
Q. What was your last really good putting round, do you think?
JORDAN SPIETH: I couldn't tell you where I felt really -- I mean, the second round last week, I made a couple.  I don't know exactly where I rated that -- rated compared to the field.  And then, yeah, I mean, we're going back to New York probably --
Q. Northern Trust?
JORDAN SPIETH: The Northern Trust, yeah, and maybe Boston, might have had a good round or two there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT