AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 11, 2018
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Do you feel that you needed to be aggressive on that front nine and back to get in position?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, my first eight holes I had seven looks inside of 10 feet and I hit great putts.  My putter made tremendous progress this week.  I feel great about it going forward and I just need to tighten up the swing a little bit, just wedge play really, I need to tighten up a little bit.  But it was very close.  The putts I missed today were ones that I misread.  I don't think I put one bad stroke on it, which is the first I can say, first time can I say that in a long time.  So it's getting there.  A lot of progress was made.  And I'm very pleased with the final of this round even though I made a few bogeys on the back nine.  We played 18 holes into the wind today.  We -- right when we got to 10 green the wind flipped to what it was supposed to be and we played the entire back nine into the wind.  So we caught a really tough draw for the day and therefore I don't think 1-under is really that bad of a score.  I thought that was probably a couple strokes of being affected by that wind, especially in the middle of the front nine as you get to 8 through 10, playing that with the wind that most of the other groups had.  Those are wedge holes versus -- 9 and 10 are wedge holes and we were hitting 6-irons into them.  So tough break with that.  I feel like a lot of progress was made.   
 Q.  Given the wind, do you feel the need to be aggressive on the back nine given the score at the time?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Just tough to be.  You just have really hard shots.  The wind is up-and-down and you have to -- when it's downwind you don't have to hit a perfect shot, you can get away with still having a good look at birdie.  Into the wind you have to not only hit a perfect shot, but because these greens are so small and pins are on such significant slopes, you have to judge the wind perfectly.  If it picks up -- you just have to play protective into the wind.  So you're left with more chips or longer putts, and then every now and then you'll get one in there close.  So it just makes it more difficult, especially on Pebble Beach, when the greens are severe and they're fast and the pins are on three percent grade slopes, you have to be below the holes.   
 Q.  Sounds like some positive mojo from back-to-back courses that you enjoy a lot?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  From the beginning of the year until now this is as good as I've felt.  Yeah, it's all positives of the last couple days.  Michael had a really good pointer.  I had some good talking this week with my coach, I had Strick look at my putting a little bit.  And Michael made a really good point yesterday during the round on just kind of how static I was and getting things moving a little bit.  And I just felt really comfortable from there on in.   
 Q.  Any decisions on your schedule beyond next week?  
JORDAN SPIETH: No, no, it's a really busy few weeks these few weeks, so I'm not exactly sure what it looks like after that.  And I mean that.  Like I really have no idea what I'm going to do after next week.  I know that at least Honda will be off.   
 Q.  Does that mean it's possible that Mexico might not be on?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I'm not sure yet.  I'm going to have to kind of see how I'm feeling, how I've been recovering in the week off, and then what is the best prep to be ready by the time we tee it up at Augusta.   
 Q.  What has that generally been for you?  You have played going into it, obviously the past few years?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, the couple weeks prior looks like it will be a similar schedule.  I just don't know what it's going to be the time in between next week and Austin.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT