BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2017
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jordan, excellent start.  If we can get some comments on your round.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  It was a nice start on 1, kind of had an iffy range session and hit the bad first shot and got pretty lucky to make a 3 there on 1 and then an up and down on 2.  I'm 1-under and feel I should be 2-over.
I felt like I really stole a few shots out of this golf course which is rare, right, to feel like you scored better than you played.
So, obviously very pleased with that and some work to do to stay in front or stay towards the front.
Q. 2nd place.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  Tied for 2nd.  Leish, what a fantastic round.  He ended up with 9, didn't he?  DJ and I were talking about that on 16.  He's 8-under, 9-under -- under through 6 holes which he was playing the group in front of us, same conditions and that was an incredible round so I think where we're at is a phenomenal position.
Q. Starting to get to know your playing partners, spending a lot of quality time together.
JORDAN SPIETH: Little bit better.  We've had a lot of fun the last few tournaments and we've all been playing well so it's always nice to feed off each other.  DJ had kind of a tough start today and then he had a lot of putts -- he played a lot better than his score.  The opposite of mine.  Look for him to shoot some low rounds coming up.
Q. Does playing with those two guys help you maintain a focus knowing no matter what happens this week you can't drop more than a couple spots?
JORDAN SPIETH: It's kind of a fight for the No. 1 position while you're trying to win the tournament.  It's nice to be playing together and you kind of know where everyone is at but, all in all, we'll be separated on the weekend and we won't really be focused on what each other is doing.
It come down to the BMW Championship and that will be it once Saturday hits.
Q. (Inaudible).
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  I think it puts a little bit of a premium on working the ball both ways and working different shots in the fairway and picking apart the course instead of just bombing it.
It's getting there.  I thought yesterday the greens were firmer than today but I think they're protecting for the weekend.
Q. When you say you (inaudible) --
JORDAN SPIETH: I didn't deserve birdie on 1 and 5.  You make them off the green or in the rough -- there's some hole you play when, "Man, I hit a great shot and made a bogey."
Q. Cobbled together a really good one with one putt pars.  The par you had at 12 I thought was special.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, 12, I hit into death row over there.  That was a horrible position to be in, long left and I had a really tough shot and hit an awesome pitch shot.
Standing over the putt even more nervous because you want to make up the chip.  When that one went in, that was -- that's a Top-Fiver for the year.
Q. Cobbled together a really good round for you.  Bonus at 2 on the scorecard.  You were 2-over par at TPC Boston.  1-under today.
JORDAN SPIETH: That's big.  My long irons were something I focused on last week, I'm trying to improve.  TPC Boston the par-3s you are hitting long irons.  Cam and I tried to pinpoint exactly what it was and we kind of did and I put a little bit of work into it since then and hopefully it continues to progress.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT