BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How frustrating of a round was it for you today?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, like when you see the scores that were put up earlier, that's what you're comparing yourself to and I thought the golf course played a little too difficult to really think a good score would be 7 or 8-under in the afternoon.   
Those guys really went low yesterday afternoon for today's round to be that solid.  Played a lot tougher.  Trying to adjust to the firmer greens.  Firmer greens but they still weren't that fast.  It certainly took a few holes for me to adjust to it and I didn't quite have the stuff.   
 Q.  Was it mostly just the firmer greens that made it tough or other factors as well?  
JORDAN SPIETH: The breeze is up a little bit.  The tough part is with the wind that we've had in the last two days there's a lot of crosswinds and you're trying to figure out if that's going to help or hurt whichever shot you're playing into the green and then with how firm the greens are, if it lands in the wrong spot it can obviously end up in a really tough spot.   
The crosswinds and firm greens are also a challenge.  They're not super firm, not that windy.  So, it's still very scoreable.  Look at what Marc did and the group in front of us.   
You know, our group just really didn't have any mojo today.  But, that happens.  We've had a lot of mojo the last whatever, nine, ten rounds we've played together.   
 Q.  Can you explain what happened on 10?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  I thought it was out of bounds.  I just hit a big hook and thought it was out of bounds so I hit a provisional.  I guess that's not out of bounds.   
So we were just trying to figure out exactly where the ball was.  They thought they had it.  It wasn't the ball.   
Then we had to go where we saw it cross and they actually found the ball anyways.  So I just got to drop from the fence and then I took a drop from the cart path.   
I ended up with a birdie putt somehow out of that.  Off the tee I thought I was struggling for double.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, the other way, though.  Shows the flexibility I have off the tee.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT