THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2017
Jordan Spieth
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You've been playing together since your junior days.  Guys, you were working hard in your afternoon round.  Jordan, 66 on Thursday, and even par round today.  What was the difference simply between today and yesterday?  
JORDAN SPIETH: We were both on the grind today.  Just didn't strike it as well and didn't hit many fairways on the front nine.  I didn't hit many greens.   
Solid back nine to get back in the tournament.  Not sure really what course Duf is playing.  We'll get out tomorrow and try to make a run at him.   
But it was fun.  We had a fun two days with Kis, as well, he's a good friend.   
 Q.  Justin, you were a little bit all over the back, as well, but did you walk off the golf course today feeling frustrated or a bit satisfied that you were able to scramble a bit and turn what could have been a 75 into a 71?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I know one thing, I'm pretty exhausted.  These last six holes were a grind.  I thought I played beautifully for 12 holes and then hit a great tee shot and great putt on 12, and I don't know what happened on that tap-in.  But just one bad swing on 13.   
And from there on in it was just a grind and couldn't really hit a green.  And I get in a good position on a hole like 17 and I chunk it in the bunker.  But I'm pleased because, like you said, it could be a round that got away from me.  And I guess I could say I had a chance, even though Duf is so far away from us.  But I hung in there nicely.   
 Q.  You guys are on the first page of the leaderboard, even though you're eight shots back.  Anything mentally different now as you head into the weekend trying to reel in Duf?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I don't think so.  I think the thing is -- I mean, with 36 holes left, you never know what's going to happen, I don't know how Jordan is going to be, but I just know I have to play my game.  And it's one of those things if you get to the last nine holes of the tournament, last couple of holes where you're three, four, five back, then you maybe change your game plan a little bit, have a little different mentality.  But we have to go out and play apparently really good golf to feel like we have a chance.   
 Q.  Your approach?  
JORDAN SPIETH: On this golf course you never know.  You can shoot low numbers if you're hitting fairways and playing to the right spots.  But trouble is very close around the corner.  So you just never know what's going to happen on I course like this.  It's actually a good course to be coming from behind on.  You can make up quite a bit of ground on the score.   
Good weather tomorrow, and Sunday may play a little more difficult.  Tomorrow is the day we've got to go out there and take advantage.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT