THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2017
Jordan Spieth
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were both scrambling out there.  What was it like?  Do you feel like you ever got control of your games or was it constant scrambling?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, for me, personally, it was just a little uncomfortable off the tee to start.  Just had some balls going left.  The ball's going left and you don't want it to go left and then it goes right.  So kind of missing both sides and trying to find the middle ground on the front nine.   
Then hit a good drive on 10 and 11, and it kind of settled me down.  I was able to shoot a couple under on the back nine to turn what could have been a 4-over round into even par, which is a little frustrating off of yesterday's round.   
We had perfect scoring conditions again.  But sometimes you've got to kind of squeak out those rounds and hopefully you only have one in the entire tournament.   
JUSTIN THOMAS: It was a little different day for me.  I started off playing really well.  The first 12 holes, really, other than a really bad second shot on 11, I felt like I played really well.   
And it was weird, it almost -- I felt like it almost would have been easier if it was a constant ten mile an hour wind.  When it gets five, six, seven, it goes so many different places.  And I felt like we had a lot of shots where one person would hit and it would go long, and the next person would play for it and it would come back.  I felt like I hit a lot of shots that I hit better than the result was, at least on the front nine in the first half of the round.   
But then the last six holes were really a grind.  So it was good to finish how I did.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: Well, because we're at 6-under and we're tied for, I think, 4th place through two days, so it's still a very difficult golf course.  A difficult courses where you see 7- or 8-under rounds, it's one of those few courses where you can go out there and if you feel like you're in control of your game you can shoot, 6, 7, even 8-under par.  But if you're not, you can shoot 6-over.   
It's kind of like I said I think before the tournament started, it's one of those unique golf courses.  And that means it's good to come back from, because you never know what's going to happen.  It's a tough course to play protective on.  You're going to be above the hole a lot if you're playing protective, which is going to lead to not as many birdies.  And if you can be aggressive and you have control of it, you actually end up with a lot of short range birdie putts.   
Justin and I have had a lot of tap-in birdies, because the balls feed toward the hole when you play aggressive.  That's why I think it's a good course to come back from because we're kind of in a position where we're up the leaderboard a bit, but still far enough back that we're almost chasing a ghost in Dufner's score, where it frees us up a little bit.   
 Q.  What do you make of what Jason has done these two days?  
JORDAN SPIETH: It's special.  It's a tremendous 36 hole score for this golf course.  I don't care what the conditions are.  I mean, like Justin said, there's swirling winds out there and you've got to watch out for where you're hitting it.   
Duf is obviously in full control of the ball tee to green, and you've got to be making some putts, too.  He had two fantastic days.  He's a major champion and a multiple PGA Tour winner, he's going to be a tough guy to chase down.  But again, playing the lead on this golf course I imagine is going to be difficult.   
 Q.  You were over on the hazard on 18.  What is the footing like over there?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's nonexistent.  It was frustrating.  Obviously it was left of the fairway, but it's this far left of the fairway and I'm in the first cut of rough and I don't have a stance.  It's a tough finishing hole.  But it's a hole -- I hit a draw.  I was just trying to hit a cut and I roasted that cut, barely toe'd it to where it wouldn't cut.  And I guess some would argue if I hit a better drive, I wouldn't have been in that position.   
JORDAN SPIETH: You landed in the left center of the fairway and didn't have a shot.   
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it just was annoying, because as much as I was grinding the whole day, I really wanted to have a chance to feed one into the pin and have I a birdie look.  And to go up and almost fall in the hazard chipping it out was frustrating.   
 Q.  Daniel hit the ball close to you, and he said when you're going through that, you just worry about falling in.  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I almost fell in just standing there, trying to get a stance.  You don't want to embarrass yourself and you don't want to hit a bad shot.  I was glad to get out with a par.   
 Q.  What did you hit there?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Just a lob wedge, 96 yards, it was a pretty easy wedge shot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT