THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2017
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's your overall reaction to three straight years without reaching the weekend?  
JORDAN SPIETH: It's just been on and around the greens I just haven't quite figured it out.  These greens get pretty crusty and, historically, whenever firm Bermuda or greens are crusty to where it's tough to set the putter down, I just struggle with my alignment and it just kind of throws me off.  It happened again here.  Hit the ball great -- found something -- didn't really find something I have been hitting it phenomenally well and I just got a little off yesterday and came back today and hit the ball, gave myself a lot of chances and from those mid-range opportunities that I had, just couldn't quite get comfortable.   
 Q.  You said yesterday you were going to have to go back to the range and undo whatever had gone wrong.  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, the face was just like slightly closed and from there I was either over drawing, which I did a lot with the driver, or I was trying to hold on to it too much instead of feeling like I could freely release through the ball.  It just got off maybe from practicing into the wind a couple days in a row versus mixing it up.  Just things like that can throw it off by a couple degrees that make a significant difference.  So felt awesome today, just getting a nice little kind of roll it open off the bat and do the same things.  Game's in really good shape.  Historically, just haven't really figured it out on these greens yet and so I'll just not going to think too much about it, this is probably the best I felt about my game after a missed cut after, so I've got three exciting weeks coming up.   
 Q.  Does it help to shake this off knowing you got a couple weeks in Texas?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I got bent grass coming up.  I love Bermuda grass, I feel like it is my best chance to putt well, but when it gets crusty I've got to find a new way to do things that I haven't quite figured out yet.  But we're going to bent, I won't have to worry about that and I've putted well the next two weeks historically.  So I'm pleased to be going there and it will be fun being at home.   
 Q.  You played Erin Hills?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I played the U.S. Amateur there.  I did.  I lost in the quarter finals.   
 Q.  What did you think of the course?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I thought -- I don't remember too much about it.  Links style course, but doesn't necessarily play like links, because you got to fly it on to the greens.  Then some pretty challenging but exciting finishing holes.   
 Q.  Are you going to make a special trip?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I don't think so.  I'll go in like I've done the past few years probably the weekend before.  I'll get plenty of rounds in tournament condition there and also rest in the process.   
 Q.  Everybody's been around here a couple times, nobody's really gone low.  Can they set the golf course up, is it that hard now, can they set it up where somebody could go shoot 63?  
JORDAN SPIETH: If that's going to happen, it's going to come through the conditions, it's going to be, a storm blows through and it softens things up because with the firmness of the greens right now, it's difficult to hold the fairways and then from there it's tough enough to get it on the right section of the green.  So, it's a fantastic golf course, I love this track, and I love how you got to work one ball flight off the tee and the opposite into the greens.  You don't see that very often.  It's almost every hole out here and every hole's memorable.  And because of that, because you have to work the ball both directions so many times, it's so hard to stay right on.  Unless, like Jason last year was just hitting it nice and straight, long and not missing.  But typically you find some mistakes out there and that's why it's so tough to go really low.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT