THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2017
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  On No. 1, you took a photo of something after you hit your shot.  Was there something you wanted to show the rules staff?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it was just a bunker that was raked to where it just kind of looked like somebody didn't really care much to do it or were rushing off the green, because I had, I was, I think, in worse than a plugged lie, when it just trickled into it.  And I overreacted probably a bit, but all in all, you just don't see that very often and I know my guy, Michael, rakes and makes sure that that's exactly the way that it was when he went in there, so that if you hit it in the bunker, everybody gets the same kind of thing.  And you don't see it -- guys are very good 99.9 percent of the time and that was very frustrating, because I knew where I was, from a normal lie, it wasn't too bad; and from that lie I had no chance.  So it was a frustrating time in the round there where I was trying to kind of get some momentum going.   
 Q.  Did you feel like on No. 1 the second shot that you had hit exactly what you wanted, just didn't, it just rolled back maybe another foot and you would have been all right?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I thought it was actually going to carry five yards plus further than it did.  Kind of get over on that right side.  So it was a good shot.  I just didn't have control of the golf ball off the tee today.  I hit four fairways and, honestly, to be at 1-over with four fairways is actually somewhat strong out here.  So I just got to hit the ball, I got to get the ball in play off the tee tomorrow to be able, to get to the weekend and maybe have a chance to make a run.   
 Q.  Were you working on anything off the tee entering this week?  
JORDAN SPIETH: No, I was actually striking the ball incredibly well and I had phenomenal practice leading into today's round and it picked up on the range today, it wasn't on the course.  It was something happened that I've got to try and figure out now this afternoon on the range in my swing.  And hopefully it's something small.  But I've had tremendous control of the ball this entire week and off the tee, down to the putter.  So the game I thought, going into this round, I felt as good as I felt this entire year.  So you could throw a fluke round out every now and then, in a span of four rounds you're likely to have a day where you're a little off, a day or two, and I'll just hope that that was the one today and that we're back on track.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT