WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2017
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JORDAN SPIETH: Just checked and saw that Tanihara has brought it back and taken the lead.  I obviously would like a tie or Ryan to win, that would be nice, otherwise I'm not in control.  Just do what we can do at this point.
Q. Did you feel like you were playing in a wind tunnel out there?
JORDAN SPIETH: It was tough, really tough.  I air mailed four or five greens today and that's a stat that I'm probably as proud of as any, the fact that I do not hit the ball above the hole very often and do not fly greens very often.  But only so much you can do when the wind drops and you strike the shot solid.  It happened a few times today and a few other times it came down the right distance.  I knew that was going to happen.  It was a matter of trying to keep the ball below the hole.  Recognizing that even par is most likely going to win the majority of matches today.  I was somewhere around there.
Made a bonehead move on 13, taking driver out when driver has been not my favorite club.  Been real inaccurate with it.  Other than that, I still got a tie on the hole.  Harder to find a little something in the driving and putting which has really been what I've been working towards improving.  So started finding a little something, hopefully carry it into tomorrow.
Q. 13 was kind of the epitome of the day for a lot of people.
JORDAN SPIETH: Probably, yeah.  Great hole.
Q. Talk us through it.
JORDAN SPIETH: It's a great hole.  The tees were moved up, only 263 to the front today.  In a typical slightly into a 10-mile-an-hour breeze, I still carry the ball 263 yards into the wind.  The way it was when we got on that tee, it was up and down a little bit, but that's going to be the windiest point on the golf course.  It was blowing so hard I knew we couldn't carry it at the green.  I was trying to hit it out there down the right side.
What was not smart about it was that the fairway is pretty narrow with driver when I can't carry it to the edge.  3-wood is actually a much better play.  If I push it, it hits that right shelf and stays in the fairway.  I really don't know why we pulled out driver.  To play 3 up on that tee box with the conditions that we had and that pin position, we had 4 iron, gap wedge and two putt.  It is that easy to do that.  Normally you say it's not that easy.  It's that easy to hit 4-iron and gap wedge into the green and get it in in two.  So little upset at pulling driver there.  Fortunately, it didn't kill me.
Q. The elimination officially starts Saturday but for you it's tomorrow.  How do you approach mentally your match with Ryan Moore?
JORDAN SPIETH: Well, we're going to see what happens at the end of this match.  It mean, it won't change the way that I go into my match with Ryan, but I'll know if I can control my own destiny or not by the end of Ryan's match today.  Ryan is a very difficult opponent.  I thought that was a tough draw.  He's somebody who is in every hole.  Very smart about the way he takes apart a golf course and that's awesome in match play and on a tricky golf course.  So I've got to play better than I did the last two days and I know that.  I've just got to have complete trust because why not at this point.  It's a win or go home situation.  Aggressive swings to the right targets.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT