SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2017
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under today, get to minus 12.  I thought the front nine, just kind of struggled to get close to the flags.  Got a little bit better on the second nine.  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, and that's -- the front nine, I think you have less scoring opportunities than you do on the back.  You're forced to hit hybrids off tees and mid-irons into greens, and it's just a little tougher to get close.  Proximity to the hole was a little off today.   
My swing didn't feel quite as good as the last couple days.  Putting stroke, still looking for answers.  But honestly, did a great job grinding to 4-under today.   
Had a couple opportunities that didn't quite go in.  But all in all, I'm in a good position for a low one tomorrow.  I'm not sure about winning the tournament anymore.  I needed something, probably double what I shot today.  I probably needed 8-under today to have much of a chance.  But we'll go out tomorrow.  Try to do what we did in Kapalua and try to come in from the back door and see what it does.   
 Q.  You made a couple early birdies on the back side.  13 is the toughest hole on the golf course and that kind of bit you there, too.  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it did.  I I've played it well this week thus for.  I had good look for birdie the first day and then I birdied it the second.   
I really played my second shot, almost perfectly today and it needed to be about a yard further or a yard right and it just caught the corner of the bunker and went into a pretty difficult up-and-down.  If it had obviously carried a bit more; I just played it a bit further right, that would have been a par or a chance at birdie.   
That hole, really tough with this wind to hold the fairway.  When you're hitting a long iron out of the rough, nothing is easy.  It was okay.  Nice bounceback on the next, and then tried to grab a few coming in.  Was really happy to get the one on 18.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT