PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2016
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JORDAN SPIETH: I hit the ball well enough over the 36 holes to really make a run off things and just couldn't quite get it in the hole on the greens.
Q. How strange is that for you?
JORDAN SPIETH: Pretty strange, but The Open was the same way.  Just waiting for it all to click.  I believe it will soon.  I've been putting a lot of time into the rest of my game and maybe that's kind of shifted a little from the short game and maybe I just shift it back that way.
Again, can't really complain much about it.  I missed some short putts this week and really couldn't get any momentum from the midrange game, but I'm really, really happy with the way that we're striking the ball.
The way you framed that question, putting is normally a strength.  All positive going from here.  It's a tournament of what could have been given how well I struck the ball.  It's going to happen.
Q. What were you thinking this morning?  Obviously you needed to go low.  Were you confident that that could happen?
JORDAN SPIETH: I was at 3-under starting the day and I thought if I could get to 12 I would have a chance to win.  It's a tall task.  That's a 65-66.  I knew I would have enough opportunities and I did.  I only made two bogeys over the 36 holes and typically make a good five birdies or so per round.  Just couldn't get those ones, couldn't get them in.
Q. What do the next few weeks look like for you?
JORDAN SPIETH: A lot of rest.  A lot of rest.  This was a trying last two months.  Take it easy.  Work my way back in slowly.  Really excited about the playoffs and the Ryder Cup at the end, with emphasis on the Ryder Cup, obviously trying to work through that five-week stretch.  I guess it's a six-week stretch.  To play my best golf those last couple of weeks.
It will be nice playing a few tournaments in a row.  That will be a nice change of pace that we haven't seen since around the Masters for me.  I guess the Dallas/Fort Worth area time.
Q. A major season last year that was historic.  What do you take from this year's four majors?
JORDAN SPIETH: Almost, you know.  Masters, I was a couple swings away from winning there.  If I close that one out then it's one of the best major seasons I'll ever have.  I'm not going to hang my head low on it.  I made the cut in all of them which obviously isn't the goal for me.  I contended in one and had a chance to win.  I learned a lot from that experience, just wanted to put myself in that chance again.  Wasn't quite able to do so from here to there, but not a bad showing in the four majors this year.
My goal at the beginning of the year was to have a chance to win at least two of them and didn't quite get there but I can cap off the finish to this year strong if I play strong at the Ryder Cup.  That's going to feel like a major for me.
Q. Would you like to get up and see Hazeltine?
JORDAN SPIETH: I think there is a plan.  I'm not sure exactly when the days are, but some time around Atlanta to go up maybe a couple weeks before the event.  We have an off week in the playoffs.  See if we can get a group to go up there and see it.  I've never been.
Q. You have no events and no corporate outings or anything?
JORDAN SPIETH: No.
Q. Do you think if you had won the Masters it would have changed what you've done after?
JORDAN SPIETH: I don't think so, no.  Again, I've been working on my ball striking quite a bit and it's really played off.  I threw some lasers this week that I don't normally throw.  Hit a lot of fairways.  Felt pretty comfortable over the ball.  Pretty comfortable that I knew what the ball was going to do.  If my putting was up to the normal standard, The Open Championship and then here would have been a lot more fun.  Potentially contending.  Maybe not The Open, those guys kind of went nuts.  I don't think that it changes anything at all.
Q. (No microphone)?
JORDAN SPIETH: I just wanted the opportunity to.  What I worked on in my ball striking was exactly involving the problem that came up on No. 12, which is getting my hands lower on the down swing and moving the contact point to the center of the face, or if I miss it's off the toe and not the heel.  That showed itself significantly here.  I struck the ball in the middle of the face here even when it went off line.  I'm pretty excited about that work.
When the putting gets back to that level, we're going to have a lot of fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT