AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 22, 2016
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jordan I know it was a tough day.  Just comment on the round.
JORDAN SPIETH: It was an off round.  Just didn't really get anything going and kind of stinks, you know, given I had a chance here at a home town event.
All in all, I haven't had great success here in the past.  This was an opportunity that, you know, you can't win them all and certainly would have liked to have put on a little more of a display but, you know, just a tough day.  Just an off day.
Q. Was there any one thing that was consistently giving you a problem?
JORDAN SPIETH: For the week it was ball-striking but, you know, you can't necessarily rely on your putter the way I relied on it for three rounds.  You normally can rely on it normally for one.  I got three out of them.  Lot of good putts that went by the lip, high side, low side.  Sometimes that happens.
Q. (Inaudible).
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  Yeah.  No, I did.  I actually felt very comfortable over the ball today.  I felt -- you know, funny how it works.  Yesterday it was about as uncomfortable as I've ever felt and shot 3-under.  Today I felt like I kind of fixed it a little on the range.  I felt really good about it on the golf course today.  I just didn't score well.
Q. Jordan, you have to play with so much pressure, obviously AT&T sponsoring this event.
JORDAN SPIETH: Honestly didn't feel as much pressure as I thought I would.  Starting out you certainly feel it and you know, I guess maybe I didn't feel it because I dropped out of contention, but even there in the middle of the front-9 I was -- it was as if I was just playing on Thursday which was good but no, I don't think there was -- I didn't feel like I was playing with anymore pressure than I've been able to perform in the past out here.
Q. Jordan, you know about other places talk about how hard it is to win at home.  Does this further reinforce why so few people do win at your home town event?
JORDAN SPIETH: No.  I think it's really hard to win in general on the PGA TOUR.  Doesn't matter where you are.  Again, I didn't feel any added home town, didn't affect my play.  I had an off day today and, you know, we're going to go to a golf course next week where I've had success.  I felt like I found something today that I can fine-tune with my ball-striking and my putting is there.  I feel very confident about next week.  I almost matched my best finish in 6 starts here.  I can look at that positively.
Q. What does it mean, take away from the week, optimism or frustration?
JORDAN SPIETH: Frustration, yeah.  Frustration with today.  I mean don't go from the final group in second place alone and finish in 18th and there's not many positives you'll be able to take out of that other than the last hole I played I made birdie.  That's nice.
I hit really solid swings, I was aggressive through the ball today, I wasn't hesitant at the ball which is what I was the last couple of days trying to guide shots.  Felt like I was -- I put nice, fluid solid swings on the golf ball.  I don't know exactly what happened, whether a break here, break there, you know, gust of wind here or there that just let it push the balls to roll into tough locations, but I felt like I deserved a better score today than I did yesterday and that's just how golf is sometimes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT