DEAN & DELUCA INVITATIONAL
May 29, 2016
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It was an electric performance on the back nine, your first win on the PGA TOUR here in Texas.  I want to start with a couple of par saves.  The par save on 8 and the par save on 14, how important were those for your confidence?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I didn't deserve par on 8 by any means, just a poor first shot, and then I drew I really tough lie and kind of just decelled on the chip.  But man, I mean, just to have that putt go in, you can hit a perfect putt from that distance, and it's still got to be lucky for it to actually find the bottom of the hole.  Very lucky to keep momentum there, and then when the one on 10 finally went, I'm under par instead of over par somehow through 10 holes, and we were able to sit back and say, you know what, we can grab a few more now, now that we've got some momentum.   
 Q.  Was there some patience that you had to have on that front nine to allow for the performance that you had?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, certainly.  I mean, I'm watching Ryan make birdies.  I'm watching Webber come back and make birdies after he bogeyed the first, and the guys in front of us, Kyle and Harry are making birdies.  When that's happening and the wind isn't up, the greens are soft, it is difficult to stay patient.  But that was the one thing that we told ourselves on every single hole, really stressed it.   
 Q.  Jason Day won his last tournament, Rory McIlroy won his last tournament, and now Jordan Spieth has done the same thing.  For you what does this say?  What confidence does this give you battling those two players who are also playing very well going into a very busy, important stretch?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think it's really exciting.  This is a big step for me to make a move on Jason's No. 1 reign.  He's still got some space there that we're going to try and close out.  You know, I knew it would be somewhat difficult to come back from what happened at the Masters.  I knew that that was -- I don't wish that upon anybody.  I mean, it was not fun to experience.  It's not fun to hear people in the crowd walking down today yelling out, remember the Masters.  That's just what you hear.  That's going to happen.  To get over that, to get over that hurdle in our third tournament back says a lot about our character out there, and I think the golf gods are certainly on our side.  I caught some breaks today, as well.   
 Q.  All pars on the front nine, then you have six birdies on the back, only nine total putts.  What changed on that back nine, and can you explain it?  
JORDAN SPIETH: No, it's funny, I was wondering how many putts we had on the back.  You know, what changed, not much.  I still felt like I was hitting good shots, the speed was just off on my putting on the front nine.  I had a couple putts that would have gone in had I put the perfect speed on them.  The back nine was just adjusting accordingly.  No. 10 I got a good read off Webb's, and when that one went, it kind of opened the floodgates.   
 Q.  Winning in Texas, how meaningful is this?  
JORDAN SPIETH: It's very cool.  I mean, it's been since college.  But you know, you only have a few events a year to give it a go.  Especially in DFW, growing up, coming to this tournament, this tournament gave me an exemption when I needed it in 2013.  It's very special to me and really nice to kind of grab the win at Colonial.   
 Q.  What does this mean now for the coming weeks, Memorial, U.S. Open, big tournaments ahead?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  Yeah.  Hopefully it's a springboard.  We're going to go next week to a place that I love.  I love putting those greens.  Just try and keep it consistent, try and get a little bit better each day, try and work on something that maybe we need to work on leading into the U.S. Open.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT