THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2016
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: I'm driving the ball well here.  That's the work I put in.  I just didn't put much work into my putting and short game and it certainly showed here, as it normally does on a Pete Dye golf course.   
So, yeah, I just need to grind on my short game over the next few days and get ready.  If I putt anywhere up to the standard that I normally putt, even with a couple bad breaks here and there, I'm at 6- or 7-under, just on the greens the, let alone the short game.   
So, everybody has off putting week, I just had a couple days where I just kind of lost a little control of it.   
 Q.  What happened on your shot on 15 when you came back?  Did it jump on you?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I had an 8-iron in my hand just to kind of punch one up there, but from the angle I was at and the way the green slopes, I didn't think I could hold the green -- which was the first mistake, because I shouldn't have been trying to hit the green anyways.   
So I went to a 9-iron to try and kind of punch cut it and really have a chance to hold the green, which was maybe a one in 10 shot and it just came out, stabbed into the slope and came out high and I was fortunate just to have a putt at par.   
But it was just a mental mistake.  I should have just taken my medicine, hit it to where Gracey was, down there short left and 2-putted, knowing that with a great drive on 16 I had have mid iron in -- and I had 8-iron into 16.   
 Q.  What was your issue with the cameras?  
JORDAN SPIETH: They were just, they were just right in front to the right and it's common, when I'm in the trees, that's where the coolest shots come from, the coolest pictures are from there.  But they were just a little too much in the line and I knew that if I, as I looked up over the ball, I was going to pretty much look right into the cameras and that bothered me.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: Certainly needs improvement on the consistency.  The past three years seem that we had a chance to win about half the time we teed it up and this year that hasn't been the case.  We ran away with the first one of the year and then had a couple chances overseas and then obviously a chance at the Masters, but my off days need to be 2-under instead of even par.   
And this week I feel like I really would have made a run this weekend, I mean, all it takes is a couple of good putts and everything starts to go in for me.  I mean, it just clicks on like that.   
If I didn't make that mistake I made on 9 yesterday, on my last hole, you know, it would be a different story right now and I would have a chance to shoot up the board.   
But, yeah, I just think that, you know, I'm beating myself up a little bit too much on the golf course and it's affecting me and I realize that now.   
And I feel rested, I feel healthy.  Again, my ball striking feels great.  Just need to be a little bit more positive with myself on the course and maybe kind of lower expectations a little bit and just kind of free myself up.  It just seems I'm so tense and I just need to get back to the way I enjoy playing golf and I'm not far off.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, sure.  No one ever wants to think that they can't match what they have done the previous year, you believe that you can get better all the time.  And I believe that I can be a better player this year than I was last year.   
But in the off days I just need to do a little bit better job of being positive with myself and smiling a bit more, having a bit more fun.   
And it's tough when you're getting shellacked by 15 shots in the same group, you know?  When someone's birdieing almost every single hole, every other hole, you start to wonder why in the world you aren't making any of them.   
And a lot of times it's good to play with, if you can feed off of it.  But for me it was tough this week, without my putting being on, it just led to a lack of patience for me seeing every hole being birdied and not being able to do much about it.   
 Q.  (Question about Jason day this year versus other years.)  
JORDAN SPIETH: About the same.  Yeah, I see similarities.  The Jason Day I saw the first two rounds at Chicago is about the same as the Jason Day now, that's pretty special, he's not really missing golf shots right now.   
 Q.  If someone would look at your results this week and try to make a connection from the Masters to this week, what would you say to them?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I don't think there's much of a connection.  I just didn't putt well.  If I putted like I putted at the Masters, I would be at 10- or 12-under right now.   
So, I just had an off week with the flat stick.  But I had plenty of rest.  Again, Augusta seems like a long time ago now, to me.  This was a complete new week.   
And I'll go back home to Dallas, where I can hopefully gain momentum there.  That's an event that, growing up, I've always wanted to win and haven't really had a chance to win since I was 16, 17 -- so it's funny when I say that -- but it's, yeah, but I'll go back there and on greens that -- I'll get some good work in with Cameron, get my short game sharp and really get off to a better start and that will take some of the stress off.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT