WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2016
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A little bit of relief just getting through the first three rounds?
JORDAN SPIETH: Last year I was 2-0 going into the third round, played a win or go home against Lee Westwood in a hard fought match that he won.
I didn't want to leave it to a playoff and I knew that was probably going to happen if I didn't win this match.  It still felt like a win or go home, even though I had already knocked off the other two guys.
Kind of frustrates you a little bit that the format was changed.  At least when I wake up this morning, I'm like last year I would have had a practice day today.
But got off to a great start, birdied four of the first five holes.  I can't remember the last time I did that to start a round.  It was nice to make that many birdies in a day and go deeper under par than I've been in the last few events in any of my rounds.
Q. Did you lose anything on the back nine in terms of momentum?
JORDAN SPIETH: No. 10, I just played it really poorly.  I tried to do too much.  I went 4-up after 9.  I tried a stinger at 3-wood instead of hitting a normal shot.  I deserved to lose that hole.  He played it the way it's supposed to be played.
I don't think I lost any momentum.  A little off on the wedge on 13, but he was already greenside.  I knew I had to make birdie to tie there, which is okay.  You are going to lose holes.  That one just a little off with the wedge.  Made a little oopsies on 15, but fortunately it wasn't going to cost me.
Q. Bracket play now, what changes for you?
JORDAN SPIETH: Not much.  Every match is win or go anyways.  You just have to one extra match from the original format in order to win it all.  36-hole day hopefully.  Louis Oosthuizen early in the morning tomorrow, that's a tough one.  Louis is a fantastic player.  He's kicked my butt in match play before.  He did it at the Presidents Cup partnering with Branden Grace against me and DJ.  He's a very, very difficult match play player and he plays extremely well under pressure and seen that in major championships with Louis.  I think it's going to be a very difficult match tomorrow morning.  I'm certainly not looking ahead to that.
Q. Coming back to where you went to college and just the atmosphere surrounding every hole for you, just the fact that you have played so well has to be special?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it's awesome.  Really like to play into the weekend, into Sunday afternoon and keep feeding off this crowd.
Today was really, really cool out on the course especially as we made the turn.  The crowds were massive down by the lake.  Justin and I were both like this is really cool.  It's a good crowd of people having a great time.
Tournament seems to be going real very, very well here first time at Austin Country Club.  That really pleases me as well.  I really enjoy being here.
Q. Did today seem like more than just a Friday round?  Kind of like a Sunday atmosphere?
JORDAN SPIETH: A little bit.  By the time we got down by the lake, I had a pretty good lead and I was trying to cruise in from there.  It wasn't exactly a grind like a Sunday afternoon, but I was more enjoying it.  Honestly I got a little ahead of myself.  I wasn't disciplined enough and hit some lazy shots starting with a wedge on 13, the drive on 14 and then the putt on -- the putts on 15.  I got a little lazy there and fortunately got away with a big enough lead early to not lose too much ground.
Q. Different conditions every day, it seems like?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think tomorrow will be something similar to today.  It might be a little bit of both on Sunday morning to afternoon, it looks like.  Tomorrow morning we might have a bit of breeze and I think it's still going to be warmer in the morning tomorrow.  Should play pretty similar to today.
Q. What was it like playing against a good friend?
JORDAN SPIETH: I mean, we have now played enough on Tour and we've played in each other's groups against each other to where it wasn't weird.  We each wanted to win our match.  I think it was a good thing.  I think it was lightened for me.  We were able to joke around like it was a normal practice round day or whatever which maybe lightened the mood a bit.  Nothing was out of the ordinary.  It was another match and we were both trying to win.  I know he wanted to beat me and he probably wanted to beat me and he wanted me to win the playoff, and I didn't want to have to rely on that.
Q. He's one of the guys that stays with you during the Nelson.  Is that a fun week for you?
JORDAN SPIETH: The Byron, there's a lot going on.  It's a very busy week in a very good way.  Michael normally stays with me and Justin has in the past.  Those two weeks at home are very special.  I thoroughly enjoy being there.  It's a very similar feeling to what it was like today with the crowds.  It's nice to have that support and feel like you're home.
Q. Will it be the same with the new house now?
JORDAN SPIETH: I'm sure it will be very similar.  I'm not sure what Justin's schedule looks like, so I can't speak for him.  But I'm sure I'll host Michael and Ellie and possibly a player or two.  We'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT