WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2016
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Beautiful display of ball-striking in a very difficult wind.  What was it like for you out there today?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Great.  My swing has been coming around.  I've been working hard on it for the last month or so.  Really started showing signs of that work this week.  Been able to flight the ball nicely.  I had one bad swing back on 11, but really played solid golf.  Really thought I'd be five or six up at the turn, and Victor made a couple long putts to tie the holes.  But that's what he does best.  Very pleased to get today done with.   
 Q.  With the new format, tomorrow is an interesting scenario for you.  No one else is going to have more than a point, you have two points, which means you're guaranteed to be in a playoff.  If you just get a half a point tomorrow you advance to Saturday morning's Sweet 16.  Does that change the strategy for you in this third day?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I might ask Justin if he wants to just halve the match.  I doubt he'll want to do that.  He'll want to beat me.   
But, no, I don't think it changes the strategy at all.  Ultimately you're trying to get where you're dormie at some point in the match.  If that becomes the case, then it might be really interesting, because I've never experienced something like that.  Hopefully we have that opportunity tomorrow.   
Quick starts were key in the last two days.  Getting off to 2-, 3-up in the first six, seven holes.  That's not going to be the case every single day.  So we're going to have to show some fight.  And hopefully we can at least make some birdies to start the round.   
 Q.  Got off to a quick lead?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, No. 1 and 2, to be 1-up through those two, when I should have been 1-down or all square.  I feel like it maybe took a little bit out of Victor and he was a little off on the speed of the greens today.  And I was able to get a couple lip-ins.  So to get 3-up early, that's commanding lead in windy conditions on a tough golf course.  Just tried to stay really solid with our ball-striking, make sure we hit the greens, have putts and birdie.  And that wears you down when you're 3-down.  Fortunately we were able to kind of close the deal on those last couple of holes.   
 Q.  If ever there was a lesson in match play, always expect your opponent to make everything.  7, 8 and 9, Victor made like 60 feet of putts?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, just to tie the holes.  6 through 10 -- or 7 through 10, to tie those four holes, I looked at Michael and, like how in the world are we 3-up, it feels like we're 6-up.  But that's what he does.  Fortunately we had the lead and it didn't wear on us too much.  We were able to take advantage of the par-5 and then those last two.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT