WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2016
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  With the world's No. 1 player, Jordan Spieth.  How much did familiarity with the golf course help you so far?  
JORDAN SPIETH: A little bit.  I mean, it's been a little while since I played here in school.  But certainly having any course knowledge is better than pretty much the field here.  No one has really seen this place.   
It's in perfect condition.  Even in the breeze today, I think it was setup fair but still tough.  If you were under par, you were probably ahead of your match.   
 Q.  How cool a town Austin is, you went to school here for a short time.  What does it mean to you and all the Texas Longhorns to be able to show this great city off to the world this week?  
JORDAN SPIETH: It's fantastic.  I'm in love with Austin.  It's maybe my favorite city in the world.  I enjoyed my time here the short three semesters I was here.  I always enjoy coming back.  It's just a great atmosphere, very healthy city.  The food and the live music downtown, just a lot to do.   
They have great golf.  We're kind of seeing one of the great stops at Austin Country Club that encompasses Austin.  You've got nine hole in the hills and nine holes down at the lake.  I think the fans are enjoying it.  Certainly heard a lot of hook 'em Horns today.   
 Q.  Help me out here, you win the first hole, you build a 4-up lead, but I'm guessing you never felt really comfortable in that match?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I felt comfortable.  I really did.  And then that 8th hole is a really hard hole.  Misread a couple of the putts there, which is fine.  I still felt okay with the match.   
Then on 11 and 12, just decision making.  My swing feels there, I played a perfect match play match up until that point, just hitting the greens, making par my worst score, putting the pressure on him to win the holes.  But also making a few birdies.  I just made some really poor decisions to let him back in that match.  Fortunately, stuck through it.  Hit three good shots into this hole to finish it off.   
 Q.  The reason I said that is I think Jamie is a good player, and there's always going to be a grind to the end?  
JORDAN SPIETH: He also got a couple really tough breaks.  Sometimes in match play that's how it goes.  The par-5, 6th, if he's in the bunker in two, he's a lot better shape than on the downslope in the rough.  I don't know how it stopped there.  He plugged in the side of the bunker at the last hole.  So two really tough breaks on par-5s that were difference makers for me.  I'm going to have to continue play well and limit mistakes going forward.  Victor tomorrow is going to be a tough match and JT on Friday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT