WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Overall week, good and bad?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, with the amount of preparation I put into it, I'm extremely pleased.  I feel like I got the most out of the week.
You know, I needed the rest.  I needed to sit back and take some time off, but it's still frustrating coming to a big event and not having it; it's tough.  You have to find the middle ground or you just have to take more time off, one of the two.
So now, I feel like I got a bit in a groove.  I can take some confidence.  I've got a week and a half before we leave for Australia, two weeks before we play.  Those two events were huge last year.  I know that if I can focus on those two, they can carry some momentum into the season.  Looking forward to getting down there.
Q. Talk about today.
JORDAN SPIETH: Exactly what I said after the round yesterday.  I said I needed to trust the move I was doing, and I just couldn't.  I just wasn't quite there yet with repetitions to be able to trust it.  It was a tough range session.
Yeah, I went to the course and did what I could with what we had.  I just had a couple -- a few tap-in birdies and my short game really saved me down the stretch to be able to actually post an under-par round today.  Just didn't quite have it but all in all, to shoot 2-under and have a chance to do more, it's pretty solid.
Q. Going to be like this for awhile, just going back and forth with going No. 1 in the world, but you are No. 1 now, so I guess that's something that's always nice while it happens but it's going to be hit or miss for awhile.
JORDAN SPIETH: It was certainly a goal coming into this week.  I didn't know what it was going to take but I knew if I had a good week, it would be an improvement on a couple years ago.  I knew I could go somewhere with it.
Yeah, I mean, between Jason, Rory, Rickie, Bubba, you name it; golf's in a great place.  Guys are playing better than ever it seems like, at least for me over the last couple years.  To shoot 20-under here is ridiculous in the conditions we had.  You know, everyone is pushing each other a little bit, and when that No. 1 ranking slips away, it leaves you a little -- it leaves some unrest in you and you really want to get back at it.  I think it's going to be really good for us and for golf.
Q. You played with Haotong Li today.  T-7 for him is best finish ever by a player from China on the PGA TOUR.  He's a 20-year-old; you talk about some of the young guns coming up, but you look at the youth in the sport, what did you see out of his game today?
JORDAN SPIETH: You know, he was really off with his game and he was frustrated with the way he was striking it.  But man, did he have heart.  It was unbelievable some of the stuff he was pulling off.  At one point I looked up at Greller and said, "Man, I'm tied with him for the tournament and he started two ahead.  I feel like I'm beating him by eight shots today and we're tied for the tournament."
Just showed kind of how he could maneuver it and make it work.  He didn't have his best stuff; if he did, he really could have done some damage today.  But what a fight-back after that start.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT