THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 7, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When did you ask to play with Dustin -- and will we see you with Patrick Reed?
JORDAN SPIETH: Jay reached out to pretty much everybody on the team and asked what you're thinking, and there's a few players that we talked about that would be really good options in alternate-shot, as well as in best-ball.
And we both felt like we'd be a good alternate-shot team.  We felt like it sets up really nicely on this golf course specifically for odds and evens.  We wanted to try it.
We've been talking about playing for awhile now, but again, it's the same as -- there's a few other guys in that same sentence that could very easily switch up.  But we still have the Spieth/Reed team is still there for best-ball if we need it.
I think that really day-to-day, it's going to depend a lot on how we play.  If we're rolling, we may just stick it out to best-ball, as well.
Why DJ?  Because it's DJ.  He's really good.  He can bust it down the par 5s and then I can kind of control some shots into those greens.  I feel like he's been trending upwards really.  He's been playing some really solid rounds, been striking the ball great.
Just some putts haven't gone in during the playoff run, and I think that that's going to be easy to change once he's over here -- it changes greens to greens, week-to-week, so his ball-striking looks really solid, and I'm excited for us to get out there.
Q. We saw you and DJ practice on the range together.  You were playing some baseball shots and this morning you practiced today.  What did you talk about when you practiced together?
JORDAN SPIETH: Oh, anything.  We're out there just trying to have a good time.  We ended up losing our match to Bubba and J.B., so at least we got our one loss for the week out of the way.
So we'll rebound.  It was just hanging with everybody.  It was just getting some good practice in, trying to get a feel for the shots we like to play, where we want to lay up the ball, each other's favorite yardages and kind of the rhythm we want to get into.
Q. What's your finish line this year?
JORDAN SPIETH: For playing?  Yeah, I'll hang the clubs up for -- there's not much this year.  December is really a nice month for me.  I've got Tiger's event and then I've got I think four weeks before Hyundai starts.  We've got a few weeks before China, so I'll hang the clubs up for now.
Q. Moderate finish line --
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, a bit, and this is a fun one, too.  This isn't as much of a grind.  We want to be ready to play our best golf, but really approach this week trying to have a good time, talk to guys less about golf and more just about the event, the team, the family, whatever it is.
Just try to enjoy it a bit more these first few days, because like Phil said, these weeks go by way too fast.
Q. Does it feel different this year compared to the last time you played, in terms of being a 20-year-old rookie -- we knew who you were.
JORDAN SPIETH: I wouldn't have had this around my quarter pod here, so certain things have certainly changed.  And I do feel a bit different with it here.  I feel like it's just easier to get into what you want to do.  You know how to approach the week a little more timing-wise, when to work on your game, what you've got to do.
I got in and knocked out our 500 autographs, we signed flags and posters early.  Knocked out the media at the hotel early.  Just so that everything is a breeze once we hit Tuesday, Wednesday and try to get enough rest at the same time.
I played three 18-hole round and hopefully can play five matches.  So it's not like I sat back, but at the same time, we rode in carts, I've had limited time in the practice facilities just tried to learn the golf course.
Yeah, it's changed a bit in just getting myself mentally and physically ready for this week.  But I will be  --  I'm very excited to be hanging the clubs up for a little bit after this.
Q. Do you feel that the U.S. Team has learned something from the last Ryder Cup?
JORDAN SPIETH: No, I don't think it makes much -- honestly, with The Ryder Cup, the task force, all that, I think ultimately we just have to play better golf.  I think that was just a tough couple days and bad timing, and I think we found some good, younger team members that liked their groups and liked their partners.
It will be interesting to see this week how our preparation and our thought process pays off.  But none of us are really thinking about that.  We are thinking about the task at hand.
Q. So as a Texas guy, when you're told you're going to a barbeque last night, what were you expecting and what did you get?
JORDAN SPIETH: Not the same kind of barbeque that we're used to, but it was really good.  I've eaten at a couple restaurants where you grill the meat in front of you and you can kind of mess around and take it off when you want.
It was delicious.  We had a good time last night.  It was a good dinner.  There was no barbeque sauce, which is normally a game changer.
Q. What's the strangest thing you ate last night?
JORDAN SPIETH: There were a few things that I'm not sure what they were and I didn't touch them.  Rickie took down just about everything and licked the bowl.  Rickie wasn't scared.  But our table actually did pretty good.  We were pretty brave.  But some things, I didn't know what it was.  The grilled octopus was pretty good.  Don't normally see that.  You see fried calamari.  Yeah, it's good stuff.  It's part of the week.  It's a fun part of the week.
Q. Playing Marc Leishman and Danny Lee -- how much do they bring to The Presidents Cup?
JORDAN SPIETH: I think Danny will have a fantastic week here.  He's coming off of some good weeks himself.  I don't think Marc's played a lot recently, so he's probably been working on his game.  They are both strong players who have come up big in some big moments.
I think Danny being here, he's been over here for a couple weeks.  He's been adjusted to the time zone, the weather, the golf course, so he's as prepared as anybody.  So we've got to come out ready to play.
If we play like we did today, it's going to be a tough match.  We're going to need to improve but again today was just practice.  I'm not thinking much of it.
Q. On a lighter note, I know you're a fan, but are you going to have time to follow the Rangers in the playoffs?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, yeah, I'll be able to probably make a few games now because I'll have some time off.  I'll try and make some games in the playoff run.  It's exciting to have any Dallas sports teams in playoffs.  It's cool, we've got football season, playoff baseball season, hockey season starting up.  It's an exciting time in sports in the States, and I'm excited for it.
Q. The Rangers have a Korean outfielder, he just won player of the month in September?
JORDAN SPIETH: Choo?  Yeah, he's a beast.  He hits two in the lineup I think, and he provides a big spark there for our big hitters.  He gets on base a lot.  He's been an exciting player this year.  When our pitching went down and looked like we were going to give up, he was one of the key players to bring us back.  Now we have to score a lot of runs, so we're going to have to count on him a lot.
I met him when throwing the first pitch out briefly.  Seemed like a nice guy.
Q. If you had to compare and contrast the team rooms, the attitudes, the tension, lack thereof, between this room here and The Ryder Cup, what would you say?
JORDAN SPIETH: It seems there is a bit of a difference in the two team rooms in The Presidents Cup experience I've had and The Ryder Cup last year.  Almost like we put too much emphasis on Ryder Cup instead of just freeing up to play our own game.  It's a big deal.
Both The Presidents Cup and Ryder Cup are big deals.  You're playing for your country, you're representing your country and you're representing the guys on your team and you're trying to do it the right way and play your best golf.
It's almost like there's just too much -- it's hard for me to say because I don't speak from much experience, I really don't.  But it almost feels like, in at least last year's Ryder Cup, there was just a little too much thought to go in the rounds ahead, the practice rounds ahead were almost tryouts, and there wasn't -- there weren't as many smiles in the practice leading up to it.  Almost like we were already starting behind.
And here, we feel like we're starting ahead.  We feel like the favorites.  We're walking around with cockiness in our step, and you know, often that can bite you if you're not careful, but we're aware of that.  But the point is, is that we're out there smiling because we believe that we can -- whatever match up we want to put together, we believe we can beat the other team.
I feel like that was maybe not the case at The Ryder Cup, and I think that it will change.  I think that more youth, more aggressive play, and just another year of experience with guys like myself, Rickie, Dustin, Patrick, going into a Ryder Cup, when you can then pair with experienced guys but not be scared can make a big difference.  But there has certainly been a difference from my opinion.
Q. Do you have to guard against being complacent --
JORDAN SPIETH: Sure, we believe that each one of our teams can win our match 7 & 6, and that's the way you need to feel when you step on the first tee.
Sure, you can get blind-sided by someone playing some great golf.  It's almost impossible to go 5-0.  We recognize that.  But we do know that we still need to fight.  I mean, there's a good chance that you're going to go down in your match.  There's a good chance that you're going to be up and you're going to lose holes.
It's just a matter of how you bounce back.  Yeah, I think complacency is going to be probably the biggest enemy, but I don't think it will be a game changer for us at all.
Q. At this point, how do you feel about exhaustion?
JORDAN SPIETH: I feel fine.  When I step on the first tee in this Presidents Cup, we'll be nervous.  We'll be excited.  Our blood will be running, and that's just how it is.  I was the most nervous I had ever been when I started out the 2013 Presidents Cup to then become even more nervous at The Ryder Cup in 2014.
I think that given this year, I'll be able to settle in a little quicker.  But it's nice to have that excitement.  It's nice to have that adrenaline rush, and that will take away from any fatigue.  It's just a matter of adjusting to the time zone.  But we're just waking up a little earlier than normal, which is fine.  I've got DJ on my side, who isn't short on strength.  So we'll be in good shape.
Q. How do you feel about having all the spotlight on you, what your teammates are thinking -- how do you compare that pressure?
JORDAN SPIETH: I didn't know you knew what all the teammates are thinking.  I don't think they are thinking that.  I think everybody is looking at themselves and saying, I need to win at least three points for my team.  That's how we win the Cup.  I don't feel the spotlight on me in these events whatsoever.
I've started to get better with it in individual events, but as far as the team goes, no, I'm not --  I'm still sitting back and listening to the veterans, the guys who have played on 10 or 11 of these teams.  Those guys have seen a lot.  You can listen to them, and there's no need for me to think of myself in the scenario whatsoever, and I'm not.
It's about the team this week.  I love team sports.  This is our once-a-year chance to play team sports, and we really enjoy rooting for guys that you're typically trying to beat.  And to have the best players in the world on your side is a great feeling.
Q. You still have two more days to play with Patrick -- do you think that will happen?
JORDAN SPIETH: I'm not sure.  Again, I didn't pick DJ.  He was one of the few guys that I had mentioned.  I think Jay may have been joking earlier when I heard the quote that whatever Jordan wants, he gets.  He was obviously joking.  I certainly hope so, because I'd feel like a brat if that's not the case.
But I think everybody wants to play with DJ.  He's a fantastic player.  He has as much talent as anybody in the game.  I think our plan between he and I is to go out and take care of business tomorrow and then just ride that pairing.  If we feel like there's a need for a change, there are a few guys that we've been playing with who are both very comfortable if we need to split up.  But ideally we just keep that team.
Q. What are the keys to the golf course?
JORDAN SPIETH: You know, off the tee, I think it's a second-shot golf course.  Off the tee it's easier than what we are used to seeing, wide fairways and soft fairways.  From there, it's about the approaches.  The greens have a lot of different shelves and almost different greens within the greens, three or four small greens within a green with the ridges.  So it's a matter of trying to place your second shot where it's the easiest to putt from.
Almost I think it's a second shot type of course.  I think you're going to see a lot of birdies this week.  I think you're going to have to shoot under par, especially the best-ball format, the fourball.
And the greens are rolling fantastic.  The course is in immaculate condition.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT