U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BETH MAJOR: Good morning, everyone.  Welcome to the 119th U.S. Open Championship at Pebble Beach Golf Links.  And it's my pleasure to present the 2015 U.S. Open champion, Jordan Spieth.  Talk about your preparation this week and your first impressions of U.S. Open at Pebble Beach.
JORDAN SPIETH: Very excited to be here, same kind of excitement as playing an Open championship at St. Andrews.  I remember vaguely the 2000 U.S. Open watching it, and 2010 when Graeme won.  And then having played the AT&T here the last six or seven years, it's just one of the most amazing pieces of property in the world, and the fact that we get to play golf on it is pretty amazing.  And to have a major championship on it is even more special.
So certainly a very different golf course than we're used to seeing in February.  I was able to get on it yesterday, but it's in immaculate shape.  With the weather we have, the USGA should be able to control the golf course the way they want to.  And again, you know, February sometimes it's good to hit it in the rough.  You don't spin it as much into the greens, I don't think that's the case this time of year.
BETH MAJOR: And can you talk just a little bit about your preparations and how you're feeling coming into this week.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think it's -- my preparations really consist of what am I going to the hit off the tees.  Because that changes from what I'm used to seeing this golf course at.  And so a lot of it is just planning, more than anything else.
And then continuing just to work on what I've been working on.  My game feels like it's progressing the right direction.  Try to maintain what I've been doing on and around the green and just improve a little bit tee to green.  The greens in regulation will be a very important stop this week, and I'm highlighting that one and do my best to be prepared to hit as many greens as possible.
Q. Can you go in a little more detail about how your strategy does change and how you try to plan differently for an Open in the summer as opposed to February?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think I noticed yesterday, and it wasn't firm yet yesterday and I still hit less club off probably three or four of the tee boxes of the 13 holes I played.  So I'm just going to have to keep an eye day-to-day on really where balls are pitching in the fairway and where they're rolling to.  You just have run-out spots.  No. 1 has a run-out spot.  No. 8 is a significant run-out spot where you can get in trouble going too far through, when I'm used to being able to land it and having it stop in February.
It's just a different mentality, just standing on the tee, having a 4- or 5-iron in your hand when you're used to hitting 3-iron or 3-wood.  I'm seeing that I'm probably going to hit less club off the tee boxes than I'm used to hitting.
And it's just getting comfortable then on where you're landing ball into the greens.  Normally what we have to do in the tournament in February is hit more club in the greens real low and try to trap draw it to get it not to spin.  And this week it's going to be throwing it up in the air and get it to land as softly as possible.
It's nothing crazy.  It's actually nice that I've played the course so many times.  I don't feel like I have to -- I know what the green slopes do.  It's just about trusting the shots that you have to play in and how different those shots are than what I'm used to doing.
Q. The U.S. Open has taken the criticism over the recent years.  You've been always honored to be U.S. Open champion.  What does this championship mean to you and to your fellow pros?
JORDAN SPIETH: It means a lot.  It's the toughest test in golf.  It's our national championship.  I mean, that should be enough in just saying that.  But we get to play some of the most amazing golf courses in the country, and in their most difficult setting, which is a unique situation for us and a unique challenge that I think everybody wants to embrace going into it.
And this one should provide a really cool challenge just given where it is in the setting and the history of this tournament here.  It's one of the four majors, and for me my focus is always on the major championships, trying to peak those weeks, trying to contend.  That's what it's about for me.  We have four Super Bowls a year; this is one of them.  So it means a lot.
Q. Your career has been phenomenal to date, and we've also seen right now a phenomenal run from Brooks, as well.  How much does his form, coupled with your successes in recent years -- how much does that fuel the hunger to go on and keep winning the game's biggest prices?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think, to be honest, it's hard to compare -- like when I look at what I'm doing, it's hard to compare that to a different generation.  And say like Tiger, like I don't compare myself to him.  But it's a little easier to compare yourself to people within five or six years on either side of yourself on what's driving.  Because it's almost unrealistic to compare yourself to Jack or Tiger.  Obviously that's the end goal.  But it's very difficult to look at short term with just how incredible their achievements have been.
So watching Brooks and Rory, these guys who have four major championships prior to being 30 years old and looking like they're just going to continue to do so, it's certainly a driving factor for me.  There's also a number of under-30 guys who are going to win a number of majors over the coming years, is certainly what it looks like.
So there's plenty of inspiration to be the one that's trying to win these championships.  And I have no trouble, personally, finding that inspiration, nor would I even if the 30 to 40 year olds are winning.  Like I just mentioned, this is our Super Bowl.
This is what the beginning of the year we look at and we pinpoint and we try and peak at.  So it's four days of golf, and you know what -- like you start to recognize -- especially in U.S. Opens, you have a really good gauge of what the scoring is going to be.  Brooks at Erin Hills and whatnot.
But for the most part you understand after playing -- I think this is maybe my 7th or 8th U.S. Open, you start to really see the golf course, understand what conditions are coming in and therefore pick a nice expectation for that day and that week to try and win this championship.  Everyone is pretty unique, and the U.S. Open is the easiest to try to predict scoring ahead of time.  No need for any extra inspiration.  I think there's plenty there.
Q. What have you learned being on teams with Brooks about him that you could not have known just being a competitor of his?
JORDAN SPIETH: I mean, I, to an extent, grew up playing with Brooks.  I think he's four or five years older.  He was three grades older.  So I caught him a little bit in junior golf and played with him a couple of times in college golf.  And then obviously he went to Europe and then came back over.  I've known him for a while, not extremely well but pretty well.  Therefore, I didn't like learn things in a team room.  I just know him well enough that nothing's, I guess, surprising.
Q. (Off microphone.)
JORDAN SPIETH: He's light and fun, and fun to be around.  We always have -- he's a guy's guy.  He's a good hang always.  And he may be stoic on the golf course.  I think that's his level of confidence that he has and his level of focus that he's been on.
It's certainly something that we're all striving to have.  And a lot of that confidence just necessarily it doesn't just come to you, you can certainly start to breed it yourself, but as you start to play good golf and start to see results and freedom on the golf course is where it starts to really take shape into a hundred percent of what you're seeing out of him.
That mentality on the golf course seems to be coming from the confidence in every swing that he's making, and he's on.  I've been in similar situations.  And it's really fun.  And it's also sometimes -- that makes it even more difficult to stay as focused as he's been able to do.
I hate the word runs.  I said this back in 2015, '16, whatever, when people were saying that about me on runs.  No, this is who he is, you know, this isn't just a run, this is who he is.  And he's going to be a force to be reckoned with for decades.  So get used to it.
Q. You spoke a lot this spring about feeling like you were close to seeing the results you hoped for.  Is there a moment last month in the run of top-10's where you felt like you were building some positive momentum?
JORDAN SPIETH: I think each week was progression, and then I got a couple of bad draws where I felt like I maybe would have potentially been in the top-10 but the game still wasn't like good enough to win.
And then it just started to get, okay, maybe it is close to good enough to win.  And it's just been just constant progression, almost equal amounts week to week.  It's not like you just -- it's not like that (indicating) and all of a sudden you're -- it's not mental, in other words.  You've got to work on the physical things and get a little more consistent with them and continue -- good news is over the course of the years I've been first in tee to green strokes gained.  I've been first in putting strokes gained.  I can look back on the swings, how I was consistently swinging the club at those different time frames, how my putting stroke was at that time, and I can start to match it back up.  And that's what I've been working on trying to do.
And the putting stroke has been really, really fluid and nice over the last, I don't know, six months or even more.  And the swing has been starting to progress that way over the last month and a half or so.
But there's one thing of knowing how to do it.  There's another of practicing it and then trusting it on the golf course in tournament play.  And those last four weeks were big for me to have -- be able to trust it in tournament play, have those reps under pressure, see where I'm actually at and see what I need to improve on.
Q. Obviously all the approach shots or more difficult in the firmer conditions.  But are there a couple made especially more difficult or the firmness brings out a different level of nuance that you can highlight?
JORDAN SPIETH: Here at Pebble?  That's what you mean, right?
Q. Yeah.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think No. 2 being the same tee box and being a par-4.  Obviously par doesn't really matter, but it's nice when you feel like, oh, I have to lay up but I can still hit a wedge and get a birdie putt, instead of, oh, man, I don't want to make a bogey.  No. 2, hitting that green in regulation, if it firms up, it's a long iron into a skinny green.
If you miss it on the wrong side short sided, there's almost no way to have an uphill putt, or at least a putt within ten feet that's uphill.  That will be the -- probably the toughest hole to par this week, just based on the conditions of the golf course.
No. 8, that will be really tough I think into the greens.  9 tee box is back.  Really that stretch from 8 through 10 are just very, very tough holes that you'd be happy taking three pars, I think, and moving on.  And then No. 2.  Those would be the few I'm looking at.
Q. Your approach -- you've been doing this long enough, getting prepared for majors.  Your approach now, what's the optimum for you?  What is it you're looking forward to coming into an event, what you've worked on?  Secondly, has the schedule changed that in any way, shape, or form?
JORDAN SPIETH: No, actually it hasn't changed my approach into majors really at all.  I've always played a couple weeks into the Masters.  The PGA, I've always played the week before.  And it just moved, and I still played the week before into it.  I've always had the week off before the U.S. Open.  I'm not sure what I'm going to do into The Open.  I've done both, I've played and I've taken off.
The schedule hasn't made a difference.  What I'm looking for when I get to a major championship week is trying to have maybe 10 percent of the swing feel that I want.  Just something really to focus on that gets me triggered and going, but very target oriented, ball flight oriented, and not so much the thought on the actual motion of the swing.
And with putting, the same thing.  Really seeing a line and being subconscious with the stroke.  And that's ideal.  Now, that's not as easy as it comes.  Sometimes you actually need more focus on the stroke or on the swing.  But ideal for me in the years that I've won majors or come close to it, that's where it's been.  It's been very target oriented because I didn't need to focus that much on the mechanics.  I'd worked on that ahead of time.  And it became a bit easier to where it was just almost like a trigger point to me to get started and to get set and pocketed, if that makes sense.
Q. How many drivers will you hit this week?  Do you anticipate that they will use the new tee on No. 10?
JORDAN SPIETH: I was talking about that yesterday with Michael.  I think I'm -- there's a chance you can only hit three or four drivers in a round.  Probably end up hitting -- I think six, maybe seven, if the tees are back on every hole.  I haven't played the other tee on 10 yet.  I played a loop yesterday, 1 through 8 and 14 in.  I haven't seen 9 through 13.  I understand there's new tee boxes.  I hit a tee ball on 9.  So I saw that new tee box.  But 10, 11, and 13 I think all have new tee boxes.  So I probably won't see those until tomorrow.  I think I'm just playing the front nine today.
I don't know, I mean, based on what I saw in 2010, there may be three or four drivers.  But you don't necessarily need to hit them around here.  You need whatever is going to be in the fairway.  The rough is pretty gnarly, and it's a mixture of kind of that -- I don't know, that kind of ryegrass rough, where you can get it out some, and then it has a little poa annua bent rough.  That's the nasty stuff.  The light colored green stuff, you just don't want to be trying to hit out of that rough.  So anything that puts the ball in the fairway would be massively important.
Q. What was the biggest thing you learned in the 18 months following Birkdale, and why was that valuable versus -- sorry to use the phrase -- during the run you were winning major championships?  What did you learn more from adversity than when you were winning?
JORDAN SPIETH: That if you put yourself in position enough times, the bounces go your way, sometimes they don't.  I had a chance to win two majors last year feeling like I had a C game.  I mean, that's realistic.  I was in the final group Sunday of last year's Open at Carnoustie, and I woke up saying how in the world am I in the final group at Carnoustie.  And that's not just me not believing myself, that's just legitimately, mechanically, how I felt through my swings.  It just wasn't good compared to when I was on.
I got off in setup, and therefore then I tried to manipulate my swing inappropriately, and it led to me then making mistakes.  And same with the putter.  I got off visually, which is number one -- the number one most important thing for putting is being able to set the putter down, pointed where you want it to be pointed and your eyes matching that line.  And I didn't have that for a while, and I started to figure out why and how and started to work it back.
And so, yeah, it was very important, I think.  Everybody gets off at some point in their career, and if I can make this kind of -- if this is the last year or so results-wise, off for me, then -- and I can use these kind of blueprints of how I've gotten back as kind of my set places to go to, then things should stay in place a lot easier and not get as far off.
And that's all I'm looking to do.  I mean, there's no -- I felt like I was able to put myself in chances to win tournaments without really having much.  So when I get it back, it's just more consistent.  I don't shoot 5- or 6-under and then 3-over and 3-over and then 5-under.  I shoot 2-under on the bad days and 6-, 7-under on the good days.  I'm just looking for more consistency, is really number one.  That's the difference in winning and not.
Q. Can you give us your best wind story at Pebble Beach, when the wind was particularly troublesome, and maybe one time you conquered it and one time it conquered you?
JORDAN SPIETH: I don't know if I have anything great -- like I don't have a crazy No. 7 story, which is probably where most people go to.  Tony Finau hit a 7- or 8-iron in there.  The most I hit was punch 9-iron, which was pretty ridiculous for 90 yards to the front of the green.
I don't think I have anything crazy for you, unfortunately.  When we played the tournament a lot of the really bad days, like I remember the year I won in 2017, the tournament, it was a nasty day the first round, but I was on Monterey Peninsula.  And I remember hitting -- there's a reachable par 5, No. 12, there, or it's just about reachable with driver, 3-wood.  And I was playing with DJ.  He hit driver, 3-wood, 3-iron.  I hit driver, 3-wood, like 4-iron short of the green.  It was wild.  I couldn't have even imagined being on Pebble that day.  It was bizarre out there.
Q. Can you sort of articulate how wind messes with you or any golfers mind?  It seems like that's the one obstacle, challenge, hazard that torments you more than anything?
JORDAN SPIETH: For me it's more cold than wind.  I don't mind the wind at all.  When it gets cold -- it's hard for me to stand there with a 7-iron and I just feel like I'm going to hit it way over the green, when the ball is cold, the club is cold and you're club, it just goes so short.
Especially here.  When it's cold mornings, there's no place in the world you can hit the ball shorter than in Pebble Beach, California, when it's a cold, rainy morning.  It doesn't really -- yeah, I don't really ever look at the wind as really messing with my mind at all.  It's part of the game and you just embrace it, learn how to play it.  And I wish -- I wish I had something cool for you, but I don't.
Q. You mentioned that you had some swing thoughts and things that you were working.  Just wondering specifically what those were, what are some of the things you're working on, and what had gone off in the past in your set up that you alluded to?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I got pretty high on the right side, pretty open in the setup.  Instead of nice and kind of sit back and with a relaxed right arm, I got almost pretty stiff, which led me to essentially be open and kind of right shoulder high, and therefore you're just -- from that position there's nobody that's ever played good golf.  It's almost impossible.  It requires a massive amount of timing, so the consistency is just really difficult.
So I would pick the club up, and then from there my body would fire and it would then get behind me and open, and then I'd have to save it at impact.  I could do it two out of four days, but I couldn't do it four out of four days.  And when I was swinging at my best, it was real nice and around my body, something that a lot of guys just take for granted.  That needs to be a constant reminder for me.
And I'm working on it.  It's not there yet, but it's getting there.  I'm working the right direction.  And now it's just about trust in tournament rounds.  Whether that leads to good results or not, that's how I get back to the form I want to be in quicker.
Q. The USGA has come in for plenty of flak in recent years, just for various things.  Has there been any sort of loss of faith from the players with the USGA to get it right here, or do the players just need to man up a little bit?
JORDAN SPIETH: I'm a PAC chair for the PGA Tour, and most of the time any of the players come to me it's typically about PGA TOUR-related items.  I can't speak for anybody else.  I don't know.  We don't sit there in locker rooms and talk about the USGA.  Just like we talked about the basketball game last night.  We get enough golf daily.
I haven't.  I think there's been a couple of tough breaks that the USGA -- there's been a couple of tough breaks.  I think overall we're going to see certainly a trend going forward of some fantastic championships, I have no doubt.  I think recent history was just kind of a bit unlucky, one golf course played a lot easier.  You had a rules thing and some greens that ended up not the way that they were supposed to be going in.
I mean, I don't know necessarily if all the blame for all that goes to one place or a number of places, or there shouldn't be any blame in general.  If we're going to look at 2015.  I was playing the best going in, and so was Dustin and J. Day, and look at the leaderboard on Sunday.  Maybe it wasn't ideal conditions, but it didn't separate who was playing the best that week.  Same with DJ was playing the best at Oakmont, he ends up winning.
I think big picture you still had the right champions every single time.  And that's what you want to do in majors, you want to separate who is playing the best from who's not.  And I don't see how that's not had the right result in any of the previous years, even though certainly everything could have gone a hundred percent perfectly and it didn't, necessarily.
But I think we're set up this week, I think we're set up in the upcoming years to go places this championship has had great championships before.  And therefore it's a nice blueprint to go off of where it's less likely for any uncertainty, other than weather, to have anything less than a great championship.
Q. If I understood you correctly, you said you've gotten to the point now where you can sort of project what it's going to take to win a U.S. Open.  Wonder if you have a number in mind for this week.
JORDAN SPIETH: I mean, I think I'd sign for 3-under for the next 25 U.S. Opens and just sit and watch it up.  That's what I mean.  I mean, it's likely anything under par for the next 20 years is probably going to be in the top five and have a chance to win.  Normally someone jumps out to 6-under early, and then you see a 6-under after the second round, and then you see a 3-under and then a 3-under.  The lead will jump -- people play well, and then all of a sudden the course gets firmer and firmer and it's just more difficult.
And then when you're in the lead, it's harder to play aggressive and you start maybe not quite taking the chances that got you that 6-under and -- you kind of see the trends through the tournaments.  And so in other words, par is a really good score at this tournament.
Q. This is a bucket list place for so many people.  I'm wondering what memories stand out from the first time you stepped on property here and just sort of the anticipation of the day?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it was more beautiful in person than I could have imagined.  And then to be inside the ropes playing a tournament, not -- not only not having to pay to play, but getting paid to play, Pebble Beach is really special.  And always has been.  Winning a golf tournament here was so cool, to be able to walk up the 18th hole at Pebble Beach.
I mean, that's like walking up the 18th at Augusta.  It's iconic.  Like for a kid growing up dreaming to play golf professionally, to be able to walk up those two 18 holes, St. Andrews would be another one, and be able to know that you're going to win the golf tournament there, it's a feeling that I'll always remember.
Q. You had mentioned that you took your C game to Carnoustie and contended.  With the gradual progression that you've had over the past few weeks, where would you grade your game right now and the confidence that you could win this week?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think tee to green I'm still trying to find the consistency that I want.  But it's better than it's been in a while.  And then putting and chipping has been right where I want it to be.  I normally grade myself after a tournament.  So I don't give myself the grade ahead of time.  And that was just a rough grade.
I played with like three or four different feels each day at Carnoustie.  I don't know which one is going to work, but let's try and hit the fairway and move on instead of seeing that tree branch, I'm going to draw it to that tree branch and doing it.
And that's what it's like when you're on.  You're never going to be on 24/7, even Tiger in his prime wasn't on 24/7 and had to win tournaments with his "A" game.  When he had his "A" game, he won by eight or nine.  It's about compensating and being an athlete and being in position in your swing where you can be an athlete in your lines.  Pick apart the golf course the right way.  When you're out of position, make pars; and when you're in position, attack.  So I'm -- it's getting there.  It's getting there.
Q. Jordan, back to what you were saying about Brooks.  A few years back you were making -- winning majors look easy, although I assume it wasn't.  The way Brooks is now.  Any words of caution as -- the way we look at what he's doing and speculate how high the tally is going to be, the way media and fans speculate, double figures, that kind of thing?
JORDAN SPIETH: No, I just -- first of all, I'm competing against him.  I don't really have any words of caution.  I think he's doing -- he's playing unbelievable golf, very confident golf, very focused golf, doing it his way.  And as long as you just -- and he won't have any problem doing this, but shut off outside noise.  It's hard for me to give advice to somebody older than me.  He's doing everything the right way, and if he just continues doing what he's doing, I don't see anything changing.
Q. You spoke about the players that were playing the best, winning maybe in '15 and '16.  I'm --
JORDAN SPIETH: And '17 and '18.  And probably '14 and '13, as well, yeah, each time, yeah.
Q. Do you raise an eyebrow about what happened on Sunday in Canada?  Do you pay any attention to that?
JORDAN SPIETH: Oh, it was amazing.
Q. Does anything Rory McIlroy does at this stage surprise you?
JORDAN SPIETH: Well, no, I don't think anything would surprise anybody that he does.  I played with him the week before, and I've never seen somebody get so unlucky in two rounds of golf.  I'm talking like hitting rocks that go out of bounds and like -- he's such an amazing driver of the golf ball.  And he had one off day, and he happened to get the worst bounces I've ever seen, and it led to him missing the cut by a shot.
Whereas I feel like if most people got those kind of -- like they would have missed the cut by six or seven.  And I don't think he even putted as well as he wanted to, too.  So that missed cut was not really a missed cut.  It was like if he had the weekend there, he probably would have worked his way into the top-10.
So I wasn't surprised.  When you've been there, and when you're even playing well and you miss a cut sometimes, it was just meant to be.  It was just unfortunate.  You lipped out five times or ended up with really bad lies in the rough instead of the good lies.
So when he went to Canada and started to progressively play well, I think the first round he didn't score as well as he could have, he still played well, and then started to play better.  All of a sudden you know something is coming.
What he did on Sunday was pretty incredible.  It's just taking the tournament by the way he wanted to just right off the bat.  I think he almost drove the first hole and bombed it on the second hole.  It wasn't surprising, though.
But it's not easy.  It's not just taken for granted.  It's not easy to do, even for him.  That's really incredible what he did.  And that's saying something that has still not surprised me.
Q. With regard back to Brooks for a minute, when he went into that final round at Bethpage, it was assumed he was just going to continue to mow down the field.  As somebody like yourself that has been in the stress mode on a late Sunday, you've gotten both sides of it, I wonder if in your opinion that helped Brooks; that he had to stress that one out and what that can do for him going forward, rather than just cruising?
JORDAN SPIETH: Absolutely.  Win or lose there, that was going to be a good situation to learn from and be in.  And I thought that the way that it happened I think helps him in the future.  I was like -- I guess, the only experience I can relate to would be me at Birkdale, as far as a significant lead, almost expected to win, going into the Sunday round and starting that way.
And then it gets tough for a little while.  His was the golf course got really tough.  Me, I hit some errant shots and missed some short putts.  But either way, what is playing on your mind is -- oh, shoot, this is getting out of hand a little bit, how do we reel this back in?
And I think that he went through that and made some -- hit some clutches shots, made some clutch putts when he needed to, hit the fairways when he needed to right at the very end.  And he had done enough the first few days to where that was going to get the job done.  I think it was good for him, for sure.
Q. In what ways does that help you going forward?  You righted the ship obviously at Birkdale.  Obviously the results haven't been what you wanted since then, but in your mind how much has that helped you as you go forward?
JORDAN SPIETH: It's experience, where things can go wrong and you can still prevail.  Like at Birkdale, I was playing really, really well, going into it, leading into it the previous few weeks, even afterwards.  I mean, I was on.  And you're going to go through sometimes a random stretch of some bad holes, but then you can click and go 5-under the last five.  But when you're playing well, that can happen.
I think he'll just look back on it whenever he's in a similar situation, and it can be looked at as a positive, as, oh, I can overcome this.  It's not going to be easy going into today.  If you have a big lead, it's not going to be easy going into that day.  Every once in a while it is.  Tiger at 2000 here.  I've won a couple of tournaments by a lot, where you go in Sunday and play well off the bat.
But it's likely going to be stressful.  And realizing that that can turn into prevailing is a great experience to have.  You can actually look back on hey, what did I do this day that helped me get through it and prevail.  What were the key things that were said, the key shots that were played, what ball flight did I go to.  There's examples you can go to mentally and physically that, when you're in stressful situations, pulled you out of it, and it's great experience.
Q. Real interested in your opinion on this, a lot of sports teams these days are talking about the fan experience, the end game experience.  And I know the USGA, the PGA TOUR brought in consultants to improve the on-course experience for fans.  If you were asked to provide some opinions on how to improve the on-course experience for fans at these tournaments, I'm just curious what guidance or insights would you share?
JORDAN SPIETH: I wish I had something for you.  I haven't been a fan in like ten years.  I don't know what's done well or not.  Like the people I talk to are my family and stuff, and they have it pretty good, you know (laughter).  They can normally get to where they can see.  That's unique in that you have closer access than any other sport.  You can literally touch the players as you go hole to hole.
And I think that's really cool about our sport, the fact that you're not rooting against other players, it's unique.  You're rooting for the people you want, but you respect the game and all.
And then you start to have -- now we have these crazy holes.  Normally there's a par-3 at every tournament we play where it's turned into the drinking par-3, where it gets a little wild in the afternoons.  And I think everybody kind of embraces that.  You feel like you're actually in an arena, and you can get booed, don't leave the putt short, don't miss the green.
I don't know what could be done to enhance the fan experience, to be honest.  I think from our perspective I think it's cool how enabled everybody is to be a part of kind of the round.
BETH MAJOR: It's probably also fair to say that your family is pretty focused on watching you when you're out there.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, they're not necessarily going to the pavilions.
BETH MAJOR: We look forward to watching you this week.  2015 U.S. Open champion.  Wish you well this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT