THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JORDAN SPIETH: That was a grind.  I had a little bit of a two-way miss with the irons today which left me in some tough spots.  I didn't really strike the ball as well as the last couple of days, but I know why.  So I'm hitting right now for just about ten minutes.
Overall it was a really nice save there on 18.  I'm glad I knocked that putt in.  I thought 3-under in the wind would leave me within 2 or maybe 3 to the lead, but looks like it's going to be 4 and going to need a round like Marc shot today tomorrow.
Q. (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH: It's nice to see a putt go in.  Seeing a putt go in on 18 is always nice.  It's a good habit to get into.
Q. How would you assess the balance for you?
JORDAN SPIETH: You know, this golf course, there's really not one shot that you can take off.  So results -- every shot you're playing to a certain spot.  You're not really -- I guess the par-5s maybe have a little risk/reward in them.
But all in all you're just playing into those spots.  And if you hit those spots, it feeds in towards the holes, anyway.  So I don't think you have to force anything anyways, even if you need to make birdies or pars.  You just try to play to the same spots.  So I don't see that being a problem.
Q. You don't sound super thrilled necessarily with your play overall, but you're still within four shots of the lead.  How do you process that?  Maybe you feel like there's still more out there, you could have done more, but you're still right there?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I certainly didn't play an A round by any means, actually.  I played better yesterday than today and somehow shot a better score today.  But that's golf.  So if I can get a couple of those mid to long rangers, like I've been making the last few weeks, I've got one or two of them today, keep that going, and hit more greens in regulation.
I think today I really had to scramble a lot, and my short game was really spot on in certain spots.  So just trying to hit plenty of greens in regulation and let the flat stick work itself on Sunday.
Q. Does the confidence feel any different when you have a week like this where multiple facets are working well, versus a week like last week?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it's really nice.  I haven't putted to the same stats that I did last week, but I've hit, I think, the same putts.  It's sometimes they go in from long range, sometimes they don't.  Most of the time they don't.
I really like the way I've been driving the ball.  I've hit a lot of fairways this year and really kept myself in most of those holes.  I've gotten a couple of good breaks hitting trees and going out in the fairway, that kind of thing.
But all in all I'm pleased with the progress that's been made.  If I look back three weeks from the Byron Nelson to now, it's night and day, in my opinion, about how I feel about my game and how it's actually producing.  So I'm pleased with that.  I'm just trying to make a little bit more progress for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT