JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Just get us started by talking about your day today.  JORDAN SPIETH: Just a little rusty.  Yeah, just a rusty round.  My first round of 18 holes since the U.S. Open was yesterday, and you know, I certainly saw a lot of rust yesterday, and this was actually a slight improvement today.  Just looking to get a little better each day.  I'm going to have to do a little better than 2 for 7 on up-and-downs in order to play the weekend.  A little disappointing, but at the same time, you know, I didn't put in the same preparation yet as I have.   Q.  Do you think some of the rust comes from all the hype coming into this tournament and looking ahead and just everything that goes along with all this?  JORDAN SPIETH: No, rust comes from just not hitting balls, not playing.  I mean, I took a week off, didn't touch a club.  Don't do that very often in the summertime.  I came back and I worked really hard with my instructor tee to green and putting, but it was all range work, and I had a lot of -- I mean, I didn't get out on the golf course like I maybe should have and tested it out on the course, and so my on-course reps started yesterday here in preparation for this week and for the Open. You know, it was obviously a disappointing round, but I should have gotten out on the golf course a little more than hitting balls on the range, just haven't carried it over yet.   Q.  Can you draw on what you did at Hilton Head between rounds 1 and 2 after coming off the Masters like that?  JORDAN SPIETH: I can draw on a lot of solid rounds.  I just need to play decent golf tomorrow.  I need to put the ball in a little better position off the tee and I need to chip the ball a little better.  My up-and-downs out here, given that they really weren't very challenging other than the one on No. 8, I really should have gotten the rest of them up-and-down, and I typically do.  I lost five shots on those.  Otherwise I'm sitting here at 5-under.  That's really what it comes down to when I look back at the round.  I had some putts -- I had some pretty bad lip-outs, and that's going to happen.  I'm still going to continue to hit good putts.  If they drop and I can chip the ball a little bit better, then I'll be in good position tomorrow.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT