AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 30, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you please talk about your round today?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   I think it was 1-under.   Just missed opportunities all.   All in all, needed a 4-under or more round to stay in the hunt and just unfortunate.   I just didn't have it.   Didn't hit as many fairways today, less greens and I didn't take advantage when I had opportunities. 
Just a little bit off but I held it together for, you know, 1-under.   Don't have many over-par holes this week which is nice.   I'm just not making as many birdies as I normally do as a whole.   So hopefully can rally tomorrow, have a clean card with some circles on it just to have a good solid finish in this tournament and give the fans something to cheer about.

Q.   Jordan, in what way does the 17th hole kind of symbolize your round?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Not really other than the putt.

Q.   Really?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I wasn't really hitting it at the pins at all today.   I got on the tee, I just loved -- we were playing so slow today, it was so tough to get any kind of rhythm or inspiration, I guess.   It was just tough to really, you know, focus because we were just waiting so long on every shot, everybody was.
So we got up there with a clean hole in front of us for the first time.   We're able to all play at our pace and I had a good number and struck it the way I wanted to.   Going right at it.
I told Michael ahead of time, "Michael, let's make this one, be really cool."   In the air once it landed I knew it was going to pitch around the right distance.   Just luck if it goes in.   I've never spun a 9-iron back that much in my life downwind. 
Just shows how soft the greens are.   When I was walking up there I was a little upset it wasn't a tap-in.   It was a really cool shot.   Fun to hit.   Crowd went crazy.   Wish I would have been able to make the putt there but maybe tomorrow.

Q.   Jordan, did you talk to Ben Crenshaw about the new course and what are your thoughts about this tournament moving to the new course?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Not much.   Just here in passing.   He said he wasn't ever going to do a course on a landfill or whatever it's on until he saw that piece of property and he loved it so much. 
So, I know with he and Bill Coore can carve some of the -- most majestic holes out of nothing.   I actually haven't been down there but I am a member.   Excited to go check on its progress.   This course, it's incredible what the crew has done this week for us to be able to get in 72 holes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT