U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Plus-1 for the day, but right there a share of the lead.  Would you take this round and be okay with it?  JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, iffy.  I knew that even par was a really good score starting the day, but when I get to 7-under for the tournament I don't want to finish at 4-under, no matter where you're playing. The course was still gettable enough to where I could have played even par from that 4th hole on.  Just kind of didn't drive the ball extremely well.  And then when I had my opportunities I had two eagle putts that I three-putted.  So I had four three-putts today.  And that's going to happen out here.  And realizing that is part of how you move on quickly. But two of them are unforced and shouldn't have happened.  The one on 12 and the one on 4, there's not a whole lot I could have done about it on 4, and 12 is about a 60-yard putt.  I'm okay with those.  But the other two were unforced on the greens. I felt good with the putter, I hit good putts.  I just need to have some more opportunities on these harder holes, and I missed the fairway on some of them.   Q.  Talk about going into tomorrow.  JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think as I sleep on it and wake up there will certainly be some nerves.  It's not like I'm a veteran at this by any means.  But by the time we tee off, if I can convince myself that I'm free rolling, I've got one of these, and the other guys are trying to chase their first.  I know how hard it is to chase your first and close it out. If we can use that winning formula we had back in April, mentally, then all it comes down to is can I just pull off the shots and it's all on execution.  And my execution hasn't been phenomenal this week.  I've saved it with some midrange and long putting, but you can't rely on that, especially on a Sunday at a U.S. Open. That's as hard of a golf course as you're going to see every year.  So I'm going to need to execute a little bit better, because mentally I think I'll be strong enough to pull it off.   Q.  You had some good short putts on 8, 17, 18, I think, breaking from right-to-left, that were inside, I think, 4 or 5 feet.  Was it kind of the speed?  JORDAN SPIETH: I hit really good putts.  I had one on 4, 8, and 16.  And I had to play all of them well outside the hole from that range, which makes them not really -- they're not an 80 percent kind of putt, they're a 50/50 kind of putt when they're that challenging.  With the way the greens sped up today and the way they were feeling, we called it an Augusta putt, where a lot of times on the short putts you have to feed it outside the hole and just kind of die it in.  And I have a great feel on those kind of putts. I missed them all in the same place today because out here even though it seems like they're going to be wicked fast off the bat and take a consistent break, you have to firm them because they hit a halting point and dive on almost like a 90 degree angle. It's tricky because of the gravel, poa annua, fescue, whatever it is on these greens that are drying up, they putt a little different on those shorter putts.  And I didn't have many of the downhill ones the first two days. So today I was able to see that.  But it's tough to trust hitting those any harder than I am, because if it misses and you hit it any firmer, you're going to have one that's firmer coming back.  They're tough.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT