U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You take that 2-under, you okay with your start?  JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I think if I did it three more times, I'd be in really good position come Sunday.  No complaints there.   Q.  How was the course playing today?  JORDAN SPIETH: We had some gettable pins, but all in all you have a group of holes where you just have to play to try and two-putt from 40 feet.  And you get a group of holes where you can maybe try and attack it if you hit the right tee shot. Right in the middle of the round there, I got it going a little bit, start to find a little rhythm.  And really the key for me today was I had some two-putts from 95 feet, 85 feet, 75 feet, three from 65 feet.  Those were just awesome two-putts to keep any kind of momentum going.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JORDAN SPIETH: I didn't strike the ball particularly well.  I wasn't pleased with the way I hit it.  I thought I putted well.  I missed a couple putts inside ten feet, but that's going to happen out here.  That's inconsistency on the greens.  I made a lot of them from inside ten feet, too. So I just came out to try and find a little something.  I hit the ball just so incredibly well Saturday, Sunday, Monday of this week, as good as I've ever hit it.  And got a little off from there.  It's close.  Just trying to find that same rhythm I had when I got there.   Q.  What's the difference?  JORDAN SPIETH: I'm not sure, or else I would have fixed it on the course.   Q.  Did you watch the coverage this morning?  And if so, what did you learn?  JORDAN SPIETH: I did.  I feel like it's very useful, especially at a U.S. Open, more so than maybe any other tournament.  It looked like the morning balls were spinning a little bit.  I saw a couple of shots, even like 9-irons or full wedges taking a hop and stop.  We didn't have that in our round, but I think tomorrow morning we may have that little bit.  I was able to see where some of the pins were, where guys were putting from. It's interesting because it was a tough adjustment when we got on the course because the green speeds on the course are significantly slower than they are on the practice greens.  And that's tough to adjust to when you've got 40 feet.  And if you hit it five feet past the hole, it goes 30 yards away.  So I left probably five or six putts three to six feet short just given my speed control as adjusted to the practice green. And of course it didn't really speed up for the most part.  There were some holes that started to get quicker when you're downhill.  But those long putts, they seem like they're going to be so fast and the ball tends to stop a little sooner.   Q.  Phil was talking this morning, he was absolutely not complaining about the course, he was complimenting the course, but one thing was that the variability in the greens, it was very hard from green to green.  Would you agree with that?  JORDAN SPIETH: I think there's a little bit of that.  For the most part, I think that -- I think I saw more of that in the practice rounds, and today it was less of it.  I felt they were pretty consistent today.  But there was sure still a little bit of that.   Q.  How much have you watched -- I know at Augusta you tried to get away from it, but how much have you watched to sort of see how the course plays?  JORDAN SPIETH: I think here and at the Open Championship, I think it's very useful. At the Masters this year, I remember eating and it was on TV and I could see some of it.  I tried to stay a little bit away from it on the weekend just given that all the talk was around my score and where I stood.  So I didn't want to hear much of that. For the first couple of rounds, I saw a lot of it.  Here at the Open Championship, especially The Open Championship when you're off later, you can see a lot of golf ahead of time given the tee times are so spread out.   Q.  (Inaudible.) how much did that change the play for you down the stretch?  JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it picked up on 12.  It was really 12 through 15, it was blowing pretty good.  It made a difference.  I think the wind can be helpful out here if you use it the right way.  Obviously you can get the ball to stop quicker.  But it also dropped about ten degrees.  And so I was a little short on a couple of shots that I thought weren't going to be short that just kind of rose and came down 20, 30 yards short on 14 and 15 there.  And that was a little surprising.  But that's just what you have to adjust to. On No. 6, I remember thinking, I hit a 7-iron about 200 yards with a crosswind, thinking it was getting hot out and firm. And then I hit a 7-iron 145 yards on No. 14.  So it just -- it made a big difference with the temperature drop and the breeze.  But I think it's advantageous if you get a little bit of wind out here.   Q.  The atmosphere being out there with Justin and Jason, I know it's different because the crowds can't get that close?  JORDAN SPIETH: It's very interesting.  I thought it was pretty cool.  No. 8, I've never played an entire hole in a major championship with no gallery.  It was eerie.  It was kind of odd.  And there's the delayed reaction from the crowd, because they're so far a way. We had a good time.  We were able to feed off each other for most of the round.  All three of us got a little off on the last four or five holes, but the majority of the round we had a good time.  It was a long walk, but it was a good one.  Played a lot of golf with both of them and really I think I've played a hundred rounds with Justin this year, used to being able to club off him and stuff, so that's nice, as well.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  JORDAN SPIETH: I think about equal.  I didn't really know what to expect, to be honest.  There was just so much options that they can use on this course.  There were some pins where I was like, wow, I didn't think they'd actually put it there. No. 4 was just dicey, but they moved the tee up so you could get it up there.  I saw Rory this morning hit a wedge in there and stop it next to the hole.  If you hit the right shots, it was playable and you could really feed the ball into a lot of the hole locations. So I thought today was the most scorable day, and it's going to get more challenging from here.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT