THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 31, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Talk about the day?
JORDAN SPIETH: The conditions were easier than yesterday.  We certainly had it nice today.  It was a beautiful afternoon to play golf.  I felt like I had more looks than I did yesterday.
It's just a funny game.  I felt like I hit pretty similar putts, I was just off on the speed early.  But it was solid playing.  Two bogeys in the first 36 holes, if I could duplicate that, I'd like to think I'd make as many or more birdies over the next two days.  For me it's about eliminating mistakes, and I've done a good job of that.
Q. How good was that second shot on 15?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it was a really good shot.  It was amazing how far it went.  I didn't think I could get the ball to the hole, and it went on the back of the green.  That putt was probably the hardest two-putt on the golf course.  When I hit it, I thought I maybe hit it a little too far by, and if you get it going four feet by, it goes 30 yards down the hill.
To get that one in tap-in range and stress free was really nice.  I only had a -- the longest par-putt I had today was a 6-footer.  And I had a lot of tap-ins when putts didn't quite go in.  It's just an easy-on-the-body kind of day.  Which was nice.  I found something in my striking on the range today and really trusted it pretty well on the course.  I feel like it will get better day-to-day.
Q. You come in here off two top-10s, and you mention the momentum is building.  What do you need to do over the weekend to continue that?
JORDAN SPIETH: Exactly what I did today.  I probably shot the highest score I could have shot today, with where I was tee to green.  It felt really good.  Continue to trust it.  Give myself as many looks as possible, don't force them into the pins, rely on the mid-range game with the putter and more will go in.
They got a little bit I think slower than they were yesterday morning.  But I've got a feeling they'll probably not be the same speed tomorrow and Sunday, which I think will play right into my hands.  I don't feel like I have to make a significant adjustment, just stay where I'm at.
Q. What did you find on the range?
JORDAN SPIETH: Just continued work on what I'm trying to do in my swing, but sometimes I'm trying it one way or another, and I kind of found a nice way to feel like I had a nice trap draw as a stock shot and then work straight fades from there.  That's where I normally play my best golf at, if I can eliminate the left side of the course but still have curve to the left on the golf ball.
That's what I'm trying to do.  It's by no shape or form on its A level, but it feels really close and it's in a position where if I just get a little bit better the next two days, I'm in great shape in this golf tournament.
Q. What's it like trying to change your golf swing on the fly?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I mean, I'm not.  I'm really not trying to change my swing, I'm just making minor adjustments to get it to where it's been when I was the best in the world tee to green, which was a couple of years ago.  Things get off, and then you figure out what they are, and you work them back.  For me I didn't really figure out what it was for quite a while, and that's why it's taken me longer to get it back.  It's close now and should continue to get better week to week.
Q. Did Michael exercise (indiscernible) today?
JORDAN SPIETH: He used one yesterday, but not today.  I wanted to do the Phil route on 14 yesterday.  With a driver on 14.  It's actually probably the smarter play.  Well, it's not the smarter play, but it's the easier way to make birdie in my opinion.  You probably make as many or more.  But it brings a bad number into play, too.
So Michael likes me with a wedge in my hand.  Sometimes I like chipping better than a wedge.  So I wanted the driver.  Today there was no question.
Q. Is there a difference between two good scores and two good rounds?
JORDAN SPIETH: Absolutely, yeah.  I feel like yesterday I scored better than I played.  And today I felt like I didn't score as well as I played.  I feel like I'm where I should be.  I've stolen a couple from the course, but then I've kind of -- I probably played better than 2-under, if you walked around my round today.  When I look back at it, it felt like 3-, 4-, 5-under round.  The ball didn't quite go in.  I had some good looks inside of 12 feet, and I missed about a 3-footer on No. 10.  Those ones where when you're playing really well you normally kind of just brush -- I normally brush those in.  So I don't have to do much different, I don't think.
Q. (Inaudible) being overly aggressive?
JORDAN SPIETH: Not really, just because the pins, here and Augusta and very few places are the greens at this speed and the pins still on two-degree type slopes.  Normally they try to trick us on the flat spots, ones where the greens will change or something, to make the golf course harder for us.
You don't have to here.  You can just put it on the slope.  So if you put it in the right position, you don't have to attack pins to feed it into a lot of pins.  You just have to kind of work a little fade or a little draw and just land it in a safe zone, and it will start to feed toward the hole, which is nice.  If you miss the fairways or a little out of position, it's a tough par.  It's just a really great golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT