CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A soggy Friday out here.   Jordan, you came in as the co-leader.   You had it to beat out here at one point.   Take me through that finish.
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   I've over on the last six.   Very disappointing.   Felt like I really had a lot of good looks today, kind of mid‑range looks.   So even more than that, I felt like I was playing three or four under and I was 2‑under on the round.   Just a couple bad swings is all it was.   It wasn't anything other than that. 
Disappointing, though, to come obviously from the lead to being what will be five, six, seven back going into the weekend.   It's not ideal for the finish.

Q.   I know 13 and 14 today sting a little for you.   Big picture, though, what positives can you take from your game going in?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   Some.   Certainly had a good round yesterday.   Been practicing the past week and a half for this event, for this stretch.   I feel good on the golf course.   Just didn't see many putts go in, and just got a little off the long clubs. 
The scores in the fairways, especially when it's raining, you don't get to pick it up and clean it, it makes a significant difference.   So seemed to hit more fairways and kind of get back to what I was doing yesterday.

Q.   You loved the conditions yesterday.   What about today?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   It's certainly more challenging.   We knew that before we teed off.   I had a goal in mind, and it was a higher score than yesterday, just given the conditions.
I wanted no blemishes, and then we held that late through 12 holes, and then unfortunately dropped five shots coming in.   And that's kind of unlike me.   It's not something I do is compound mistakes, and I had chances to bounce back there on 6 and 7, and wasn't able to do it. 
And then, you know, it's tough, you know.   We'll see how the conditions are this afternoon, but that was a really tough finish to play with how hard it was raining.   I mean we're hitting five irons into the greens and you can barely hold on to the club.   So that was challenging, and you know what, I should have done a better job with it.

Q.   Jordan, you've played at Colonial several times.   Can you talk about No. 5, how easy it is to get in trouble on No. 5 and what happened to you today?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   Five is definitely the hardest hole out here, but at the same time it's just a 3‑wood, 5‑iron and you just have to not be aggressive on it.   I wasn't trying to be.   I just put a really bad swing on it, hit it very far from toe.   I hit 3‑wood off probably four or five tees earlier in the day.   Every single one went left of where I was looking.   So that one I lined up just to have it come out straight, and it went right.   So just a little off, whatever it is, alignment, ball position.   I'll get it fixed by tomorrow. 
That hole is hard.   That hole you want to take four 4s.   That won't be the case this week, but if I can get two more 4s, play No. 4 and 5 for even par for the rest of the weekend I might be able to make some noise if the putter starts going again.

Q.   Was that frustration carrying over for those last four holes?   How do you handle that?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I've played a million rounds of golf.   I've had plenty of doubles and triples in my day.   I know how to bounce back.   I know how to get ready on the next hole. 
I made a dumb mistake on 4, just trying to make the chip shot with a 9‑iron instead of just pitching it down there and tapping it in.   And didn't compound into the next shot.   And then obviously the next hole, I hit it three feet.   So I just missed the putt. 
So nothing was carrying over.   And then but from there, you know, once we got to 6, it was a downpour.   So it was just tough.   It just played really tough coming in.   Nothing carried over from 5.

Q.   When was the last time you played nearly a five‑hour round?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Wednesday. 

Q.   Have you ever had anything like that on 5 before?   Have you ever had any adventures like that on 5 like you did today?
JORDAN SPIETH:   On No. 5 specifically? 

Q.   Yeah.
JORDAN SPIETH:   I'm not sure.   Maybe in a practice round.   I don't think I have in a tournament, but there's plenty of adventures to be had on that hole, and it's not just made by me.   Obviously would have liked to hit that 3‑wood a little further left.

Q.   Was it tough to get into a rhythm at all with the slow play?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Not really.   There was nobody in front of us.   When it was our shot, we were ready to go.   We were all kind of all over the place at different points in the round.   And you know, on 18 we had to wait a long time for a ruling, and Hunter ended up playing a moving ball in the water.   And so that took a while.   But we were sitting around.   I didn't over read anything, didn't over analyze.   Tried to keep the same timing.   But all in all we all maybe messed each other up a little, so it evens out.   But we weren't waiting on anybody, and with rain and lift, clean and place it's going to be a slow round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT