CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 21, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice way to finish, huh?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, thank you.   I'll take it.   Yeah, I had a few of those on the back nine, a few good looks where I knew what the putt was doing, I just didn't match line and speed right, and I was getting a little frustrated through 17 there.   I was like, just one more look, one more look.   I didn't really count that as a look, but maybe more like luck and we'll take it.

Q.   How did it feel to have your hometown guys in the gallery? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it was cool.   The roar on 1 was awesome, and then obviously coming up 18, I was a little frustrated to see where my ball went, but I still was able to soak in kind of the welcoming to the 18th green. 
It was great.   It was great.   There's a lot of Jesuit guys right up there behind the tee box, which is pretty cool.   It's a cool view from there.   I'm sure it'll continue to grow, hopefully just keep myself in good position after tomorrow, and afternoon crowds on the weekend will be a lot of fun to feed off them.

Q.   Is this one of the best rounds that you've had since the Masters do you think?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, yeah, I think the second round at Hilton Head was a little stronger, but this was nice.   I played a solid round.   When I missed the greens, I made really good six‑ to eight‑foot par putts, and I think I had three of them, and that really keeps the momentum going, to see a putt go in and the hole gets a little bigger.   Yeah, I think so. 

Q.   What happened on 16?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it's a tricky spot.   I mean, that putt, it's going to show that it was, whatever, four and a half feet, but that's not the easiest four‑and‑a‑half‑footer on the course, especially late in the day.   There's so much traffic around that hole, it can kind of go any direction, and I just played it outside the hole just by mistake.

Q.   You've played well here the last few years.   How do you see this round in comparison to some of your other good rounds at this course?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I just feel really comfortable on this course.   I feel like today I was‑‑ what I'm really proud of today is I've learned a little from the last two years and not being a little‑‑ not being too aggressive off the tee, just trying to do a little too much and try and split the bunkers when you can lay back.   I'm comfortable enough hitting my 9, 8, 7‑iron into the green right now.   They're so receptive that you can still fire them right at the flag, so I was able to lay back where I maybe pushed it and got into trouble the past years.   With no bogeys, that was probably the reason, because I just didn't get myself in trouble.

Q.   Is it an extra challenge playing at home when you've got Jesuit guys up there and guys that you know and focusing on the task at hand?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I don't think so.   The toughest part is just getting through Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and just getting inside the ropes Thursday.   That's kind of‑‑ just trying to really make sure I have enough time to work on my game and be prepared to play my best golf, that's the trickiest part about these two weeks.   It's a lot of fun off the course.   It's more fun than any other tournament, but as far as time management goes, there's not enough time in the day to get to everybody. 
That's a little bit of a challenge, but we did a really good job of it this week, and hopefully just do the same the rest of the weekend and into next.

Q.   Unseasonably cool temperatures this year. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, we lucked out.   We really got, I think, the good end of the draw.   I wasn't out here, but there was a wicked storm early this morning.   We couldn't have had better scoring conditions today.   Just the wind died down, and you could just throw darts, and they were landing and stopping.   Yeah, I'd like to play golf in this weather the rest of my life. 

Q.   You tee off in 12 hours. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, that's what late‑early is.   I've had these kind of scenarios before a couple times where you have to play until it's almost dark and turn around in the morning, but that's a good thing when you're playing well.   You can almost kind of just continue the round and just kind of feel like it's one 36‑hole thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT