CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 24, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jordan, you can't control what the other players do but you have to be proud of how you played.  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Sure, yeah.   The second round set me back.   I tried to come back, pretty far down on the weekend was tough.   Played the weekend 8-under.   Yeah, I'm proud of it.   Would have liked to maybe go back to 16, but other than that really proud of the way that we finished on 18 there giving it a chance.   Chris just made a really, really solid putt.  
   
 Q.   You buried that putt on 18.   Tell us about the adrenaline you feel from the crowd.  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it was nice.   It was a loud roar.   I wanted to give them something to cheer about.   There and 13 were really (inaudible) because it's a nice stadium environment there and it's cool to have the support this week, which was incredible.   And they were no louder on 13 than 18.  
   
 Q.   So close again in Texas.   All the tournaments you've played in Texas you've played so good.   Walk us through what happened on 16 today.  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   I just took the wrong club.   It was 184 yards adjusted and a little downbreeze and I've got adrenaline.   You've got to hit 8-iron there below the hole.   Tried to hit a 7 and kind of punch it in there, maybe get it a little too close to the hole.   It was just the wrong club.  
   
 Q.   Huge amount of support from the local fans.   You grew up in this area.   How special is that for you?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it was very special, especially sticking it out under these conditions.   It was easy for people to maybe say I don't want to walk through the mud and go home, but huge crowds.   The sun came out on the back nine made for a really cool environment to finish with and it was nice to kind of close out in style.  
   
 Q.   Home game next week.   You've been playing the Byron since you were 16 years old.   Carrying a lot of momentum into next week.  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I think so.   I have more experience there than I do here.   Found some kinks, you know, throughout the week, got a little bit off.   I was coming off of really two missed cuts, so next week I'm really confident.  
   
 Q.   You certainly made it exciting.   What a great birdie on your 72nd hole.  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Thank you.   It was nice to finish that one given kind of the disappointment of the back nine.   I had so many looks and just couldn't quite get them to go.   It was nice to have that one just to give myself an outside chance.  
   
 Q.   We had you at 186 yards at the par 3 16th hole.   Was that a tweener number for you?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, given the situation, my 7-iron's like an 80, 82 club.   My 8-iron's really a 170, 172 club.   And there's adrenaline and it's a little downhill and downwind, so I was trying -- it was right in between.   When that's the case, 99 percent of the time I make the right decision and stay below the hole.   We made the wrong decision today and it cost us.  
   
 Q.   You know you had gone 183 consecutive holes without a three-putt?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I figured it was a while.   I was thinking about it a couple days ago saying I don't think I've three-putted in quite a while.   But that one was a hard one to get in in two.   Actually had a chance to go in and I just hit a really poor second putt.   Putting inside 10 feet kind of cost me this week.   I wasn't really up to the standards I'm normally at and that's what I'm going to work on before next week.  
   
 Q.   There were a lot of birdies out there.   Coming into today you were able to capitalize with a big one on the last, one short of a playoff.   What do you take away from that?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I made a nice putt under pressure there on 13.   With my two birdies on the back nine I had five or six good looks, and with 15, 16, 17 kind of being a little off stretch there, I had some good chances.   It was nice to cap it off just to give myself a chance.   Hit a really, really good solid putt on 18, something I can take some confidence out of it next week.  
   
 Q.   What happened on 16?   Obviously you were trying to kind of push it down the stretch?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   You know, at that point I thought I was one down to Brandt.   I hadn't really been looking much at the boards.   It's a no-brainer to stay below the hole.   It's in between clubs.   I went with one more trying to do a little too much and it was a rookie mistake.   For being on my third year and being in that position a lot, it was a mistake that shouldn't happen.  
   
 Q.   You talked about how much you wanted this tournament, you saw the crowd support to roll in the birdie on 18.   What can you carry over to next week to Nelson?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   A lot, yeah.   It was another good week, runner-up finish.   I can look back at the runner-up finishes this year and they were normally good weeks the next week, so I can take confidence into that.   I can't take it for granted though, it's a very different golf course next week.   Weather could possibly be like this again.   I've got to really get to work.   Probably take the day off tomorrow and then really start grinding and get adjusted to the different putting surfaces next week presents.  
   
 Q.   What did it feel like on 18 when you rolled that in to see the crowd support?   This is your home turf, you've got friends and family here.   
    JORDAN SPIETH:   It felt good.   You know, in my mind I've kind of told myself I'm out of it, let's make it just for a good finish.   I figured I needed to birdie the last two and I did need to birdie the last two.   But when that was about five feet to go, I just tried to soak in the roar.   I didn't really do much of a reaction or celebration given that it wasn't to win, but it was nice to kind of hear that support and gasp at the end when I kind of left them hanging for a few holes.   
    Five was a really hard hole today.   I hit driver, 5-iron, and made about a 20-footer there kind of slider to get rid of the demons on that hole, and when that happened I was like all right, we're in good shape, we've got some birdie holes here, lift, clean and place, we can throw darts in.   There's still five or six birdies to be had.   And I had my chances, I really did.   We got a tough break with the rain coming in on those hard holes on 7, 8, 9, I played them even and probably should have played those under par for where I was.   But all in all gave myself a chance at the end and that was a nice birdie to close out the tournament.   Just had to wait around and that's the hardest part is I picked golf because I wanted to control the outcome, so whenever I'm relying on somebody else, it's tricky and it's not as much fun.  
   
 Q.   Did you lose some sleep on that comeback on 16?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I didn't hit a great putt but maybe part of it was -- I just I played the hole very poorly.   Very bad decision on the tee, I picked the wrong club.   I would have been below the hole and with par as the worst score, and instead you just can't be above that hole.   Almost made some fireworks happen with the bomb, but just wasn't confident on the read on the next putt and I just kind of left the face open, just hit a poor putt.   No, it won't haunt me.   What will haunt me is the decision off the tee.  
   
 Q.   You make the putt on 18, I saw you and Jerry kind of shared a laugh.   What was said back and forth at that point?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Oh, jerry was great the whole day.   What an opportunity to play with Adam and Jerry.   I played a lot of golf with Adam and spent some time eating lunch or whatever with Jerry.   We give each other some crap a lot.   I talk about how old he is and then he gives me crap back.   I was surprised he wasn't playing at the Senior PGA this week to be honest.   I waited to tell him after No. 3.   But yeah, he was -- I don't remember exactly what he said, but he got the crowd going for him to tap it in, which was pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how big this week was for you ahead of time?   Did it live up to what you thought this week would be?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, which is amazing with these conditions and it was shown by the crowd support.   The fans here were fantastic.   It was an unbelievable experience.   I don't show it when I'm walking the fairways necessarily, but it all sinks in, it was really, really cool.   Definitely made some memories this week and it was because of the setting and the people.   I approach this tournament like a major championship and I didn't think I played extremely well this week overall, but I gave myself a chance with these midrange putts to win.   If I can kind of fine tune that ball striking for next week and work on my putting inside 10 feet, we're going to be in really good shape.  
   
 Q.   What's your schedule now that you get ready for the Byron?  
    JORDAN SPIETH:   I think pending weather, will be doing the youth clinic tomorrow out there with Harrison Frazar, and before that I probably won't do a whole lot.   I may just get out there and stretch and hit a few balls, kind of have the day off.   Maybe play nine holes Tuesday and the pro-am Wednesday, just same as any other week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT