RBC HERITAGE
April 19, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jordan, you now completed your first tournament as a major champion.   What did it feel like?
JORDAN SPIETH:   It was interesting.   It was kind of a weird event.   I was streaky, up and down.   All in all what a great four‑week stretch.   And it would have been a little challenging to catch Jim today or Kevin, no matter what happens. 
But all in all, yeah, just looking back now on these four weeks, it was incredible.   I'm happy I came here.   I had a great experience here, as always.   And looking forward to a little bit of rest.

Q.   Rest I think would be the doctor's prescription for you.   We're getting rumors that you might be trying to get to Dallas kind of quickly to maybe make a presentation at the ACM Awards, is that fact or fiction?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, that's fact.   We're going to try.   Hopefully the weather holds up.   We're going to try to jet out of here and get in.   And they've asked if we wanted to walk up and co‑present an award.   So I think it would be really cool to put the Jacket on and go up there.   So we'll try. 

Q.   Well, this will be your first week at home with the Green Jacket.   Enjoy it, you deserve some time off. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Thank you very much.   Appreciate it. 

Q.   For the first time in five starts for Jordan Spieth you didn't play the final group on the final day.   You were in one of the final groups, though, but still a performance that got a red number out of it.   Were you satisfied with how you played today?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Oh, no, not today.   I didn't have it today.   Really on the weekend.   Just struggled to find a go‑to shot, and just it didn't really see any putts go in.   That happens sometimes. 
I got some rest.   Got some strength back.   Saw a good score on Friday, so it was out there.   I just didn't quite capitalize.

Q.   You mentioned the great run you've been on.   When you look back on these past four or five starts that you've had, what are you going to remember?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Oh, the Masters.   That's a given.   I'll remember all of last week, and really the plan that went to lead into last week. 
San Antonio and Houston were given just as much credit as last week for that win.   Getting myself in contention, seeing putts go in, competing under pressure, feeling more comfortable when I got in that position last week. 
So, yeah, all in all, what an incredible four week‑‑ really last six weeks, and I'm looking forward to now having a few couple big events.

Q.   And you get a week off?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.

Q.   Are you look forward to decompressing and celebrating in your home city, Dallas?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, certainly looking forward to some rest.   I probably won't touch a club for a few days.   I'm going to kind of settle in at home and then get ready for match play and PLAYERS.   This is getting in the thick of things, and two of the biggest events of the year coming up.   I'll find a good line of getting enough rest and rebound.

Q.   Do you think you've proved to yourself this week that your game is not ready for a Masters hangover or that you're not heading towards a letdown; you're ready to continue to build?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, sure.   It never even crossed my mind, after winning a major championship, you better believe that you're playing as good or better than anybody in the world.   So why would that stop?   I'm not going to sit there and stop practicing or stop working and party or anything.   I know I have to get out and get back to work, because we've got two big events and then the U.S. Open in a place that I'm familiar with. 
So I'm excited.   I'm excited for the opportunity this year.   There's still a lot of goals to achieve this year.

Q.   (Inaudible.) 
JORDAN SPIETH:   My first five or six holes really summed up the entire weekend, which was kind of a tease.   Both the par 5s, I've got an opportunity to get two birdies there, and par on both.   But then bomb on 4 with a good birdie on 3, all of a sudden through four holes I should have birdied two, maybe even one, and then I'm 2‑under through four with still a chance. 
It was interesting.   Just didn't really find a shot on the weekend.   I was spraying the ball to the right too much, and then couldn't capitalize when I did hit some shots in the birdie range.

Q.   End of a long weekend of a long four weeks, how are you going to look back on this month in your life?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it was huge.   It was life changing last week.   So I'm interested‑‑ I haven't really seen the life‑changing part yet.   Hopefully it doesn't do a whole lot.   Yeah, I'm excited to go home and just enjoy last week's win and get ready.   There's going to be no Masters hangover.   I've got to work hard to accomplish the rest of the goals for the year.   This was a tremendous really six weeks that just happened, and really arguably the best six weeks of my life.   So maybe I'll look to improve on it.

Q.   Are you glad that you came here to follow the Masters?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, yeah, very happy, yeah.   This is a relaxing place.   I had an awesome time this week with friends.   Stayed with Justin, a good buddy of mine and Michael and Jason, his caddie.   We had a great week.   It was a perfect kind of, let's stay focused but at the same time settle down, enjoy it. 
It was just kind of an odd week for me on the course.   But off the course I think it was perfect.

Q.   We've heard a lot of great things about this golf course and this tournament.   Is this one you'd like to keep on your schedule?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, sure, I'd like to.   I know next year's schedule gets a little mixed up with the Olympics and the Ryder Cup year, so I haven't really looked at what's happening around it.   Obviously I can't play every week, but this one is one that I'll certainly highlight as wanting to come back, because I do enjoy it.   I wouldn't have come here this week if I didn't. 

Q.   Just a comment on what you saw from Jim today. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it was phenomenal.

Q.   He keeps doing it year after year. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, no surprise.   This is a really good golf course for Jim, he's very methodical.   He's hitting the ball very straight.   And then he putted extremely well.   His putting this week made my putting last week look like something that‑‑ something that wasn't very good.   He rolled the ball extremely well today, confident strokes, right in the middle.   And for him to shoot even par with 18 pars in the first round and now go 18‑under in the last three is some special golf. 
I wasn't really going to be able to catch him.   It was putting a little too much pressure to try to shoot 10‑under today.   Good for Jim and to see how it plays out.   But what a great champion. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT