RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I just wanted a clean round.   I was looking for three on each side.   I wanted to shoot 6‑under today.   And I felt like that would get me into the last group and have a good shot at it tomorrow.   A little speed bump on the first, and then just didn't make any putts.   I made one on 11 and that was the only one outside of four feet.
So I had my chances for midrange, which is typically a comfortable length for me.   Just didn't quite have those putts go in like yesterday, and that was the difference.   But ultimately nobody went crazy low today, and I think I'm going to be sitting five or six back.   And anything can happen on a course like this.   And there are 8‑ or 9‑under rounds out there, you just have to have the right breaks.

Q.   Aside from the putter, pretty pleased with the amount of opportunities you gave yourself out there?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   I think it could have been better.   I think yesterday‑‑ it's hard to compare the round today from yesterday, when it was a career‑type round.   But I've still got the "rights" with the driver.   I need to fix that.   I'm not trusting swinging through the ball.   So I'm not putting the ball in the best positions to approach the greens.   But when I do hit a good tee shot, I'm getting the ball around, and my short game is on right now.   
So it's just going to be about hitting greens, getting myself into spots and adjust to the speed early on.

Q.   Starting to feel a little more normal after last week?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, definitely.   Each round has been a little bit easier.   The first one was a weird feeling round.   Yesterday felt better.   Today I felt even more comfortable, like it was a normal Saturday.
So tomorrow I'm happy to be kind of in this quiet zone, coming from behind and hopefully making some noise.   The weird thing is this is the first time I've been in contention where I haven't felt nerves one time, after last week.
So certainly enjoying that.   I like that.   I think it would be easier to get into a rhythm like yesterday, if I can make a few putts.

Q.   How will you approach tomorrow?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Just to go out and shoot a low one.   I'm going to be really aggressive tomorrow.   I've got nothing to lose.   If it doesn't work out and I shoot even or whatever, then it was still a great stretch.   And if I get out there and hit the shots that I want to hit, then I've got a possibility of contending again. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT