WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 1, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you think the difference was today?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Not much.   The course is playing tougher.   I shot 3‑under, four birdies and a bogey.   Just had a tough opponent.   No complaints, I'm 16 under in three rounds.   In our group there's only been two bogeys made against me in the three days.   That's just a challenging group.   It's match play.   What are you going to do?   
I'm excited about the way I'm playing.   Got a lot of momentum going into next week.   Kind of a shame that it had to end that way.   
   
 Q.   What is it inside you that gives you the belief that you feel like you are going to pull it out in the end?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I don't know.   I just draw back on past experiences, I guess.   Trying to make putts in clutch situations, and try and pull it out.   Caught a couple of tough breaks on the back nine here and that was the difference.   We are playing equal golf and it was just a matter of who was going to make that putt at the end and Lee did it on 17 there.  
   
 Q.   Any one shot you would like to have back in the last hour?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I would like to have my second shot on 6 back.   That's about it.   I didn't strike the ball well today at all.   I managed 3‑under somehow.   Drove the ball poorly.   I really didn't hit many solid iron shots at all.   It just was an off day, an off day where I shot 3 under to get to 16 under.   All in all, I'm really excited about it.   
On No. 6, I had a wedge from 118 yards and I ended up making bogey out of the middle of the fairway.   Lee made par, made a 4‑footer for par.   That is one where I from number right now, at least recently, I've got a good look at birdie.   Like to have that shot back.   
All in all, Lee played well and pulled off the shots when he needed to at the end, and I didn't quite.  
   
 Q.   What was it like down the stretch?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I actually drove the ball on 15 into somebody else's driver pitch mark.   It wasn't mine, so I have to play it.   The ball is three‑quarters of the way underground.   So I just stabbed at it and went short of the green, somehow got birdie there which was ridiculous to make birdie there.   Again, I didn't hit a bad shot on the hole.   
Then 16, Lee caught a bad break.   He's in the back edge of the bunker and there's no sand there.   It was just back and forth.   I walked up to 17 saying we're even.  
Then he played 17 and 18 better.   He hit a great shot in there, made a 2, such a hard hole.   Then he drove the ball in the fairway on 18 and I didn't.   It came down to those two holes who was going to hit the more clutch shots and he did today.  
   
 Q.   Is it shocking to be 16 under and going home?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I think that's a little messed up with the format, to be honest.   I was just told at some point yesterday I had 7‑shot lead in stroke play in the field.   I don't know what it would be after today or if there would be a lead.   The point is the only thing I take out of that is that I'm ready for next week.   I'm excited about next week.   It's a course that fits my game well.   I love putting Bermuda.   I putt better on Bermuda than I do on these.   I just need to fine tune some wedges and fine tune my driver, and I'll be there next week.  
   
 Q.   In this case you still could have been 14‑under for two days and ran into someone and lost on the third day.   Is the format okay?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I just find for me it's tough to take in the fact that I could have shot 10‑over and gone 0 & 3 and I get the same paycheck, same World Ranking points, same everything.   That doesn't make much sense to me.   I played great golf this week.   Statistically it shows it.   It's going to look good on my stats.   
All in all, I got last place.   I think that it makes some sense for the viewing public to be able to see us play multiple rounds.   For us, I like the other way better.   I'm not just saying that because of this moment.   I said that all along.   I think that it should be win or go home each match and you should advance based on where you're ranked in the world that's how the bracket should be.   Got a tough pull and played well, played hard, just didn't have it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT