MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Excellent round. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Thank you.   Yeah, very pleased.   It was nice to get off to a good start.   I played 2 the way I wanted to to that pin, hitting it down almost into 3 fairway, so I can come into a good angle.
Stole one on 4.   And from there I was 2‑under through 4 with the wind picking up, and pleased to get a few pars after that and take advantage.
Yeah, it wasn't necessarily playing easy, but it was playing probably the easiest I can imagine it playing this week, given that the greens were receptive and they were in‑‑ the green speeds are dialed back since like Monday. 
I know saying that is probably going to be really bad for me, but at the same time they're still quick, obviously.   But the course was as gettable as I think it will be this week today.   To make nine birdies out here, you know, that's a dreamy round for me.   It was a lot of fun.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it's the first round.   It's nice to put myself in a position now where I can really stay patient, dig in and keep giving myself opportunities and not worry about anything else.   I can pretty much control my own destiny from here.   And pleased to be in that position here again.
I was leading last year at one point by a couple of shots on Sunday, it didn't go my way.   I know how many things can happen in a major championship and I try and learn from last year, and stay patient these next three rounds.

Q.   How about the stretch coming up 14.   The tee shot on 12 and then the great shot on 14. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, 12 I was hitting an 8‑iron trying to punch draw one in and I pulled it a little, because I thought it was long.   When it landed it landed in the shadow of the flag and I couldn't see it right away and I thought it landed in the middle of the back bunker.   All of a sudden everyone is cheering, and look back up and the flag had whipped, and you could see the ball.   And I said, okay.   I do that sometimes, it's somewhat embarrassing, but I'm okay with it right now.
On the putt I had a pitch mark in front of me that was kind of bothering me, and when I hit it I thought I kind of pushed it out there.   Obviously I started walking right away.   And that found a way to find the hole, too.   So that happens every once in a while.   To have two of them in a row, it probably didn't look too cool to the public, but I was fine going to 13 tee with a 2.

Q.   Played any better round in your career?
JORDAN SPIETH:   No, I don't think so.   I think this goes down as one of the best rounds I've played.   I don't think I had great control of the golf ball with my driver.   I'd like to drive the ball better.   I hit a couple of good ones at the end of the round, but I was kind of guiding them today.   I didn't strike it as well as I have leading into this tournament but I got away some good breaks.   My shot on 10 was a foot from finding the bunker, instead it hits on the fairway and rolls to a perfect putt right up the hill.
12 happened and then 13 I hit it way right, hits a tree and goes for the fairway.   14 hits the flag stick.   It's just one of those days where the breaks were all going my way.   I'm going to need to strike the ball better to hold the lead. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT