RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, that hangover didn't last very long.   Got right into it today, didn't you?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, found something in my ball position on the range this morning, and it made a significant difference in my ball‑striking and in my putting.  
   
 Q.   I think it was understandable, obviously you came out a little flat yesterday, trying to find it.   You didn't get a chance to play on Wednesday.   Was it just as simple as the ball position?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I think so.   Yeah, getting the speed of the greens down and kind of adjusting to this rough around.   I hit a couple poor chip shots yesterday.   But other than that it was simple.   Yesterday was just a weird feeling round the whole day.   It was kind of‑‑ I wasn't hitting it well, but trying to‑‑ it was just weird.   It was all kind of weird in my head.   Didn't feel normal.  
And today got off to a good start and I kept my head down.   I wanted to shoot a really low round.   And now I've got myself probably some rest tomorrow, which is nice.   I have a later tee time, so probably get a little extra sleep.  
   
 Q.   You and Matt looked like you had a good time out there along with Patrick, a couple of jabs back and forth yesterday, some comments about the hairline.   Who is he to talk about a hairline?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Well, yeah, I know, but it's something that, you know, I'm working on it, I'm trying to make a comeback.  
But, Matt, I make fun of him for being old.   If I give it, I better be able to take it.   So Kooch is like that.   He's a good guy.   We had a lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   A remarkable and impressive turnaround for Jordan Spieth.   A 74 yesterday, a 62 today, simply the question everyone wants to know, what was the difference between today and yesterday?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I found something in my ball position on the range, and it made a world of difference.   One more night's sleep and just feeling like I had a little something that I could think about on the course and it helped me zero in on targets a little better and I get into a rhythm.  
   
 Q.   Knowing the desire and the competitiveness that you have, how much did yesterday's 74 motivate you today?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, a lot.   I don't want to go home early.   I knew that with today's conditions being easier, I needed to shoot at least 2‑under par.   I told Michael when the day started, hey, let's try to get three aside.   Let's try and shoot 6 today.   Get three birdies aside, and once we got a couple extra to go, it was off and running and don't worry about your score; just keep on trying to make birdies.  
Got a couple of good breaks today.   Definitely the chip‑in on 8 was a nice break for that to fall versus staying on the lip.   But all in all we played well and I hit a lot of good putts, and most of them went in.  
   
 Q.   You got two rounds under your belt here.   For you, personally, has there been a difference inside or outside the ropes playing as a Masters champion compared to before winning the Masters?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   It's been a little difference.   I haven't felt nerves on one putt.   Maybe just a little bit of adrenaline on my last putt on 9, because I knew it was for I think to tie my low I've shot as a pro.   And so with that, maybe felt a little there, which is good.   I like the feeling.   But I've been almost yesterday too comfortable.   And yesterday was a little eye opener.   Didn't have my stuff.   And got back into it today.   But I definitely feel more relaxed, almost like it's not as much of a grind and it's a little more stress free.  
   
 Q.   How are the fans?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   They're great.   They're phenomenal.   The patrons here‑‑ this is a golf community and they love their golf.   They're very knowledgeable.   And everyone watched the Masters.   We got ovations for Patrick, ovations for the defending champ, Kooch, and then for myself.   It was really cool.   And it was nice to have some smiles out there.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JORDAN SPIETH:   The difference was I found a little something on my ball position on the range, and it got rid of the slice.   So it was actually also I transferred it into my putting, and I got through the ball a little better.   
   
 Q.   Is there a huge difference in energy level today or was it all about just playing better golf?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   It was just better golf.   I told you guys yesterday, no excuses.   I just played poorly.   Obviously I would have liked to have been more prepared.   That wasn't the case, but I got here and didn't get the basics down first when I started hitting balls yesterday, and it transferred to the course.  
Today went back to just trying to get posture, ball position, hand position and tempo down and struck the ball quite a bit better, with 15 greens, and a couple of those were close or ones that I almost played them to be on the side, given a mud ball or something.  
   
 Q.   Matt was playing well; that helped, too?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, definitely helps.   For Kooch to be leading, and to play along the leader and see what he's doing, it helps to feed off that.   The hole looked bigger out there with the putts he was making, and I was just trying to keep up.   At one point I said, Mike, let's just try and catch Kooch now.   This is a great round going, but if we start being happy with that, that's when we start making pars or even worse.   If we keep our foot down and play our game, let's go catch Matt.   And we got a couple of strokes on him at the end, which was nice.  
   
 Q.   You shot a 62.   Do you think you could have played even better?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I had a chip‑in and made a couple of mid‑range putts here and there.   But I did hit four or five really good putts that I thought were in, and especially early in the round, that dove off or lipped out or just missed.   So, yeah, it had potential.   Certainly I also had a couple of wedges that I kind of just laid the face open.   But all in all I'm not going to complain, not today.   
   
 Q.   Aside from the thing that you found on the range, did you get a good night's sleep last night that helped?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Not really.   Not as much as the night before.   I was up before 6:00 today and yesterday I slept heavily until 9:30.   No, it wasn't as good a night of sleep.   But I guess any rest is good rest.   I felt the same today as yesterday, just played better.   
   
 Q.   You have a lot of momentum going into the weekend.   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, sure, yeah.   I saw a lot of putts go in today.   I haven't had a lot of practice out here yet, so I'm getting to know the course and the greens and the knicks and knacks and rough better.   So at this point I'm going to try and make a move on moving day, get myself in the last couple of groups and have a chance on Sunday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT