VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 28, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVE SENKO:   Well, Jordan, thanks for joining us here in the Media Centre.   1‑under 71 today.   Looks like six birdies and three bogeys and a double.   Maybe just some quick thoughts on your round and then we'll get some questions.
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it's not an ideal Saturday.   I really look for more consistency.   Very up and down.   Six birdies is nice, but when I'm plus three or four strokes putting, I'd like to shoot at least a few under.
Greens in regulation was kind of the main stat I was looking at starting the day.   It's been, even in Tampa, I wasn't striking the ball great, just was putting well.   Was similar this week, has been similar this week.
And I'm going to have to hit the ball better than I did today.   A couple tough breaks on the back nine.   But all‑in‑all I was playing a really solid round of golf, minus a couple of decisions and a couple of swings.   Just going to have to limit it tomorrow. 

Q.   You probably touched on it already.   We've got a Texas kind of shoot‑out tomorrow, you and Jimmy.   Talk about that, what it might mean for this tournament?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I wish I was closer than four back.   That's tough to coming from the back on a really tough golf course.
So for me, I'm not necessarily looking at it as a shoot‑out.   If we were both 9‑under, whatever, six shots clear of anybody else, I'd agree with you. 
But tomorrow is about me just going out there and off the bat trying to play a good, solid round of golf and gain some momentum.   If it happens to be where we get into a shoot‑out it's going to be a lot of fun, fun for the people watching us, even more fun for Jimmy and I to be out there duking it out. 
But all‑in‑all I don't look at it that way, I just look at it as a day I need to play a good, solid Sunday round of golf with guys behind me who can shoot low scores.   There's a lot of 2 shot swings out there. 

Q.   Anything can happen, but he's going to have to come down to the field a little bit. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Oh, I hope not.   I hope he plays well and I play really, really good.   If you look at the golf course, that may tell you that, but with six birdies today I could have limited those mistakes and shot 5‑ or 6‑under.   I know that it's out there with this wind.   I'm going to have to play a pretty flawless round of golf.

Q.   Looked like on 12 you took the driver there and hit it right and that's when things kind of started unraveling a little bit.   Was that one of the decisions you talked about that you made?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I think it was the right decision, but where I went wrong with it is instead of ripping the drive, I tried to just bleed a fade off the bunkers and take some off of a driver.   And that's just what I do on the weekends when I get in trouble.   I'm trying to do a little too much. 
The play was driver for me there, because I can fly that bunker, and it takes all trouble out of play.   And then the wedge shot coming in is going to be really hard because I'm very close to the green and it's firm and downwind.   But the worst score I'm going to make is par, I have a look at birdie. 
I tried to take some off the driver to give myself a full wedge to try to stop it quicker.   Too many variables and it was a bad decision on my part to play the shot that I played when I had a good rhythm with just a nice straight ball.

Q.   That was after you hit the shot at 11, you went right over the bunkers and you turned and‑‑
JORDAN SPIETH:   I didn't think it was that far right.   My line was to hit it right at the middle of that bunker and swing hard.   And it's either going to go right or left.   And I've done that the last three years here, and every time I've tried it it went dead straight into the bunker.   Today it was going dead straight again, but I hit the ball ten yards further than I did the last three years, so it carried the bunker, that's what I was surprised about.   I was pleased, but it carried 267 into that breeze, which I haven't had until recently. 

Q.   Tell us what happened on 16. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   I just made a bad swing.   Came off a birdie, had an 8‑iron in from like 192, that's a long way for an 8‑iron.   I thought that I needed to kind of rip a draw in there, when in reality, hindsight thinking is very easy in that position, where I could hit a fade off the bunker and make sure I'm on the green.   But I just wanted to get a little‑‑ I thought I had to smoke an 8‑iron to get up the ridge.   I left the club face open and the wind took it.   It ricocheted off the railing, and then the cart path and it went back 40, 50 yards back right under a tree.   If it had just gone against the grandstands I would have been left with that same up and down I had the second time.   It was kind of a stroke penalty bad break on it.   All‑in‑all I didn't deserve a good one with that swing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT