SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 5, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jordan, you played so well today, I thought your patience was outstanding.   It appeared you were distracted on your down-swing out of the bunker in the playoff hole.  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   I don't know.   I had a really good lie, one that I was looking to fly halfway to the hole and get it to check up and I heard something.   I don't know if it was me or if it actually happened.   Either way, I still should be able to get down through the sand there.   No excuse.   But, you know, honestly I really didn't miss many -- I didn't -- that tee shot I hit perfect.   I thought it was right next to their balls.   I looked back up, it went 90 degrees onto the side slope.   I'm happy with the way I played down the stretch.   The putt on 18 was really cool to get to the playoff.   Seeing a putt like that go in under that kind of pressure is going to give me a lot of momentum going into next week.  
   
 Q.   Here with Jordan Spieth who has been eliminated from the sudden death playoff.   The bunker shot, what happened with your third on the playoff hole?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I'm not sure.   I heard something, or maybe it was just me.   It's not really an excuse, but I had a really good lie and I just got down into the sand a lot quicker than I normally do there and caught it fat.   You know, didn't leave me with an easy chance to continue in the playoff.   But still you know, a great Easter Sunday and happy with the way I played down the stretch.   
   
 Q.   Your last three starts on the PGA TOUR, a win, second place finish and second place finish.   How much momentum do you think you're taking to Augusta National for the Masters?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, a lot.   As much as I -- I feel as prepared as I think I could be.   These last three out of four weeks, three weeks that I played I felt very comfortable.   I felt more and more comfortable with more and more pressure, you know, and that gives me a lot of confidence going into Augusta where you probably have the most pressure anywhere.  
   
 Q.   Is it anything to you that you could have gone to No. 2 in the world?   Does it mean anything that you missed that opportunity?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   No, because next week I think would have more of a bearing if I were to close it out.   So, yeah, that would have been cool, but, you know, I was just trying to win the golf tournament.  
   
 Q.   Jordan, you told me at the beginning of the week you wanted to put yourself in pressure situations to carry over to next week.   Do you feel like you did that?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Definitely.   Certainly did in the playoff on that tee shot.   I smoked it.   I hit it exactly where I wanted to on the starting line, hit the exact ball flight I wanted.   Whether it caught a gust or I picked the wrong line, one of the two, because I thought when I picked up my tee that it was going to be right next to their golf ball.   I looked back up and hit in the fairway and shot over and onto the slope.   From there it's in trouble.   It's tough to have an opportunity to make par from that kind of lie there.  
   
 Q.   I know you're disappointed, but that putt in regulation on 18, that was huge and clutch.   How much confidence does that give you going into next week?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   A lot.   I got to work on my long irons.   My 4-iron I hit it fat every time until the last hole.   I didn't want to hit it fat, so I hit it thin.   So, to be able to get up and down again, just like Tampa and kind of finish strong the way I did last week in San Antonio, gives me a lot of confidence on the greens, and that's obviously the most important place next week.   But I am going to need to strike the ball a little better to have a chance to win.  
   
 Q.   Did you hear a camera click on that shot?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I think so.   I'm not sure what it was.   There's a big crowd there and normally wouldn't be a big deal, maybe, but it was so quiet that I could hear pretty much anything.   And I don't know.   I mean, it was not a very challenging bunker shot to get within 10 feet and I had a perfect lie and that's not a shot that I struggle with.   I wasn't really feeling nervous on that shot.   So when I took it back, I heard what sounded like a cell phone, an iPhone click, which is louder than even a Canon click, and I just went down into it a little steeper than I planned on and came out extremely fat.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware at all of the round J.B. was putting on?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   I peeked here and there.   What a round of golf.   If he pulls this off, that's an incredible round of golf today given the conditions, the rain and mist and the course is playing longer, which doesn't mean anything to him.   I was aware.   And then I saw 64 when I was on 13, I saw that he had posted.   I saw him up there and I figured, you know, got 17 and 18 to play, may drop a shot.   When I saw him post there, I knew I needed -- I birdied 13 and 14 and then really should have played 15 a little bit better, and that's the one hole that I really regret coming down the stretch.  
   
 Q.   How much fun was it to have family here today?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   It was really cool.   On Easter Sunday, that's what it's all about.   I tried to have some fun with it.   I got a little down on myself early in the round, and then after 9 I was kind of walking to the 10th tee with my dad, kind of talking and played the back-9, tried to have a smile on my face a little bit more and little more patience.   It paid off.   It's easier said than done with -- in the heat of the moment, but I did have a lot of fun.   I was smiling in the playoff and caught a tough break, I felt like.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT