VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jordan, 7 birdies in that round, 67.   Great Friday for you?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Thank you, yeah.   I'll take 7 birdies each of the next couple rounds.   I hit a couple of them that hit the back of the hole that may have gone a few feet by so I got some really good breaks today.   Actually missed a few shorter length putts that -- the long ones really made up for it.   I can't really expect to keep making those putts.   I need to knock in the shorter ones on the weekends.   Greens in regulation has been the best stat.   That's what needs to happen.  
   
 Q.   You got here, it was blowing.   Your expectation for this round and how they may have adjusted as you got to the back-9 and the wind died down.  
JORDAN SPIETH:   When we got here it looked like 2-under was going to be a really good start.   Start out with a birdie on 1, hit a good tee shot obviously and play the rest of the golf course 1-under from there.   Felt like that was a good round.   Greens are still receptive.   You got good numbers and making some putts.   You can make some birdies out here.   
The problem is there's always a little bit of trouble around the corner.   There's rough right off the green.   Two feet off the green it's sitting down, real tricky on how to play it.   Everyone is struggling on the back.   Want to really make sure that you put a mark on your golf ball.  
   
 Q.   I know you've been battling a little bit.   This golf course sets up nice for you.   Is there anything extra confidence standpoint you carry into the weekend?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Going back to maybe the 2nd, 3rd round of last week really found something in my ball striking, kind of a feeling that was similar to what I had last year, kind of move I'm trying to make.   Still a work in progress but I'm striking the ball on the center of the face.   I'm hitting a lot of straight lines.   So, lot of confidence coming off of last week.   It's going to come down to make something putts.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT