WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 30, 2015
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  4-under through 36 holes.  Happy with how you played and your position so far?  JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I am.  I really didn't have many expectations starting out this week, coming off a break longer than I have ever taken before.  The last couple weeks I have been able to get some reps in and been striking the ball pretty well. My short game was a little rusty coming back, but my short game was great today.  Ball striking was a little off. But really scored the ball well.  I didn't play well at all and managed to shoot 3-under versus yesterday I played -- I thought I struck the ball nicely and shot 1-under.  So kind of just some fine-tuning going on, but it's very close. It was nice to see some putts go in today, and it's just kind of challenging to really get a good strike on the ball with the conditions we had, but still a scorable golf course.   Q.  When you see Tiger struggling like that, what goes through your mind?  JORDAN SPIETH: Sure, it's odd but it's his second tournament in six months.  He's really revamping his golf swing and just seems like he needs some more repetitions.  From the looks of it, he looks very healthy, looks like nothing was bothering him, so he should be able to get out there and get a lot of practice in.  I would look for him to make a strong comeback this year.   Q.  Did you chitchat at all along the way?  JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, we were talking.  He was in a great mood, good spirits, just as he always is.  I have played a good amount of golf with Tiger now, and he's nothing but a class act out there. Patrick and I obviously enjoy watching because we grew up idolizing him, and it's always fun when you get to play with the guy you watched win so many majors, and, you know, who you're trying to chase. You know, obviously a little rust for him there, but like I said earlier, once he gets some repetitions -- you could see on the back 9 today some of those iron shots that he got some height on and distance control was great.  That will be back.   Q.  (Question about success factor.)  JORDAN SPIETH: Fairways.  I really need to drive the ball well.  If I do that, I should be able to give myself enough birdie looks to get a couple of putts to fall.  It's all going to come down to off the tee box.   Q.  With driving, for you, what did you feel has been the strength of the nines today?  What was the strength on driving?  JORDAN SPIETH: I don't know if there was one.  I think they were probably very similar.  The back 9 when we played, our front 9, was certainly tougher conditions.  It was colder, windier, and rainier.  That made it hard to get a good, solid strike on it, because you get water on the face and water on the golf ball.  When you're hitting driver -- I kind of bailed out on some of them early.  Just hit these high kind of cut spinners that didn't go very far. But when the rain stopped, I hit some good tee shots and was able to get in a little bit of a groove.  I don't think there was a nine that was better than the other.  It's almost there.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT