TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
(In progress. )   
JORDAN SPIETH: ...so you're constantly thinking a little more than you want to, and then I just didn't play well.  I mean, just no parts of my game where were I wanted them to be.   
I'll get some time off here.  I don't know how much yet, but kind of get away from the game for a little reset and then try and finish the year strong.   
 Q.  How frustrating is it when you see some progress and then -- obviously it's golf; it happens.  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I feel like my putting is good, and I he feel like the last two weeks I had a monumental amount of lipouts, so I still feel like my putting is good.   
The results from the other week were strictly really putting.  It was putting and chipping.  I still hit the ball below average for the field those weeks; just made up for it.   
I just really need to improve on my ball striking.   
 Q.  What do you most need to improve on do you think right now?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yea, that, ball striking.  I started to drive the ball better last week and this week.  I had an out-of-bounds ball which was a bummer yesterday, but take that one away and I drove the ball pretty well.   
My iron and wedge play is just -- it's way below my normal standard, and so that needs to significantly improve.   
 Q.  Going to take off until the British?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I'm not sure yet.  I may or may not play the John Deere.  I'm kind of up in in the air right now.  I'm not sure.   
 Q.  Committed here late.  Was it something you played well on this course and hope you can get something going this week?  
JORDAN SPIETH: With the schedule change I was just kind of going to see how the season was rolling.  I was always really going to play here.  I guess I just waited because I wasn't sure what it was going to look like between U.S. and British.  In total, like how much I was going to take off, where I was going to play.   
But, yeah, I've played the course well.  I like it firm and fast.  I think everybody does, more so than kind of unfortunately the way it was this week.   
But still plenty of opportunities that I just didn't play well enough.   
 Q.  When it comes to the British, where do you feel like your game is with it a few weeks away?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Not anywhere near where I want it to be.  I need to gain significant control of the golf ball tee-to-green.  On and around greens I'm in a better place than I've been in the last couple years going into the British, so hopefully a little reset button helps and just kind of nail down what I've been working on.   
The things I've been working on are so drastic that it's just really difficult to try and play through it, I guess.  Fortunately now I don't have -- I got time to just do reps and overdo the reps and pull the string back together to get the clubs set and tracking right where it's been when I've been at the best in the world tee-to-green.   
So it'll just take time.  Just like the putting did last year, and then it came around.  You know, it's just a little off and I need to get it back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT