JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty impressive number despite starting slow Thursday you put together the last three days. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I mean, I think the last three rounds would have been right up there with anybody else the last three rounds, but yeah, tough start Thursday.   It was a great fight back.   Got a lot of good that came out of today as far as my ball striking going into next week, and putting wise it was nice to get into contention, to feel a little nerves.   I felt like I could have birdied the last three and had a chance today, just like last year, so it was nice to feel those nerves and have that going into next week. 
So if I feel that feeling again, I know I had experience the week before.   All in all, it was a day that I set out to accomplish some things and accomplished all but one of them.   Yeah, very positive going forward to next week.

Q.   What went through your mind with the crowd roaring for you?   Seemed as though they were giving you a sign of approval that you defended well here and you had a great week. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it was awesome.   The setting here on 18, when I hit my second shot I thought it was going to go in the bunker again, and when it actually went on the green, I said, man, I wanted to hit that bunker shot again.   That would have been fun with the crowd. 
All in all, yeah, walking up was a good feeling here, brought back a lot of good memories.   I walked up that hole four times that day.   It was cool.   I didn't quite get the job done this week.   I just put that on Thursday.   So since then the last three days were great, so I'll get off to a good start next week.

Q.   How much did you learn about defending this week? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   I don't think it's any different from playing the tournament anyways, just a lot of extra stuff right before.   Just a little less time to be able to work on your game and a little more that you've got to give to media and to sponsors and whoever else.   Just time management is a little more difficult, but other than that, when I'm on the course I didn't feel any different at all.

Q.   Not that you didn't appreciate it a year ago, but does it really make you appreciate what happened a year ago?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it does.   This week more than any I looked back and saw what this week last year did for me, and had I not won since then, which I didn't, you know, with the Playoffs, Presidents Cup, TOUR Championship, Masters, all of the above, it really did incredible things for my career, and it was awesome being back here playing this course on Sunday especially, seeing the same pins and making some of the same putts.   It was a good feeling. 

Q.   How much do you like this course, and will it be in your‑‑
JORDAN SPIETH:   I really like it.

Q.   Will it be on your schedule in the future, though?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I really like it a lot.   Again, it's a course and a tournament that has been very special to me going back to when I was in college.   They gave me a spot.   I'm very, very loyal to the tournaments that have I feel like launched my career.   I don't see myself not coming back.

Q.   How ready do you feel for Royal Liverpool?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I feel a lot more ready right now than I did off of the 18th hole yesterday.   I mean, loads more ready.   We're going to have 12 hours here and I'm going to be back on the driving range.   I feel great.   I was working on a lot of things over the last couple weeks in my ball‑striking, and there were quite a few shots, wedges, irons, whatever here that were unlike me, but I knew that that would probably happen leading up, but as far as I can peak for next week, then all in all it was a great two weeks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT