JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JORDAN SPIETH:   It will take a special round.   I really need to grind my wedges and get some confidence back with those before I head out tomorrow.   Other than that, it was a solid round.   I played the par‑5s perfectly, made two other birdies from there.   So on a course where you have a lot of wedges, you need to take advantage of those tomorrow.

Q.   That was my next question.   I felt like a couple times today you left yourself above the hole 20 feet.   Looked like some frustration and distance control.   Was the ball just jumping more or was it something else? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   It was jumping more to start, and I hit a couple wedges I thought would jump, and ended up landing short and spinning back.   So just a little off with the distance control.   I left myself anywhere from 15 to 30 feet, and I couldn't get a putt to the hole.   I was leaving them short online.   So maybe it was a little rain that was messing with me or lift clean and place, the ball was sitting up so nicely.   But I'll adjust for tomorrow and be ready to go.

Q.   Talk about today.   Obviously, you're pretty much in the same position where you were last year. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, could have been a lot lower today.   I had quite a few wedges in the middle of the fairway which I didn't even have a look at birdie from, which is not what the guys that are leading are doing.   Distance control is just a little off, but still posted a solid round.   They played the par‑5s perfectly to take advantage of those easy holes being a little stress free.   But a lot of pars with a lot of wedges in my hands.   That's going to need to improve tomorrow, but I still have a chance.

Q.   That being said, what's it going to take tomorrow?   Is it the low score like you did last year or what's it going to take? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   It will take at least last year's if not lower tomorrow.   Brian's playing great golf.   Scott saw a lot of putts go in today, and you have Zach and Stricker who are right there and both have won here multiple times.   It's going to take low score.   Those guys are making putts behind me, I'll have to go out and set the pace early.

Q.   Did the weather affect the greens or anything? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   The greens were a little slower, and I was leaving putts short.   I started out my round getting the ball to the hole and being aggressive on the greens.   Whatever it was, I just started leaving them just short or just low as we walked on and maybe as the day went on they got beat up a little bit or whatever.   But I'll adjust for tomorrow. 
I think there may be some more rain in the forecast, so ultimately they'll probably play pretty similar to the way they did today.   So if I can get out there and have the same wedge opportunities I did today and take advantage, I have an opportunity to win.

Q.   How quickly do you have to start tomorrow to get things in order? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Last year I started bogeying the first hole, so I was even par through three holes or so.   I don't think there is a certain number to start.   I do think it would be nice to get out there the first five or six holes off to a 3 or 4‑under start.   From there I feel like the middle of the round is the hardest.   From 7 to 12, there is really only number 10 which is much of a birdie hole.   Then you've got to take advantage in the middle of the front nine and middle of the back nine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT