THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your third round. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it's moving day, and this golf course, if you're striking the ball well, you can actually make quite a few birdies out here.   If you're not, it will go the other way quickly. 
And tough start on 1 and then kind of turned it right around there on 2 and rode it the rest of the round, and had a lot of good looks, got a couple of putts to fall, tricky putts. 
And next thing I knew I was 4‑under on the day, trying to get it a little more.   Missed a shorty on 15 but rebounded nicely.   Played 16, 17, 18 as perfectly as I could have imagined. 
So very positive going forward.   I'm striking the ball well.   It's gotten better each day, and just made a few more putts today than the last couple of weeks.

Q.   Charl Schwartzel said the greens were a little bit softer early on.   Did you notice that at all? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, they're definitely firming up.   I just noticed that they were a little firmer than the last couple of days to start.   I'm sure as the day goes on here it's going to firm up.   And tomorrow will definitely be maybe a different golf course then back on Thursday.

Q.   You're playing so well.   Philosophy on moving day, do you have a strategy?   Does it change from week‑to‑week?
JORDAN SPIETH:   No, I don't think so.   I was happy with where I was coming into today but at the same time I felt like I played a little better than scored.   So low round was out there, I think.   And hopefully this wasn't the lowest round of the weekend.
But it's a good start.   I'd like to take a round just like that tomorrow and should have a good start at it.

Q.   Do you have a score in mind tomorrow?
JORDAN SPIETH:   No, it's way too early.   Those guys have only played, whatever, probably only nine holes.   So we'll kind of see where it ends up.   They just keep on making birdies.   It's pretty impressive.
But I'll get on first tee tomorrow and just try and do exactly what I did today.

Q.   Was the wind a factor out there in clubs played?
JORDAN SPIETH:   It flip‑flops.   I think it does on this golf course.   I mean, I think the fact that it's been a north wind for three rounds, when it's been warm, I think it's been wanting to go back and forth a little. 
Tomorrow will be a south wind, so it will be something we haven't seen this week in tournament rounds. 
But, yeah, it hasn't been blowing a lot, which is why people are able to shoot what they're shooting on this golf course.   It's a difficult golf course.   But tomorrow, when it flip‑flops around, may mess with some guys.
I'm really going to have to get it and stick to what you think it's doing above the trees not worry about what it's doing down low.

Q.   How do you like the setup today, the course and the pin placement?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Great.   Actually had a couple Sunday pins I thought they were going to do tomorrow and they did them today.   So those got out of the way, which is nice, and there will be some score‑able holes and there will be holes where you really need to take your medicine on tomorrow. 
But, yeah, I thought it was a great setup today.   It was fair.   18, that pin is just always going to be ridiculously hard.   I don't think Dustin and I could have done much else when we were left with 15feet where you just got to tap it and hope it takes the right break.
But other than that, 16‑‑ 16, that hole, at least for me, for the guys that hit the ball really far, they can do something on it.   I couldn't have hit a better shot if I put a bucket of balls down today and I still had 20feet. 
So other than those two, almost every other hole is birdie‑able.

Q.   Playing for like a month, I think.   Is this your fourth week in a row?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Fourth in a row.

Q.   Are you feeling like you're getting your swing?   I know we talk to players and you felt like you had some work you had to do and then you finally did that.   Do you feel like your swing is getting to where you want it to be now?
JORDAN SPIETH:   It is.   I'm actually working on this week some very similar things I was working on Augusta week.   And that's probably what I'll do in this off week, too, because it's not quite back where‑‑ not quite where I have full control over my long clubs, my driver 3‑wood working the ball both directions.
And I think it's great, great timing leading up to the U.S. Open.   And if tomorrow is a solid round off the tee, then I've got a chance to win this golf tournament. 
But to answer your question, it's almost there, and hopefully it peaks in a couple of weeks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT