HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about your round.
JORDAN SPIETH:   Today was a good positive today, good momentum, hit the ball a little better.   Found a little something on the range, went with it and drove the ball better.   I had a lot of good looks, and I made 'em to start.   I could have shot 6 under today pretty easily on a golf course that doesn't suit my game very well.   That's positive going into a course next week that I feel very comfortable on.   I'll get out there, get a good week of preparation in. 

Q.   How much are you looking forward to Colonial? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   A lot, yeah, Colonial is one of my favorite tracks of the year.   I think it's an awesome golf course and if I can get out there and get comfortable on those greens, they felt good this week.   The shape of the holes fit my eye better and if I'm driving the ball well, still feel like I'm playing as well as Augusta and Sawgrass, so‑‑ this week I just found too many rough spots off the tees.   I'm not going to think too much of it, just get ready for next week. 

Q.   The tee isn't exactly fitting your eye because of the angles? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, the placement of where bunkers are, and different wind direction on different holes. 
It's tough for me to get off to a good start the first four holes on this course, and it always has been.   I think that's why I'm not able to go really low out here on a course where a lot of players do go really low. 
Today I got 1 over‑over through three, which is pretty typical, and then got it going there for a while, had really good looks on 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, and they just didn't quite‑‑ I hit good putts and they all just dove off. 
But the tee balls don't typically fit my eye here and that's why I think I was at a career low in fairways hit.   Next week you gotta drive the ball straight so I'll get it figured out. 

Q.   Jordan, you talked about how much this week means to you.   Overall how would you assess the whole week, being rock star status? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   No, it's a tough week, with wanting to play so well on a course that I have more experience than anywhere else, so I definitely think that I should be able to know where it hit it in certain places and do for the most part, but execution was the issue this week.   I wouldn't consider it a "let down" or a negative at all.   I think I had a very positive day today.   And although I would like to win this tournament playing in front of family and friends, specifically, didn't happen this week, but I've got a lot of years to go at this place, and looking forward to 'em. 

Q.   Having been in the grind at Augusta and Sawgrass and last month did you have any mental fatigue at all, do you think? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   No, no not at all.   I felt comfortable.   I was ready to go.   No mental fatigue. 

Q.   What kind of a score do you think it's going to take to pull this thing out? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   I would think 12‑under should be plenty good to win.   I don't know what the forecast is, I just know we were playing early enough to know it wasn't going to make much of a difference.   But if the forecast calls for wind a lot of times the scores drop down to 8, 9‑under, but Louie is a great player.   The guys atop of the board have played great golf this week so you gotta think with the softer conditions on the greens they will be able to make some birdies.   They're out there today.   I think I made five of them, with plenty of other chances.   So those guys that are hitting it well, I think 12‑under might be good but I don't know. 

Q.   Given how you played at the master's, what will your schedule be like after Colonial? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   I'm looking forward to going to the Memorial and I'm not sure from there.   I got to think things through.   I'm going back to the John Deere, I'm definitely playing the Majors.   I won't skip those.   We'll see how I'm playing. 

Q.   Have you played Pinehurst? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   I have not. 

Q.   Have you ever played it? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   No.   Never been there. 

Q.   Are you going to try to get over there for a scouting trip? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   It's a little late now.   With playing the next couple, I may go in a couple of days early but that's what I did to Augusta.   I went a couple of trips early, but got in there Saturday and may do the same for Pinehurst. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Jordan.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT