RBC HERITAGE
April 17, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You were playing with two guys that I would assume were your idols when you were growing up?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, no doubt.   They're two American legends of the game.   They really are.   And it was unbelievable to be just playing with them.   And I've met Davis before.   I've played with Davis before.   I haven't played with Mr. Watson. 
It was an experience all of today.   Yesterday and I'm sure tomorrow will be fun.   There may be weather.   But I had a good time.   We all played well for a lot of the round. 

Q.   Did your anticipation and thought of what it would be like playing with Tom Watson meet the reality?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I think it did.   His short game is incredible.   Obviously he just works the same ball flight each time.   It's a boring golf game.   That's why he was able to play so many years so successfully. 
It's very windy out here.   So it's tough for everybody.   We didn't have our best rounds of golf.   But it was just what I was thinking it would be.   It kind of met the reality of it.   We had a great time.   He spoke some words of wisdom to me, on and off the course.   Obviously talking with him is priceless.

Q.   Jordan, this was obviously a very interesting pairing for you.   How cool was it?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Very cool.   Two legends of the game.   Two American legends of golf.   I'm humbled to play with those guys and the success that they've had and the way they've handled things on and off the course.   I only hope one day I can do it half as good as they have. 
Yeah, we had a good time.

Q.   Davis has won here five times.   Tom's won here twice.   Are you watching them at all?   Obviously you're playing so well and it would be hard not to get caught up in what they're doing. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it's amazing.   This course, obviously with Mr. Watson not hitting as far as he used to, can still get around here.   He was under par for a lot of the round today.
Yeah, I'm watching a little bit.   There's quite a few holes that I played different shots off the tees.   And I looked back and said, it's obvious why; they have the experience here.
I was a little aggressive here today just to see how the course would play.   And I may dial it back a little.

Q.   When you are in that situation, you're coming off of such an incredible week last week, so much pressure.   Kind of hard to get up the next week.   I would think the pairing had to help with that, to get excited about it?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I think it did, definitely.   I think that‑‑ I mean, I was going to be excited no matter what.   I was anxious to get back out and play another competitive round of golf.   So today was going to be kind of therapy, in a sense, from last week, to get back out and try and make some birdies.   And for the most part it was a very solid round and had an awesome time playing with those two.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT