HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 16, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's it like to finish your round on that note?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it's great.   It's just a brutal hole, always has been and just an awkward tee shot, you can't feel the wind on the tee and you know it's up there.   Nobody wants to start it over the water.   Just bailed out today, and I got a really good break up there.   I had a shot, an angle right at the hole and a good number.   So just had to trust it and have the wind kind of die down at the right time and both happened.   It was a really nice break to get it up there close to the hole and knock it in.   
   
 Q.   Some low numbers out there today, you were able to steady the ship.   What do you take away from your second round, 67 to get in contention?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   It's really close.   I was driving the ball better today.   
You make a couple of decisions here or there.   I just didn't quite play the right shot here or there, I was too aggressive, thinking that everyone was going low.   Ultimately you still got to take the medicine.   
It's a very good golf course.   That's why 8‑under is leading and next closest is 6.   Good news is out here is it gets breezy on the weekend every single year, so you have to shoot a low number early and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Last weekend you're in the final group, Saturday, Sunday, how different of amind‑set is it this weekend with that huge pack at 6 and one guy at 8?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I mean it's very different.   Those guys at 6 are playing some solid golf and you gotta expect some of them to go low so the scores are going to get deeper and deeper and it's going to take a couple of special rounds to pull it off, but I'm still in it.   Today was a solid round to keep myself in it, and to only be 5 off the lead through two rounds, I think I'm in a good spot.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the position you're in right now.   
JORDAN SPIETH:   I think I'm in a good position.   If I'm not mistaken, I've been 3‑under at the cut line for four straight years now, which is funny, I guess I haven't improved since I was 16.   (Laughter.)   I think this is good.   This golf course has a lot of people come from behind to wind because it gets windy, and the last five holes are brutal.   
It may be a good thing that I'm where I am right now, still trying to figure things out.   I feel good with my putter, drove the ball a little better today, and that was the difference in yesterday and today's rounds.   Keep on improving each day and we're good.   
   
 Q.   What a treat for the crowd though with the last hole.   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, yeah, caught a good break over there.   I had an angle at the hole and a good number and I didn't have to think too much about trying to work it one way or the other with that back pin, back center pin I was able to be a little more aggressive.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it was cool, it was the atmosphere kind of expected because this place is just so special and the crowds are often, and 17 and 18 were cool.   
Try and make a run tomorrow to make Sunday even better.   
   
 Q.   After round 1 did your family or friends give you advice, talk to you about how you were looking out there?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Not really.   Just another tournament, deal with it week in and week out.   You go on streak and you go on every once in a while you're going to find a couple of water balls.   Luckily got them out of the way in the first round.   Even par yesterday I felt like was a pretty good score with the cold and the wind in the morning.   So today drove the ball a touch better and that was the three strokes right there.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel more relaxed today?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   I was relaxed both days and definitely when you play 17 and 18 out here with this be wind and this atmosphere, you know, the adrenaline pops up, the nerves pop up and they were there and smoked a 4‑iron on 17 and hit a 5‑iron on 18 there through the trees, so that was about the only time I was really feeling any kind of nerves, but I enjoyed it, embrace it here and that's why this place is so cool.   
   
 Q.   2 shots up on Scottie.   
JORDAN SPIETH:   I saw he was making a run‑‑ he was 4‑under for the round at one point, which is really cool.   He's going to be dangerous this weekend, he will be going off early if we have split tees here, and Scottie is a great player.   Expect him to get out there and shoot a low number, there is no doubt.   I don't think he expects any less.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Jordan.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT