VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 29, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JORDAN SPIETH:   Started out again, it was really windy to start out.   Looks like it died down.   Seemed like that front-9 played pretty difficult.   I shot 3-under.   I was very, very pleased with that and then made the turn and all of a sudden the wind kind of died and you know, missed a couple chances, the par-5s but, all in all, I'm very happy with the way I putted and ultimately 4-under out here is a good round.   I'll take it again tomorrow.

Q.   Some guys have to come way back to be in the mix.   Do you think that's the way things are looking now?
JORDAN SPIETH:   On this golf course, I thought it was going to be 15 miles an hour the whole day and if that were the case, I didn't think that the lead would be past 9-under but looks like it could get to 12 or 13. 
If that's the case, then maybe out of reach.   I can only control what I can and after 6-over on the front-9 first round start, to be 9-under on last 45 holes I feel like I'm playing some great golf and pick up momentum tomorrow.

Q.   Cactus over there, was that out of bounds?   Would you get in there?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I hit a 3-wood.   I just missed it.   Happened to find its way.   Could end up in a cactus, in an opening, who knows? 
I didn't deserve any kind break after that shot but, you know, felt like I played smart way in and made a great bogey save that allowed me to have the confidence.

Q.   You know when you played the 3 rounds at Augusta, did you play them very seriously or were you just --
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.

Q.   Angles and slopes on the course and stuff like that?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Definitely both.   Yeah.   I mean I was obviously enjoying, having a great time kind of looking around more than -- I wasn't as focused as I will be in the tournament but definitely serious, trying to shoot a score. 
I never play a round -- never play a round without trying to shoot as well as I can.   I was having a good time and Wednesday will be really fun there on the par 3 but other than I'm going to grind it out, make sure that I'm rested up but also ready to go. 
My brother may caddy on some holes.   We'll kind of see how it's going.

Q.   Are you playing a practice round with Ben?
JORDAN SPIETH:   We're going to play on Monday, yeah.   We're going to play Monday at least 9 holes.   So he will -- we'll see what we end up doing there.   I was with him last week and he's excited.   He's going to get in Sunday, I think, and we will, too, so it's a good time.

Q.   Give you a lot of tips?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I'm sure he will.   I'm sure I'll help out.   Jackson is his caddy.   I'll pick their brains.

Q.   When you play with Phil like you did yesterday, you try to pick up anything, you know, from the way he plays or --
JORDAN SPIETH:   You know, his short game shots are pretty incredible, as everybody already knows.   When you're playing, no.   You don't find any anybody that's saying what they're trying to learn from the guy they're playing with. 
That's not how it is.   When you're off the course, you know, you can ask guys how they do certain things and trust your instructor and practice these shots.   But, on the course, I mean you start doing that, that's the wrong way to play golf.

Q.   Is there somebody that has helped you've off the course?
JORDAN SPIETH:   My coach.   Then, you know, we've got a good team, overall.   Cameron is my swing and short game instructor.

Q.   Is it wild to think that you can contend at Augusta or is making that the goal, is that a good contention? 
Can you think about yourself going down on Sunday having a chance there or is that too much to think about?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I'm focused on the first hole, the first round but, you know, ultimately if it comes down to where I want myself to be, where I will prepare to be, that will be coming down the stretch in contention and I'll just approach it like any other tournament. 
I've been trying to learn week in and week out when I've been in contention and, you know, I've fallen short more than I've won but that's just how it works out here.
But, you know, I don't know what it feels like to contend in a Major yet but hopefully I can channel that positively and therefore pull it off. 
I don't think it's out of the question to win.   You know, I think that I'm going in, my game stacks up and I catch the right breaks then, sure.   I don't see why not.   I've been playing against these guys for a year now.   So, I feel comfortable.

Q.   You've watched a ton of Majors, ton of Masters in your childhood growing up.   Is there anyone that stands out to you?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I've been asked that a lot.   I don't know.   From Phil making the putt to win his first one, jumping up, and then Tiger's chip-in on DeMarco, was definitely probably the few moments that stick out. 
But, obviously, last year was pretty special.   I've always been a big fan of Adam Scott's game and also played a lot of golf with Cabrera and that was kind of cool seeing them battle it out, hit the shots on 18 and then the playoff.
So, yeah, that's part of my best memories.

Q.   Have you looked at any of Fuzzy?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I haven't looked at that.   I don't know what year that was.   I don't know how you can possibly look at that.

Q.   Did it surprise you only one guy has done it, win as a rookie there?
JORDAN SPIETH:   After being out there, definitely need to have a lot of knowledge of slopes and that kind of stuff.   Yeah, of course, course knowledge is huge out there, it may be a little bit of a handicap not having played it before but, again, if you're playing well enough then you have full control of the ball, you'll get what you need to get out of the practice rounds and I'll be ready to go.

Q.   Did you pick up anything from the 9 here on Thursday and turn it around?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.   I think it was just -- I think I was just going off of my routine.   I got out here ready to go and obviously we were delayed on Thursday and then I'm thrown off my practice. 
I practiced longer than I normally would and sat down and went back out and had 15 minutes before I went back out.   So I think that maybe that's something to do with it.   I was still putting the ball in the fairway.   I wasn't hitting good iron shots.   Turned it around once I got a little bit of a feeling down on what needed to be with the irons and went from there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT