MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The final pairing in your very first Masters, I know you're disappointed at the way things turned out, but what was the day like for you?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Oh, it was so much fun, it really was.   Even if I didn't show it there on the back nine, it was.   I took it all in, standing ovations for both of us to each green.   It was a dream come true.   
Although it sits a little hard right now, I'll be back and I can't wait to be back.  
   
 Q.   Talk about where it started to turn at 8 and 9.   
JORDAN SPIETH:   8, when I hit the shot I actually thought I hit it too far on my third shot.   It was the first shot that really checked up all week on these greens.   Just tricked out on a couple of the putts.   
Just mishit one on 9 and then there was a huge change.   Two, two stroke swings in a row.   That's very difficult on this golf course to come back from.   I felt like I fought hard and if I hit a couple putts a little firmer, it could have been a different story.   
But hats off obviously to Bubba, because when he's driving the ball well out here, he's very tough to beat.  
   
 Q.   Nobody behind you every really made a move.   Did it feel like match play with Bubba?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   It did late on the front nine and early in the back nine.   
Then after 12, Bubba was pretty far ahead and I had dropped back.   So I was looking to make a couple birdies and maybe put some pressure on Bubba, but I didn't and so he was able to kind of make pars coming in and it made it a little easier for him.  
   
 Q.   I know you're going to take some time and process all of this, but what's the immediate take away for you going forward from this experience?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I'm hungry.   I mean, to be honest with you, that was fun, but at the same time it hurts right now.   Although it was going into the week I wanted to get in contention on the back nine Sunday and that's what happened, and didn't come out on top, but I could take a lot of positives away, felt very comfortable out there, my game felt like it will holed up and I think I'm going to go forward from here.   That's a great feeling.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT