MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Just have a different feeling at this place.   It's just such an honor just to be able to play this golf course.   Michael and I are having a great time out there and somehow staying extremely patient.   It's testing every ounce certain places and he's doing a great job of just saying, all right, you're not going to play bogey‑free with the way this course is playing, just make sure that you get your self a look at par and take advantage of the easier holes.   We're playing the smart shots into the greens, controlling the ball fine, and I'm putting well.   
So this whole year's been about prepping to peak at certain places, this being really the first one, and I'm in a great position going into tomorrow, a position I haven't been in before, but I'm excited about.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I'm very excited about it.   I think I'll be in the final group.   That's a dream come true is to just kind of see what it's like.   
I don't think I've ever had a round where I've been nervous on every single swing, shot, and putt.   I'm sure that will happen tomorrow, but hopefully I can channel it positively and stay grounded, stay cool, and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I played Amen Corner over par today, I played it under par the first day.   I think I'm probably even total on it.   
The wind was died down and I had a pretty good number into 11 and played the wrong shot.   I took an extra club to try and hit it perfect.   I left myself in too difficult of a spot, but played the smart shot and got out with bogey.   On that hole you can make a lot worse.   
I gave myself a good look on 12 and 13.   Didn't quite make it.   I don't look at it as Amen Corner, I stand on the tee box and look at it as each individual hole.   
When you get through and look back, that's when you realize that you played maybe the most famous three holes in golf.   
It's fun, I enjoy it.   It's really peaceful on 12 and 13 green when there aren't people there.   But other than that it's nice to look around here and there.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JORDAN SPIETH:   I think fine.   Even the last couple days I've played well, so I've been in a position where I've been off late.   I'm not sure.   This is ‑‑ I'm going to try and forget about it, just stay away from it, just hang with my friends and family that are here and play a little ping pong, a little pool, and whatever else is at the house and try and sleep in a little, work out, go through the same routine.   
We'll see, but, ultimately, I guarantee you, I'll have enough energy tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT