WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 19, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Seven of them here in his first round match, conceded an eighth on the final hole.   Your first go around here.   How pleased are you?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Very.   That was a great match.   We could tell for the first five or six holes that it was going to be a rough one or a tough one, I guess.   We didn't miss a fairway.   We were both striping the driver.   I missed two fairways, so did he, all day.   That's rare on this golf course.   It's not very wide. 
We all had good looks at birdie almost every hole.   Pars weren't going to win.   It was a great battle.   I just had a few fall my way on the back nine, was able to hit it a little closer than he did.   His went right around the edge. 

Q.   When you're in a match like that you know you've got a tough opponent, how does that change or alter your plan of attack? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   If you're all square or one down through the first ten or 11 holes, it's a lot different than being two up.   You kind of just got to try and give yourself looks.   You see it's about having as many putts as you can at birdie, having as many putts after he putts to win the hole.   And you got to give yourself chances, and ultimately that's what it was.   I had four in a row there.   He bogeyed the hole when I hit it close on the par‑3.   Then shared birdies on the par‑5 and then I got two in a row. 
So that's just what it comes down is if you can have that last look at birdie.

Q.   You've a lot of success at match play, the junior ams, the NCAAs.   How much did you tap into that past success when it comes to this format?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, a little bit.   Any experience is a good experience in match play.   Having success, you know you can draw on success.   I had a couple of US Amateurs where I had played good matches just like that in the first round. 
My most recent one, I was knocked out by the NCAA champ.   You just never know what the draw is going to be. 
Mentally I was very strong today.   Even on 11, I went one down through 11 and was able to really not get upset with myself.   Still had plenty of golf left.   In the course of a round, things change a lot.   So just needed to change my way.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT