NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 16, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Describe your week out here. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   It was two tough ones and two good ones in the middle.   Got off to what I wanted to do today, playing patient golf, making some birdies, 3‑under on the front nine is a good score, and then I had the right game plan on the back nine.   Just every shot went to the really one place you can't miss.   I just didn't execute. 
Swing feels great.   Putting stroke feels great.   I hit it in the spot you can't hit it on 10, almost made an unbelievable par.   And then 11, still hit it where I shouldn't of, made birdie out of it, but ultimately as the back nine went on, you start putting yourself in tough positions, you're going to make bogeys there. 
I just didn't hit enough fairways on the back nine this week, the first round, and then today.   So that's what it all comes down to.   Still, you know, I shot even today.   It felt worse than even; so I've got a lot of confidence going into next week for Match Play.

Q.   How about this course, suits your game, a little old school? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   I love this golf course.   It's one of the best ones I think in the world.   I've played a lot of rounds here going back to the NCAA Championship and then this week and two years ago.
So I love playing here, just the crowd, the fans are awesome, unbelievable; respectful but still kind of crazy, just what you want.   The roars were loud, you could hear it, kind of like one of the times I've ever been to Augusta is what it kind of sounds like, through the valley, echoes, a really cool experience.

Q.   What are your thoughts on going to Augusta this year?
JORDAN SPIETH:   It's going to be awesome.   I played 27 holes there now, probably try to play two more rounds before Masters week.   I'm excited.   I've got a great game plan leading up to it. 
So far this year, been striking the ball well, a couple close calls and I've learned a lot when it hasn't been my best, so all in all, by the time it rolls around, hopefully all the pieces fit together. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT