NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 15, 2014
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JORDAN SPIETH:   It was nice.   Saturdays have been rough, coming from so far behind it was nice to get off to such a hot start.   6 through 11, I had really good looks at birdie and kind of kept it in there on the next few holes and had looks at birdie again.   Just an unfortunate 3‑putt, kind of lapse in concentration on 16 but other than that, I'll take the round again tomorrow.

Q.   Good ball‑striking day?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, felt like 16 or so greens, only a couple that missed, but yeah, that's what you've got to do on this golf course.   The greens are difficult to putt on, so if you can have tap‑ins or one or two footers as your par putts versus trying to get up‑and‑down, it's definitely nice.

Q.   Have you had a chance to reflect on playing for the National Championship? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I did in the practice rounds.   The course kind of plays similar.   It played similar back then, obviously probably a little quicker greens, a little firmer greens right now, but tee‑to‑green, it's pretty much the same golf course.   Able to reflect on that, it's nice to putt some rounds on a course, rare for me on TOUR this year, so it's definitely nice on the back nine to kind of draw back on memories. 

Q.   Four back right now, what do you have to do out there tomorrow?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Well, honestly, today the pins were very‑‑ they were nice to us on the pins I thought.   I thought that you could attack it, really the first seven holes, really first six holes were about the easiest pins that I think you can have on these greens.   So fortunately I got off to a great start, capitalized on them, took advantage of them. 
Had good looks 6 through 11, all five of those holes and just missed them, high, low, left, right, didn't really matter.   I was kind of zeroed in and got to the tough stretch, 12 through 15, and thought I played them well at even par.   I'll take even par on those holes any day. 
I had good looks on 16, 17 and 18, and unfortunately 16, just lapse in concentration on the 2‑footer.   You have to play it dead center out here in the afternoon instead of trying to play break.   But ultimately, very happy, felt like it was 15 or 16 greens, and my longest par putt today was five feet, so if that's the case tomorrow, I'll be in good shape. 

Q.   How do you explain maturing so fast on the PGA TOUR‑‑
JORDAN SPIETH:   At this point, it feels normal.   The adjustment was quicker than I guess I would have thought starting out, but I had confidence in myself and my game to come out and play strong, and I feel like each and every week, I need to be focused on trying to win the golf tournament.   That's kind of how I feel going in, and it's been good thus far and I'm looking for a good one tomorrow. 

Q.   Is there a point in the process‑‑ inaudible?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I still am.   It's easy to make the transition for maturity out here quickly, because you play with veterans week‑in and week‑out, you see how they act and how they walk down the fairways, the pace they play at and how methodical it is and you try and emulate it instead of trying to rush and getting into emotional, which I still do at times. 
Today, for a Saturday, I felt like it was A+ for my mental game.   Typically my mental game on Saturdays have been a C.   But really solid today.   It led to even when I‑‑ even when I had a couple tough holes, a couple tough looks, 12, 13, I was able to bounce back and have a couple good looks at birdie on the last few holes. 

Q.   What's your thinking going into tomorrow‑‑ after Saturday last week ‑‑ 
JORDAN SPIETH:   That round last week is kind of out of my head.   That was typically‑‑ when I get towards the lead, I just get‑‑ my lines of where I think I can hit the ball without getting upset gets smaller and smaller.   So even a good shot is upsetting and it shouldn't be. 
And this week, I've just kind of taken a different mind‑set in.   It was difficult when the winds were blowing 30, 40 miles an hour to kind of stay calm and this week we have perfect conditions, so that helps.   I'm striking the ball well.   I have been really the last couple months, strike the ball really well.   So the fact that it was Saturday versus the first round here, hopefully just feed off the last two rounds and do the same thing tomorrow.   If things go bad, I'll draw back on yesterday and even back to Thursday; I started off strong, and then things started getting away from me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT