BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2013
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JORDAN SPIETH:   I got to control the speed better on the greens.   That's what killed me the last two weeks.   When I made mistakes it was because I just couldn't control my first‑putt speed.   So I've got some work to do there.   I had a bogey‑‑ a couple bogeys, one right next to the green on a par‑5.   All in all there's a couple rusty mistakes.   There's no rust, but it was one of those kind of days where I really should have been 3‑under.   I was hitting it good enough to shoot 3‑under out here, even in this wind.   I just let a couple get to me but came back with a couple birdies. 

Q.   What did happen on 8? 
    JORDAN SPIETH:   I just didn't judge it right.   The greens are firm, and I was‑‑ you know, and it was something I worked on hard with my coach last week was just pitches across greens because I've had pretty much that same shot a lot this year.   You know, I was leaving them all short, so I decided to go ahead and be a little aggressive on that one and ended up running too far, and I was too aggressive on the next one.

Q.   Were 12 and 13 three‑putts?   I missed those two holes. 
    JORDAN SPIETH:   12 was.   I mean, I had two three‑putts that were from the first cut of rough.   I'd consider them putts, though, because they were by the green.   Yeah, that one was.   13 wasn't; I just‑‑ 13 and 16 were really, really hard holes today. 

Q.   Given the number of people that are still above par, you must feel okay being where you are?
    JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, yeah, I had five birdies and I'm happy with being able to convert.   I got to 3‑under early through four holes, had another couple looks on the next couple holes, and it really could have been a low front nine.   It was nice.   It was nice getting off to that start.   But yeah, just had a lot of 5s on the card today, and playing the par‑5s 1‑over was something I haven't done in a while.   So just need to go work a little bit around the greens and a little bit on my long irons.   Other than that, my swing, my game is still there to shoot a low number, just got a little off today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT