THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  It was a tough day out there.  You had some nasty
bounces.  Talk about your thoughts about today's round?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, disappointed now.  Like you said, I
got some bad bounces.  I wasn't patient and that was the issue.
Bad bounces are going to happen out here, but I could have shot
three shots lower, without even playing any different.  I wasn't
patient enough today to shoot a good score and kind of be in
contention, but at the Open you shoot a great round tomorrow you
never know what happens.
Q.  The first three rounds, I thought that was the quality of
your game, you had been patient.
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, it's true.  And my swing was a
little off today and when it's a little off out here, you know,
you really have to stay commit to just giving yourself 20, 30
feet, even if it's with a wedge.  And I didn't do that today.  I
did it well the last two days and for whatever reason didn't have
it today.  But that's all right.  I'll go work on it and be good
for tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, I birdied No. 6, hit driver and
ended up kind of just into the fescue, which it was okay.  Hit a
great 9-iron up there to five feet and made a putt.  I was on a
streak of making a lot of 4- or 5-footers.  Felt great with the
putter, on No. 9 I hit 3-iron, 3-iron over the green, and then got
back down to the pin for birdie.
Had some wedges on the beginning of the back nine that
just -- very easy birdie opportunities that I actually played over
par.  But luckily I hit 4-iron, wedge into 14 -- or 15, excuse me.
And had about 20 feet and finally got one of those 20-footers to
go.  I hit a lot of 20-footers this week that I missed low.  So I
kind of told myself, make sure you hit it high and hard enough.
And it worked out.  It actually found the bottom of the cup, tough
finish for me.
Q.  On 4 did you miss judge your chip?
JORDAN SPIETH:  No, it's a par-3, but it's a really,
really long par-3, we're into about a 30-mile-an-hour wind or
20-mile-an-hour wind.  Yeah, I was in the middle of the fescue,
you don't want to hit it over from there.  And it's very, very
difficult to get on the green.  So I thought I put the right swing
on it, it slid under the ball and ended up in the sand and hit a
good sand shot to have a chance to make bogey.
Q.  General impressions of this, your first Open?
JORDAN SPIETH:  It's awesome.  I love it.  The crowds are
spectacular.  The golf course is tough, but it is fair.  If you're
hitting solid shots and you're keeping the ball in play off the
tee, you can shoot an under-par round.  Under par is a great
round, but it's possible.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  Oh, it's great.  It's phenomenal,
especially walking with Darren, he's a crowd favorite.
Q.  How did you get on with him?
JORDAN SPIETH:  He's as good of a guy as I could possibly
have played with.  Hopefully I get paired with him tomorrow, too.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  No, not really, we just kind of just
talked about whatever.
Q.  You had a good time?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, had a great time.  And he's
obviously loved and I can see why.  Extremely nice guy, he's very
selfless, he's rooting for me.  It was cool to be playing with a
guy like him, Major champion.
Q.  Tomorrow you go away and maybe work on a couple of
things, where would you -- if you could say tomorrow I would be
happy, if I could -- what would you score?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I just want to play -- there's no
finishing a certain position doesn't mean a whole lot to me.  I
just want to play a round that I'm happy with.  I want to play a
smart round of golf.  I still have yet to do that.  There were
still places out there where I wasn't -- well, the wind wasn't
blowing.  It was the other direction.  It was a different golf
course, and I was driving the ball extremely well.  And I've been
a little off with my longer clubs the last couple of days, but
it's so difficult to -- with how firm it is, fairways are cut in
two, because you have to hit it one half to hold the other side
and into the green you have tighter spots you have to land it on.
And I've adjusted my tee shots better today.  It was just a little
windier, played very difficult.
But I just want to go about it smart tomorrow.
Q.  Has (inaudible) taken any toll on you?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I don't think so.  My legs felt fine.
Q.  I mean mentally, maybe?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, maybe.  I've played a lot of golf
since March and --
Q.  Particularly these last two weeks?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, the last three weeks prior to this
I was in the afternoon Saturday and Sunday, too.  So it wasn't
just finishing 40th and going to the next week.  It was contending
to win.  And, yeah, it does take a toll.  It's a different
situation I've never been in before, but I don't think it affected
me negative, at all.
Q.  Will you have a decent break after tomorrow?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT