HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2013
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jordan, comment on the good day for you. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   It was sold.   A lot better ball striking.   Kinda stress free.   I think I only missed a couple of greens, so I improved in that aspect and I hit a lot of great putts and made a few and a couple didn't fall. 
If the putter starts falling this weekend I will be in good shape. 

Q.   How different does this week feel for you now that you're out here playing for money?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Quite a bit, it has nothing to do with playing for money, it's the fact that I've been playing with a pretty full schedule and obviously this isn't the only one you're prepping more and it's one I single out but it's an event in a long stretch of a PGA TOUR year. 
In that sense it's a little different.   I feel more loose, settled in, just kinda‑‑ just feels like another round. 

Q.   Ball striking seems great. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah.

Q.   Close calls on the front and‑‑
JORDAN SPIETH:   Front could have been a real low number.   I was happy to get a few under there and not have to worry about the cut line and try and get into contention. 
It was nice to hit all the greens on the front nine.   I'm going to try and go work a few things out on the range and hit a couple of putts, but overall I would like to duplicate today. 

Q.   Talk about this weekend, you will have more supporters out here as well. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, it's kinda nice.   After yesterday you're thinking about making a couple of birdies early, and making the cut and it's in everyone's head but it's going to be nice to get a larger following than what we have already had, which has been great and it will help cheer me on I think. 

Q.   I want to ask you about the young guys coming up.   Do you see some potential there? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I played with Brad a couple of days ago at Colonial this past Sunday.   The amount of talent in those young juniors, especially in this area is phenomenal.   We have little Scotty going to Texas, a lot of great juniors in the state. 
It's only getting better.   It's evident with what Guan Tianlang is doing, making cuts at 14.   And I said it three years ago playing this event, a lot of my peers are talented enough if they get the opportunity to make cuts and that's what they've done.   Justin Thomas is one of my best buddies, he's made the cut in both TOUR events he played in. 
It's going to get younger and if you look at the history of the teenagers recently making cuts on TOUR. 

Q.   Do they ask you for advice? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   No, I just mess around with them.   It's less advice, friendly competition. 

Q.   As far as looking ahead for the rest of the year, starting next week with Colonial, you mentioned you played with Brad over there, how do you feel like you're set up for that course? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   I feel like it's a great course for me.   I never played in Colonial, I played the course a few times this year already and four or five times overall in my life.   I think it's a great course for me.   Obviously extremely narrow, Hogan's alley and those courses, I seem to be comfortable on, so looking forward to having a great weekend here and getting in contention tomorrow and we'll worry about next week, next week. 

Q.   Do you feel like that's‑‑ are you excited your first year to be able to play both? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah. 

Q.   Just kinda getting a schedule set and do you like playing the Texas events, something you would do typically every year play as many home stops as possible looking forward? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   That's something I plan on doing as long as I'm out here, playing all the Texas events.   I like every one of the golf courses that hosts it and this year is the first time I've gotten to play all four, first time I got to play Houston and now Colonial coming up so, yeah, anytime you can stay in the state, I feel like I have an advantage, and it's always nice to have hometown crowds. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JORDAN SPIETH:   I hit 3‑wood yesterday, hid driver today, probably should have hit 3‑wood.   In the afternoon I think it's a 3‑wood for me. 

Q.   Is that a hard fairway to hit? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   With a driver it's extremely hard to hit but with the rough, you know, rough‑‑ there is not much rough up there on the left side so a lot of guys are bustin' it, if it goes in the fairway it's fine and if it's in the rough it's fine but with the pin on the back of the green I will probably try and position myself. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, yeah, just‑‑ I got lucky it wasn't in the sand, had a good lie and had a wedge in my hand so was able to attack it. 

Q.   What do you think the key was today? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Consistency.   Didn't have a great range session before this morning but was able to go out and clear my mind before the round and hit a lot of greens.   Out here if you can hit 15 or 16 greens the furthest you have to par is 2 feet makes it easier, especially when the wind picks up. 

Q.   What did you think of Byron Nelson? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   I never met him.   The first time I played the Byron Nelson Junior, was a year after he passed.   But I've spent quite a bit of time with Peggy and the stuff she tells me is unbelievable.   Most of what she shares is stories from the course and everyone just strives to be like him. 
THE MODERATOR:   Jordan, thank you.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT