THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2013
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JORDAN SPIETH:  It was a wonderful first Open experience
to play a golf course like Muirfield that's just raved about.  In
the conditions that we had, it was phenomenal.
I enjoyed it.  I played well for a little while.  And I
learned a lot out of this week.  This is just different golf that
I am not used to.  And from there I can learn quite a bit.
Q.  As the week wore on did fatigue come into play at all?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I don't think so.  I was off late
yesterday and today.  I mean, I was able to sleep in a little bit.
Honestly, it's just been a lot of golf swings.  It's been 293 golf
swings in the last month in a tournament, and then you at least
double that for practice rounds.  And a lot of players do that,
but that's kind of abnormal for me to be in contention the last
three weeks and then come here.
Yeah, maybe just a little bit worn out.  But I gave it
all I had today.  And time to rest now.
Q.  Your birthday next Sunday, what will you do?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I'll be at home.  Probably just -- just
with friends and family hanging out.  I'll be in Dallas at home.
Q.  How many weeks off before you get back on Tour?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I'm not sure yet.  At least one, probably
a couple of weeks and then the PGA Championship.
Q.  The FedExCup right after?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yes, the FedExCup right after.  I know
there's quite a few candidates; Russell has won this year and has
played phenomenally.  You never know.  That would be great role to
have for the end of the year.
Q.  If there's one thing about this that you've learned, what
is it?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Patience.  That's what I said yesterday.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  A little easier conditions.  The wind
picked up the last two days.  Today I was pretty smart all the way
around.  I just had some bad swings.  A couple double bogeys were
just really bad swings.  It wasn't bad decisions on my part.
I'm happy with my first Open experience.  Looking back,
obviously, I didn't expect to be here.  So it's pretty awesome.
This four-week stretch has been incredible, and did a lot for me
going forward.  I'm just happy to get home to my own bed.
Q.  Were you short on clothes?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, I packed for one week, but Under
Armour got it brought over here and it wasn't a problem from there
on in.
Q.  The birdie on 7 --
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, 7 was actually a pretty easy hole
today.  The leaders are about to go to it.  You'll see, I think, a
lot of birdies.  It's a 7-iron to carry 180 and bounces back
there.  I made a good putt.  And I left about 70 percent of the
putts I hit this week short.  So today my goal was to go ahead and
just start ripping it.  Once I left my first couple short on the
first couple of holes.  I just said if I have four or five feet
coming back, even if I miss a couple of those, at least I was
being aggressive and giving it a chance.
The hole before I hit a good putt, made a good one on 5.
Q.  11?
JORDAN SPIETH:  11?  Yeah, 11, hit a great 3-wood down
the fairway and was left with 113 yards, and into the wind tried
to punch a pitching wedge.  Got it on the right ledge and was able
to be aggressive and it kind of hammered into the hole.
Q.  How far was that?
JORDAN SPIETH:  The putt?  Probably a 20-footer.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  I knew I was going to be in John Deere.
I was going to do Congressional, have a week off, John Deere, have
a week off here.  So, yeah, I thought I was going to play two out
of the four, and I ended up playing four in a row here.  I packed
for the Washington, D.C. heat, and ended up in Scotland.


 
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT