THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  I didn't get a whole lot.  Last night I
got 10 hours, 10 or 11 hours.  That was as much as I've gotten in
a long time.  But before that I was getting five and six hours.
And then two the night before that.  So that's not normal for me.
Some people it is, I guess.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  It was great.  It was very difficult, but
if you're coming out on the right angles in the fairways, the
shorter holes, if you're hitting -- you can hit 3- or 4-iron, and
if you're putting it in the right side of the fairway, you can
actually attack the pins.  There were a couple of pin placements
that were extremely difficult for which hole it was.  But overall
I thought it was tough and fair.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  I think it was -- what is it, 14, right
after the par-3.  It's a really, really long hole.  Same at 18,
they were difficult pins.  I happened to hit it in the spot, the
ball bounded into the right spots for me.  But I saw the guys in
my group, if they were -- Russell hit a putt that I thought was a
great putt, and it ended up rolling 30 feet down the hill and he
barely hit it.  18, if you're above the hole it's hard, but you
can't really be below the hole.  If you hit driver on both those
holes and hit driver in the fairway, you're okay.  But I don't
think everyone did that.
Q.  Have you ever played a links course before?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, Junior Ryder Cup was at Gleneagles,
which isn't exactly a full on links course.  But I played the
Junior British Open in England, and it was at Hesketh, next to
Royal Birkdale.  And then I played the Walker Cup, so we came over
and played -- that was at Royal Aberdeen.  We played St. Andrews,
Kingsbarn, and a lot of rounds at Aberdeen.  And that was
obviously the most pressure packed, competitive rounds I've played
on links, and it was almost two years ago.



It doesn't seem there is as many low
scores this afternoon, I think because of the greens.
Q.  Is that as fast as you've seen them?
JORDAN SPIETH:  No, I've played on faster.  To be honest,
this is more what I like.  Last /KWRAOEBG I said the greens aren't
fast enough.  It's not an issue this week.  I putted well today.
I feel more comfortable on these greens.  I don't think of the
speed, I feel the speed.  Last week I reminded myself to hit it.
This week I can go over and see the putt and feel it, which is
obviously going to lead to better putting, hopefully.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  I played really
well today.  I didn't have very good shots at the first, and then
after that, I had a couple of poorish shots in the middle of my
round there, but apart from that I played really well.  As you can
see, there's not much green left on that being good, it's very,
very fast and firm.  So anything under par this afternoon I think
is a good round.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  You know, I hit a really nice shot into
par-3, on 4.  I hit it into about 8, 10 feet.  And birdied the
next hole.  And that was kind of nice.  But actually probably
after bogeying the first, I had a great shot into 2 about eight
feet.  It's nice to get one right back.  And I just played well
today.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  Definitely.  I mean -- yeah, playing the
shots, I mean like for example there on 17 I hit 240 yards and hit
a 6-iron ten yard past the pin.  It was easier to pull the club
knowing -- having a week's practice of landing it.  Some of the
clubs you have to choose out here when it's this firm and windy,
it's comical because it starts bouncing and doesn't stop for a
while.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  It's not.  It's fun.  And I think some
links courses when they get this fast and firm, I don't think
they're fun, because you can hit a good shot and you think it's
perfect and then you end up in a bunker beside the green or miss a
fairway, so that's why this is such a great golf course.  For
example on 17 today I had a good tee shot and it was going to be
in the tear way and my second shot, I started walking, because you
know it's going to bounce guard, you're not going to see it kick
straight right and end up in a bunker.  It's really hard to hit it
close, but if you hit good shots you can hit it close, you can use
the bumps and the slopes to do it.
No, I had a lot of fun today, yeah.

Q.  (Inaudible).
JORDAN SPIETH:  A lot of my iron shots I was pleased with
where I left the ball.  I played the smart shot in there and had
control working it both ways.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  No, not really.  There's no reason to
right now.  I mean we're at a Major championship.  So this is why
we do what we do.  This is one of the four weeks of the year where
you really need to have your mind right on the tournament.  I'm
sure when I get back home and watch a little of the coverage that
happened last week and have more Internet access, it will be a
little easier.  But right now I'm just getting out there.  I'll
probably hit a few putts and get ready for tomorrow.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah, now, shoot, there's even less
pressure than there was before.  I kind of accomplished more than
I'd thought possible this year.  I just wanted to get my card for
next year.  Now it's just really exciting.  It's nice to be
playing in three Majors in the year.  And the playoffs, to get a
chance to play in World Golf Championships, it's what you strive
for.  I didn't think it would happen this soon.  But obviously on
the course I was plenty confident to go out there and do it.


 
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT