THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2013
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What time did the charter get in?
JORDAN SPIETH:  We landed at probably 10:30.
Q.  In the morning?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yeah.
Q.  Places to stay.
JORDAN SPIETH:  We have like a house/condo thing starting
tonight.  Last night we stayed in Edinburgh, just kind of relaxed.
Q.  You weren't going to play yesterday at all?
JORDAN SPIETH:  No.
Q.  What did you do during the day?
JORDAN SPIETH:  We went and had some lunch, and then took
about a two or three-hour nap.  And went back out and had some
dinner, and just kind of walked around the downtown area.
Q.  Did you go to the castle at all?
JORDAN SPIETH:  No, we were just kind of walking the
streets.
Q.  You packed only through Sunday?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I only packed for one week.  I only
packed for one week.  That's the only week I packed for.  I got in
Greenbrier and then got in John Deere and then got here.  I packed
for one week and the Congressional heat.  I had a rain jacket.
These are the pants I wore Sunday; haven't been washed.  Starting
tomorrow everything about be fine.
Q.  At what point were you able to learn something about
Muirfield?  Did you do any kind of homework?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I've just heard that it's one of the best
links courses in the world, top couple in the world.  I can see
why.  It's fantastic.  This is the tournament that I watch every
year.  It's really cool to watch, when you wake up in the morning
and see guys in the afternoon and you see it's miserable for them,
and you're sitting on the couch.  Life is good, look at these
guys.
But this is cool.
Q.  Did you know anything about Muirfield?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I don't know a whole lot.  A lot of it is
in front of you, which is nice.  It's a great golf course, but
it's also in front of you, which is kind of rare.  I play 18
tomorrow.  I just couldn't do it today.  My legs were still trying
to recover.  I got up early to come out here.  But, yeah, from
what I saw, I enjoy it.  I enjoy links courses.  I've been over to
Scotland a couple of times, and played St. Andrews, Kingsbarns,
Aberdeen, and had success.  I really do enjoy playing links golf.
I don't spin the ball very much.  I fly it low.  And I like to use
my imagination chipping.  It's just a fun test to me, as long as I
stay out of the sand.
Q.  Did you do any research to get some sort of feel for what
you're going to be seeing?  Did you look at any of the flyovers?
JORDAN SPIETH:  No, like I said, I don't really have
Internet.  Not a whole lot I could do.  I'm just kind of
free-swinging, feeling really good from last week, and just trying
to keep that going.  I made a lot of birdies last week, at least
the putts are going in.
Q.  Are you going to chill out today?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I'm going to go putt for a while.  And
then I'll eat and then just go to the house.  My dad and brother
and one of my friends are getting in today.  So we'll all just
probably get settled in, maybe go to sleep for a little bit.  And
find somewhere to get dinner.
Q.  You played nine this morning?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Yes.
Q.  What's your caddie's name?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Michael Greller, G-r-e-l-l-e-r.
Q.  You turned pro in December, you had no status on any
Tour, what did you think your season would look like?
JORDAN SPIETH:  I thought that if I was playing well, I'd
be playing Web.com Tour, which is the new pathway to get on Tour.
And I figured that if I got off to a good start there in South
America, which ended up happening, then I could play that way the
whole year, and get on Tour next year.  I went over to Puerto Rico
and that week just changed everything.
Q.  What's amazed you most about these past eight months?
JORDAN SPIETH:  Everything.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT