TAMPA BAY CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY EVERBANK
March 16, 2013
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your second shot into 16, you had 169 yards, just looked like a sliver of an opening. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   It was.   It wasn't a smart shot.   Out of ten times, I may be hit the green one or two. 
Pulled a 6‑iron out and had to split about a two‑yard gap into small trees and keep it under another tree and hook it.   It was just a lot of factors.   My caddie was telling me, probably don't do that, punch it out, but you know, in that position, I felt confident with it.   I felt like I could get it up there around the green.   Hitting the green and making birdie was definitely a bonus, and that was one of the best shots I've ever hit in my life.

Q.   Did you catch a bad break on 18? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   I felt like I hit a good putt.   I knew it was breaking, it was a left‑edge putt, very simple.   The green, you know, a lot of people were walking right in that valley right there and that's just what happens at the end of the day.   So, yeah, unfortunate break.   I feel like it caught a spike mark because when it came off my blade, I thought it was fine.

Q.   You seem comfortable on these fast greens?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I do.   I've played the past three weeks, all on really good greens.   So this is another one of those cases.   You know, just got to be delicate.   A lot of putts, you've just got to go ahead and say, I'll take a 2‑putt and not try to make them.

Q.   You were so good in the bunkers on Friday, five or five, and you struggled a little bit, is that luck of the draw as far as lies are concerned? 
JORDAN SPIETH:   No, I felt like I hit a lot of great bunker shots today.   I hit just as good as yesterday, just maybe tougher spots or I didn't make the putts.   The bunker shots were just as good as yesterday.   I feel good out of the green‑side bunkers.   Would rather not have them.   But yeah, just try to hit more greens tomorrow and not try and worry about it.

Q.   Remember back in Dallas a few years ago, wonder if you were going to be finished in time to go to the high school prom, you've come a long way in a short period of time?
JORDAN SPIETH:   This is a new experience obviously being a pro and being in contention than it was back then.   You know, I feel good, and tomorrow hopefully post a few under and see how it comes in. 

Q.   Can you give an overall on your round, please?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I hit the ball better than I did the last two days.   I'm still not hitting it as well as I did the past few weeks.   My ball‑striking has been great.   Right now I'm just not driving it well.   Some holes where guys are hitting 7‑irons and hitting middle of the green and having looks at birdie, I'm struggling.   Today I really only hit‑‑ I felt like I only hit one driver that was solid.   So that's tough.   You know, like 18, I'm buried over in the rough and there's not much to do from there.   9, I'm in the bunker.   Just certain holes where it's really key to put the ball in the fairway, I haven't been able to.   Hopefully tomorrow, I will go figure it out on the range and come out tomorrow with a good mind‑set. 

Q.   What's the biggest difference between this and college golf?   Obviously the calibre and everything?
JORDAN SPIETH:   You know, I would just say the calibre.   College golf, you play courses similar to this.   You play really, really difficult tracks with tough pins.   It's just a step up of competition here and that's about it. 

Q.   Some people say that the biggest thing for them is the amount of golf played now versus then. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   Definitely.   The most I've ever gone is two in a row and this is my fourth in a row.   I'll have off next week and then maybe play three in a row after that.   It's definitely a different amount of golf, yeah.   I guess that's a big change.
Similar mind‑set of making sure I'm giving myself putts at every hole.   My big thing out here is putting the ball on the greens.   I feel like I just haven't hit enough greens.   But different from last week as far as a great score.   But I think that tomorrow, I'll strike the ball a little better than today and maybe a few putts will fall. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT