AT&T NATIONAL
June 28, 2013
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   No birdies there on the back nine, does that give you confidence going into tomorrow, or a little bit of a drag not getting them where you want?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   No, it gives me confidence.   Obviously, I felt the nerves, just like anybody does, first time, trying to win for the first time, when you see yourself in the lead, whether it's the first hole in the tournament or the middle of the second round.   
Yeah, I was happy with the way my ball striking held up, and I hit good putts.   I didn't start walking right after any of those putts.   I thought they were going in on most of them and just barely misread them.   
So definitely take a lot of confidence out of that into tomorrow, and hopefully they'll fall.  
   
 Q.   That 25‑footer on 1 that you had, how does that kind of feed your energy to start the day?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, that pin position's tough, and if I miss the putt, the closest I can be is four feet with where the pin is.   I didn't hit a great wedge in there.   I was pretty upset with myself.   
Just wanted to‑‑ going into the day, I really just wanted to play the way I played yesterday, just hit my mid‑irons a little better.   I put myself in positions to where you can make a putt like that because I had enough of them today.   
When one drops‑‑ when a putt drops on No.1, there's never a better feeling than to start under par for a round.   So fortunately, I was able to take that momentum into the front nine.  
   
 Q.   Anything significantly different in the way the course played today than yesterday?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Honestly, I don't think so.   I think it's just a touch firmer.   Balls are rolling out a little more on the fairway, and the green, it's just bouncing a little more, but they're still receptive.  
   
 Q.   How much of a leaderboard watcher are you?   Is that something you like to see on Friday?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I was looking.   I wasn't staring at it.   I don't study it.   I like to know where I'm at.   Probably should do a little less than I do, but I saw I was getting up there towards the lead and leading, and from there, you don't try and stall like I did on the back nine, I guess.   
But I was trying to push for a couple more birdies and almost had them.  
   
 Q.   You're going to turn 20 this month, right?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   In a month, yeah.  
   
 Q.   End of July?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   How would it feel if you won, if you just kept going, playing the way you are?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   It would be huge.   I can't really think about that at this point.   It's only halfway through the round‑‑ or through the tournament.   So there's a long way to go.   
Honestly, I'm kind of free swinging, though.   I've gotten in a position where I can play a pretty full schedule this year, and I know I'll have my card for next year.   
Now all there is left to do is try and get a win to make the playoffs.   That's the only way I can make the playoffs this year.   So I'm just going out there trying to win and being aggressive, and hopefully it will work out for me.  
   
 Q.   With the way you're playing right now and the fact that you're on track for your Tour card, how important have the sponsor exemptions been for you?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Very.   I mean, it's unbelievable what tournaments have done for me and given me the opportunity to play at the beginning of the year.   Even after earning special temporary status, it's still not‑‑ I mean, it's not a given.   Obviously, I can't explain how much I appreciate the tournaments giving me exemptions.   
I just got one for next week now too.   So I can play a few in a row here while I'm playing well and hopefully ride that momentum.  
   
 Q.   Is the routine any different on a Friday night when you're at the top of the leaderboard?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   I don't think so.   I'm just going to‑‑ I got a lot of family here.   So probably just hang with them and get some dinner and just do the same thing I've been doing every other night.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT