PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I was able to walk 72 holes with you last week so I knew you were putting well coming in, but this is probably as good as I've seen you put personally this year.  Unofficially you have 11 putts on your inward nine and at one point you had six straight 1-putts and you had 140 feet in putts.  Just a really solid day on the greens for you?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it was.  I've really cleared my setup, especially inside of ten, 12 feet.  I feel more comfortable.  My eyes are seeing where the putter is pointed so I can be reactive to the correct line.  It seems easy, but when that gets off, golf is pretty difficult and that's where I've been the last year and a half.   
Now the putter is certainly better.  The rest of the game, I'm able to stay a little more patient and just try and hit greens in regulation and I can shoot more consistent rounds.   
My bunker play has actually been less than stellar for my expectations, but it's been really nice.  I noticed that today when I was in them, I hit a few really good ones and one that kind of made a good putt that makes the bunker stats look good, but all in all, it's better to be in the bunkers than the rough out here.   
 Q.  We don't have time to go through all your birdies but walk me through your 39 footer on the eighth green?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, the crowd is yelling out that no one has got it to the hole yet and DJ hits it, and it kind of breaks less than it looks.  I had a read, plus the crowd is hollering that everyone has left it short, so I just went off a little bit lower line than what DJ had, and luckily I was able to see that.  You just try to get the right speed for the green and certainly it's a bonus when it drops.   
 Q.  5-under, and all season you've been figuring out a way to eliminate the mistakes on the scorecard.  What was going on to make your swing so consistent all 18 holes?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Like I said yesterday, just try and feel like I have control of the club, the timing, good rhythm to the swing.  It's nice to hole a few putts, and to make a few good par saves today.   
 Q.  You've talked about thinking less, reacting more out there on the golf course.  Mentally, did you feel like you just let things come to you more today than maybe overthinking?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it's less of what can go wrong, and it's more of just trying to force things.  Starting off the back nine, it was nice to be 1-under through the first three holes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT