U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2012
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You know with Tiger saying it's hard out there. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   It's really hard.   I was happy to get in my first round in the '60s in a Major.   So that's pretty cool.   Looking back, I felt like I played really well today.   I hit most of the fairways and most of the greens and my putter felt good.   I only missed one or two shots, so that's just what a U.S. Open does. 

Q.   What is it about the course or setup that makes it so tough?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Off the tee, it's the most demanding.   The course is really fast.   Balls are bouncing in the fairway.   And they're severely sloped.   Even though it's an average yardage of 25 yards you're hitting into throughout the course, you really only have ten yards to hit it in. 
You're trying to place a drive out there that's going to carry 275 in a ten yard space.   So everyone is going to miss fairways.   You pick and choose which side you miss it on.   And one it up from there.

Q.   Where does it rank in contending on those Nelsons?
JORDAN SPIETH:   You know, I don't know how to really compare it.   It's different, quite a bit different, because I kind of took myself out of it yesterday.   But I got new goals.   I don't know how Patrick played, but Beau is going off, playing well right now. 
So‑‑ and then also I'd like to maybe put something special together tomorrow and get a top 10 and get in next year, see what happens.

Q.   Knowing what the course is like and then seeing what Beau had done, are you surprised that‑‑
JORDAN SPIETH:   That's the biggest thing out here, you have to swing confidently off the tee.   And if you're questioning your driver, that's huge.   I guess he hasn't been hitting that many fairways, but he has the confidence to swing at the ball. 
I just watched a little bit of him yesterday and he's going out there and swinging hard at it.   So he's got the confidence on the greens, too.   He's kind of been holding it together, missing in the right spots, playing smart.   If I had played very smart golf the first few days, I would have saved three or four shots overall and been in the same position.

Q.   What was your state of the game coming in?   You were kind of struggling, and not happy with sectionals?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I'm kind of going through a little change.   I've been off with my swing for a good two months now.   Been trying to work it back.   I kind of got into some tendencies after taking some time off.   I've been working hard with Cameron, my instructor.   He's been out here.   It's been a struggle off the tee with my longer clubs, trying to shorten my swing and stay back on it.
It's tough to trust when I really only have one ball flight right now.   Especially when you get into a U.S. Open.   You've got to hit it in that area. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JORDAN SPIETH:   Well, the thing is if I do this correctly I'm hitting a straight ball with a little fade.   Every hole I play a draw it stayed right and gone in the rough.   So I'm kind of singling myself to one shot and trust it.   I did that really well today. 

Q.   What do you feel like has compensated for maybe not hitting as well as you'd like?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Well, my 3 to 8 footers have been strong this week, and that's what you have to do in a U.S. Open, hang in there.   I've had quite a few par putts, even the 4‑footers that look like they're not that hard on these greens, you've got to be careful about how hard you're hitting them.   They go a certain speed, and then they die, and they roll an extra foot, especially the downhillers, staying patient on my putter and short putts have been going in.

Q.   Have these past four weeks and then sectionals and getting in as an alternate, has that felt like a rush?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, after NCAA's and sectionals, I didn't think I was going to make it in originally.   Actually in between sectionals and the first round here I'd only practiced three days.   So I'd taken off five in there and that's not exactly typical U.S. Open.   Prep is taking off five days and practicing three in different increments, they weren't even in a row.
Coming in, I wasn't hitting it great.   I didn't hit it great the first couple of rounds, which is fine.   I'm not too mad at that because I'm working on some stuff.   The biggest thing is not to get too down on yourself, because when you do, you make some high numbers.   I'm still going through this tournament with nothing worse than a bogey.   That's pretty special.

Q.   What were you going to be doing this week if you didn't get in?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Probably just resting.   With the last couple of weeks, you know, eight rounds in a row and then two rounds the next day for sectionals I was pretty worn out.   It has been a whirlwind.   Unfortunately next week I've got to get ready for Congressional.   So it's not really going to stop. 

Q.   Where are you after Congressional?
JORDAN SPIETH:   It just depends on‑‑ I don't know if the Haskins Award has come out. 

Q.   Voting is done, but I don't think it's done. 
JORDAN SPIETH:   If that happens I'll go to the Greenbrier and then the John Deere, so three in a row.   Definitely won't be a break in there.   Could be big, but this is the U.S. Open and I know whatever happens throughout this week, I'm carrying confidence in there.

Q.   Will you be playing in any of the amateurs?
JORDAN SPIETH:   U.S. Amateur.   I'm not sure, it could change.   I could play, maybe play the Western, I'm not sure.

Q.   And the Q‑School as an amateur?
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, and then plans to head back into Austin in the fall and head into Q‑School, making the cut here gets me in second stage, that's pretty cool.   Watching the scores yesterday, that was the main thing on my mind, not necessarily playing on the weekend. 

Q.   When did you finish yesterday?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I finished pretty early.   I finished around 12:30, 12:45.

Q.   Did you watch it a lot?
JORDAN SPIETH:   I didn't for a while, and then once we got back to the house after eating, we were clicking refresh all the time, because it was getting close.   These guys can make birdie, and then Stephen aims, hits it on 18, and it gets down to 61st, and then a couple of guys bogeyed. 
But there's a couple of guys‑‑ you have No. 8 to finish on it's‑‑ sometimes it's hard to get a par. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT