VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 5, 2013
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JORDAN SPIETH:   I hit the ball better than I did yesterday.   36 putts just isn't going to cut it anywhere, and that's what I had.   I just never was comfortable over the ball.   I had some strokes stop before I even hit the ball.   You know, I just felt really good before the round.   I made everything on the practice green, and then just got out there and missed a couple early and I was never able to settle down.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you put yourself in reasonable spots on the green?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, definitely.   There were a couple positions today where I hit it where you can't.   But, overall, outside of 18, which doesn't really count, I only missed three greens.   I definitely am still striking the ball great.   I definitely know what I need to work on this next week before I play three in a row.  
   
 Q.   What did you pick up from this grouping?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I learned a lot.   I got to talk to them both a lot, and they're obviously great guys.   I didn't really talk about golf much, just talking about other stuff.   It was great to see the difference in the way they played and how I played today.   
I mean, Matt was in a lot of really hard positions and he made his seven‑ to eight‑foot par putts.   I had seven putts for birdie inside 10 feet today and I made zero.   Even the guy that's ranked last on TOUR makes two or three of those.   That's just how it was.   It's just unfortunate it happened today.  
   
 Q.   You played so well over the last month; did you see a round like this coming?   
JORDAN SPIETH:   No.   Even today looking back, I didn't.   I just feel like my little sister there could have putted for me and shot a better round.   That's just how it was.   You don't see a round coming when you're hitting 15 greens and you have seven looks at birdie, most people look at that as a 2‑ or 3‑under par round.   Especially on a really difficult golf course like this, I can take a lot of confidence out of how I'm hitting it right now.  
   
 Q.   On the front nine you were hitting everything close, too.   
JORDAN SPIETH:   I put myself the only place you couldn't on 1, made bogey, regrouped and hit a lot of good shots.   Great wedges, great with mid‑irons, played holes smart, left them in the right position.   I hit a lot of great shots today; I just couldn't capitalize on them.  
   
 Q.   What's it like playing with Rory?   He seemed to have a better day today.   
JORDAN SPIETH:   Yeah, I wouldn't bet against him next week.   He's coming into form.   He's got that driver working nicely with the little baby draw.   It was great.   It was a good learning experience.   He hits his longer clubs a lot higher than I do.   He's able to hoist his long irons, something I need to work on.   But just the biggest difference that I saw was the flat stick.   
It was a great experience for me.   I didn't feel like the pairing had anything to do with how I played.   It was just unfortunate that I had, I would call it, one of the worst putting days I've ever had.   I just couldn't get my mind around it when I was over the ball.  
   
 Q.   You wouldn't bet against Rory next week, but even this weekend he's in contention?  
JORDAN SPIETH:   Oh, definitely.   I think he's 1‑back.   I don't know.   Yesterday was, I think, about as poor as he could have played and he shot even.   I wouldn't be surprised if he posted some great rounds here.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT