WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Four birdies and an eagle today, good golf from you?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, yeah, some solid golf, especially in the middle of that front nine, to build up a lead.  And on this golf course you can hit irons at safety zones and play from there, maybe make another birdie or two.
So really solid golf.  I kind of shot myself in the foot to not just go ahead and close it out on 13, just trying to kind of over-trust a few things and kind of see where they're at and all of a sudden it's it was like, wow, this is the match now.  So that wasn't good.
But I'm pleased with how the game is progressing day to day.
Q. You said yesterday the halve almost felt like a victory.  What did this feel like?
JORDAN SPIETH: A win.  Yeah, I felt like it was -- yeah, I feel like it was -- I feel like I played better than I did yesterday.  And everything felt better than it did yesterday.  Looking for some midrange putts to go in.  I really haven't made anything outside 10 or 12 feet.  But luckily I've gotten in that range quite a bit.
But, yeah, the finish to the round was just more of just not being that smart.  I mean, he made a great birdied on 14, to make a 4 there.  He should tie the hole all the time.  But those other couple holes were just being kind of -- almost over-trusting things.  I feel good.
Q. Jordan, you apologized to him on 12 to hit the pin, is that when you know things are going your way?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it's one of those like when a tennis player hits it, forehand, hits the net and barely crawls over.  It's like it wasn't supposed to be there.  But at worst case I tie that hole, even if it doesn't hit it.  And then I think five or six to go, and probably play the next hole differently.
But, yeah, I mean it's one of those where when you're three or four-up you start to kind of see that happening around you.
Q. Did you hit any fairways today?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I drove the ball better after the start of the rounds.  2 and 3 were a little off.  And I started 6 on, I really drove the ball well.
Q. It's still hard to tell, but looks decent like you'll be here to Saturday, and next week in San Antonio.  What do you hope to get out of this ten-day period before you go to Augusta?
JORDAN SPIETH: Like I mentioned yesterday, I'm just trying to each day feel like I progressed a little more in what I'm working on.  And whatever happens this week as far as win or lose the match, whatever happens next week score-wise, if I continue to do that I'll be in the best position day in and day out to succeed.
So I'm not looking for certainly anything results-wise.  It's more just trying to play better golf.  And tomorrow, I mean, I could shoot 8-under in my match tomorrow, win the match and make a par on the first hole and I don't advance, if Billy wins and birdies.  I've got to win and prepare to have to go back out.
Q. Do two different formats make any difference to you?
JORDAN SPIETH: No, I don't think so, no.  Not if I'm staying focused on what I just mentioned before.
Q. Do you get any more confidence from this situation, in that pressure mounts in each round?
JORDAN SPIETH: I'm playing under pressure more often in this tournament than I would be on a second round of a regular event because you feel like it's -- you have to beat that guy or you go home.  It's almost like you're right on the cut line kind of feel where you have to beat him or you have to beat the cut line, essentially.
So playing under pressure and seeing where things are and compensating the right way and hitting good shots under that kind of pressure and making putts, it can be a big confidence boost this week.  It's why after Ryder Cup years, the next year I feel like I'm prepared when I'm in contention in a major championship to get the job done.  I've just always felt that way.  After high-stakes match play, you feel like you're trying to win a golf tournament every single match.  So the more matches the better.
Q. When did you feel the most pressure today?
JORDAN SPIETH: I would say probably my putt to win on 14 -- or 15, because I'm just sitting there.  You just don't want to go to another hole.  And then I had the same exact putt yesterday, crosswind, right-to-left breaker, and yesterday it snapped off the hole.  And so that one I pushed a little bit and it stayed out.  Tomorrow it will be in the middle, I won't three-putt that hole again.
Q. How do you feel today compared to yesterday?
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I feel great.  I felt like I hit the ball better today than yesterday.  And putting-wise it's pretty similar.  Made the ones I should make.  I missed a couple more today than I did yesterday.  But overall I got better from yesterday to today, and that's what I'm trying to do day in and day out.
Q. What do you have to do better tomorrow?  You talked about playing better than yesterday, what do you have to do to play better tomorrow?
JORDAN SPIETH: Just the same thing.  It starts kind of from the tee.  Try and put myself in some really good positions early in the match.  So you can get some birdies.  Kind of wedge opportunities on like four out of the first six holes.  And then try and roll in some more putts.  My speed control needs a little bit of improvement.
Q. The Europeans are doing really well here, won the last three events and the Ryder Cup, have you see any factors in that, other than just good players?
JORDAN SPIETH: I just think, yeah, good players individually.  They just happen to be coming from Europe, just like you'll see Americans going around, you'll see Australians going around.  I think it's just to have success in match play in the Ryder Cup, will no doubt when you get back in position in a match-play scenario to have those kind of good vibes can certainly be an advantage that they have and a reason for success.  But it's all clearly individually.
Q. What do you have to say about the Special Olympics?
JORDAN SPIETH: I haven't been on Twitter in about a year.  So I haven't seen any of it or talked to my mom.  And I don't think I'm educated enough on it yet to have a point.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT