AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 7, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess your round out there today?
JORDAN SPIETH: Pretty good.  A good start.  You really want to take advantage when we get the good weather day for what's coming, especially playing MPCC which normally yields more birdies, a little easier off the tee.  So I'm really happy about the back nine.  I was even par through nine on a course where you feel like you really need to get something going and it was certainly nice to get five birdies on the back.
Q. What changed from the front to the back nine today?
JORDAN SPIETH: Not a whole lot.  Just the putts kind of went in instead of missed.  I had, gave myself a few more chances -- there was three par-5s.  I birdied all three par-5s on the back nine so, that helps.  But got a little bit warmer, I wasn't wearing as many layers so that helped too.  But that's the problem, we're in for a tough one the next couple days.  It's good to get five birdies.  Tomorrow you can make up a lot of ground with an under par score with the weather that's coming in.
Q. You talked about the weather and talked about how this yields more birdies.  Does that put more pressure on you playing this course first?
JORDAN SPIETH: I would rather see it in this condition.  But certainly if you don't score well out here you put yourself kind of behind a bit and it's tough to make up when we got weather coming in because you're trying to force it.  I don't feel like I need to force anything tomorrow, just try and shoot a good score at Spyglass and then go on to Pebble and do what we have done in the past there.
Q. Based on your skills or maybe your attitude towards it or growing up in it?
JORDAN SPIETH: I think it makes me become more feel-oriented which is better for my game.  When it's just a dome it's very technical and I start thinking about how to hit every shot perfect or straighter instead of just playing the conditions.
Q. The Open Championship obviously fits to all of that then.
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I've historically played well there and that's a big reason why.  The imagination you need on your shots, certainly the greens play, and the course plays a lot different than these, actually the opposite.  But the condition of the golf course and the shots you have to hit.  But battling the conditions is similar.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT