MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Quite a difference today was.   
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, just tee to green. I mean I don't think I hit but five or six greens in regulation yesterday and today I think I hit like‑‑ I haven't done the, I haven't looked at it, but 14 or 15.   
So my pars were more stress‑free and I was able to have a lot more looks at birdie and overall my putting performance still hasn't been quite as good as it's been in previous weeks, but I know how it can, the hole can look kind of big out here sometimes and hoping for that on the weekend.  
   
 Q. How important is a round like this for you from a confidence perspective, especially here?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Oh, well it's not really especially here or anything, it's just trying to progress, and I felt like I did that. I felt like the first round was kind of where I was on the weekend last week and then I thought today was a bit better. I think it's getting really close to being in full control and able to have kind of the ball striking like today on a regular basis if not better.   
So I feel really good about today's round and what you're saying as far as some momentum going forward, just on my progression.   
I mean as far as this tournament, I'm six back, if I can somehow cut it to three by Sunday, then I feel like I have a legitimate chance.   
   
 Q. Were you thinking about the cut at all?  
JORDAN SPIETH: The first hole for sure. I'm like, I thought it was 60 and ties, Michael told me ‑‑ because I've never been anywhere near it ‑‑ so Michael told me, it must have been on 15 or 16, and I'm like, it's 10 off the lead and 60 right? He goes, no, it's 50. And I'm like well good thing I didn't probably know that.  
But I made a really big bogey putt on No. 1, probably a 7‑footer or something, I had the same putt for bogey last year on Friday and missed it and made double. And I learned from it, hit a solid putt.   
And then it led to a nice birdie on the next as well and made a nice putt there.   
So that was the big, that was big at the start to not have to worry much about the cut line as I got into the round. I played the first seven holes even par and from there I felt like I was going to be able to be under par the rest of the day.  
   
 Q. Were you unable to hit driver at all on the second nine yesterday?  
JORDAN SPIETH: No, I still hit it, but it wasn't pretty. But, yeah, it was weird. But it happens with drivers, like it's just the same little spot.   
So I just went to a backup that Titleist was able to bring in and I drove the ball well with it today.   
   
 Q. Did the birdie on 9 kind of turn it around for you?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, to see one of those go in, I felt like I hit a lot of good putts from that mid, long range that were going around the high sides of the holes yesterday and today.  
And it was just, it was really close and when that one to actually fall.   
And then to hit a good tee ball on 10. I mean 10's a hard shot, it forces you to hook it down there.   
So that kind of putt on the, shot on 10, I had a boost of confidence there for sure.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT