AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 9, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess your day out there today?  
JORDAN SPIETH: It was a tough one.  I had a few seasons today and I didn't quite have great control of the golf ball, so it's not a really good combination trying to battle the elements too.  So, yeah, kind of a kind of stinks because I really had it going the last couple days and just didn't have the same rhythm today.   
 Q.  How tough was it going into those holes along the ocean there?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I mean it was tough on the holes that we had it on there on kind of 9, 10, 10 really through 13 on that point where it turns, and you kind of trying to figure out where that wind's shifting to, it's tough.  But there's nothing -- I still made pars through that stretch and then where I was hitting it, it was going to bite me at some point, I didn't necessarily deserve to be a couple under par at the time, and so it ended up kind of haunting me there.  But I drove the ball well the last two days, and then today I just, my driver just didn't behave at all.  It was a 150-yard spread on either side and that's not good around Pebble Beach.  So just try and come out tomorrow and hope the rhythm is back to yesterday's standards.   
 Q.  How long does the finish stay with you?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I'm very frustrated.  If I just go par, par, I'm essentially still in this tournament with what's forecasted tomorrow.  I kind of threw myself out of the tournament.  So, yeah, it will affect me for awhile.  By the time I tee it up tomorrow, it will be a new goal set for the day.   
 Q.  You said you had trouble having control of the ball.  How much of that was the elements?  
JORDAN SPIETH: No, it was even, I was 2-under through five and I was telling Mike, like it doesn't feel as good as yesterday.  So you can make due for so long, but when tough conditions come up, it's going to show its teeth.  And then windy, soft poa annua, that's just really difficult, so you're not going to out putt the golf course, you got to stripe it out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT