SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2019
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jordan, you said you came in here with not high expectations; wanted to see where your game was.  What did you digest today?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I went through like a couple different swings today.  Yeah, I mean, it was kind of a test I guess.  It's very unusual.  I don't feel like I've been in this situation before.  It's okay.  I felt like I was patient out there and still am right now.   
Like I said, could take a while, but I got pretty far off and I'm trying to backtrack significantly.  But I need to get some tournament rounds to do it, even though it's humbling at the same.   
 Q.  When you say you haven't been in this situation before, what situation are you talking about?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Like where you just have to accept that it's not going to be great when you go out.  Like I'm over the ball and I'm uncomfortable.  It's going to happen in the course of a career.  As long as I don't let it get to me like I did a little bit last year, I'll be able to get back on track sooner rather than later.   
 Q.  You have some tape on the left wrist.  What's going on?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Just precautionary stuff.   
 Q.  How would you assess your putting as part of that whole process?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Actually, pretty good.  I mean, felt comfortable with the putter today.  Didn't end up making anything, but felt like I hit my lines; felt comfortable.   
That's closer than the swing is.  It's not to where I'm just over it and playing shots or over it and seeing lines and hitting putts.  It'll get there.  I'm not worried about it.   
 Q.  There were some you had to take some drops.  Can you just talk about that?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah.  I think twice I started to go from the shoulder and Michael, Slugger, they stepped in, No, no, no.  I'm like, Wouldn't it just be a redrop anyway?  What's the big deal?   
It's unusual.  The 1st hole today I tapped one in with the flag stick and I didn't feel right doing that.  Yeah, the new rules -- I tapped down one spike mark today on 4 for par.  It was really nice.  It was sticking up right in the line on about a four-footer.   
All in all, I got a test of most of the new rules today.   
 Q.  Is it much different coming out here without having the week in Maui before?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, definitely.  I like playing into tournaments, into majors, trying to kind of get yourself into form as you come to an event.   
But at least one of the events has to be the first event; happens to be Sony this year.  I will come back and try and shoot 5-, 6-under tomorrow, shoot a solid round.  The idea is to try and progress each day.  I would really like to have an opportunity to do that on the weekend, so I need to shoot a good round tomorrow just to give myself a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT