THE RYDER CUP
September 29, 2018
Jordan Spieth
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JUSTIN THOMAS: It was great.  We went out and did what we needed to do, and that was to get a point for our team, and we did so in both sessions; and not just to do so but to hit shots when we needed to the most and make putts when we needed it to the most.  Not that it's ever bad -- as long as you win, it's the most important, but we can get a lot out of today that we can potentially use tomorrow to our benefit.  It was a great day.   
 Q.  Momentum is so important in team golf, how do you get that momentum going early tomorrow?  It's very important.  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it certainly is, because if they get a couple points on the board, we have to win something like eight out of the next ten.   
So we've got to get off to a good start, we know that but even if we were leading, we would say the same I think this.  Each individual has to focus on their match and their match only.  I would certainly recommend not doing any scoreboard watching and take care of your match.   
 Q.  Big point on Saturday, 2-down early.  What changed that you were able to flip it and keep the foot on the gas?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: We kept within ourselves.  I hit sand wedge on 1 and Jordan short-sided in the bunker, and then I missed about a 5-footer.  We basically just gift-wrapped and handed it to them on the first two holes.   
I don't know what it was, or the way he said it, but walking off 2 green, Jordan said, "Look, if there's ever a time to be 2-down, you can't pick a better time than after the second hole."  I don't know why that resonated so well with me, but we played some damned good golf after.   
 Q.  After the morning session, you talked about the singular focus and worrying about your point, and what you can do.  How did that increase in magnitude, realising what you two can do, helps the team?  
JORDAN SPIETH: I think off of yesterday afternoon, you have to kind of expect anything.  You've got to expect the three matches in front of us to win and you also have to be prepared for if all three lost.  Kind of like this morning's matches.   
So we had a difficult match.  We had Ian Poulter and Rory McIlroy both playing solid golf right now, and so that actually kept our focus on the match.  We really -- even though we started to make a run there, being 2-down early, there's not a whole lot of extra time to watch score boards.  You've really just got to dig deep and worry about your own match.  It was a really fun match.   
 Q.  A lot of swings of emotion and momentum.  How did you continue that into singles?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Well, they had a 6-point lead, and now it's four, so we are carrying that as a little bit of momentum I guess.  Early wins tomorrow go a long way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT