DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2018
Jordan Spieth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You are in position, do you have to do something early to really know you can do it tomorrow?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, I've got to take advantage on the early holes, no question.  You want to try to play those under par, 1-under.  But those first seven holes, and that finishing stretch are where you need to really bring it.  That was the difference today for me.  I hit some really good shots on those holes and got just stymied in some really tough locations and bad breaks that forced me to be even par through six holes instead of 2-under.  Certainly a good start tomorrow will do a lot for me, but even par is a better start than the last two days.   
 Q.  The hole placements seem to be pretty tough?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, they were.  They've done a great job of making it tough but fair.  Some greens are firmer than others, because some greens have to be watered or else there's no chance to get at any of the pins.  So it's a little tough judging that.  The course is in phenomenon shape.  The greens are rolling great.  They've done a good job of making these pins in difficult locations, make you think twice before you hit anything from four feet out.   
 Q.  You had a lot of nice putts today.  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, it was good.  I actually felt it was good the last couple of days.  I looked and I was losing strokes, but made a couple off the green that made my chipping look good when they were actually putts.  The putting has been really high.  It's continued to improve.  I've seen it through the tournaments, it gets better every single day of the tournament of the last four events.  Hopefully that continues tomorrow.  I got more and more comfortable as the day went on.  Hot start tomorrow, you never know.   
 Q.  Clearly a trophy tomorrow would be good.  But you could lock up East Lake with a good round tomorrow?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Sure.  There's so much going on, and I don't even know -- and I have next week.  So all in all there's not many worries other than honestly just going out and shooting a good Sunday round.  I haven't had the best of luck on Sundays.  I feel like I've been comfortable.  I feel like the game's been there and then I just get tough breaks in the first six holes, going back to The Open Championship, that really just kind of stabbed me.  I don't feel like I'm doing anything wrong, so I think I've been playing better and better every single week.  This week has been really solid, as well.   
Again, I feel like I've been on the bad end of some breaks, divots and just stymied on some knobs around the greens to where I don't have much of a shot.  If I hit a worst of a shot I'd be better off.  It's like the weirdest things this week.  But the one thing that I have had this week that I haven't had this year is consistency.  2-under, 4-under, 3-under, is consistent golf given tough starts to the days.   
 Q.  Given it's not do or die for you tomorrow, but the fact that you can do it, will you maybe look at a few predictions late in the round?  
 A. I doubt it.  I'm not comfortable unless I'm inside the top-10 going to East Lake.  The idea isn't to get to East Lake, it's to win the FedExCup.  And I finally feel like my game is getting in a position where I can win and potentially the FedExCup.   
 Q.  Do you have your feels back today?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, yeah, I've gotten more comfortable with the feels, absolutely, through the bag.  Today was kind of the best yet.  I lost my driver in the middle of the round, which is tough, because that was a couple of strokes there on some key fairways.  But get a little bit better tomorrow.   
 Q.  I don't want to jinx it, but (no microphone) is back two with one to play.  
JORDAN SPIETH: With one to play?   
 Q.  Yes.  
JORDAN SPIETH: Awesome.   
 Q.  What impresses you most about his game?  
JORDAN SPIETH: His work ethic has been incredible.  He went to Texas and he didn't play for us his freshman year, and then he just started working his butt off.  He always has, but he's got that confidence, learning to win when he's competing, winning golf tournaments professionally.  This is massive.  If he wins this, that's so cool, because I've watched firsthand -- I've listened while I've gotten back Monday or Tuesday from a tournament, and below me in the gym I hear a medicine ball thrown against the wall at like 7 a.m.  He's just down there grinding.  It's so well deserved and earned, that it obviously is one of the coolest experiences that I've had for a friend.  Really amazing.  Hopefully you didn't jinx it.   
 Q.  He's coming on Tour next year, anyway?  
JORDAN SPIETH: Yeah, but to move up and potentially be one of the top spots and get -- you know the difference between being 8th to 1st or 2nd on that category.  That's another five starters.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT