DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2016
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A great day.  What was the story for you.  
TYRRELL HATTON: I felt I got off to a slow start.  I missed a few putts early on and then I tried to stay as patient as I can.  And then thankfully they started dropping, and that was the key to a good score today.   
 Q.  You looked pretty comfortable out there.  Has anything changed since your win?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Just having the confidence obviously that I can win, and I've done well in big events in the past.  So just take that confidence and hopefully can have a good weekend.   
 Q.  When you look at the names around you on the leaderboard, the Westwoods and Garcias and people like that, do you have to pinch yourself?  We're not being disrespectful, but you must have dreamt about that.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, for me, like it is when I first got on Tour, it was strange.  I'd been watching all these guys since I was a kid, so to then be playing in the same tournaments as them, obviously it was a little bit surreal.  This is my third year on Tour now, and I've done well in big events and now I've won, I'm comfortable out there.   
 Q.  Do you have a plan for the weekend?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Not really.  Just try and play as well as I can and hopefully the putts keep dropping.   
 Q.  It must be tiring out there.  The heat, it's been a big few weeks of heat for everyone on the Tour.  You must be delving into your reserves of energy?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I'm looking forward to my holiday after this week.  No, it is hot out there but you've just got to try and stay hydrated and keep as much energy as possible.   
 Q.  Thoughts on shooting a lovely round of golf like that with so many birdies in there.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously it was a really good day.  Got off to a fairly slow start.  I missed a few opportunities, but like I said earlier in the week, I've done some good work on the putting green and tried to stay confident.  Thankfully they started dropping around the middle and towards the end of the round.   
 Q.  So there was something to do with the back nine and the way that you played those greens in particular?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I don't feel like I hit it particularly close today, but I just holed more than my fair share.  So hopefully that continues over the weekend.   
 Q.  And were you conscious of building your position on that leaderboard, because as you sit now, that's very nice into the weekend.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's obviously a good position going into the weekend.  Yesterday was a little bit disappointing, so I was keen to try and sort of make up as much ground as possible.   
I think the leaders have still got at least nine holes left to play, so we'll see where we are at the end of the day but I'm very happy with today's round and looking forward to the weekend.   
 Q.  You've certainly played this Earth Course in the past.  How is it this year compared to other years, because to some of us observers, it looks that little bit trickier.  
TYRRELL HATTON: From what I remember, it's playing the same.  The greens are always perfect around here.  That's something I think all the players look forward to.  You know, it's a good test of golf.   
 Q.  You are very well placed in The Race to Dubai, as we all know.  Do you also look at those top four and see them jockeying for position and have an interest in it?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I guess it's always interesting to see who is going to win The Race to Dubai.  Obviously my focus now is just to play as well as I can over the weekend, and if I can jump up a spot or two, we'll see, but it is what it is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT