ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2016
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHAEL GIBBONS: Tyrrell, thank you very much for joining us, Alfred Dunhill Links Champion.  Not a bad way to start your winning career on The European Tour, is it.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's been a fantastic week.  I had my girlfriend with me, Emily, the management company, John, Danny and Laura, we've had a little cottage this week, and it's been a fantastic week.  And to come away with a trophy, you know, just makes it even more special.
MICHAEL GIBBONS: Can you talk a little about your performance today, obviously outstanding golf.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I was quite nervous out there today.  I've got a little bit of experience with being out in the final group.  I have none whatsoever of leading.  That was a new experience today.
As I said, I was pretty nervous but I'm really happy with how I dealt with that, and you know, my caddie, he was a big influence out there.  Just try and stay patient.  He's done a fantastic job this week and this year.
MICHAEL GIBBONS: And a quick word for your amateur partner.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, Jamie (Dornan), he's a really nice guy.  We had a lot of fun out there the last four days and we did pretty well in the team event, as well.  Hopefully we can team up again next year.
Q. Do you remember how dejected you felt at Castle Stuart at The Scottish Open, and how it feels to come back to Scotland and actually win this one?
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I didn't feel dejected at all.  I was really happy with how I played and Alex Noren, he's a great player, he's got plenty of experience of winning before.  But for me, it was a very big, important week, securing into the US PGA and obviously got me into The Open the following week.  That kick started by good run of events.  It was the start of something really good.
The big thing coming into this event was I played a lot of golf at home.  I didn't spend much time on the driving range.  I made sure that I played out on the course and just got used to just playing golf again rather than -- I think that's where I went wrong in Italy, where I think I had a week or two at home and I just didn't play.
And just being out on the course and keeping a score helped me feel comfortable shooting good scores again, because I had not had a great run.  But no, it's great.
Q. At the presentation ceremony, you mentioned going to Wentworth as a young boy.  Can you elaborate a bit more about the circumstances of going to Wentworth?
TYRRELL HATTON: My dad took me to Wentworth.  He's my coach, as well.  Obviously I have to say a big thank you to him.  He's helped me a lot.  He's been coaching since I was 11 years old, and he's got his indoor golf studio at home in Marlow.  Without him, this wouldn't have been possible, either.  It's very special to share that with him.
Q. Do you recall what tournament it was, the PGA?
TYRRELL HATTON: It would have been the PGA.  I think then it was the Volvo.
Q. Going back to the Scottish Open at Royal Aberdeen, you were criticised a little bit for being a little bit excitable.  Out there today, very calm.  Is that something you've had to work on and just comes with experience?
TYRRELL HATTON: I think no one's perfect, we all have to learn in life.  It's something I still need to improve on.
I think being out there with Ricey, my caddie, it was key to stay patient.  We had a good laugh, as well, which helped me relax.  And although I was feeling nervous, just having the constant chat between shots, once we get to the ball, he's so professional and I trust him 100 per cent and he's fantastic with the clubs.
You know, he's been a massive help this week, so I owe a lot to him, as well.
Q. I don't think anyone will be surprised at this win; I think it's been coming.  Are you hoping the floodgates will open?
TYRRELL HATTON: Time will tell.  I'll keep trying to do my thing and play as good as I can.  One of my goals was to get inside the Top-50 in the world.  I think I was 53rd coming into this week, and I look forward to, my manager, John, he sends me a message every morning, every Monday morning, when the World Rankings come out of what position I am.
So I look forward to that text tomorrow, and hopefully I can have a great end to the year and try and climb even higher.
Q. Right now, your win is worth about 612,000 pounds.  That's a life-changing sum of money.  What's that going to mean to you, as well?
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, yeah, it's obviously a massive amount of money.  But as you know, you won't see all of that.  The tax man gets a fair share.  But you know, it's not something that you're thinking about.
The most important thing is getting -- is winning the tournament and doing as well as you can.  Obviously the money comes with it but for all the golfers out here, we want to win tournaments.  And hopefully for me, this is just the start of many to come.
Q. You've spoken highly about your caddie but did Jamie Dornan say anything to you coming down the stretch that was sort of a calming nature?
TYRRELL HATTON: I think generally for all four days, we had a really good chat.  I had a good laugh out there.  As I said earlier, you know, he's such a great guy and easy to talk to.  You know, we had fun, and that's part of what this tournament is about.  You know, it's completely different to what we play in every other week.
Yeah, we definitely enjoyed ourselves.
Q. You said that you changed your putter.  You have a new putter.  When did you change your putter, and is it new or you had it before?
TYRRELL HATTON: No, so I changed to a PING putter.  I think it's called the Oslo.  I first put that in the bag I think two weeks ago when I got home.  I had been struggling a little bit with my putting, and you know, I put that in play.
You know, I actually played quite nicely at home and holed some putts, so I came into this week with confidence.  Thankfully, you know, I kept holing putts, so it seems to be a good change.
MICHAEL GIBBONS: Many congratulations.  Well done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT