BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 13, 2016
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TYRRELL HATTON: Pretty happy with the score.  I didn't actually feel too comfortable out there with my game.  Ball-striking wasn't that great today, but I putted really well and that helped me out a lot.   
 Q.  How was it playing out there?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It's actually colder than last week, which is strange.  I think the rain overnight softened things up and it was playing a lot softer than it had done in yesterday's Pro-Am.  But the course in great condition and the greens are rolling really well.   
 Q.  How has it been just to get back in the saddle after all the celebrations?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Hasn't been too bad.  I had a couple of days off I guess.  It's nice to be playing back.   
 Q.  I take it you've been called to do this, that and the other since the victory.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, but it's been nice.  A lot of support from the players, which is great.  It's been really nice.  Hopefully I can get a few more wins now.   
 Q.  Has your attitude changed to playing this week or any other tournaments that are coming up?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Not really.  Obviously last week just gives me the confidence that I can go out and win.  And if I can play well, then hopefully I'll be up there again.   
 Q.  Is this one particularly nice being so close to home?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I get to stay at home this week which is nice, and just looking forward to the week ahead.   
I've got family here and friends, which is nice.  You can spot them wearing the purple Hilton hats.  They are out in force.  The crowds are great this week, as well.   
 Q.  Thoughts on a round of 68?  
TYRRELL HATTON: As I said, I didn't feel too comfortable out there.  My ball-striking wasn't great but I putted really well and that helped me out and gave me the score I've got.   
 Q.  Seeing all The Ryder Cup stars from Hazeltine, does that give you a spur, seeing that now you're on the level with these guys?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was important for me to get my first win and to do it at the Home of Golf was obviously very special.  And getting a good draw this week, playing with the defending champion, and Lee, he's a great player.  It's been a good draw and the crowds are great out there.  So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  You mentioned the crowds.  There's an initiative from the tournament sponsors, they have given away free tickets for today, thousands of people, and most were following your match.  Does that affect you, seeing hundreds of people around the green?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, which is why it's so great when we play tournaments in the UK because they are always so well supported.  It's great to see the crowd out in force.   
 Q.  And for you, it's a local tournament.  I understand you're staying at home?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, staying at home, which is nice.  A few nights in my own bed.  No, just make the most of the opportunity.   
 Q.  The wind seems to have changed in the last ten minutes, whipping up a bit.  Do you think you got fortunate with the draw going out early?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it wasn't too windy this morning.  Obviously it was just really cold but like you said, the wind has definitely picked up.  We could feel it going down the 17th hole and obviously 18 was windy, as well.  So the guys might have a bit more of a challenge this afternoon but it could work out that way for us tomorrow.   
Really good draw playing with Lee and the defending champion, Matt.   
 Q.  Talk us through 17.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Hit wedge in here, so Ricey, my caddie, told me it feeds in from the right, 136 yards, hit wedge slightly right and it worked out well.   
 Q.  And this at 1, playing the course back to front today, 377 yard, that's where your tee shot finished.  How tough was this to execute?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It wasn't the best of lies and it actually came out really well and rolled down there nice and close.   
 Q.  Been a bit of a whirlwind few days; how magical was it to break through?  You've been knocking on the door, but to break through at St. Andrews, what did that feel like?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously Scotland has been very kind to me this year with my results.  It was a fantastic week for me.  As I said before it was a dream come true and great to come home and see the family, as well.   
Sunday was a whole new experience for me.  I had never led going into Sunday.  But I think playing with Ross Fisher, he's a good friend of mine and we had been eating dinner most nights that week, and my partner, Jamie Dornan, helped me relax, and that was a big thing for me because in the past I'd been a bit on edge.  Obviously I was nervous.  Felt like I dealt with it really well and thankfully everything worked out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT