ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2016
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Where does that rank in the best rounds you've had on Tour, 62 around the Old Course?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It's quite clearly the best round I've ever had.  I've never actually got to double digits before, either, so very pleased with that.   
 Q.  You've had a great season, a lot of consistency; have you set yourself a target through the year knowing that somewhere along the line you're going to get a win?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously I'd love to get a win.  I'll try my best tomorrow.  But no, as you say, it been a really consistent year, and would be nice to have a good finish to the year.   
 Q.  Do you like the amateur format, maybe a way of taking away the pressures of normal 72-hole stroke-play?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously it's a lot different to what we are used to.  It's a good, fun week and having the amateurs with us.   
 Q.  Would you be hoping for a bit of breeze tomorrow or the same?  You certainly tamed St. Andrews today?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I'm not too fussed, either/or.  I've played well in calm conditions and I've played well in breezy conditions.  Get a good night's sleep tonight and go well tomorrow.   
 Q.  What was your best score before this on the Old Course, do you remember?  
TYRRELL HATTON: At the Old Course, I'm not too sure actually.   
 Q.  You would have played at the Links Trophy a couple of times?  
TYRRELL HATTON: As an amateur, yeah.  No, it's a course that has not generally been too kind to me.  But hopefully we can have another good day tomorrow.   
 Q.  What was the kind of key today?  Was there anything that stood out?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I putted really well again today.  That was the big thing.  Just kept momentum going with holing some good birdie putts and holed a couple of good par putts, as well.  That kept things going and really happy with that finish.   
 Q.  When you say the course has not been too kind in the past, are one of the guys that didn't take to it instantly?  
TYRRELL HATTON: The first time I played it -- I obviously played the St. Andrews Links Trophy as an amateur and I played The Open in 2010.  Fair to say I think I struggled.  But hopefully I can, as I said, have a good one tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is that the best round of golf you've ever played, do you think?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was certainly the best score I've ever had.  Yeah, so I'm really happy with that.   
 Q.  What are the ingredients that went into this great round?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I think my bad shots, I didn't really get punished for them.  I missed them in good spots and I just putted really well.  So that was the key, and obviously holing putts, you're always going to shoot a decent score.   
I think the putt on 17 was probably the best putt I holed today, 25 feet.  But the majority of them are around six to 15 feet, and keep knocking them in, it's certainly good for confidence.   
 Q.  How many would you have taken?  How many putts today in the round?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I'm not too sure.  I wouldn't know.  I mean, I know I had 25 on Thursday, and I think I had -- I think I had like 35 yesterday.  So hopefully I can putt well again tomorrow and we'll have a good day.   
 Q.  Did you think earlier in the season that you would have a chance at The Ryder Cup?  
TYRRELL HATTON: No, it's not something I ever thought about.   
 Q.  It wasn't?  
TYRRELL HATTON: No, not at all.  Obviously had a good run of events and got fairly close but it wasn't something I was thinking of at any point during the year.  You know, I went out to the States, I was close to getting a PGA TOUR card, so that was why I went out there.  Obviously that didn't work out and I'm happy to be playing back in Europe.   
 Q.  You mentioned momentum earlier.  How important will that be in staying ahead of the chasing pack tomorrow?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, well, you know, we'll just see what the weather conditions are going tomorrow, and you know, I'll just play my game and see what happens.  I can only try my best and what will be, will be.   
 Q.  You looked like you were enjoying yourself.  How much does the Dunhill formula have to do with that?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It's completely different to what we are used to playing.  It's good fun playing with the amateurs and playing with Jamie Dornan, big crowds, shall we say, and it's good fun.   
 Q.  Does that take some of the attention and the pressure off you, because they are all looking at him?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I don't -- probably 99 percent of them haven't got a clue who I am, which is fine.  But no, it's good fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT