THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tyrell, (inaudible) does that feel good going into the weekend?
TYRRELL HATTON: I know, it's fifth time lucky.  I didn't really set myself any goals this week, but in the back of my mind, obviously, I wanted to at least make the cut.  This event hasn't been the best for me, but hopefully I'll have a good weekend now and I look forward to that.
Q. (Inaudible).
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's been a really good start to this year.  Obviously got in last minute, so last week was a great week.  So I was playing well.  Haven't felt too comfortable over the ball during the first two rounds, but I've sort of grinded out like a decent score, especially today.  The conditions on the back nine were quite tough for a right-handed golfer.  Wind hard off the left is always difficult, and it seemed to be the last sort of five holes that was the wind.
So I'm happy to get in the clubhouse with level par, I guess, and look forward to the weekend.
Q. Has it been the mental strength that's been the best thing for you over these last two days?  Is that what got you through?
TYRRELL HATTON: I think my caddie just reiterating how important patience is.  You are going to hit bad shots out there.  I think if it had been any other week I'd probably have been a lot calmer, but because I put even more pressure on myself this week, you know, I think I got a little bit more frustrated than I would have done, as I said, in other events.  But I'm happy.
Q. Did you get it off your shoulders a bit now (Inaudible).
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I think I'll probably play a little bit more relaxed and hopefully shoot a couple of low scores and see what happens.
Q. Yeah, I think Phil is about 10-under, isn't he, after two rounds here.  But honestly, what do you think you can achieve this weekend?
TYRRELL HATTON: I don't know.  If I play well, hopefully I'll move up the leaderboard.  But like I said, I haven't really set myself any targets.  So I'm just going to go out there and now I can be a lot more relaxed and try and enjoy it.
Q. There is pressure that you put on yourself.  But the (inaudible) support that you have, too.
TYRRELL HATTON: This is the first Open that my family hasn't come up.  So if I qualify again, maybe they should stay at home.  But I've got my management company here and my girlfriend's here, so I've got a good team around me this week anyway.  But maybe my family might come up at the weekend.
Q. I was going to say, are you in the house?
TYRRELL HATTON: I don't know.  It depends.  Hopefully Jamie Donaldson has a good round today, then the managers will stay up.  But we'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT