THE 145TH OPEN
July 17, 2016
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round, what do you put it down to?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I holed a lot of putts out there today.  That was probably my only downside from the previous three rounds, so that was the main thing today.   
 Q.  So that's two championships in a row where you've performed very well.  Do you feel (Inaudible).  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I take a lot of confidence from last week.  My dad helped me out so much last week.  You know, he's my coach and I've just taken that confidence into this week, and thankfully I've had another really good week.   
 Q.  You used to get in your own way out there.  You seem so much calmer (inaudible) and much more in control now.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously the fire is still burning inside and I'll show that from time to time.  I try my best not to, but you know, I'm only human, and I'm going to make mistakes every now and then.  But I'm so passionate about wanting to do well, and sometimes that just overspills.  And it's something I needed to get better at and I'm slowly getting there.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, we started working together at the beginning of this year, and it's been a great year for me so far, and I think we make a good team.  Yeah, he's helped me a lot.   
 Q.  Who is that?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Chris Rice.   
 Q.  Which of the holes today when you look back do you think were turning points or holes you played particularly well?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I think the big thing today was like the par putts that I holed.  I holed a really good par putt on 8 after pulling it left into the bunker.  Then I holed a really good par putt again on 9, and that sort of just kept the momentum going.  The only blip today was on 11, but that's like one of the hardest holes on the course.  So I can't be too disappointed with that.   
 Q.  Could this be a course that suits you?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I've done well on links courses in the past.  I did last week, Scottish Open.  I think my best performances are on links courses.  So I've played a lot of links as an amateur, and I've just taken that sort of into the province.   
 Q.  Talking about the Ryder Cup, you're not (Inaudible).  
TYRRELL HATTON: No, I haven't thought about it, to be perfectly honest.  I'm just going about my business and trying to play the best I can.  Whatever happens, happens.   
 Q.  It has been a good couple of weeks for you financially as well.  Have you thought about buying some things now?  
TYRRELL HATTON: No, that's great that I don't have to try and qualify again.  Guaranteed in, so I can sort of plan ahead.  But, no.   
 Q.  How proud are you of the fact that you only dropped six shots?  One double and four singles.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, well, the double I actually lost the ball on my second shot on the par-5 4th, I think it was.  But that's one of my strengths of my game, short game.  When conditions get tough, I can try and grind out a decent score, and conditions have been pretty tough for the last three days.  Thankfully my short game has helped me out and that's the reason why I've finished as well as I have.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) how do you cope with the attention at the moment?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I don't know.  I'm not sort of focused on that.  I'm just trying to play the best I can.  And as I said, whatever happens happens.   
 Q.  You're going to be back for the U.S. PGA now, aren't you?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I can't wait for that.  I really enjoyed my time in the States last year at Whistling Straits.  But I'm going to enjoy a week off now and then get ready for the next major.   
 Q.  Does that help that there's a whole bunch of English guys coming through at the same time, roughly the same age?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's really good to see for English golf.  Hopefully we can continue to do so and we all get -- well, for me I'll get my first win and everyone else gets more wins.   
 Q.  Talking about the fact that you're all coming through roughly at the same time.  Are those guys your mates or are they just people you see in tournaments?  
TYRRELL HATTON: You know, good friends and chat as you would.  I played amateur golf with a few of them, Tiley and Eddie Pepperell, so, you know, I'm friendly with those guys.  It's good to see them doing well.   
 Q.  After the U.S. PGA, what will you do the rest of the season?  What will be the main goals?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I'm going to have four weeks off after the U.S. PGA.  I'm going to have five days in New York with my girlfriend.  I've never been to New York, so I'm looking forward to that.  Then it will be three weeks off and just getting ready for Switzerland.  That's one of my favourite weeks of the year.  It's a beautiful place and I'm really looking forward to that event.   
 Q.  All eyes on that (Inaudible).  
TYRRELL HATTON: Final series.  Yeah, it's nice.  I'm looking forward to that obviously now that that's sort of secured.  Last week helped for that.  Yeah, like I can plan my year now.  It's great to have that sort of done so early.  I'm just looking forward to it.   
 Q.  What was your original club?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I play at Harleyford, just between Marlow and Henley.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the success that Andrew Johnston's had?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, he's very popular.  He's a great lad.  No one, I think, is ever going to have a bad word to say about him.  Yeah, it's great to see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT