BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2016
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 65, what a back nine for you today?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, very happy with that.  I think it's my lowest round here, first round in the 60s, so very pleased.
Q. How special is it to produce a performance like that at a place that I know has really inspired you as a player; tell everyone why you love this place so much?
TYRRELL HATTON: I've been walking around this place since a five-year-old, and I was in awe of the guys inside of the ropes, and for me now, playing my third BMW PGA, it's great.  I love this event.
Q. You've given yourself such a good chance tomorrow obviously, but this has not come out of the blue.  There was a fifth place in Ireland last week.  To what do you account this really rich vein of form at the moment?
TYRRELL HATTON: It's hard to say really.  I did some really good work in Dubai before I went to China.  Me and my caddie, we spent a few days out there and sort of got the wedges going really well.  I think that's helped me a lot.  I think just confidence, as well, having a good run.  Just that, really.
Q. How many of the locals do you think will be on the doorstep tomorrow to cheer you on?
TYRRELL HATTON: Hopefully the more the better.  I've got good support this week from my family and my girlfriend's family, so it's great.
Q. How special is a round of 66 at this championship?
TYRRELL HATTON: Very special.  It's my lowest round here, first round in the 60s so very happy with that.  I putted really nicely today.  Holed a couple of good par putts.  That kept the momentum going, and yeah, I took my chances.
Q. And was that it, the form on the greens today, that made a difference compared to the two previous days?
TYRRELL HATTON: A little bit.  I think I just gave myself a few more chances today, so I think it's just down to that.
Q. We use that word "special"; is it in part down to the history that you have at Wentworth, coming here as a lad and seeing the other golfers?
TYRRELL HATTON: I think so.  It just makes this tournament feel so much more special.  I always look forward to this event.  I've got good support here and it's nice to play well.
Q. What are the earliest memories?
TYRRELL HATTON: I remember, I think I was like six or seven, and I remember watching Hunter Mahan hit a tee shot down 12.  That's probably my earliest memory of this place.
Q. Is that one of the reasons why you got into golf yourself?
TYRRELL HATTON: I've been playing from a young age, since I was three-year-old at Wycombe Heights, going around with my parents around the par 3 course there.  So yeah, it's great to be playing.
Q. Who is watching this week?
TYRRELL HATTON: My girlfriend, Emily, her family.  My mom is down from Scotland.  My dad arrived last night; he was away on holiday, so he's here today, and I think there's a few members from Harleyford Golf Club.
Q. Appreciate we don't know what the lead mark is going to be, but you've moved into a nice position into Sunday, haven't you?
TYRRELL HATTON: Definitely.  I don't know, I think they have still got nine holes to play, so I'll just go out there tomorrow and play my own game and what happens, happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT