ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2015
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TYRELL HATTON:   Very happy to shoot under par around here.   It's a difficult golf course.   I played nicely the first two days.   Putter has been a little bit cold but good position going into the weekend. 

Q.   How is the course playing compared to yesterday? 
TYRELL HATTON:   It's a little bit softer this morning.   I think there was a bit of rain last night.   So scoring may be a little easier.   All in all, it's a good day.

Q.   This is your second full year on Tour.   Chatting to your caddie, he says you've come an awful long way in that 12 months.   Is that the way you feel?
TYRELL HATTON:   Yeah, I've been trying to get better with how I deal with shots.   Got a little bit flustered on the last there.   Hit three not‑so‑great chip shots there, but it's a learning curve and I'm trying to get better.

Q.   What goals and targets have you set for yourself for the remainder of the year?
TYRELL HATTON:   I would like to get my first win.   That would be amazing.   That's been a dream of mine since I was a little kid, so to do that would be pretty special.   And it would be nice to get into The Race to Dubai again at the end of the year. 
Obviously a great day.   3‑under around here is a good score.   It's a very difficult golf course, so whenever you shoot under par, it's a good day.   Disappointing finish, but good position going into the weekend.

Q.   Are you able to shrug off of some of those disappointments, knowing there is likely to be a fault here or there around this track?
TYRELL HATTON:   Yeah, it's a nightmare waiting to happen on any hole it seems.   It was a good day and hopefully I'll have a good weekend.

Q.   Is it playing any different today as it was on the opening day? 
TYRELL HATTON:   I think it's a little softer.   I got an early tee time today, and playing late yesterday, the sun had been beating down.   So it was pretty firm but it was certainly a little soft they are morning.

Q.   Presumably when you are making the birdies that you are, you do see the opportunities out there, as well; may be rare ones but there are the chances. 
TYRELL HATTON:   I did give myself quite a few chances today, and yesterday, to be honest.   Just a bit of a cold putter yesterday.   Holed a couple today but left a few out there.   But hopefully I'll keep playing well into the weekend.

Q.   I know we've touched on this in recent weeks, but it is coming, isn't it; the form is getting there.   There seems to be a nice solidity. 
TYRELL HATTON:   Yeah, I think I struggled a little bit at the start of the year.   Just had quite a bit of time off and wasn't playing like every week.   I've got a busy run now and hopefully I'll keep the form going.

Q.   I know it's a personal matter but can I ask you about Eiffel Tower?   How was that experience?   Good to see something of the places you're coming to?
TYRELL HATTON:   Well, we tried to but it was so busy so we didn't get to see too much.   Maybe this afternoon we'll do something. 

Q.   I guess people at home think you've got a wonderful life, you're going to all these places, but are you ever able to really give yourself time to see things? 
TYRELL HATTON:   Not so much.   I think it's my girlfriend this week pestering me to get out of the hotel, so I gave in.   No, we don't often get the opportunity to see it.   It's usually hotel, golf course, back and forth.   So it's nice to on occasion get out.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT