DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 29, 2015
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on these two days at Royal County Down? 
TYRRELL HATTON:   Very happy.   Got off to a great start, that was the key for me today.   Thankfully kept it going and had a good finish.

Q.   You got off to a great start on holes that others have struggled on.   How did you manage that?
TYRRELL HATTON:   I don't know, just hit it close and actually holed a couple of putts.   Been struggling with my putting recently.   I feel I've been hitting good putts, just not dropping.   Obviously holed a few today which was quite nice.   A little bit of a surprise to see them drop but always happy to see it.

Q.   Is there something about you and links golf, because you certainly remember about The Scottish Open the last time around. 
TYRRELL HATTON:   We played it every week, really, as an amateur, all the big amateur events are on links courses so it kind of sets us up well.

Q.   Are you familiar with Royal County Down? 
TYRRELL HATTON:   No, I'm not.   The first time I saw it was on Wednesday in the Pro‑Am, and it's certainly a good test.

Q.   A little different, quite a few blind holes out there?
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, it's quite difficult to sort of get your line, but it takes time, and the more you play it, the more comfortable you get with it.

Q.   Your playing partner, Chris Wood, was saying you were still making some of those lovely shots even when the elements were very much against you?
TYRRELL HATTON:   It was one of them days I guess.   Got quite a few good breaks out there, and hopefully keep it going into the weekend. 

Q.   You need the breaks on this kind of course. 
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, links golf is always difficult.   You always get dodgy bounces, and for me, trying to accept them over the weekend will be important. 

Q.   On the wider picture, I daresay, we haven't really seen you much this season. 
TYRRELL HATTON:   Unfortunately not.   I had a sixth in Abu Dhabi and eighth in China, so it hasn't been too bad, but no, I haven't been real close to the leaders so looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   All down to the standards you set last season, so we expected more. 
TYRRELL HATTON:   Obviously last year exceeded all expectations.   This year is a little bit different, sort of expect a little bit more of myself and hopefully I can push on now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT