BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 27, 2015
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pleased with the start?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, obviously a great start.   All down to the putting really.   Putted really well today.   Didn't hit it as close as yesterday but I holed so many putts.   It was nice.  
   
 Q.   You must be chuckling to yourself over that opening stretch.   What was it, five birdies in a row yesterday, five out of six this time?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, played them really well.   Couldn't ask for a better start really.   Hopefully I do the same tomorrow.   But just one shot at a time and see how we go.  
   
 Q.   When that's happening are you able to tell yourself one shot at a time or are you excited and thinking of all sorts of possibilities?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   That's one of the things that comes with a good start really.   Just got to stay in the present.   Sometimes it's almost ‑‑ it makes it harder sometimes when you have a good start to try and keep the momentum going.   I didn't play the back nine well here the last two days.   Played it a bit better today.   
   
 Q.   I appreciate you're just in the third group out on the Saturday, but do you feel you've given yourself an opportunity now?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   I think it depends on the weather this afternoon.   But just go out again tomorrow, and if I'm five back, six back, doesn't matter.   Just play my own game and try to shoot a good score.  
   
 Q.   Weather is already slightly different to what it's been the previous two days.   Is the course different?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   It's definitely a little softer.   Greens getting a bit more spin especially.   I imagine the scoring will be pretty good again today.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy with the way the game is going?   Ireland was a terrific chance.   There have been some nice signs of late?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   It's been good.   The last sort of 18 months has been sort of amazing.   Results I've had have exceeded all expectations, so hopefully I can keep that going.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel the benefit of that experience?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   I think the more times you get in contention, obviously the easier it will get.   Hopefully my first win is not too far around the corner.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT